start question
How does vertical separation work above FL400 ?
For flights above FL410 , 2000 feet of separation is used . Which makes all flight levels odd numbered , → 410 , ← 430 , → 450 , ← 470 , → 490 , ← 510 , ... So for each direction as indicated above by arrows , it 'll be 4000 feet . The 2000 feet separation is because the higher up you go the less accurate an altimeter becomes , so it 's for safe separation . Even/odd is just an indication of direction in this case , which can be north/south or east/west , as explained here : <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Before <URL> came along , flights above FL290 were also separated by 2000 feet , compared to 1000 feet below FL290 . Between 1997 and 2005 RVSM was implemented in all of Europe , North Africa , Southeast Asia and North America , South America , and over the North Atlantic , South Atlantic , and Pacific Oceans . [ Between 2007 and 2011 China and Russia implemented RVSM . ] RVSM in essence is a reduction from 2000 to 1000 between FL290 and FL410 as long as the aircraft shows that its altimeters maintain their accuracy -- among other things such as an <URL> . Related : <URL> <URL> <URL>
<URL> They provide unambiguous and easily understood English words in a uniform manner in place of the original designations , which either may have been unknown to the Western world at the time or easily confused codes . Much the like the NATO alphabet rules the names but be easy to understand ( possibly under multiple speaking accents ) and must be non ambiguous . The following rules are also applied Aircraft The first letter indicates the type of aircraft , like Bear for a bomber aircraft , or Fulcrum for a fighter aircraft . F -- fighter aircraft , also later ground attack aircraft : <URL> B -- bomber aircraft : <URL> C -- commercial aircraft and airliners , and cargo aircraft : <URL> H -- helicopters : <URL> M -- Miscellaneous ; trainers , reconnaissance , seaplanes , tankers , AEW etc. : <URL> For fixed-wing aircraft , one syllable names were used for propeller-powered craft ( turboprops included ) , while two-syllable names indicated jet engines .
Here is the text extracted from Boeing 's 777 Flight Crew Operations Manual : In cabin altitude controller cruise mode , maximum cabin altitude is 8,000 feet . When the takeoff field elevation is higher than 8,000 feet , the cabin descends to the cabin cruise altitude while the airplane is climbing . When the destination airport elevation is greater than 8,000 feet , cabin altitude controller cruise mode maintains a cabin altitude of 8,000 feet . ( ... ) At touchdown , the outflow valves open to depressurize the cabin . Therefore , when the airplane is on the ground , its cabin altitude is always equal to the ambient altitude . When it is in the air , the maximum is 8000 feet . Whether the cabin altitude will climb to 8000 feet or descend to 8000 feet depends on field elevation . The reverse happens upon landing . If landing at an airport at 10,400 feet , the cabin altitude is < = 8000 feet until touchdown , then raises to 10,400 feet . This make sense - if the outside pressure is greater , how do you open the door ? ( well with enough force you can , but I will leave it to your imagination as to what happens the moment the door is opened ) .
No , it does not . ATC can specify a restriction to the deviation , especially in a non-radar environment where they ca n't keep an eye on you . The only thing that frees ATC of separation responsibilities between two IFR ( or IFR/VFR depending on airspace ) aircraft is if one them reports the other in sight , and is issued an " maintain visual separation " . After that the responsibility of not hitting the other aircraft , or its wake , rests solely with the pilot in command .
The faster an aircraft is , the wider range of elevator deflections it needs . And so do aircraft with large change of weight ( amount of fuel used ) during flight . However larger elevator deflection causes higher drag . It is more efficient to move the whole horizontal stabilizer instead . Therefore jet aircraft generally have the forward part of the horizontal stabilizer movable . Now it would be possible to simply have the whole stabilizer move . And supersonic aircraft generally have just that . It is called <URL> . However having the stabilizer split lends itself to elegant solution for trim . This takes advantage of the fact , that the aerodynamic forces tend to put the elevator in the position of lowest drag almost straight ( slightly bent in direction of less lift ) behind the forward part . So when the forward part is moved , the lift changes without changing the force on the elevator . So the elevator is used for the small adjustments where the elevator is intended to return to the neutral position , which the aerodynamic forces help with , and the stabilizer is used to trim for current airspeed . In aircraft with mechanical controls , the elevator force ( or a fraction of it via power drive ) acts directly back on the control column and the pilot can feel it , while the horizontal stabilizer is actuated via mechanism that holds selected position ( may be electrical with jack-screw like on DC-9 or hydraulic , but with no feedback ) and connected to the trim , which is usually pair of large wheels on the sides of the centre console . Now in Airbus A320 and all newer models the side-stick does not have mechanical link and the pilot does not feel the force on the elevator anyway . In normal law , the ELACs automaically adjust the elevator and stabilizer so that with side-stick in neutral position , the aircraft maintains 1 G vertical acceleration and therefore straight flight ( at any flight path angle ) . Since the trim wheel does have direct mechanical link , it turns as the ELACs ( or SECs ) adjust trim . However the distinction between elevator and trim is still useful in case of failure . When the system degrades into direct law , the side-stick position corresponds to the elevator deflection and the trim wheel position corresponds to the stabilizer position . Since the side-stick still returns to neutral position , the distinction of using the elevator for momentary adjustments and trim to balance the aircraft to fly ( approximately ) straight at current speed holds ( just because the side-stick is spring-loaded , the force needed to deflect it does not increase with speed as it does for mechanical controls ) .
Short Answer : This will be very generic ... It depends on what type of missile it is : either IR or radar-guided . With IR missiles , the missile is caged and locked at missile boresight . The missile is commanded to the aircraft cueing system . When the target enters the missile 's FOV , the pilot uncages the seeker head , at this point you will hear a loud , " whiney " audible tone . The missile then transfers to track mode . The pilot pickles ... the missile batteries become operational , fins are unlocked , autopilot takes over , midbody connector is retracted , then ignition is commanded . With radar-guided missiles , it depends on the missile and what type of radar they have . Usually the radar is slewed to a target and locked up . When the pilot pickles , the missiles is either receiving data from the aircraft via datalink or is in active mode with the missile 's radar tracking the target . Eventually the missile 's radar will take over and track the target . The datalink can be terminated early by the pilot if the missile 's radar can take over allowing for some pretty cool tactical stuff . Long answer : There is A LOT more to it , but this is very basic . Tread very lightly with questions like this . A lot of the stuff ( especially numbers ) with regards to weaponry and modern threats are classified . And even though some of the stuff is n't classified , it 's still OPSEC and should n't really be discussed on an internet forum .
The value + / -40 ° is correct , but need to be interpreted . The primary reason of the existence of a " silence " cone is a design choice to increase navaid range . Range and " <URL> " are antagonistic . For the D-VOR there is a second reason : The lack of Doppler effect around the VOR zenith . Detailed case : D-VOR A VOR radiates a signal that can be interpreted in the horizontal plane , so the system is designed with antennas radiating horizontally . There are two types of VOR , the most modern is the D-VOR ( Doppler VOR ) . A common antenna for D-VOR is the Alford loop antenna which is horizontally polarized : <URL> <URL> Left : <URL> , right : <URL> The D-VOR antenna system consists of a circular array of antennas : <URL> <URL> This array has a radiation pattern similar to this in the vertical plane : <URL> How to interpret : The straight lines are elevation angles , 90 ° being the zenith . The brown circles are a scale for power radiated , the large circle is the power measured in the direction where it is maximum . The next circle is where power is only -3 dB of the maximum . Using decibels to measure ratios is frequent when working with radio signals because this is a logarithmic scale . -3 dB is half the power , -6 dB is 1/4 of the power , etc. . The red curve is the radiation power curve of the VOR for any vertical angle . It is maximum around 30 ° and minimum at 90 ° . For 60 ° its about -20 dB which is a ratio of 1/100th only . VOR cone of silence/confusion is where the signal is too small to be correctly interpreted by the VOR receiver , and you can see there is a strong signal fall around 50 ° -60 ° ( that is 30 ° -40 ° from the VOR zenith ) As visible , power is mostly radiated to one side , the other side of the antenna array radiates only a parasitic power . This is due to the way the D-VOR works : Interfering pattern between all the antennas of the array . Power is destructed on the right side of the diagram , while it is cumulated on the left side . The interfering pattern is rotated electronically around the vertical axis at 30 rounds per second ( 1,800 RPM , 30 Hz ) , so the antenna actually radiates power in an annular volume ( donut ) . Doppler cone of confusion Specific to the D-VOR , due to the way this VOR works : In the conventional VOR relative bearing is obtained by sensing the phase difference between a reference modulation ( FM ) and a varying modulation ( AM ) which depends on the direction the VOR antenna is currently pointing to . In the Doppler VOR , the varying signal is actually obtained by electronically moving the center of the antenna array . This creates a frequency shift that is equivalent to the AM modulation of the C-VOR , but in frequency ( and the D-VOR electronically " rotates " in the other direction so that the inversion between AM and FM modulation is not visible , ensuring compliance between C-VOR and D-VOR with the receiver ) . However the Doppler effect can be sensed only when the receiver is on the same plane than the electronic " displacement " , i.e. the horizontal plane . When the receiver is located too close to the VOR zenith , the frequency shift becomes small , and can not be sensed correctly . This is why , even with an isotropic antenna , the system can not work at high relative elevations . So there is actually no point to have an isotropic antenna for the D-VOR . C-VOR and NDB A conventional VOR ( C-VOR ) works with a vertical antenna which radiation pattern is naturally similar to the one above without the need for interferences . The antenna actually rotates physically . NDB use <URL> of many kinds . The power is radiated with nearly no particular preference ( omnidirectional antenna ) , but the radiation pattern is still similar to the C-VOR one , except that there is no need to rotate it . The donut volume is obtained with the antenna stationary . As the NDB is omnidirectional , the energy in the horizontal plane is not focused as strongly as for the C-VOR and D-VOR . However NDB range is still reasonable because : NDB uses the LF/MF portions of the radio spectrum which are less subject to propagation losses . NDB receiver does n't require a strong signal to locate the beacon , as simply detecting the carrier is in theory sufficient . Why is that done this way ? You may ask why not using an antenna ( or an antenna array ) with a circular radiating pattern radiating the same power in any vertical direction . Such " isotropic " antennas exist in practical . The reason is the same than for rotating the antenna : It 's to concentrate power in one direction , to increase the range . In technical terms this is to increase the effective isotropic radiated power ( <URL> ) . A good similarity is the one of a light bulb and a torchlight : A light bulb has an omnidirectional radiating pattern , it lights up in all directions , but the power received at a distant point is limited ( unless the light bulb is a very powerful one ) . A torchlight focuses light in a small solid angle , multiplying by a large factor the intensity in the privileged direction .
HUD The most common form of head-Up Display ( <URL> ) is simply an out-of-sight display screen reflected in a transparent flat sheet of glass in the viewers line of sight out the cockpit front window . The glass sheet is called a combiner . It combines the HUD information with the view out of the aircraft . There are coatings for glass ( <URL> ) which allow for reflecting a monochromatic image while allowing transmission of other colors . The display is obviously tailored for that specific use . It must avoid obscuring the view . Therefore it mostly consists of minimal light-colored lines and numerals/letters against a dark background . The dark background allows the pilot to see through the reflection to brighter objects outside - it 's a bit like the matt black upper surface typically found on many car dashboards which prevents distracting unwanted images of the top of the dash being reflected into the driver 's view out of the windscreen . Here 's an example from <URL> A HUD display is visible on the left in the pilot 's line of sight . Above it , mounted on the ceiling is the projector unit . The Projector contains optics to make the pilot 's view of the display appear to be at infinity ( rather than the few feet away it is in reality ) . This allows the pilot to read the data while their eyes are focused on far-away real-world objects outside the aircraft ( runways , weather , other aircraft etc ) . EFVS Beyond the projection of basic flight instrument data is the use of HUDs for Enhanced Flight Vision Systems ( <URL> ) which provide a kind of augmented reality display that typically uses external infra-red camera systems to identify landmarks ( e.g. runway outlines ) that may be obscured to the pilot due to fog etc. .
First , these answers insofar as the licenses and airline operations apply to the U.S. system since that is all I am familiar with . You must have a Flight Engineer license to operate as an FE . Just as a pilot 's license has ratings on it , so does an FE license , and you have to have a rating that matches what you 're flying . My FE license has a single rating , TURBOJET POWERED , so I could not sit as an FE in other than a jet aircraft . In the days when 3-man cockpits were the norm , the usual career course at large carriers was to start out as an FE ( second officer ) , progress to being an FO ( first officer ) , and then a captain . In that system , if the FE was incapacitated , it was likely that one if not both of the pilots had actually been an FE . The U.S military continued with FEs well after the 3rd seat came out of civilian aircraft ( I think they still do , but am not sure ) . Military FEs were typically never intended to become pilots . When all new civilian aircraft being manufactured were 2-man cockpits , but lesser airlines were still flying the old 3-man cockpits ( think freight carriers in particular ) , former military FEs became the source for their FEs and were considered professional FEs , in other words they would not be progressing to a pilot seat . A few did , but they were definitely the exception . The two 747 carriers I worked for hired pilots into the FO seat . The FEs they hired had to have A&amp;P licenses as well as an FE license , the reason being that the company wanted them to be able to perform and sign off minor maintenance problems that occurred in remote places ( think Africa especially ) where maintenance was n't locally available . With only a couple of exceptions , every FE I ever flew with was ex-military with an A&amp;P , and they knew the airplane mechanically better than I . In the airline ground schools , especially the initial groundschool , the FE panel and its operation were thoroughly covered in the material presented and in the testing . The oral exam for the aircraft type rating thoroughly covered that FE panel . As I remember my 747 type rating oral was 3 to 4 hours long . Fortunately I got through that and the sim ride on the first try . Not all do . So , in the case of an incapacitated FE in the 10 years I was on the 747 , it was likely that neither pilot had actually operated as an FE . However , he would have studied it in ground school and had demonstrated an understanding in an oral exam . There is , though , nothing like experience and currency . Every once in awhile I would get out to a cold airplane before the FE had arrived and would want to start the APU . This was usually at a remote station without local maintenance . There was , of course , a procedure for doing this , and I had a copy . But even with that check list and doing everything very carefully , I always breathed a sigh of relief when the APU started and there were no problems . If the APU failed to start on the first try , I usually waited for the FE to arrive . I might try a second time if I knew he was going to be awhile , but never a third . The old 747-100/200 had a lot of switches , and interesting things could happen if the APU was started and the switches were not properly set . I always did an outside check to make sure all gear doors were closed and that nobody was around the bottom of the airplane . If a gear door was down , and switches were not set right , when the APU started , the doors would immediately close when the hydraulics were pressurized . Anyone in the way would certain get hurt . Individual pilots on the line varied greatly in their knowledge of the FE panel . FOs were at a disadvantage insofar as watching it be operated . They ca n't see it well . Captains can see it . However , some FEs resented captains looking at it too much , feeling that was their turf . What I often did during cruise , as much to pass the time as learn , was to let the FE be my tutor .
An example of oil labyrinth seal use I 'm taking the bearing sumps example . There are <URL> to maintain the engine rotors and shafts centered within the core and the stators . Some may use labyrinth seals . <URL> <URL> . Pressurized cavity during operation In a bearing sump with classic dry design , oil is provided directly to the bearing , and labyrinths seals maintain oil within a first cavity ( the sump ) . There is another cavity around the first where compressed air is injected . Air is tapped for internal use from a compressor stage ( bleed air ) . <URL> <URL> . This way if oil escapes the first labyrinth of the oil seal , it is contained by the pressure of air coming from the outer cavity on the other side of the seal . Actually air , which is provided at a higher pressure than oil , will enter the inner oil cavity and mix with oil to form a mist . This is why scavenged oil must then be filtered to separate air when returning to the oil tank ( oil must also be cooled has the bearing generates a significant amount of heat ) . Oil is directed to the bearing using jet nozzles , the sump is not completely filled . Someone more knowledgeable may explain why , perhaps an oil <URL> would appear and create unnecessary friction : <URL> Source : <URL> In today 's engines , oil is circulated using pumps . There are two pumps : One to supply with oil and one to scavenge oil . To ensure oil does n't accumulate into the sump , the scavenge pump has a higher capacity . Both pumps are driven by the rotation of the engine . Non operating engine The pumps are mechanical and driven by one of the engine shafts . When the engine is not operating , the pumps stop , oil is not supplied any more and it leaves the sump by the scavenge pipe . Bleed air is n't necessary any longer . When the engine is started , the pumps also start . Oil is therefore injected again into the sump . The bearing can sustain lack of lubrication for a short time , and there can be an emergency system if oil supply from the tank is interrupted . Residual leakage As there will be some limited leakage anyway , oil is extracted by the cavity drain and disposed overboard ( or returned to the oil tank ) .
For conventional designs , the tail is composed of two parts : the horizontal tail and the vertical tail . They play a role in the trim and the manoeuvrability of the aircraft but at different levels . The horizontal tail is mainly used for longitudinal stability ( and trim ) while the vertical tails used for the lateral stability ( and trim ) . About Stability It is possible to talk of stability only after having defined an equilibrium point around which the stability is studied . An aircraft is in equilibrium if the forces and moments it experiences are balanced . Using a simple model for the longitudinal analysis , it can be decomposed in three relations called the trim equations . In order to keep it simple , it will be assumed here that the angle of attack and the flight path angle are zero . ( Note that the same reasoning can be achieved with non-zero values but the equations then become quite messy . ) Longitudinal Equilibrium These three equations are : $ $ L = mg $ $ $ $ T =D $ $ $ $ M = 0 $ $ where $ L$ is the total lift , $ mg $ is the weight of the aircraft , $ T$ is the thrust , $ D$ is the drag and $ M$ is the pitching moment around the centre of gravity of the aircraft . The second equation wo n't be studied further since it does not help to understand the role of the horizontal tail and its influence . Looking at the following picture , one can see that usually , the centre of gravity and the point where the lift applies ( called the aerodynamic centre ) are not the same . This means that the lift generated by the wing creates an induced moment around the centre of gravity that one should add to the already intrinsic pitching moment due to the main wing ( usually a pitch down moment for conventional airfoils ) . Knowing that , it is possible to rewrite the two equations of interest including the contributions from the main wing and from the horizontal tail . $ $ W+L _ t = L_w $ $ $ $ M_0 + bL_t = aL_w $ $ From these equations and the figure , it appears that the horizontal tail is used to generate a lift which induces a moment helping to balance the moments equilibrium and thus prevent the aircraft to spin on itself ( pitchwise ) . Drawback and Solution From both the figure and the equations it turns out that the lift contribution from the tail is usually negative , meaning that more lift from the main wing is needed to keep a trimmed ( or balanced ) aircraft . This drawback can be overcome by the use of a canard configuration instead . Lateral Stability The same can be done for the lateral equilibrium and stability but there it is the vertical tail that is used . It is symmetrical so that there is no yaw induced and if there is some side force experienced , it will create a moment in order to reduce the side-slip angle . Comparison of Lift Created by the Tail and Main Wing For a trimmed configuration , it is easy to see that the lift created by the main wing is more or less the one created by the tail plus the total weight of the aircraft , which gives an idea of the difference between the two forces .
Type of modulation in term of ITU classification In the context of radiocommunication , PCM is more accurately described as ITU class <URL> : As bits are transmitted one by one , the carrier is sent or interrupted , according to the bit value . Phase and frequency are maintained constant . It 's like morse at high speed . It can also be seen as amplitude modulation ( either the carrier has its maximum amplitude , or a null amplitude ) . This form of modulation is also commonly known as binary amplitude shift keying ( BASK ) or on-off keying ( OOK ) , and is a variant of pulse amplitude modulation ( PAM ) . See <URL> for more details . Data communication , on the borders of multiple engineering disciplines is quite generous with synonyms . There is a common confusion between A1D modulation and the PCM codec used in the context of audio files . This PCM is a near-lossless codec ( coder-decoder ) used in <URL> and legacy <URL> , and has nothing to do with a modulation . But anyway ... this produces this oscillogram ( bottom : bits to transmit , top : signal transmitted by the antenna ) : <URL> <URL> A binary 1 pulse generates a burst of the carrier wave . A1D is often used to transmit information at low speed , because it 's not very efficient in term of bandwidth , and this bandwidth increases with the data transmission rate . Sending the 12 bits of a transponder every now and then was okay in the past ( where the 12 bits come from ? see <URL> ) . A1D is also used by GPS satellites which are actually slow data broadcasters . Sort of signal : Analog vs digital At the antenna the signal is the modulated carrier , and it 's always an analog signal , regardless of the nature of information to carry . The carrier is generally a high frequency sine wave . The carrier is modulated by the twelve bits of mode A and C information , which are digital ( binary ) : Each bit , one after the other , modulates the carrier , that is the carrier is interrupted or transmitted according to the bit value , for a given period of time . Modulation means changing something on the carrier to " imprint " the information into it , so that it can be demodulated at the receiver side . The " something " can be one ( or more ) of the three properties of a wave : Amplitude , phase or frequency . In A1D , this is the amplitude ( as the " A " indicates ) . The modulated signal at the antenna will still be an analog sine wave , so no strong interference will occur ( though A1D is not the most friendly class of modulation in term of spectrum use ) . But , why do we need a carrier in the first place ? ( baseband vs passband ) Transmission of the raw information without modulation is said a baseband transmission . This is used for instance in Ethernet over twisted pair ( e.g. 100base-T , where base just means baseband ) . The signal is ranging from 0 Hz to 100 MHz ( assuming a random distribution of the data ) . Therefore if there were two channels at the same time on the wire , a receiver would receive data without being able to identify the channel ( not mentioning the fact that each channel would destroy information of the other channel ) . The only way to share the medium is to limit the transmission to a single channel at a time , and this is what is done in Ethernet ( by <URL> ) . However collision detection does n't work when there is an unlimited number of transmitters , collision avoidance would leave no time for a useful transmission . The other way is to add some fixed frequency to the second channel , e.g. by adding 100 MHz , the second channel frequency will now range from 100 MHz to 200 MHz , and a receiver can easily separate each channel ( by frequency filtering ) and receive both . The second channel data will then be obtained by subtracting 100 MHz from the signal . This principle is just the one we know for radio , with a carrier ( the fixed frequency the receiver is tuned for ) and a modulation method . Technically this is called " passband " transmission . The last step : Demodulation The receiver receives the modulated carrier , usually very weak , and often distorted . The demodulation step is to extract the original information from the carrier by looking at the carrier property that was changed to carry the information . For A1D modulation this is indeed immediate , carrier presence = bit of value 1 , no carrier = bit of value 0 ( this can be inverted if required , just a matter of agreement between the transmitter and the receiver ) . Now you can look again at the previous oscillogram and think the top describes the signal received by the receiver antenna , and the bottom is the original information extracted by the demodulator stage . The binary signal received is not perfect , but it will be discriminated as 0 or 1 depending on whether the value is smaller or larger than a given threshold ( so some errors can occur , there are solutions to prevent that ) . The carrier is then discarded . Its role was only to carry the payload .
First , let 's agree on terminology : What you saw in airshows is a vertical flight path . Flying horizontally first , the airplane pitched up until the nose was pointing straight into the sky . Surprisingly , no thrust is needed to perform this maneuver . Even gliders can do it . What happens is that kinetic energy is converted to potential energy , the rate of potential energy increase being proportional to flight speed and aircraft mass . If you start fast enough , this vertical flying can be maintained for several seconds , until the aircraft runs out of speed and stops in midair , followed by an uncontrolled drop . Skilled pilots orient the aircraft in the right direction by starting a rotation around the vertical axis at the top of the climb , so the following drop lets them pick up speed again with the correct nose-down attitude . Now potential energy is converted back into kinetic energy until speed is sufficient for a pullout . In aerobatics , this maneuver is called <URL> A few conditions apply , however . The airplane must be able to fly fast enough to have the needed potential energy to sustain the maneuver through the pitch-up phase . This is helped if its engines add energy , so the kinetic energy bleeds off more slowly . Also , at the top of the maneuver it is flying at zero g , and this requires at least that all items on board are securely fastened . Lastly , the pitch-up needs a load factor bigger than 1 g , and the higher the maximum load factor is , the tighter this pitch-up can be flown . Now the question has been changed : The vertical flight path is flown right after take-off . This limits the entry speed for the maneuver , and gliders will not be able to do this . If we take the 737 from the question and fly it with no payload and little fuel , the flight mass $ m $ of a 737-700 is 40 tons , and the installed thrust is about 200 kN ( sea level static ) . Let 's assume that the pilot accelerates after takeoff to a horizontal speed $ v $ = 100 m/s ( 194 KTAS ) while retracting the flaps , the kinetic energy ( $ 0.5 \ cdot m \ cdot v ^ 2 $ ) is equivalent to a potential energy ( $ m \ cdot g \ cdot h $ ) of an altitude gain h of $ $ h = \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 \ cdot g } = 510 m $ $ The engines deliver less thrust with increasing speed ; maybe 40 % of the weight , so the airplane will still accelerate for the first 18 ° - 20 ° of the 90 ° flight path change . This will delay the point when speed has been bled off and add maybe 150 m to h . At 100 m/s a pull-up with a radius of 500 m will add a load factor of 2 g . The pilot needs to pull less first and harder at the end of the maneuver in order to stay within the <URL> . When speed bleeds off , so will wing lift , and in the second half of the pull-up the wing will not create enough lift to change the flight path enough in order to reach the desired vertical attitude . Also , the aircraft will be very low for a safe recovery . This makes it rather doubtful that an airliner can be pulled up to a vertical climb after takeoff . If the maneuver is started at a higher speed and with a little more distance from the ground , I see no reason why it should not safely be possible .
For a basic True Airspeed Indicator ( TAS Meter ) like the one shown below , you simply dial your pressure altitude into the top window using the knob ( aligning it with the appropriate temperature mark at the bottom of that window ) , and then read your true airspeed in the other window at the bottom . <URL> Your pressure altitude can be obtained by setting your altimeter to 29.92 and reading the indication , the air temperature can be obtained from an outside air temperature ( OAT ) gauge ( or you can use one from the Winds Aloft forecast if your aircraft does not have an OAT gauge ) , and the combination of the two gives you your density altitude . The meter itself is simply a mechanical slide rule , performing the same functions as you could do manually on an E6B flight computer . The indicator above is showing a true airspeed of about 202 MPH , at a pressure altitude of 10,000 feet and a temperature of -15 degrees . For a nice video tutorial <URL> .
The VOR and ILS CDI indicates difference , in degrees , between the radial selected and the radial sensed . If the plane was far from the VOR and we turn the course pointer 5 degrees , the CDI will move to one side . If the plane was close to the VOR and we turned the course pointer 5 degrees , the CDI would move exactly as much , because it indicates the angular difference in degrees . This is in contrast to a CDI slaved to GPS , which indeed indicates lateral distance from the selected track in miles ( en-route ; GPS approach has to simulate ILS ) . VOR does nothing with DME . DME is completely independent piece of equipment that was introduced later than VOR . The only relation is that there is a standard correspondence between VOR and DME channels and the DME receiver automatically tunes to the DME frequency corresponding to the VOR or ILS frequency tuned on your VOR/ILS receiver .
The autopilot controls hydraulic actuator that is connected to the control link at some point . Since power transfer in the link is bidirectional , the control column moves when autopilot operates it . The same goes for thrust levers operated by autothrust . If the pilot fights it , the autopilot will increase the force applied up to some limit at which it will disconnect . It ca n't really recognize whether the force is from the pilot or due to aerodynamic forces , but that 's all right , because it should disconnect both if the pilot tries to yank the controls and when keeping the plane in the selected attitude requires too large control input ( e.g. hard up elevator because the plane is too slow ) . Boeing aircraft maintains this behaviour even on models with fly-by-wire ( B777 and B787 ) . Airbus did remove the feedback , because the command given does not directly correspond to control surface position anyway . So far I believe the only other civilian aircraft without feedback is Sukhoi Su-100 .
Here in the US ( you did n't specify where , and this is different in other countries ) , traveling domestically in your own private aircraft is much like traveling in your own private car . Except in very specific situations , you are not generally required to go through security , and at many , many smaller general aviation airports airport security is almost non-existent , or at the very least they are not checking passengers and their luggage . If the police have a reason to suspect that something illegal is taking place ( they have reasonable cause ) then they can search the airplane , but again , much like in your car , this does n't usually happen . International flights are a very different matter though , and the airplane , crew , passengers , and luggage must all clear customs at departure and arrival airports where they will be inspected .
For flights above FL410 , 2000 feet of separation is used . Which makes all flight levels odd numbered , → 410 , ← 430 , → 450 , ← 470 , → 490 , ← 510 , ... So for each direction as indicated above by arrows , it 'll be 4000 feet . The 2000 feet separation is because the higher up you go the less accurate an altimeter becomes , so it 's for safe separation . Even/odd is just an indication of direction in this case , which can be north/south or east/west , as explained here : <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Before <URL> came along , flights above FL290 were also separated by 2000 feet , compared to 1000 feet below FL290 . Between 1997 and 2005 RVSM was implemented in all of Europe , North Africa , Southeast Asia and North America , South America , and over the North Atlantic , South Atlantic , and Pacific Oceans . [ Between 2007 and 2011 China and Russia implemented RVSM . ] RVSM in essence is a reduction from 2000 to 1000 between FL290 and FL410 as long as the aircraft shows that its altimeters maintain their accuracy -- among other things such as an <URL> . Related : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There are a few ways to sense ice on an airframe . The <URL> here that outlines the various types of sensors . First and foremost planes have ice lights that project onto the wings so they can be visually inspected . There are <URL> that use a variety of methods to detect ice . There are also some electro mechanical devices , here are a few examples , the rest are outlined in the <URL> . Penny and Giles The Penny and Giles system uses a probe type sensor that measures ice buildup in terms of Liquid Water Content ( LWC ) . This system was designed specifically for use on helicopters and is available for all turbine-powered helicopters . Rosemount The sensing probe is driven magnetostrictively to vibrate at its resonant frequency of 40,000 Hz . As the ice detector enters an icing environment , ice collects on the sensing probe . The added mass of the accreted ice causes the frequency of the sensing probe to decrease in accordance with the laws of classical mechanics . Sunstrand The Sunstrand system uses a mounted probe with a sensing surface facing the airstream . Beta particles are released from a Strontium 90 Radiation Source and are collimated by a specially shaped window in the probe housing . These particles pass across the sensing surface to a Geiger-Muller tube . High voltage is applied to the Geiger-Muller tube to enable it to detect the radiation emitted by the Strontium 90 source . Ice accretion on the probe decreases the beta particles detected by the tube . When the particle count drops below a pre-set level , a pulse rate discriminating amplifier energizes an icing signal visible to the flight crew . At this time a heater inside the probe is activated , the ice is removed from the probe , and the probe is ready to begin another icing cycle . Some of these will work in a static situation while others may require the passage from a non icing environment to an icing situation .
Inertial Navigation Systems , unlike other navigation systems , do not depend on external ( radio ) measurements . Instead an INS keeps track of its position by accurately measuring acceleration ( accelerometers ) and rotation ( gyroscopes ) . It therefore works in remote areas where there are no ground based navaids available . Initially , the INS gets its position from pilot input at the gate , or in more recent systems from GPS , sometimes even during flight . By measuring all the accelerations and rotations and integrating them into speed and direction the position is tracked . In doing this , the INS has to correct for the rotation of the earth and the related Coriolis force . Due to small inaccuracies in the measurements the velocity error and , with that , the position errors grow over time . <URL> has quite a detailed article about the history and working of the INS . While raw INS position has mainly been replaced by GPS measurements on oceanic flights , the system is not being phased out . GPS is a sensitive systems and by crosschecking it with INS , errors can be detected in both systems . It is often used as a backup to GPS . Integrated GPS / INS systems provide better systems integrity and allow the navigation system to coast through short GPS outages with high accuracies . In addition to that , the ( laser ) gyroscopes of the INS are often used to provide data to the digital artificial horizon displays in the cockpit and to the auto flight systems . In this case the term Inertial Reference Unit ( IRU ) is used , which acts as a basis for the INS .
end question
start question
Where can I find airport taxi instruction " code names " ?
Excerpt from the FAA Publication " <URL> " : Standard taxi routes improve ground management at highdensity airports , namely those that have airline service . At these airports , typical taxiway traffic patterns used to move aircraft between gate and runway are laid out and coded . The ATC specialist ( ATCS ) can reduce radio communication time and eliminate taxi instruction misinterpretation by simply clearing the pilot to taxi via a specific , named route . An example of this would be Los Angeles International Airport ( KLAX ) , where North Route is used to transition to Runway 24L . [ Figure 1-7 ] These routes are issued by ground control , and if unable to comply , pilots must advise ground control on initial contact . If for any reason the pilot becomes uncertain as to the correct taxi route , a request should be made for progressive taxi instructions . These step-by-step routing directions are also issued if the controller deems it necessary due to traffic , closed taxiways , airport construction , etc. . It is the pilot 's responsibility to know if a particular airport has preplanned taxi routes , to be familiar with them , and to have the taxi descriptions in their possession . Specific information about airports that use coded taxiway routes is included in the Notice to Airmen Publication ( NTAP ) . NTAP can be found on : <URL> At the time of writing the KLAX North Route example can be found on page 4-SW-11 , and reads : North Route Taxi towards taxilane Sierra ( S ) taxi northbound on taxilane Sierra ( S ) , and at Check-point-1 contact Ground Control on frequency 121.65 , hold short of taxiway Delta ( D ) . Taxilane Sierra ( S ) is not visible from the ATCT There 's also <URL> regulating Standard Taxi Routes ( STR 's ) as bilateral agreements ( LOA 's - Letter of Agreement ) between each ATC unit and their users ( airlines ) . The document contains information on what the LOA needs to contain . Outside of the US , standard taxi instructions , if any , could be expected to be found in the AD-section ( Aerodromes ) of that respective country 's AIP ( Aeronautical Information Publication ) . As an airline pilot , this information might be integrated into your company 's nav data solution , ie . information about standard taxi routes available to you would be written/drawn out bundled with your airport diagrams etc. .
<URL> has a list of the various transponder codes and what they are used for , which will give you an idea of what the problem is . Unless there is an actual aircraft incident or accident which requires the FAA to investigate though , you wo n't be able to find a record of it . In fact , pilots are n't even required to file a report unless requested , and those do n't go into a public database . For actual incidents or accidents , you can look at the NTSB <URL> . For pilot reports to the NASA ASRS self-reporting safety system , you can <URL> . If the pilot filed a report then you will see it show up there . Commonly used emergency codes are : 7500 - Hijack Code 7600 - Loss of Radio Communications Code 7700 - Emergency Code Also , some countries use the code 7000 for VFR traffic ( which is not an emergency code ) , but the US uses 1200 instead .
You can find much of this sort of information at <URL> For example , searching for <URL> lists their fleet , and clicking the number of active for a model ( eg <URL> ) will list the tail number and other interesting information . From there you can click a <URL> for all the information along with a picture .
<URL> is such a site that offers 30-day history for METARs/SPECIs and TAFs reports . The coverage is said to be worldwide . Here is a glance at the query interface : <URL> The site states these conditions of use for the reports : About all the codified met . reports ( SYNOPS , METAR ... ) , the copyright are from every country or source institution . To use them , read <URL> . ( essentially it says it 's free for use . )
You can buy a DVB-TV USB stick for around $ 20 , which will allow you to receive ADS-B data : Up from that , you can get a high-end ADS-B receiver that costs about $ 750 : Finally , FlightRadar24 offers free hardware in selected locations : Bear in mind that these devices will only allow you to receive signals within a relatively small area . One thing worth noting is by contributing the data received by these devices , you get a free FlightRadar24 Premium subscription . Lots more information is available at <URL> .
I 'm assuming you 're more interested in the base-or-downwind question rather than the where-is-the-2-mile-base question . Theoretically you 're supposed to fly the published procedure unless told otherwise . In this case the procedure would probably be a standard traffic pattern . Being told to ' report ' means only that , you should report it when you 're there . This is not to be confused with the ( in my experience ) more common instruction " Enter and report a 2 mile base for runway 16 " , in which case you head for the base and not the downwind , and you report it when you get there . To argue ad absurdum , the clearance " Cleared touch and go , after the touch and go , make left traffic , report mid-field downwind " does n't mean you should head straight for the downwind . As always , when in doubt , ask .
IATA issues duplicate airline codes to regional airlines where the codes are not likely to overlap , from <URL> : Controlled duplicates are issued to regional airlines whose destinations are not likely to overlap , so that the same code is shared by two airlines . This happens because IATA uses a 2-letter code for for airlines which has a limited range of available codes . Since NCA does n't operate a passenger service in the same region as Fika Salaama , it would be very unlikely to confuse the two .
Many of these are Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics ( RTCA ) standards . You can get these documents from the <URL> . They are provided free of charge to RTCA members , non-members have to pay . Alternatively you can acquire the European equivalents from EUROCAE ( RTCA DO-178B is <URL> in the <URL> ) . If you want to be up-to-date ( for example if you 're building a new avionics system ) , you should buy the latest version of the standard , such as <URL> / <URL> , which is the latest edition of your example above ( published in 2012 ) .
I have already found answer for my problem . ACES and FACET from NASA Aviation System Division solve my problem . It should handle all statistical data , it has statistical output as well and it could also handle meteorological data . Currently this SW use FAA and some airline companies to modelate ATM concepts ( aviationsystemsdivision.arc.nasa.gov ) . Thanks for all your help !
Aircraft are not always moved with <URL> ( the small vehicle you refer to ) . Much of the time , they operate under their own power . Airliners are generally pushed back from the gate using a tug , as that 's the simplest and most efficient method . They then taxi to the runway ( and all the way up to the gate , after landing ) using their own engines to provide thrust . This is true of both jets and propeller aircraft . Some work is being done on self-contained electric-powered ground propulsion ; one major player in this area is a company called <URL> . They use high-torque motors and the aircraft APU to allow the aircraft to move itself without starting its engines or requiring a tug to be connected and disconnected .
Wings may be tough to come by as they generally last the life of the plane and can be re-skinned/fixed if need be so they are not scrapped all that frequently . You can try a used parts dealer like <URL> or <URL> but they generally deal in air worthy parts which will not be cheap . Here is a guy <URL> he " has wings " , you may want to give him a call and check other part out <URL> adds . Your best bet may be to wonder on down to your local GA field and ask some questions at the FBO or maintenance facility if there is one . Its more than likely someone has a wing or wing section that is no longer air worthy from some accident or the like . You may even just see a junked wing sitting in a field behind a hangar ... STC 's are specific to part or aircraft/engine so testing on a generic wing may not be a good basis ( depending on what you are doing ) you may want to get the wing from the aircraft you intend to STC .
I 'm going to assume you 're asking about US/FAA requirements - If not what 's below may not be particularly helpful . ADD is not a disqualifying condition , however if you have a formal diagnosis of ADD or ADHD <URL> in order to receive a medical certificate . Also some of the medications used to treat ADD/ADHD may be disqualifying ( I know that Adderall , Focalin , and Ritalin were all on the FAA 's " No Fly " list - I 'm not sure if they 're still an absolute NO or if you can get approval for them ) . AOPA has <URL> that you can search to see if what you 've been prescribed is permitted - it 's a little easier to search/cross-reference than <URL> and they do a good job keeping it up to date , and <URL> . They also have a service to assist you with getting your medical ( as part of <URL> ) which can be helpful .
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
In April 2013 , the FAA 's Charting Group <URL> . The standard pattern used to be 800 ft AGL , and the <URL> ( formerly called Airport/Facility Directory or A/FD ) was inconsistent in listing them . Ultimately they decided : Chris Criswell , AJV-22 , reported that , per ACF recommendation , all traffic pattern altitudes , standard and non-standard , will be added into NASR ( the AFD ) for all airports . This will be a day forward implementation beginning in July 2014 . Some other places the TPA is recommended to be 1000 feet AGL : <URL> c . It is recommended that airplanes observe a 1000 foot above ground level ( AGL ) traffic pattern altitude . Large and turbine powered airplanes should enter the traffic pattern at an altitude of 1,500 feet AGL or 500 feet above the established pattern altitude . A pilot may vary the size of the traffic pattern depending on the aircraft 's performance characteristics . The Chart Supplement ( A/FD ) will typically list the Traffic Pattern Altitude ( TPA ) if it is non-standard ( not 1000 ft/1500 ft AGL ) The FAA 's <URL> says The traffic pattern altitude is usually 1,000 feet above the elevation of the airport . Now the Chart Supplement ( A/FD ) will be the definitive guide !
Simplest answer : Call the tower . Or ask instructors/schools in the area if the controllers care when you arrive and want to practice . Usually if you arrive during the busiest time , you 'll likely be accommodated as best as they can , but there 's a chance you could be told to just do a full-stop taxi-back operation if that helps out or told to go fly around elsewhere for a bit . It depends on what airport you 're thinking about going to . If you want to go to ATL , well , you 'll be vectored in a gap , and told go as fast as you can for as long as you can , and be told to land ( or if you go around , expect a long delay to find a new gap ) . If it 's just a general aviation airport , anytime is fine .
NIGHT WATCH / NAOC or is the program identifier for the USAF National Airborne Operations Center ( NAOC ) , including at least certain <URL> flights . ( used in flight ) : From <URL> : The term " NAOC " will not be a part of the call sign but may be used when the aircraft is airborne to indicate a request for special handling . FLYNET From <URL> : The code name " FLYNET " indicates that an aircraft is transporting a nuclear emergency team or a disaster control team to the location of a potential or actual nuclear accident or an accident involving chemical agents or hazardous materials . It is in the public interest that they reach their destination as rapidly as possible . GARDEN PLOT Classified . Related to <URL> . Presumably a callsign to be used by aircraft as part of that operation . SCOOT Term related to <URL> flights in evacuation of government VIPs . From <URL> : The term " SCOOT " will not be part of the call sign but may be used when the aircraft is airborne to indicate a request for special handling . OPEN SKIES Callsign for observation aircraft under the Treaty on Open Skies . The USAF aircraft used for this purpose is the <URL> . From Wikipedia 's <URL> : Observation/Demonstration flights are conducted under rigid guidelines outlined in the Treaty of OPEN SKIES that govern sensor usage , maximum flight distances , altitudes and priorities .
A navigational fix is a waypoint that can be used to navigate to , from or between airports or other navigational fixes . Navigational fixes can be GPS-based coordinates , radio-based navigational aids like VORs or NDBs or airport themselves , which have a defined airport reference point with set coordinates . Navigational fixes or aids are usually not placed around runways , but those that are used for approaches or departures ( mostly VOR or NDBs ) are placed at or in the vicinity of the airport . See below for the placement of the Barmen ( BAM ) VOR , which is one of the approaches fixes used for the ILS approach to runway 23L and 23R and the , nowadays no longer used , NDBs DX and LI as the outer markers for the instrument approach . ( Image Source : www.skyvector.com ) Navigational fixes required for approaches or departures to a specific airport will be available in the countries ' AIP , in the publications for the specific approach or departure routing , e.g. navigational fixes along a STAR or Transition from the Initial Approach Fix ( which is a navigational fix as well ) to the Final Approach Fix . ( Image Source : VATUSA ) The above displays the navigational fixes for the transitions/arrivals into Memphis International Airport . For a list of available radio navigational aids around an airport , you can try sources like <URL> .
They are searchable at FNS NOTAM search : <URL> A link is provided to a PDF , containing a link to the actual LTA . ( Filter by LTA , remember the agreement might not be with the airport , but with the ATSU , like the local TRACON/ARTCC , try searching by airport name + radius ) . Expiry date is shown in the details view .
There is no provision in the ILS system to provide for an auto-taxi or runway vacate . IIIc is just zero-zero and roll-out control , not auto-vacate as the <URL> seems to suggest . Its a logical extension of the FAA definition , however auto-taxi is not part of the CAT IIIc definition or system requirements . The only requirement is to get the aircraft on the runway and stopped . <URL> provides for the definition of a CAT IIIc approach : c. Category IIIc . A precision instrument approach and landing with no DH and no runway visual range limitation . Right now there is no airport approved for IIIc approaches because the aircraft would just sit on the runway , it has no way of taxiing in . Until an augmentation system like GPS with WAAS or LAAS , or the " Ground-Based Augmentation System " is developed further , automatic taxi is not there . There is no provision in the existing ILS signals that allow for an aircraft to vacate the runway . GPS is as close as you can get , but that may be unreliable especially with larger aircraft like the Airbus A380 that does n't have much play on either side , so GPS accuracy will have to be augmented with something . Additionally a system will have to be in place to avoid aircraft from colliding on adjacent taxiways or to manage traffic in and around the gate . From a technical standpoint , this is a long way off , even with ground based radar systems , GBAS , and LAAS that are currently undergoing evaluation at several major airports world-wide . Also see this <URL> and <URL>
You 're right that two airports can share the same 3-letter code , but they 're not necessarily IATA codes ( they could actually be <URL> , or just locally assigned codes ) . In implementing <URL> in <URL> , for commands like , I needed to find a way to reliably convert IATA codes to ICAO codes . I ended up using the same source as you linked to , and imported the columns we needed into MySQL . A quick query shows 65 ( i.e. > = 130 ) duplicates : The problem is , that IATA <URL> several thousand dollars for access to their list . So OurAirports attempts to collect all the known IATA codes , but it is user-editable , like Wikipedia . So there are inaccuracies in their database ; and as I mentioned , there is some overlap between IATA/FAA/local . The actual IATA codes <URL> ( although <URL> ) .
end question
start question
With what minimum occupancy ratio , is it profitable for airlines to operate ?
They can operate with 0 passengers , but will most likely not generate any revenue ( unless cargo is carried to generate additional revenue ) . Revenue and profit on a passenger flight ( assuming no paid cargo ) will be based upon how many tickets were sold at which price , so the number of passengers required for any given flight to break even will be variable and can not be answered in a general way .
I ca n't find any explicit FAA banning of Aspartame by the FAA so its most likely hype and pseudo science . <URL> that lists it as a food to eat ( but they state its not their full official position ) . <URL> also states the FAA has no opinion on the matter . However , the FAA does hold the position that you as the pilot in command are responsible , to some extent for your own health ( your chosen airline may also have policy on this ) . If you as the PIC know that you respond poorly to aspartame then you are responsible for avoiding it . <URL> .
Is it possible ? certainly yes . Airbus has <URL> in which the external view is displayed in the cockpit using cameras and screens . The technology itself is available and some significant progress has been made in recent years in the related equipment . Will it become a reality ? Maybe . At present , there is nothing wrong with windshields in aircraft ( pointing laser at aircraft is illegal ; anyway , lasers can damage camera sensors too ) . Why fix something that ai n't broken ? In the future this may well be used , maybe in supersonic aircraft ( For example , spike aerospace has proposed a design without cabin windows ; interestingly , the design still has cockpit windows ) . Addition of cameras and displays adds one more layer of complexity , which is at present unnecessary . Also , there are other issues to consider . In order to give the pilot with a view at least as good as the exiting aircraft , images from multiple cameras have to be ' stitched ' and displayed . The system should be able to do this without any lag ( F-35 had a similar problem while joining feeds from its DAS ) . Unless there is a compelling reason for the addition of cameras and displays , the windscreen is here to stay .
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
For ungeared two-spool designs , bypass ratios can not be increased further . Since the fan is coupled to the low-speed turbine , increasing it would overload the turbine . Only if the engine is run at a higher core temperature can the power provided by the low-speed turbine be increased . This would require either better materials ( which are not available ) or lower times between overhauls ( which are costly ) . Note that the engines of the <URL> family have the biggest bypass ratios . Rolls-Royce went with three-spool designs which allow for a finer adjustment of the speed of the different engine components . When a <URL> , even a two-spool design can support a larger fan , and this solution will be used in the next generation of <URL> engines . Smaller engines like the <URL> which is used in the <URL> , used this already years ago to fit a fan to a single-spool engine . For bigger engines , transmitting the enormous power in a compact gearbox was too challenging until now . Just the heat generated by the gearbox of a 200 kN thrust class engine running at 98 % efficiency would be almost 400 kW - this needs to be shed somehow ! Another problem remains , however . Bigger fans need bigger nacelles , and their drag increases with the square of the fan diameter increase . Increasing the bypass ratio of a high-bypass engine even further yields diminishing returns , which tend to be compensated by the increased nacelle drag once the bypass ratio grows beyond 12 to 15 . To make bigger bypass ratios economical , active laminarisation on the nacelle will be needed .
Perhaps the most important resource for airfoil data is the NACA ( the predecessor of NASA ) Report No. 824 <URL> by Abbott , Von Doenhoff and Stivers . This report contains the description , generation and experimental data like variation of lift , drag and moment coefficients with angles of attack for a number of NACA airfoils . You can also see NACA report No. 460 <URL> by Jacobs , Ward and Pinkerton . Also , <URL> by Pinkerton and Greenberg . These are similar to the first report , but older .
Airbus fly-by-wire aircraft have what is called envelope protection which is to prevent pilot inputs from exceeding structural limits as well as keep them from getting the aircraft into an upset flight regime ( stall , overbank , etc. ) . The philosophy behind it is that , if the pilots need to perform an extreme maneuver they can be as aggressive with the controls as they want , confident that they wo n't break the plane . Boeing generally disagrees with this approach saying that , in an emergency , the pilot needs to have all possible force at his disposal , even if it breaks the plane . See the <URL> Federico linked to in comments for more on this . Of course , the Airbus system can only provide these protections when systems are all functioning properly . If part of the system is not working the protections are removed . Examples : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , As far as AA587 , the A-300 is not a fly-by-wire aircraft and does n't have envelope protections . It 's debatable , though , if envelope protection would have helped in that situation . None of the rudder inputs by itself was outside of the structural limitations of the aircraft so the computer would probably not have prevented them . The failure was due to the inputs being made in quick succession which quickly fatigued the composite material of the rudder . The computer can be programmed to know , for instance , how much g-force the structure can take . But it would be difficult to determine what complex combinations of inputs might exceed the strength of the design .
For something like a movable camera in a gimbal , or even a gyroscopic attitude indicator , it means that it is physically locked into place so that it ca n't move . On the gimbals ( such as the camera pod in a predator , or other ISR asset ) that can mean the camera is rotated into a stowed position , and then a pin is mechanically moved into place to keep the payload from moving . This is usually done to prevent damage . For a gyroscopic attitude indicator , you can generally cage it by pulling out a knob , and rotating it to a specific setting . Again , this physically locks it into place so that it does n't move . This is usually done prior to shutting down as the mechanisms keeping the gyros spinning are powered down . This is to prevent damage as well as give it a safe position from which to start from when power is re , applied to the aircraft .
Short Version An accelerated stall is a stall that occurs at an airspeed higher than normal due to a higher load factor ( g loading ) . Longer Version When an aircraft is in a bank or when pulling back on the yoke quickly , the wing has to create additional lift to support the aircraft since the load factor has increased . This increases the angle of attack beyond the critical angle of attack ( the point where the wings can no longer produce enough lift to support the airplane ) and the airplane will stall even though it is above the normal stall speed for the airplane . Example Let 's say that we are flying an airplane that has a " normal " stall speed of 60 KIAS . If we start a 60 degree banked turn , this will increase the load factor on the airplane by two ( 2g ) and will increase our stall speed by 41 % to 85 KIAS . A fairly common cause of this type of accident is when a pilot overshoots the runway centerline during the turn from base to final and steepens the bank angle in order to " turn faster " to get back on final . Because the stall speed goes up , they can stall the airplane even though they normally never even come close at their current airspeed . Instead , they should have just maintained the current bank angle that they had ( instead of steepening it ) and continued the turn back to re-intercept final using normal maneuvers . If that could n't be done in the amount of altitude/distance available , then simply go around and come back to try again ( while making the proper wind correction in the turns this time ) .
On August 30 , 2017 , a completely new body of regulations for small aircraft has been put in place which does not distinguish between normal or utility airplanes but low speed ( below 250 KTAS ) and high speed designs ( > 250 KTAS ) . It also distinguishes between four levels depending on the number of seats ( 0-1 , 2-6 , 7-9 and 10-19 passengers ) . The spirit of the new regulation is to no longer prescribe design-specific rules but more abstract goals in order to limit risk , leaving the details to the aircraft builder . Also , the number of rules has been drastically cut , and their numbering starts where the old numbering ended . Therefore , 23.49 has become <URL> and no longer gives a specific stall speed . All it does is to direct the applicant to determine a stall speed and details what conditions must be covered . I expect that you have not formally started the certification process of your design , because that date determines which regulations apply . You are now free to select the stall speed of your design as long as you can demonstrate that the aircraft can be operated safely without exceptional pilot skill or strength . But you can always count on Eurocrats when a body of regulations which has grown like cancer is to be preserved and extended . In their version ( <URL> ) , the maximum stall speed of 113 km/h or 61 knots is still alive and well . However , <URL> has now copied the new body of regulations as well and replaces the old certification standard in the name of global harmonization . The old regulations reflect the experience which has been collected over decades . Many rules can be traced back to a specific accident and it helps to read through them and to consider why this specific rule has been implemented . Your new design might employ a clever way to avoid that particular condition at all , and then the new liberty of the new regulations will be helpful . But it would be foolish to throw all that experience overboard - a lower stall speed makes any airplane easier to fly . When things happen less quickly and less kinetic energy is involved , more accidents can be avoided and the damage in those that still occur will be lower .
The correct answer may differ for each pair ( airline , airport ) and can be found in the contract that they mutually agreed upon . Such contracts are mostly seen as a business secret , and most of their contents are not known to the general public . As far as I know , both parties agree to do their best to keep everything working during every weather . Which means that there has to be enough equipment to clear a runway really quick , such that these " penalties " are " background noise " in the overall bill , even compared to the penalties caused by other reasons . The airport may decide not to bill the airline most of these penalties , as long as the airline wo n't try to bill every loss caused by the airport 's fault . As a rule of thumb , you do n't upset your business partners like that over peanuts , more so if claims go both ways . They may even have agreed on how many minutes delay wo n't be billed . Yet , this partnership may be put to the test when one of the partners is seen as cutting cost at the expense of the other , or when one really unexpected condition occurs ( like that volcano on Iceland , which disrupted air traffic in central Europe for two weeks or more ) .
There are two philosophies for fleet selection : One type / model or one manufacturer approach Multi manufacturer divide and conquer approach First of all , a single model fleet is only possible for airlines that operate on sectors of comparable length . You ca n't do intercontinental and regional flights with the same aircraft model efficiently . As you observe , there are obviously costs associated with flying different types of aircraft . A single type fleet like for example Ryanair ( B738 ) , Southwest ( B73 * ) and Easyjet ( A320 family ) operate , means the cost of maintenance , training , etc can be kept low . Adding a few aircraft of another type to the fleet would mean additional tools in stock , diversified training and a separate flight crew group and lots of other cost factors . Aircraft manufacturers know that too . So if you need another 10 - 20 aircraft , your standard supplier will ask a high price for this fleet extension , knowing that the competition is never able to put in a compelling offer when all additional cost are taken into account . Only if the batch size is large enough the competitor might be able to offset the additional costs with a unit discount . That is where the mixed fleet operator has an advantage . Since the additional overhead costs of a couple extra aircraft from type A or B are minimal , they <URL> while negotiating with the manufacturers . Single manufacturer airlines usually order aircraft in <URL> , otherwise they would not get a proper deal ; multi type airlines can order aircraft in lower numbers . And then there are politics . Sometimes a national airline will be subjected to political pressure to buy from a certain manufacturer . This is especially the case for airlines operating in the international / intercontinental market . The extra fleet cost incurred will be ( partially ) offset by deals in another field .
There are almost always opportunities to volunteer . However , joining CAP is a larger commitment than simply saying " I 'd like to volunteer to fly . " You will need to attend regular meetings and perform non-pilot duties such has becoming an administrative officer or participating in recruiting and fund raising activities . For some squadrons , the budgets are tight , and the ratio of pilots to flights can be high . The complaint I heard from CAP members back in Idaho was that they hardly ever got to fly . This may be less true in other areas . My suggestion to you would be to contact your local squadron . In your case , this will be a squadron within the <URL> . They have senior squadrons located in <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and elsewhere ( senior squadrons are for adults 18 + , whereas cadet squadrons are for children under 21 . There are also composite squadrons for both seniors and cadets ) . Talk to them about their mission and what the experience would be like . If you 're still interested , attend some meetings ( you 'll need to do this before they 'll let you apply anyway ) . Then , after you have a good sense of what will be expected , if you believe in their mission , and you 're willing to put in the time required , you should join . If all you 're looking for is a way to build cheap ( or free ) flight hours as a private pilot , then that is probably the wrong reason to join , and you will likely be disappointed . * Note from editor : The oddity in the ages of membership for the senior and the cadet groups should be explained . A person may join as a cadet in a squadron up to their eighteenth birthday , however , if they became a cadet before that , they may continue as such until their twenty-first birthday . Anyone joining the Civil Air Patrol after eighteen enters into the senior branch .
No . The fuel system would risk to clog up with gelled diesel fuel in the low temperatures at cruise altitude . If you had omitted " safely " in your question , the answer might be different . Before I repeat what others have written before , I refer you to <URL> . The essential part is : Why do n't we burn highway diesel or heating kerosene in a 747 ? In a word , purity . The additional controls imposed on Jet-A fuel by the associated standard produce a product with well-known properties . When you fuel a plane with Jet-A you can be confident that fuel wo n't freeze in the tanks at altitude ( at least not unless you cold-soak it below -40 degrees ) . You also know the fuel will be " clean " and wo n't gunk up fuel filters or leave deposits inside the combustion core of the engine that can cause problems later .
C-5 Galaxy was designed to military requirements that for cargo aircraft include : operating from unpaved runways ( I am not sure in case of C-5 , but probably yes ) operating from airfields without much support operating from short runways paradrop capability These basically imply a high-wing design so that engines are high ( to minimize risk of foreign object damage ) and the deck is lower for easier loading , front and rear cargo door with loading ramps so loading is possible without any ground infrastructure and some excess thrust for sufficient performance on short fields . However that design is less efficient . It has higher operating cost . The air force is willing to pay it , because it needs the capabilities it requested . But commercial operations do n't need those things , because it has enough well equipped airports to operate from . So the higher cost of operating an L-500 ( as civil version of C-5 would be called ) makes it uninteresting . B-747 only shares one design feature with C-5 , the raised cockpit that allows full-height cargo door in the nose , but otherwise it is optimized to minimize operating cost , making it great cargo plane for operations between airports . On a side note , there is some commercial demand for transporting heavy or large cargo to less equipped airports . These are currently covered by ex-soviet-military An-124 aircraft that look very similar to Galaxy , are a bit larger , are certainly able to land on unpaved runways and were simply available when Soviet Union collapsed .
There are a lot of good reasons not to roll such an airplane . If the plane has gyroscopic instruments , you might tumble them ( cause the spinning gyro to hit the inside of the instrument ) . This can be expensive . You might easily over-stress the air frame . <URL> . ( That 's for a new aircraft ) A botched roll can easily hit 4.5 or higher . If you over stress the air frame , you might just put a lot of very expensive " wrinkles " in the skin that would be very hard to explain to the FBO , your boss , or the insurance company . Trashing the gyros would be cheaper . If you 're not lucky , the wings fold up and you fall out of the sky . It 's a stupid way to die . Non-aerobatic aircraft typically have limited elevator authority ; once upside down , you might find it very difficult to keep the nose pushed up high enough to keep the roll going . Turning a botched roll into a " split-S " is one of the worst " recovery " mistakes you can make , and you 're setting yourself up for it . Non-aerobatic aircraft often have gravity-feed fuel systems . A little bit of 0 or negative " G " and it will get very very quiet in the plane . Some people consider this silence detrimental to the continued safety of the flight . Non-aerobatic aircraft rarely have inverted oil systems . As the engine gets quiet , it also loses most of its lubrication . Bare metal on metal friction can be detrimental to achieving <URL> . Having said all that , in the hands of an expert , it is technically possible to barrel roll most aircraft . A good way to tell if you 're an expert is to call your insurance company and tell them exactly what you plan to do . If they 'll quote you affordable coverage , you might be an expert . Obligatory links because if I do n't include them someone else will : <URL> . I 'm pretty sure he 'd never get away with this today . <URL> . Bob Hoover is beyond expert . Way , way , beyond expert . If you want to roll an airplane , contact your local aerobatic club . In the US and some countries , it 's the <URL> . Get some competent dual instruction in a suitably rated airplane .
Takeoff Field Length The " FAR " Takeoff Field Length determined from the FAA Approved Airplane Flight Manual ( AFM ) considers the most limiting of each of the following three criteria : 1 ) All-Engine Go Distance : 115 % of the actual distance required to accelerate , liftoff and reach a point 35 feet above the runway with all engines operating : 2 ) Engine-Out Accelerate-Go Distance : The distance required to accelerate with all engines operating , have one engine fail at $ V _ { EF } $ at least one second before $ V_1 $ , continue the takeoff , liftoff and reach a point 35 feet above the runway surface at $ V_2 $ speed : 3 ) Accelerate-Stop Distance : The distance required to accelerate with all engines operating , have an engine failure or some other event at $ V _ { EVENT } $ at least one second before $ V_1 $ , recognize the event , reconfigure for stopping and bring the airplane to a stop using maximum wheel braking with the speed brakes extended . $ V_1 $ Speed $ V_1 $ is the speed chosen by the manufacturer as " the pilot 's initiation of the first action to stop the airplane during the accelerate-stop tests . " Note that this is particularly important in that it is not a takeoff decision speed as some pilots like to think of it . The decision must have been made prior to $ V_1 $ so that there is time to react by $ V_1 $ . This speed is chosen by the manufacturer and must be between the engine failure speed1 and rotation speed . Within this range , they could choose any speed , but typically they choose the speed which gives a balanced field length ( see next section ) . There are also other factors to consider such as the maximum brake energy limit ( $ V _ { MBE } $ ) which will prevent $ V_1 $ from being too high . Balanced Field Length If we takeoff from a fixed length runway ( like , say one that matches the Takeoff Field Length from above ) , changing the $ V_1 $ speed will affect the weight that we can successfully continue the takeoff or abort within the available runway . At a particular weight , a lower $ V_1 $ will enable us to stop sooner if we abort but will take more distance to continue the takeoff . A higher $ V_1 $ will require more distance to stop but will take less distance to continue . If we graph these values , there will be a point where the $ V_1 $ speeds for the abort/continue lines meet , and this is known as the balanced field length . It is the value typically given in the AFM : This is nice because it gives the pilot one important number to remember instead of different stop/continue $ V_1 $ 's . If they were to choose an extremely low $ V_1 $ as in your question , then it would require considerably more runway in order to continue the takeoff than if it were higher , and it would not be balanced . Some AFM 's do include separate charts for accelerate-go and accelerate-stop though so you could figure out exactly how much runway that you would need if the engine failed at a lower airspeed . Rotation Speed $ V_R $ is determined independently from $ V_1 $ , and if it is ever less than $ V_1 $ then it must be raised to be equal to $ V_1 $ . References The regulatory information for takeoff performance on transport category aircraft is listed in <URL> , 25.101 - 25.113 . Of particular interest for this question would be <URL> and <URL> An easier to read document is the FAA 's <URL> which covers this and a lot more . Much of my answer was taken directly from this document , and I would highly recommend anyone that is flying a multi-engine aircraft to read the entire thing . 1 $ V _ { EF } $ itself must be above the minimum controllable airspeed on the ground plus acceleration while the pilot reacts to the engine failure .
What you need is enough lift to remain in the air . For that , the maximum lift of your hang glider needs to exceed the total weight . When you know the total weight of the glider ( you included ) , you can derive the theoretical minimum airspeed from the lift formula : $ $ L _ { max } = \ frac12 { \ rho } V ^ 2C _ { max } S$ $ $ $ V _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2W } { { \ rho } C _ { max } S } } $ $ Where : $ L$ = lift $ \ rho $ = air density $ V$ = air speed $ C _ { max } $ = maximum lift coefficient $ S$ = wing surface $ W$ = weight Now you have to know your maximum lift coefficient . Suppose this is 1.2 , and for safety and initial manoeuvring , let 's add a margin of 40 % to the weight . Let 's say your mass is 85 kg , and the glider has a mass of 35 kg . The total weight would be 120 kg -- that is about 1,177 N weight , which for the sake of safety margin is increased to 1,650 N. I 'll estimate the surface of the wing to be $ 16m ^ 2 $ . Assume a normal day , the air density will be about $ 1.225 kg/m ^ 3 $ . Filling in the numbers is the formula : $ $ V _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ times1650 } { 1.225 \ times1 .2 \ times16 } } \ approx 12 \ textrm { m/s } $ $ Any wind speed you get you can subtract from this figure : what is left you have to achieve by pushing , running or diving .
The altitude appears to be above ground level . From <URL> : Section 4 . Fuel Dumping 9 − 4 − 3 . ALTITUDE ASSIGNMENT If an aircraft is dumping fuel in IFR conditions , assign an altitude at least 2,000 feet above the highest obstacle within 5 miles of the route or pattern being flown . The wording says ' above the highest obstacle ' , indicating AGL . The <URL> is much more explicit : 13.3 Controllers are to recommend to flight crew that jettisoning of fuel should be carried out above 10,000 feet agl . Exceptionally , if fuel dumping at this level , or over water , is operationally impracticable or inconsistent with safety , fuel may be jettisoned above 7000 feet agl in winter and above 4000 feet agl in summer . This indicates that the altitude requirement of dumping fuel is from the from the first consideration i.e. it takes x feet for the fuel to fall before it evaporates . <URL> go into this at a little bit of detail . Generally , air masses are only moved vertically very slowly , usually at a settling rate of approximately 60 centimetres per second . In addition the upper limit of the planetary boundary layer ( PBL ) at the altitude of approximately 3000 ft over ground renders the air flow from the upper to the lower layers more difficult . Therefore the chance that even a small quantity of fuel reaches the ground is estimated to be unlikely . Again , it says ' above ground ' indicating AGL .
After reading that article carefully , here 's what appeared to have happened : Pilot collapses Passenger-with-pilots-license comes to flight deck ( with both elitist and sexist chip on his shoulder ) First officer moves to left seat , PwPL takes right seat , runs the radios and checklists , maybe drops the gear . First Officer is a right-seat qualification , on 737s ( and many others ) the steering handle is on the left side . So it 's quite possible that the FO has never steered a 737 on the ground . It 's quite IMpossible that the FO has never taxied an aircraft of any kind before . And there 's a huge difference between driving a Gulfstream around and driving a 130-passenger jet around . If you do n't take a corner just right , the main gear ends up in the ditch , the wing hits the ground , the engine inhales grass , gravel and maybe the taxiway sign and a couple of gophers . Trashing a Ferrari is cheaper . The FO moving to the left seat and flying the plane was the correct action - the B-1 pilot was no more qualified to fly a 737 than I am . But radios are radios , and even the greenest flight attendant can read a checklist .
end question
start question
Can a fighter jet be stolen ?
Military aircraft rarely have any sort of keys or any sort of authentication systems , they rely on physical security measures to prevent people from getting to the airplanes in the first place , like fences , dogs , cameras , guards , and of course guns . If there were no physical barriers then you have 3 major barriers to being able to steal a fighter jet : Support : just about every military fighter aircraft has an assigned crew to prepare it for flight and help the pilot ( s ) get in it . Without this crew you 'd have to get the airplane powered up , fueled up , and then you 'd have to figure out how to get into it and get the ladder removed . There 's a lot of knowledge you 'd need to do all this , just knowing how to open the canopy is n't going to be immediately obvious Starting : starting up a fighter is n't like starting a car , you do n't hit a button and everything happens for you , there 's fuel tanks and pumps , hydraulic systems , electrical systems , and engine management . You 'd have to know where to find all of the switches , dials and levers , and the sequence in which to use them . This is n't something you 'd be able to guess , you 'd need knowledge of the particular airplane Flying : high performance jets are challenging to fly , and by flying I mean aviating , navigating , and communicating . Although modern fighters have a lot of computers to help out with this the systems require a great deal of training to use , and if you do n't know exactly what you are doing you are most likely going to dig a big hole in the ground If you know how to start and fly the airplane there 's nothing stopping you from doing it , provided you can solve the problems of prepping and getting in the airplane . In fact , it 's been done when pilots defect with their airplanes , see the comments below for some great examples .
FAA Advisory Circular ( AC ) <URL> covers " standards and recommendations for airport design . " It does not include any restrictions on proximity to bodies of water , but it does make the following recommendation in paragraph 319 ( a ) : It is recommended that the entire RSA and RPZ be accessible to rescue and fire-fighting vehicles such that no part of the RSA or RPZ is more than 330 feet ( 100 m ) from either an all-weather road or a paved operational surface . Where an airport is adjacent to a body of water where access by rescue personnel from airport property is desirable , it is recommended that boat launch ramps with appropriate access roads be provided . The actual FARs ( <URL> ) also do not state a limit . The only reference to bodies of water of any kind is in § 139.325 ( Airport emergency plan ) paragraph ( e ) : The plan required by this section shall contain provisions , to the extent practicable , for the rescue of aircraft accident victims from significant bodies of water or marsh lands adjacent to the airport which are crossed by the approach and departure flight paths of air carriers . A body of water or marsh land is significant if the area exceeds one-quarter square mile and can not be traversed by conventional land rescue vehicles . To the extent practicable , the plan shall provide for rescue vehicles with a combined capacity for handling the maximum number of persons that can be carried on board the largest air carrier aircraft that the airport reasonably can be expected to serve . So , bottom line : there is no limit , but airports are required to take water into due consideration when developing emergency plans , and the FAA looks at each airport and plan on a case-by-case basis during airport certification . As for the rest of the world , I have no authoritative information ; but as others have posted , it certainly seems like the situation is the same , there being numerous examples of airports worldwide built on natural or reclaimed land very close to water .
There are several additional measures which can be done to prevent a tied down airplane from harsh weather , storms and blizzards . However , nature is always more powerful than humans and it can overcome any safety measures taken by them . If your airplane is tied down properly and securely , hail is a bigger threat than storms or blizzards . A hangar protects an airplane more than the one outside , but it costs a lot more . <URL> ( and <URL> ) discusses several measures you can take to protect your airplane against harsh weather . To avoid redundancy , I am just pointing ( and paraphrasing ) a few here : Parking spot If you can , choose a spot which can break the wind intensity . Anchor points Depending on the aircraft , the anchor points ' holding strength must be 3000-4000 lbs . Ropes You should use those ropes which do not shrink when wet ( e.g. , nylon or dracon ropes instead of Manila ) . Position If possible , park aircraft nearly into the wind as possible . Weight A lighter object is easier to get displaced . You can fill-up the tanks to add extra weight . If you interested in reading some long articles , <URL> and <URL> provide some useful information too . Regarding your second question about snow on the wings , I hardly doubt that something like this will happen : The above <URL> because : ... when the tail hook was torn off and the plane was pushed forward , breaking the spar . <URL> Airplane wings are very sturdy . They can bear the weight of foot or two of snow .
Such landing is safe , reasonable and completely standard business . The <URL> transmitter is rather simple , so there is not that much that can go wrong . But to qualify as category III , only which can be used with no decision height , it additionally needs monitoring circuits that check whether the correct signal is being transmitted and shut it down if it transmits incorrect signal . There is a strict limit how fast the monitoring circuit must react and the whole system is regularly tested . The monitoring system is already needed for category II , but with weaker limits for reaction time . Additionally the tower ensures no other aircraft and vehicles move in area around the transmitters where they could affect the signal propagation . On the aircraft side for auto-land dual channel autopilot is required . So there are two systems that decode the signal and calculate the control input . If the systems disagree or if the signal fails , alarm is sounded and the pilot flying will initiate a go-around . The controller on tower sees the aircraft on radar , so can verify that the aircraft is indeed approaching the intended runway . If the signal fails in the very last moment and there is not enough time to go around until wheels touch the ground , the aircraft wo n't have time to divert from course significantly , so the wheels still touch down on the paved surface . If the lateral signal fails during roll out , there is some risk of runway excursion , but that 's what the safety areas are for . Runway excursions ( to the sides ; overruns are another matter , but they are not significant risk here ) rarely result in injuries . This is really the same level of safety as for any other system you rely on like engines or hydraulic flight controls and many other systems in the aircraft . Note that since there is no taxi guidance , landing in zero visibility is not really possible anywhere ( except , as raportech97 correctly noted below , in emergency ) . Some visibility is always needed ( 50 m should be the lowest , airport and aircraft equipment permitting ) that also gives pilots chance to manually control the roll out in case of localizer failure in that phase .
Spoofing GPS means broadcasting a false GPS signal - This is harder than jamming GPS which can be done relatively easily by broadcasting a strong random signal at the relevent carrier frequencies . GPS receivers use GPS ephemeris tables which tell them where exactly they should expect each satellite to be . So the false GPS signal has to look enough like a real GPS signal that the receiver will accept it and use it 's transmitted data in it 's calculations . Of course , if , for example , the expansionist president of a country with advanced avionics capability decided to supply sophisticated equipment and the associated personnel to a separatist group in a neighbouring country , it might be possible for them to bring about this kind of result . There have been <URL> of this kind of spoofing actually happening , so it appears to be possible . The U of Texas students built a GPS spoofing device for about $ 3,000 . A pair of students , the " attackers , " then sat aboard the upper deck of the White Rose , where their GPS spoofer emitted a counterfeit signal slightly stronger than the real GPS signal . This was a yacht at sea , presumably out of sight of land on a featureless ocean . It may be more difficult to achieve this with an airliner , which have a variety of navigational instruments , including radio navigation beacon receivers . Inconsistent indications may alert the pilot to a problem . Non-GPS navigational instruments/systems that may be found in an aircraft include : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
If the static port gets blocked in an aircraft with no alternate static port , you can break the glass of the VSI ( Vertical Speed Indicator ) to allow air from inside the cockpit in the static system . By doing this you will sacrifice the VSI in favour of the altimeter and airspeed indicator Due to venturi effects , air inside the cockpit has usually a slightly lower pressure than the pressure measured by the static port outside your aircraft . This causes your altimeter to indicate a higher altitude and the airspeed indicator will also indicate a greater speed . The VSI is useless after you break it . Needless to say this does not apply to pressurized cabins nor to glass cockpits ... This works because the inside of the VSI contains a diaphragm in a pressure chamber . The diaphragm is connected to the static system through an unrestricted tube . The chamber is connected to the static system through a restricted ( calibrated ) leak . If the static pressure changes , the pressure in the diaphragm changes instantly , while the chamber pressure lags slightly behind . This causes the membrane to expand / retract which drives the needle on the instrument . When the glass is broken , the chamber will be at the same pressure as the cockpit . Through the calibrated leak , the static system will be levelled with the cockpit pressure , but of course with a delay as well . The VSI will now work in opposite direction ( if you did n't destroy the needle ) . The inner workings of an IVSI Some VSI apparently have the calibrated leak into the cockpit already . For such VSI 's smashing the glass does not work . Here the diaphragm should be destroyed as well .
According to <URL> : F. Color Vision Correcting Lens ( e.g. X-Chrom ) Such lenses are unacceptable to the FAA as a means for correcting a pilot 's color vision deficiencies . However , you have the option of taking other <URL> . It would be better to talk with your physician or the medical examiner about this .
With enough engineering ( read , money ) , all sorts of things would be possible , but if you picture the aircraft in a hard , level turn , the g-forces would be pressing " down " relative to a conventional cockpit , but " sideways " for a cockpit that was gimbaled so the pilot was sitting upright relative to the horizon . And that would probably be a lot harder to take than the usual " down " G-forces . Resisting 9 G 's pulling your hand and forearm straight down can be done with a support for your arm ( side-stick controller ) or a bit of a ledge at the bottom of the handgrip ( side-stick or center stick ) , but keeping precise control of the aircraft with 9 G 's pulling your hand sideways might be a lot harder . Beyond that , the sideways G force would be pushing your head to the side , which probably ends up banging your helmet -- pretty hard sometimes -- against whatever restraint or canopy it meets . Something that achieves some of the goals you mention is the " Virtual Reality " helmet of the F-35 , where the pilot can essentially look through the airframe and " see " aircraft , targets , and whatnot even in places that he would n't have an actual line-of sight . That allows him to look in any direction , reacting to threats , tracking his target , and so forth . And without having to gimbal the cockpit . Although for what the F-35 's cost , that might actually be cheaper !
Some energy from the expansion is used to turn the turbine which powers the compressor And in some engines it turns the turbine which has a large fan attached to the other end . The engine produces more power than needed to run itself . Inside the engine , everything is a very careful balance of pressures . Basically the job done by valves in a piston engine is done by careful engineering in a turbine , which is one of the reasons they cost so much . The inflow to the combustion chamber balances the outflow to the power turbine to the point where it wants to go that way - get it a little bit out of balance and you have noisy stalls like you see in the referenced video .
There are a several theft-deterrent mechanisms in place . On small airplanes , most commonly , the door to the airplane itself is usually locked with a key . ( Notice the key cylinder in this picture below the silver door handle : Prop locks : Throttle locks : A lot of airplanes do have an ignition key which you turn to engage the starter . Of course , as <URL> , this can be circumvented by hand-propping ( which is a very dangerous endeavor for unskilled people who have n't done it before ) You would have to know how to operate the basic systems of the airplane as well as how to fly . <URL> Fences and other physical security measures around airports .
The ILS , or precisely the components localizer and glidepath antennas can be shut off , as they are electronic devices that emit radio signals . They can be turned off and on by ATC where required , e.g. having the same ILS frequency for two opposite runways and you only want one to be active at the same time or they can be shut down by maintenance directly at the emitters . ILS are usually not powered by UPS , so they will not be available during power outages . If equipment is being shut down for maintenance or other reasons , you will see this mentioned in the <URL> , such as here from Cologne/Bonn Airport , where the glidepath portion of the ILS runway 24 is out of service : ( Source : <URL> )
<URL> , the following woods were used : Mahogany Walnut Oak Almost all wooden propellers are reinforced to add strength . Fabric or metal coverings can be added too .
Currently , the 777 has engines that have a max thrust of <URL> , for a total of 230,000 lbf of thrust . The 747-8 has engines with a max thrust of <URL> , each , for a total of 266000 . And just to throw in for comparison , the A380 , currently has engines each producing <URL> of thrust , and a total of 288,000 lbf . Right now the 777 has some of the highest thrust producing engines in commercial service . This does not take into account the extra thrust that is required for engine out issues . With a 2 engine design you have to have enough extra thrust for loss of engine during take-off at max take off weight . Whereas with a 4 engine design , you only have to have enough thrust to account for loss of 1 engine . So for a 747 twin engine aircraft , as a rough estimate you 'd need to have each engine produce at least 150,000 lbf of thrust if not more .
Probably <URL> . Though , I should note , that there is some credible evidence that only one person was actually flying the plane and the other may have been forced into coming along . So you could probably consider it to have been stolen by one person , and that person appears to have not been remotely qualified to fly it . When it was leaving the plane seemed to meander down the taxiway to the runway , like the pilot had no idea what they were doing , and then it took off . It has n't been seen since , and most credible theories think it crashed in the ocean . But <URL> abound . A close second would probably be <URL> ( <URL> plane reference ) , also stolen in Africa . This time by an employee of the company who was , unfortunately , suicidal . He flew the plane around the airport for a few minutes demanding to speak to everyone from his boss , to his significant other to the president of the country . He eventually crashed it into a couple of other ATR 's the company owned . In reference to the " I 'm writing a story " line . I would suggest that a 727 probably is n't the optimal plane for a single person to steal . They 're older and difficult to manage on your own . I think a much better option would be a more modern aircraft , like an <URL> or a <URL> . They have avionics that allow for one person to reasonably fly the plane . Granted , they are very new and may be harder to steal . Probably the sweet spot between " new enough to be flyable by one person " and " old enough to have one just sitting around to be stolen " would be something like a <URL> or an <URL> . Both are still quite large , but a skilled pilot could probably operate one on their own if they needed to . In fact , <URL> .
Technically yes . But I am unaware of any attempt to do this with airliners . But there were <URL> in the past which used a big airplane or a <URL> as a mother ship , which took fighters with it for air defense . The <URL> was involved in several such designs . In all cases the docking was made from below , because this gave the fighter pilot the best field of view and reduced the risk of a tail strike . While the fighter in the picture above is a Republic F-84 , McDonnell even designed one specifically for the purpose of being carried around by a bomber , the <URL> . It used a rather complicated trapeze for docking and was then pulled up into the fuselage , as the picture with a B-29 below shows . Your design proposal with the simple platform on top of the fuselage would carry a high risk of a tail strike if anything goes wrong , so it is unlikely that this will ever be tried for real . But when you change the airliner to a AN-225 , the idea looks not totally impossible . The <URL> with a mothership as early as the 1930s . The picture below shows a TB-3 docking with a I-Z fighter , the first pair of aircraft in history to dock in flight . The main reason for docking was the much smaller range of fighters . Today , air refuelling takes care of this deficit , so it is unlikely that anyone will see a benefit strong enough to justify the expense of modifying two aircraft and the risk incurred in the docking process .
Yes , they can . Air-to-Air or Air-to-Ground missiles are often equipped with little fins that allow certain maneuverability or also with <URL> . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : USAF ) ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Titimaster )
The F-14 manual describes the ejection system as : The aircraft is equipped with an automatic electronically sequenced command escape system incorporating two Navy aircrew common ejection seat ( SJU-17 ( V ) 3/A ( pilot ) and SJU-17 ( V ) 4/A ( RIO ) ) rocket-assisted ejection seats . That means the seats are an integral part of the system . According to <URL> , the weight is 228 pounds ( 103 kg ) and it has a " maximum thrust [ of ] 4,800 pounds for 0.25 seconds " . A cockpit seat on a Boeing 737 weighs around 40 kg if we are to trust this <URL> , so we can say the addition of the ejection elements adds 63 kg . Of course a 737 cockpit seat is much heavier than a WWII non-existent seat ( the pilots <URL> their own cushions ) . This might be useful however if you want to compare a B-52 with and without ejection seats . Below is an image for that ejection system , and as I gather , that 's a very common ( average ) model found on many US aircraft . <URL> ( Click for larger size . )
The guns of modern fighter jets are fixed to the airframe -- they ca n't be moved in any direction ; the pilot has to maneuver the aircraft to bring the guns to bear . The image shows the mounting of General Electric M61A1 Vulcan cannon in an F-16 . <URL> Gun installation in F-16 ; image from <URL> The pilot aims the guns using an optical representation in the Heads-Up Display ( HUD ) . Some of the aircraft use the <URL> where : ... a prediction angle is continually computed and displayed on the Heads Up Display ( HUD ) as a reticle offset from a fixed reference on the gunsight . ... ( which ) accounts for ballistic curvature , own motion , and predicted target motion . Basically , it shows where the shells will pass through at a certain distance . Some aircraft use <URL> . It basically shows a pair of lines which the cannon shells will follow - the lines moves as the aircraft maneuvers , showing the effect of the maneuver on the flight path ( of the shell ) . The correct ' solution ' exists when the wingtips of the target touches the funnel lines . <URL> EEGS ; image from <URL>
Cabins of fighter jets are in fact pressurized , but not same as the passenger airplanes . Cabin pressure in a passenger airplane will increase ( almost in a linear fashion ) as the airplane climbs . However , fighters keep ambient air pressure to a certain altitude . It maintains this pressure until a certain pressure differential is met , and then cabin altitude increases to maintain this differential . Therefore at higher altitudes , cabin pressure in a fighter jet is low enough that supplemental oxygen is required for the pilot ( s ) . This is supplied via <URL> . By not pressurizing the cabin completely reduces stress on air frame and is beneficial during an unplanned decompression . By the way , your friend ( military fighter pilot ) is correct .
To certify any Commercial Jet Plane worthy of flying , a 2 engine plane must be able fly with just 1 engine running a 3 engine jet like the Lockheed L1011 or DC10 with just 1 a 4 engine jet with just 2 . Although not a requirement , the 747 , A380 could fly on one engine but are not be able to maintain the cruise altitude indefinitely and will eventually become long-range gliders so they must land immediately . The landing approach and procedures vary on how much the plane weighs prior to landing . Would the passengers be notified , asking to take the brace position during landing ? Brace Positions are only assumed on impact emergencies , like crash landings . Losing an engine does n't mean you are going to crash so no brace will be assumed . Would such event have an accident investigation report ? There will be an investigation but if the plane landed safely it wont be filed as an accident . The plane plus the engines passed its FAA , EASA , etc Certification so it may be a number of reasons why the engine malfunctioned , like bad maintenance , faulty parts etc. . This is an extract from wikepedia -- <URL> Shut downs that are not engine failures Most in-flight shutdowns are harmless and likely to go unnoticed by passengers . For example , it may be prudent for the flight crew to shut down an engine and perform a precautionary landing in the event of a low oil pressure or high oil temperature warning in the cockpit . However , passengers may become quite alarmed by other engine events such as a compressor surge -- a malfunction that is typified by loud bangs and even flames from the engine 's inlet and tailpipe . A compressor surge is a disruption of the airflow through a gas turbine engine that can be caused by engine deterioration , a crosswind over the engine 's inlet , ingestion of foreign material , or an internal component failure such as a broken blade . While this situation can be alarming , the condition is momentary and not dangerous . Other events such as a fuel control fault can result in excess fuel in the engine 's combustor . This additional fuel can result in flames extending from the engine 's exhaust pipe . As alarming as this would appear , at no time is the engine itself actually on fire . Also , the failure of certain components in the engine may result in a release of oil into bleed air that can cause an odor or oily mist in the cabin . This is known as a fume event . The dangers of fume events are the subject of debate in both aviation and medicine . Would this report later be available for general public , as are the reports of various significant air disasters ? It depends , as you read above the flight deck crew may shut down an engine because of low oil pressure . Would that have significance of becoming public knowledge ? However as an example , if the problem of an engine failure escalates to the manufacturer then the airline may ground the fleet and that then becomes public knowledge and the reason why because the airliner would give media statements . It all depends on the severity of the problem . Like this one that got reported -- <URL> 20 August 2007 ; B-18616 , 737-800 , 30175/1182 , FF 11 Jul 02 , Okinawa , Japan : Engine # 1 caught fire shortly after docking destroying the aircraft . No fatalities . The cause was the detachment of a slat pylon bolt which fell off and pierced the fuel tank which leaked and ignited . According to the JTSB the washer that should have held the nut in place probably detached during maintenance 6 weeks before the incident . The design of the nut has since been changed to limit the likelihood of detachment .
end question
start question
Do aircraft use the same or similar warning alarms for different alarm conditions ?
Has boeing changed their alarm systems post that incident ? The story of <URL> is complicated . It is not clear that a misidentified alarm was the cause of the crash . Update : If you are talking about the cabin altitude warning horn , that was allegedly misidentified as a take-off configuration , then nothing has been changed , at least up to May 2015 ( see : <URL> , bottom of the page 50 ) . " As the aircraft climbed , the pressure inside the cabin gradually decreased . As it passed through an altitude of 12,040 feet ( 3,670 m ) , the cabin altitude warning horn sounded . The warning should have prompted the crew to stop climbing , but it was misidentified by the crew as a take-off configuration warning , which signals that the aircraft is not ready for take-off , and can only sound on the ground . In the next few minutes , several warning lights on the overhead panel in the cockpit illuminated . One or both of the equipment cooling warning lights came on to indicate low airflow through the cooling fans ( a result of the decreased air density ) , accompanied by the master caution light . The passenger oxygen light illuminated when , at an altitude of approximately 18,000 feet ( 5,500 m ) , the oxygen masks in the passenger cabin automatically deployed . " m , Source : <URL> .
General alerting sounds are chosen by the manufacturer of the cockpit systems . Stall warnings , autopilot disconnect alerts , fire alarms etc. are all not standardised , with the exception of the words spoken by the GPWS/TAW and TCAS system . Whilst the exact sounds of these two systems are not standardised in the sense that a standard . wav file is to used by all manufacturers , the phraseology in their aural alerts is standard . The Ground Proximity Warning System ( GPWS ) / Terrain Awareness Warning System ( TAWS ) will have to issue an aural warning ' PULL UP , PULL UP ' if the aircraft is approaching terrain , and ' GLIDESLOPE ' when the aircraft is deviating far below the glideslope . Also the cautions ( ' SINKRATE . ' , ' TERRAIN . ' , ' DO N'T SINK . ' , ' TOO LOW , GEAR . ' , ' TOO LOW , FLAPS . ' , ' TOO LOW , TERRAIN . ' and ' FIVE HUNDRED . ' ) 1 are standardised . Whether it is a male , female or robotic voice is up to the manufacturer of the system , but the words are uniform across all systems . Additional cautions and aural alerts are allowed as long as they are clear and unambiguous . The same holds for TCAS ; ' TRAFFIC , TRAFFIC . ' , ' CLIMB , CLIMB . ' , ' DESCEND , DESCEND . ' , ' INCREASE CLIMB , ' , ' INCREASE DESCENT , ' , ' REDUCE CLIMB , ' , ' REDUCE DESCENT . ' , ' CLIMB , CLIMB NOW . ' , ' MAINTAIN VERTICAL SPEED , MAINTAIN . ' , ' LEVEL OFF , LEVEL OFF . ' ( supersedes " ADJUST VERTICAL SPEED , ADJUST ) , ' MONITOR VERTICAL SPEED . ' , ' CROSSING . ' and ' CLEAR OF CONFLICT ' are all standard phrases which have to be implemented in this exact wording ( 2 ) . 1 <URL> Table 4-1 ( pages 16 -- 18 ) 2 RTCA DO-185B , Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System II ( TCAS II ) Version 7.1 , Volume I section , 2.2.6.3 : Aural annunciations )
There is no civillian autopilot for an F-16 , because there are no non-military F-16s . Ditto with the F-117 or or B-1 or B-2 , so who knows what unique modes those autopilots have for their uniquely military missions ( i.e. dropping bombs or low level terrain following ) . However , when the military aircraft has a non-military equivalent ( KC-10 / DC-10 , KC-135 / B707 , C-40 / T-43 / B737 , C-21 / Learjet , T-44 / C-12 / KingAir , etc ) then the autopilots are generally identical . Any differences are more likely to be found in FMC software rather than in the Autopilot , and those differences would be very specific to each aircraft &amp; its mission .
What I assume you are talking about is the drivers license medical loop here in the US that allows you to fly LSA aircraft with only holding a Drivers License ( in lieu of a medical certificate ) . You can find the <URL> but there are a few things you should know . First off you need to see what your local state requires ( since drivers licenses are issued by states not a federal body like pilots licenses ) . If your state has color blind restrictions on drivers licenses you may have an issue ( i ) Comply with each restriction and limitation imposed by that person 's U.S. driver 's license and any judicial or administrative order applying to the operation of a motor vehicle ; If you are stepping down from larger planes into LSA planes you can not use the drivers license if you have ever lost a medical cert ( iii ) Not have had his or her most recently issued medical certificate ( if the person has held a medical certificate ) suspended or revoked or most recent Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate withdrawn ; and The catch all clause that may make the colorblind condition an issue is the last requirement in the FAR ( iv ) Not know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make that person unable to operate a light-sport aircraft in a safe manner . There are lots of light signals used in aviation that a red/green color blind person would have issues with . According to <URL> color blind LSA pilots are restricted from flying into where color light signals may be used ( these signals include but are not limited to tower light signals and ground based warning lights like those in the DC area ) . If your state issues you a color blind restriction on your drivers license it holds here as well , Of course , any limitations placed on the driver 's license would also apply to flying , and a person must always be physically able to perform the flight safely . Furthermore it seems that according to <URL> you can have the restrictions lifted if you can pass a color blind test ( I assume this applies to both the LSA restrictions as well as the regular PPL restrictions )
What you say is true only for turbojets . Generally , all optimum points for propeller-driven aircraft are at lower speeds than those of jet aircraft . The reason is the variation of thrust with speed : For propellers , thrust is inverse to speed , while it is roughly constant over speed for turbojet aircraft in the subsonic speed range . Specifically , the optimum angle of climb condition can be expressed as $ $ \ frac { \ delta \ gamma } { \ delta c_L } = 0 $ $ If we assume a quadratic polar and an expression for thrust which lets us model an exponential variation of thrust over speed ( $ T = T_0 · v ^ { n_v } $ ) , we can write this condition as $ $ \ frac { \ delta \ gamma } { \ delta c_L } = - \ frac { n_v } { 2 } · c_L ^ { - \ frac { n_v } { 2 } -1 } · \ frac { T_0 · ( m · g ) ^ { \ frac { n_v } { 2 } -1 } } { \ left ( \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } · S _ { ref } \ right ) ^ { \ frac { n_v } { 2 } } } + \ frac { c _ { D0 } } { c_L ^ 2 } - \ frac { 1 } { \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ The general solution is $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = - \ frac { n_v } { 4 } · \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { m · g } + \ sqrt { \ frac { n_v ^ 2 } { 16 } · \ left ( \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { m · g } \ right ) ^ 2 + c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ For jets ( $ n_v = 0 $ ) the solution is quite simple , because the thrust terms are proportional to the thrust coefficient $ n_v $ and disappear : $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ For turbofan and propeller aircraft , we have less luck and get a much longer formula . This is the one for propellers ( $ n_v = -1 $ ) : $ $ c _ { L _ { { \ gamma _ { max } } } } = \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { 4 · m · g } + \ sqrt { \ left ( \ frac { T · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } { 4 · m · g } \ right ) ^ 2 + c _ { D0 } · \ pi · AR · \ epsilon } $ $ To arrive from here at a flight speed , I recommend to look up the speed in a polar . Solving this analytically will get messy . Below I have plotted a generic climb speed over air speed chart for different thrust loadings of a typical turbofan . The blue lines show thrust ( right Y-axis ) and the green lines the resulting climb speed . The two black lines show how the optimum flight speed for best climb speed and best climb angle ( steepest climb ) vary over thrust loadings . They are easy to find graphically : Pick the tops of the green curves for best climb and the steepest tangent from the origin of the coordinate system to the green lines for best climb angle . Note that they cross when moving from positive to negative climb speeds . With a propeller , the results will look similar , however , the best climb speed line would be vertical . This will collect all optima at the low speed range of the plot - using a turbofan makes the effects easier to see because the optima are spread out more . <URL> Climb optima for different thrust loadings ( own work ) The optimum climb speed ( which is proportional to $ \ frac { 1 } { c_L ^ 2 } $ ) varies inversely with the square of the thrust loading ( $ \ frac { T _ { ref } } { m · g } $ ) ² of the aircraft . With lots of excess thrust , the optimum is limited by the stall speed ( the black line bends into a vertical trend ) , while with no excess thrust both optimum speeds $ v_x $ and $ v_y $ converge . This makes sense : If thrust is just sufficient to keep the airplane from descending at one speed , this speed will both give the best flight path angle and the best vertical speed ( unfortunately , both will be 0 at this point ) . It also helps to reduce induced drag , so aircraft with a high aspect ratio wing will climb steepest at a higher lift coefficient ( = lower speed ) . The steepest climb optimum looks a little more compact if we use the induced drag coefficient directly : $ $ c _ { L _ { \ gamma _ { max } } } = \ frac { 2 · m · g · ( c _ { D0 } - c _ { Di } ) } { T } $ $ but since the lift coefficient is hidden again in the induced drag term , and so sits on both sides of the equation , it is much harder to draw conclusions from this version . Nomenclature : $ c_L \ :\ :\ : $ lift coefficient $ n_v \ :\ :\ : $ thrust exponent , as in $ T \ sim v ^ { n_v } $ $ T \ :\ :\ :\ : $ thrust $ m \ :\ :\ :\ : $ mass $ g \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ gravitational acceleration $ \ pi \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ 3.14159 $ \ dots $ $ AR \ :\ : $ aspect ratio of the wing $ \ epsilon \ :\ :\ :\ :\ : $ the wing 's Oswald factor $ c _ { D0 } \ : $ zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { Di } \ :\ : $ induced drag coefficient
It helps to know the objective of both ICAO and IATA to understand when which code is used . <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) is a UN-body which focusses on international harmonization of civil aviation regulations . ICAO codes are used for " official " purposes such as Air Traffic Control ; E.g. flight plans use ICAO codes for airports and airline flight identification . <URL> ( International Air Transport Association ) is a trade association that focusses on making air traffic businesses safe , secure , reliable and efficient . IATA codes are mainly used for ticketing . E.g. travel itineraries use IATA codes for airports and IATA flight numbers .
When instructed to report something . ATC : Cimber 626 turn left heading 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , report established Pilot : Heading left 120 , cleared ILS approach runway 09 , WILCO , Cimber 626 ATC : OYABC airborne time 33 , report passing Dalhem Pilot ; ( Roger ) , WILCO , OYABC ATC : Lufthansa 135 , traffic is a Boeing 737 on 5 miles final for runway 09 , report in sight Pilot : WILCO , Lufthansa 135
The U.S. Air Force ( and Navy ) still uses , and has used off and on since WWII , what are commonly referred to as " Go Pills " for instances when pilots need to be up for long periods of time - in wartime , sometimes longer than the crew rest regulation . ( These pills can also be used for altering sleep cycles , along with " no-go " pills ; for example , when changing from day to night ) . The most common go pill is <URL> , which is an amphetamine . You can find some more information in <URL> .
Formation lights are used so that aircraft can fly close formation at night . They are typically luminescent strips positioned so that an aircraft can be in the desired position ( i.e. fingertip formation ) and have references fore-aft , up-down , and near-far similar to references as used for daytime formation flying . Something along the lines of , " keep the position light just below the formation light ( strip ) under the cockpit and the aft fuselage light ( strip ) just touching the wing hardpoint , and you 're in the right position . If the position light goes farther below the strip , you 're getting high ; if the hardpoint is sliding back into the aft light you 're getting close , etc. " Obviously these references are very specific to each individual aircraft . You can see the formation lights in this picture of an F-14 ; the dots are actual position lights , while the strips are the formation lights . <URL> <URL> As to why only military aircraft have them ... how often have you seen or heard of civil aircraft flying formation at night ? Yeah , me neither . There are very , very few non-military reasons for formation flight , and essentially none that require it to be done at night .
Since the pilot wo n't check-in their flight bag , the booking will be cancelled ( no-show ) . They wo n't board with the passengers , so they wo n't be counted , same end result . Answer is no . Many airlines now prohibit active duty ( including relief ) flight-crew from mingling with the passengers . Long gone are the days of the pilot walking up and down the plane . That would be the most expensive shower in the history of showers . A first-class Emirates long haul flight is easily $ 24,000 ( SFO-DXB ) . <URL> are beds for a reason , a shower goes against the idea of sleeping ( may not be a universal thing though ) . But I would n't want to see my flight-crew in a robe going to bed after a nice warm shower . Unless the robe comes with epaulets .
The different terms represent different weights or masses1 . For each flight , the weights are taken into account for several reasons . A brief description about these is below : <URL> ( MEW ) Also called Manufacturer 's Weight Empty ( MWE ) or Licensed Empty Weight It is the weight of the aircraft " as built " and includes the weight of the structure , power plant , furnishings , installations , systems and other equipment that are considered an integral part of an aircraft . This excludes any baggage , passengers , or usable fuel2 . <URL> ( ZFW ) This is the total weight of the airplane and all its contents ( including unusable fuel ) , but excluding the total weight of the usable fuel on board . As a flight progresses and fuel is consumed , the total weight of the airplane reduces , but the ZFW remains constant . Maximum zero fuel weight ( MZFW ) is the maximum weight allowed before usable fuel and other specified usable agents ( engine injection fluid , and other consumable propulsion agents ) are loaded . <URL> ( OEW ) ( Roughly equivalent to basic empty weight on light aircraft ) It is the basic weight of an aircraft including the crew , all fluids necessary for operation such as engine oil , engine coolant , water , unusable fuel and all operator items and equipment required for flight but excluding usable fuel and the payload . <URL> It is the carrying capacity of an aircraft . It includes cargo , people , extra fuel . In the case of a commercial airliner , it may refer only to revenue-generating cargo or paying passengers . <URL> ( MTOW ) This is the maximum weight at which the pilot of the aircraft is allowed to attempt to take off3 . <URL> ( RTOW ) Depending on different factors ( e.g. flap setting , altitude , air temperature , length of runway ) , RTOW or maximum permissible takeoff weight varies for each takeoff . It can never be higher than MTOW . More information is on <URL> . <URL> ( MLW ) This maximum weight at which an aircraft is permitted to land3 . The following image depicts takeoff weight components . <URL> <URL> ( MRW ) also called maximum taxi weight ( MTW ) It is the maximum weight authorized for maneuvering ( taxiing or towing ) an aircraft on the ground . <URL> It is the total aircraft weight at any moment during the flight or ground operation . This decreases during flight due to fuel and oil consumption . 1 : As <URL> , several recent references use the term mass instead of weight . Having a Physics background , I tend to agree and know the difference between <URL> . I did not use mass as most of the references I included referred mass as weight . However , using correct terminology , all the weights mean mass . Thanks <URL> for pointing it out . 2 : What is the different between usable fuel and unusable fuel ? Usable fuel is the fuel on board an aircraft that can actually be used by its engines . The small amount of fuel that can not be drained from the tanks is the unusable fuel . For calculation of range , usable fuel is used . For weight and balance total fuel ( usable + unusable ) is used . 3 : This restriction is due to structural , design or operational limitations .
Yes and no . When you say EGPWS that is a trademark of Honeywell , so all EGPWS systems are made by Honeywell . The fine print is the the requirement <URL> is for a Terrain Awareness and Warning System ( TAWS ) . The TSO functionally describes the Honeywell system . ( Honeywell actually designed it before the FAA decided it was a necessary addition to the rules . ) Since implementing the standard would most likely require the use of Honeywell proprietary information ( patents ) , Honeywell is legally required to provide the product it to all customers on a non-discriminatory basis . As a result , even though Rockwell Collins provides the Integrated Surveillance System ( ISS ) for the B787 , the TAWS component of the ISS is sourced by Collins from Honeywell . That said , Thales was able to patent a similar system in France about the same time . There were lawsuits , and in the end they agreed to let each other exist . ACSS ( a joint venture between L-3 Comm and Thales ) sells TAWS units in the US that is based on the Thales system , so there is an alternative to Honeywell . Thales does sell their system outside the US . Some of the primary Honeywell patents for the EGPWS have recently expired or are about to expire . So there may be some new alternatives soon . Of course Honeywell has been making ' upgrades ' beyond the regulatory requirements which they have been patenting . These may help them hold their market share . So no , there is not a single system to meet the requirement . OTOH , there 's not much competition either .
As mentioned Commercial should really be " Civilian " which includes Private and Commercial . Lets assume that military includes the various branches that employ pilots ( Navy , Air Force , Marines etc ) . In the end of the day everyone flies a plane ... A chunk of military aviation is devoted to combat related missions , this is something a civilian will never see ( at least as far as I know ) . This includes but is not limited to surveillance , escorts , combat and other military related missions . The military operates troop transport and cargo planes much like commercial operations do and they have pilots who fly them . I would think the tasks are very similar since moving people and cargo is moving people and cargo whether for the military or a civilian organization . The military obviously had access to flying some planes that would be tough to get into as a civilian ( fighter jets mainly ) . One operation that Civilian pilots will never see is take off and landing on a carrier . That is unique to Navy operations and as far as I know there is no way to do it as a civilian or even train for it ( unless you can buy a carrier ) . As far as regulations go the military aircraft and pilots are subject to military regulations ( in terms of up keep and things like that ) and must adhere to those rules which I believe are different in some cases than the FARs that govern US commercial and Private operations . That being said , if flying in US airspace the same rules apply to military planes that apply to civilian planes .
The system you 're asking about is called radar : ATC should monitor it to see what the plane is doing and ask what is going on when something unexpected happens . It 's hard to " automate " these kinds of alerts . For example , a sudden dive can also be cause by an uncontrolled control-surface hard-over ( like the <URL> that brought down 2 planes ) , or a loss of cabin pressurization ( which requires a rapid descent to an altitude where your passengers can breathe ) . The other option is having a second person in the cockpit who can wrest control away from the disobedient pilot ( or let people in the cockpit to help ) .
Short answer : Rudder and ailerons have different purposes and control rotation about two different axis , but their use is coordinated since a rotation about one axis induces a secondary rotation on the other one . The rudder use is mostly to prevent unwanted yaw movement for safety and comfort , or to force yaw against the aircraft tendency to keep the aircraft facing the relative wind ( e.g. for a cross-wind landing ) . See <URL> for a more comprehensive explanation . A turn is performed using the ailerons , but for a non-small turn an adverse yaw opposite to the turn develops , the rudder is used to maintain the desired attitude and what is known as a <URL> . When a yaw damper is available , coordinated turns can be conducted without pilot action on the rudder , as the yaw damper controls the rudder automatically . Detailed answer When speed and altitude increase , using the rudder to turn around the yaw axis with the wings horizontal , tends to make the aircraft flies <URL> in the same direction rather than to turn it . Turning this way would require a larger rudder area and would generate additional drag . So this is not the way an aircraft is steered in flight . Banking turns the aircraft An aircraft actually turns by changing the bank ( or roll ) angle . When the aircraft spins about this roll axis , the direction of the lift is changed , and can be seen as having two components : <URL> ( <URL> ) The horizontal component of the lift moves the aircraft away from its original path and a turn starts . Yawing aligns the aircraft with the wind Lowering the aileron on a wing makes it more efficient , it generates more lift and raises . But generating more lift also induces more drag . <URL> ( <URL> ) This drag in excess tends to slow the aircraft on the upper wing side . This creates an <URL> movement in the direction opposite to the one desired . <URL> ( <URL> ) The pilot uses the rudder to counter the adverse yaw and keep the fuselage axis facing the airflow , countering <URL> effects . This is known as performing a <URL> . Ailerons-rudder coordination The amount of rudder to apply can be determined using ( human senses and ) different instruments , including the <URL> which is a sort of level usually associated with a bank or rate of turn indicator . <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> ( <URL> ) When executing a coordinated level turn without wind , at sea level , etc , the radius of the turn and the turn rate depend only on the airspeed and the bank angle : TAS 150kt , bank 20 ° : Radius 1,676 m , 360 ° in 2:16 . TAS 300kt , bank 30 ° : Radius 4,227 m , 360 ° in 3:51 . See <URL> for additional information . Ailerons deflection reduced in the turn Note that when the desired bank angle is reached , the pilot reduces the ailerons deflection . The excess of lift and drag on the upper wing decreases too , as does the adverse yaw . The rudder deflection can be reduced too . Normally the aircraft should maintain its bank and continue to turn with ailerons in neutral position , due to the upper wing flying faster and generating more lift . However the aircraft in a rolled attitude actually slips into the turn and the dihedral effect tends to decrease the roll angle of the slipping aircraft ( <URL> ) . So some degree of aileron deflection will be maintained . The ailerons ( and the rudder ) are used to return the wings to their horizontal position and stop the turn more accurately . Yaw damper In commercial airliners , the yaw control is assisted by one or two <URL> which function is to increase the yaw stability and prevent the development of the dangerous <URL> . Thanks to the yaw dampers , the pilot does not need to use the rudder pedals for coordinated turns . <URL> ( <URL> )
The FAA has <URL> . Basically it boils down to this : If your registration has expired you still have ~ 90 days to register the aircraft If a renewal application was first received by the Registry after the expiration date , the renewal process no longer applies . An aircraft owner may apply for registration of an unregistered aircraft under 14 C.F.R. § 4731 ( a ) , by filing an Aircraft Registration Application , <URL> , the $ 5.00 registration fee , and evidence of ownership ( if it is not already on file at the Registry ) . So it 's a " new registration " , but you can keep your N number . ( Yes , you have to use an official , FAA-Provided 8050-1 form - you ca n't download them anymore . You 're also going to want to talk to someone at the <URL> or your local FSDO before you start filling out forms because you do n't want your form to show up after the 90 day window or you wind up in the other category ... ) After about 90 days your N number is Cancelled &amp; unavailable for 5 years When an aircraft registration is not renewed , the cancellation of the N-number assigned to that aircraft will take place approximately 90 days after the expiration of an aircraft 's registration . Upon cancellation , an N-number will be unavailable for re-assignment or reservation for a period of five years . At this point you have to talk the aircraft registration branch , but my understanding is you are out of luck -- That N number is void and a new number will be issued when you register the aircraft ( at which point you must apply the new N number to the aircraft in accordance with <URL> , which typically means repainting at least part of the tail ) . You must get a new airworthiness certificate bearing the new registration number from your local FSDO . In both of these cases your airworthiness certificate is invalid * ( because without a valid registration you have no authority to operate the aircraft ) . In the first case you will not need a replacement airworthiness certificate ( because your N number has n't changed ) , but if your N number has been cancelled you will need a new airworthiness certificate issued with the new N number on it . Total time for all the paperwork to be processed depends on which bucket you fall into -- the aircraft registration branch usually has about a 30-day backlog ( <URL> ) , plus time for the post office to move the paper from point A to point B , so a lag of a little over 30 days is what you should expect . If a replacement airworthiness certificate is required that will probably add a few days to the process as well .
Short Answer Batteries would need to be somewhere around 16.7 MJ/kg to give the same range and performance as liquid fuels , this is about 18.5 times the capacity of the best lithium-ion batteries . Price-wise it will cost about 30-35 % to charge your airplane as opposed to fill it with liquid fuels at today 's prices . Long Answer This is a good question which is hard to give an exact answer to , so this will be more of a Fermi Approximation . To answer this you need to look at the energy contained in the fuel and the efficiency of the engine used . Looking at the energy of the fuel I will use <URL> , which is the energy stored in a material per unit of mass . Specific Energy is related to <URL> , which is the amount of energy contained per unit of volume . Often the terms are interchanged . The specific energy of avgas and jet fuel is about 43 MJ/kg . The best lithium-ion batteries top out at about 0.9 MJ/kg ( the batteries in a Tesla are about 0.7 MJ/kg ) , so they have a fraction of the storage of liquid fuels . The best battery technology in theoretical development ( Lithium-air ) has a theoretical maximum of 41 MJ/kg , more realistically they 'll get 1/4 to 1/3 of that from the technology , which is still vast . Internal combustion engines are about 35 % efficient , the other 65 % is wasted whereas electric engines are much closer to 90 % efficient or more . There are other factors to consider : Weight : fuel tanks , piping and pumps take weight , and electric motors are much lighter than internal combustion engines . The batteries would need a storage structure but an electric system would probably be lighter overall Battery inconsistencies : avgas supplies a consistent amount of energy in every single drop whereas batteries will sag as they discharge ( this is regulated to give consistent power to the motor , however at some point levels will drop below what is regulatable , so not all the power in the batteries will be usable ) . Also , over time they lose capacity and become less efficient . Both these factors mean that you 'd want to build in extra battery capacity to compensate So I 'm going to assume these two will compensate for each other , the weight savings from going electric will be offset by the need for extra capacity to ensure consistency . Assuming that all other factors are equal ( propeller efficiency , etc ) we can extrapolate the actual efficiency of the systems to get an approximate figure of an internal combustion on avgas : 35 % of 43 MJ/kg = 15 MJ/kg of actual benefit . We can use that figure to determine what specific energy we would need from batteries to get the same amount by dividing by electric motor efficiency : 15 MJ/kg / 0.9 we get 16.7 MJ/kg . So batteries would need to store 16.7 MJ/kg to give us the same energy as liquid fuels , but how does it compare to existing battery tech ? Right now commercially available battery technology is about 0.9 MJ/kg , so it would need 18.56 times more storage capacity ( 16.7 / 0.9 = 18.56 ) to supply the same amount of energy . As for energy costs this is going to vary a lot depending on fuel and electricity prices over time and place ; we can use some of the same figures above to work the numbers . I 'll assume an airplane that holds 40 US Gallons ( 150 liters ) as the math is easy and it 's about the capacity of a Cessna 172 . I 'm going to do separate calculations for the US and UK to see how they compare : In the US : Avgas is about \ $ 5.20 per US gallon at the moment , that 's \ $ 208 to fill up your airplane of 40 gals . Avgas has about 34.2 MJ/liter of energy , multiply that by 150 liters for 5130 MJ of energy . Internal combustion engines are 35 % efficient and electric engines 90 % , so we can calculate that an electric airplane would need 5130 * 0.35 / 0.9 = 1995 MJ of electrical power to fill up . 1995 MJ is about 554 kWh , at somewhere around \ $ 0.135 per kWh it would cost you \ $ 75 to charge an airplane with the same amount of energy . In the UK : Avgas in the UK is about \ $ 2.23 per liter ( \ $ 8.47 per US Gallon ( ouch ! ) ) , so it would cost \ $ 334.50 to fill up an airplane . 554 kWh of electricity costs about \ $ 0.17 per kWh , so it would cost \ $ 94 to charge the airplane EDIT : I did consider the efficiency gain from weight loss as fuel is burned , i.e. a <URL> , I left it out of the answer as it is n't significant compared to the other factors in what is already an approximation . It has to do with the <URL> , which is the percentage of the aircraft weight that is fuel , which on a light piston single is comparatively low . A Cessna 172 carries about 40 gallons of fuel , 38 of which is usable , weighing about 228 pounds as opposed to a typical take-off weight of 2200-2300 lbs . In other words its fuel fraction is about 10 % , even on a long range flight using every bit of fuel you will only lose 10 % of your weight , and I would approximate that you 'd get around 5 % benefit from it . This was not enough of a factor compared to the other considerations , and it would probably be offset by regenerative desce
No because aircraft are categorized by their <URL> ( 1.3 times stall speed ) . <URL> VAT -- Speed at threshold used by ICAO ( 1.3 times stall speed in the landing configuration at maximum certificated landing mass ) By knowing the category , ATC is able to use appropriate speeds . The category is not actually listed anywhere , so the controller will have to know the approach category by heart for each aircraft type . E.g. if the controller sees " B738 " as the aircraft type in the flightplan , they have to know that the corresponding approach category is C. More : <URL> <URL> ( for the US )
Military aircraft can and do fill up on civil Jet-A -- this is common at facilities where the extra expense of providing both Jet-A and JP-5 or JP-8 fuel is n't worthwhile . However , the military jet fuel types do provide some advantages over Jet-A : JP-5 has a high flash point , improving its handling properties over civilian jet fuels . This is important for fire safety in the close confines of an aircraft carrier . JP-8 is similar to civil jet fuel , but also has extra thermal stability additives in it . This allows for longer-term storage under harsh field conditions , and better resistance to deposit formation in places like afterburners and fueldraulic movable nozzles where the fuel is exposed to high temperatures even before it 's burned . It also may be specified for properties such as cetane rating that are essential for proper performance of diesel reciprocating engines run from JP-8 . ( I 'm omitting JP-4 from this discussion as it 's a wide-cut fuel , comparable to civil Jet-B . )
It could have been as you witnessed . In 2005 , a modification package dubbed <URL> was offered for the 737-200 and the 737 Classic ( -3 / 4/500 ) that would droop the flaps by 4 ° for all phases of flight . [ It ] decreases drag for cruise , and increases the aerodynamic efficiency of the wing by between 2 % and 3 % . The <URL> that many 727 pilots were doing the same thing in cruise -- but manually and unapproved . They would pull a CB to keep the slats on the leading edge of the wing retracted , while the flaps extended to the their first stop . Investigators believed that 727 pilots ( in general , and this flight specifically ) were setting the trailing edge flaps to two degrees during high altitude cruise , while at the same time pulling the circuit breaker for the slats so that they would not activate . This configuration was rumored to result in increased lift with no increase in drag , thus allowing more speed , higher elevation , or decreased fuel consumption . Flaps and Slats were intended to only be deployed at low speeds during take-off or landing . To answer the title question , yes . Flap position indicators exist , and combined with the electronic speed tape , the maximum speed indicated will be slower . If the flaps were to be extended at above design speed , an overspeed warning will be triggered as well .
end question
start question
Is it possible to obtain a PPL after having a brain surgery ?
According to <URL> 's medical guru on their discussion board ( members only , or I would link to an example ) it is possible to get a medical certificate following a tumor removal but only after a 5-year wait and a battery of tests . But having said that , medical issues are very individual and the FAA 's <URL> suggests that one year is enough in some cases . In the end the only way to get a definite answer is to find a good AME who can review your case in detail and advise you . Note that standard advice is to schedule a consultation first , rather than go straight for the actual flight medical . Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor or AME and I have no idea how brains work :-)
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
Well , I have two answers for you - one personal , and one practical : Personally , as a pilot ( and very occasional airline passenger ) I think anyone operating a drone should be required to get a pilot 's license of some kind . Maybe I 'm just grumpy , but I spent a lot of time cramming the skills and knowledge into my brain that are required to safely operate in the US National Airspace System . It can get pretty complicated and crowded up there , and I think we need the operators of unmanned aircraft to have a thorough understanding of that . The last thing anyone wants is a UAV smacking into a plane because it wandered somewhere it should n't be PRACTICALLY though , it remains to be seen what regulations the FAA will impose for unmanned civil aircraft - they may require a pilot 's certificate ( speculating : In the category and class equivalent to the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle you 'll be operating ) , or they may require a " remote operator 's certificate " of some kind ( perhaps with special emphasis on remote-operation-specific issues like command uplink delay ) , or they may not impose a requirement at all and treat them like model aircraft until the first accident involving one of these things causes a public outcry . <URL> , until the FAA issues a NPRM telling us what they 're thinking of doing here we really wo n't know - your guesses are as good as ours right now . I would suggest at least an Private Pilot Ground School course while you 're gearing up though -- and I would suggest it even if the FAA decides no license is requried for being a UAV operator . The airspace , chart reading , flight planning , and ATC portions of the course are something you 'll probably want to be familiar with ( and are broadly applicable across all kinds of aviation ) , and a good ground school course usually is n't that expensive . ( As to whether you take the knowledge test at the end of the course , that 's up to you -- the results are good for 2 years in case you decide to pursue a pilot certificate , but the test you have to take as a UAV operator may wind up being different from the one you 'd have to take as a private pilot , or may not exist at all , so you might just be setting yourself up for having to take two tests . Again , at this stage your guess would be as good as mine here . )
( This is similar to <URL> - and see <URL> in particular - but there may be some points here that deserve a separate answer . ) First , can you use a Canadian medical instead of a US medical , with a US pilot 's certificate ? The answer is no , with one ( ? ) exception . If it were possible , then people could shop around other countries to find the easiest medical for them , which would be a huge loophole and would allow them to simply ignore the FAA 's medical requirements . As a general statement , the country of your pilot 's certificate and medical certificate must be the same . The only exception I 'm aware of is when you hold a foreign license and medical , and then ask the FAA to issue a foreign-based private certificate under <URL> . See <URL> for more information but basically , you would have to hold a Canadian pilot 's license and medical first , and even then you would be limited by the privileges of the Canadian license . Second , could you get a US commercial certificate using a Canadian medical ? Yes , but only in a very roundabout way , and even then you could n't use it . You 'd first have to get an FAA foreign-based private certificate as I described above - which means getting a Canadian license first - and that certificate would be fine to use for a US commercial checkride . However , after passing the checkride you 'd still need an FAA second-class medical to actually exercise your new commercial privileges . Finally , another option would be to get a Canadian commercial license and medical , and then fly only Canadian aircraft in the US . I have no idea how practical that is because most countries do n't allow <URL> , but maybe there 's some way to make it work . AFAIK diabetes is only disqualifying if you 're insulin-dependent ; if you 're on oral meds you may still be able to get a Special Issuance for it . If you have any doubts about your personal situation then I 'd suggest consulting an AME and/or calling AOPA , if you 're a member .
Technically speaking , inertial measurements are not sufficient to derive airspeed . You need pressure measurement ( or airspeed measurement , see LIDAR ) . Pitot-static probes are the most usual and conventional devices to measure pressure . However , several researches have been conducted , to replace pitot-static tubes with different technologies . These technologies are mainly based on measuring surface pressure on a part of the fuselage . Of course the measurements ( not a single value but several values from various locations ) have to be calibrated via flight tests . With the current popularity of machine learning I think the calibration algorithms will not be the main problem . Some other technology being investigated there 's also ongoing research and trials about using LIDAR to directly measure airspeed . Which wo n't need pressure measurement . ultrasonic devices are also able to measure airspeed directly , however their real flight usage is unknown ( to the author ) .
Instrument landing system - ILS - is a very common precision approach system used in airports around the world . An ILS consists of two ground antennas and an airborne received in the aircraft . One of the ground antennas , known as a localiser , transmits a narrow beam along the runway , giving lateral guidance to aircraft approaching the runway . The other antenna , the glide slope , transmits a vertical beam at a specified angle , giving vertical guidance for aircraft approaching . Together , the localiser and glide slope provides aircraft with an exact path to follow toward the runway . <URL> A localiser antenna The main advantage of ILS is that is allows approaches and landings in poor weather conditions . Pilots do not have to visually see the runway until moments before touchdown , because the ILS can guide the plane down very precisely . However , there are different standards of ILS . These are named CAT I , CAT II and CAT III ( CAT III has three additional substandards : CAT IIIa , CAT IIIb and CAT IIIc ) . In order to fly a CAT I approach , the cloud based ( ceiling ) must be no lower than 200 feet and the visibility must be no lower than 550 metres . This is because the pilots must be able to visually identify the runway no later than 200 feet above the ground to be able to land . For a CAT II approach , the ceiling must not be lower than 100 ft and the visibility not less than 350 metres . CAT IIIa has a minimum ceiling of 50 ft and a minimum visibility of 200 metres . CAT IIIb has no minimum ceiling , but there must be at least 50 metres of visibility . For a CAT IIIc , which has not actually been implemented anywhere , there are no minimum limits for ceiling and visibility . As you can see , CAT II or III approaches allow pilots to land is extremely bad weather conditions . So if CAT III is so great , why do n't we use it all the time ? In order to use CAT II/III approaches , a number of conditions have to be met : The ground based ILS equipment must live up to very strict standards , and be very carefully calibrated . As a result , installing and maintaining CAT II/III ILS equipment at an airport is very expensive , so not all airports have it . In addition to the ILS antennas , there are also strict requirements for other runway equipment such as lighting . The aircraft must have special equipment that is certified to perform CAT II/III approaches . Again , cost is a significant factor . Equipping aircraft with such fine tuned equipment is very expensive , and if you mostly fly to areas with good weather , it is probably not worth it . The pilots must be qualified . A normal pilot license is not enough to fly a CAT II/III approach , you need additional training and qualifications to be allowed to perform such approaches . Air traffic control low visibility procedures result in reduced airport capacity . Because ILS signals are transmitted from antennas on the ground , there are risks of interfering with the ILS signal , resulting in imprecise guidance . The main issue is when an aircraft moves in front of the antennas , partly blocking the signal for other aircraft on approach . Because of this , airports have strict rules for how close aircraft may get to ILS antennas when CAT II/III approaches are in use . Aircraft on the ground must hold further away from the runway than they normally would , to stay clear of so called ILS sensitive areas . <URL> An example of ILS sensitive/critical areas at an airport <URL> Separate runway holding points used when CAT II/III approaches are carried out We also need additional space between two aircraft approaching the same runway . This is because the first aircraft , once landed and on the runway , can block parts of the localiser signal for the following aircraft . Because of this , the first aircraft must be clear of the runway by the time the second aircraft joins short final . This means we need extra space between aircraft , resulting in a reduced runway capacity . As you can see , there are a number of factors limiting the use of CAT II/III approaches , which is why they are only used when the weather is so bad that CAT I approaches can not be carried out .
A meteorite could hit an airplane , sure . There 's no known cases of it happening because meteorites which survive atmospheric entry are very rare , and airplanes are pretty small so the likelihood of it happening is extremely low .
To my surprise , this does exist , at least in the UK . According to the <URL> : 7 Emergency Triangle Procedure 7.1 Pilots lost or uncertain of position and experiencing either transmitter or complete radio failure are advised , as a last resort , to carry out special procedures to indicate to controllers that they require assistance . 7.2 The aircraft fly at least two triangular patterns , before resuming course , as follows : Table 1 : <URL> 7.3 If a triangular pattern is observed , controllers shall advise the D&amp;D cell of the position and track and continue to plot the aircraft whilst it is within ATS surveillance system cover . Controllers should also be aware of the effect wind may have on the pilot 's ability to fly an accurate triangle . I say " to my surprise " because there are well-established procedures for <URL> and <URL> . But having said that , it 's possible that the triangle procedure is more useful in the UK ( for example ) than the US , where there are usually plenty of uncontrolled airports around and many pilots have no need to talk to ATC anyway . In the UK , with a much smaller airspace , fewer airports and more ATC control ( at least , that 's my understanding ) , it may be more critical to give even VFR aircraft a " last resort " to contact ATC .
The TSA operates the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) , which allows general aviation flights originating at designated <URL> to fly into DCA , however <URL> , some of the most significant being : You will need an FAA <URL> to fly in to DCA ( This is required for all unscheduled flights into DCA ) You will need to submit a flight manifest &amp; undergo TSA passenger/baggage screening The flight crew will need to be cleared by the TSA ( fingerprint/background check ) You will need to carry an <URL> onboard So the answer is " Yes , you can do it , but you probably do n't want to . " It also makes no sense to do it in something like a Cessna 172 as you 're giving up at least one seat for the security officer . The program is really geared toward larger aircraft ( business jets , etc. ) transporting executives with a business reason to be in DC , like testifying before Congress .
It completely depends on the accident and airport . For example if I crash land on 10R at San Francisco , and it 's a fairly quiet time of day ( eg below the capacity of one runway ) , the airport could just use 10L and continue operations as normal . Similarly if there was no wind they could just switch to 1/19 L/R instead of 10/28 L/R . I 'll discuss this toward the end of this answer . Even if the crash did n't damage the runway , if the accident did n't damage the runway and the aircraft could be safely moved the airport would be back to normal as soon as the aircraft was moved and the runway had been checked . This could be within an hour . On the other hand if at a single runway airport , with severe damage to the runway and a need to leave the aircraft in situ to be inspected , it could take several weeks . In the cases you mentioned , BA 38 landed short of the runway . The airport was closed to arrivals for a few hours , however , and hundreds of flights were delayed , cancelled , or diverted . In the meantime , the runway in question ( 27L ) was closed entirely for arrivals until 3 days later when the aircraft was recovered . However the runway re-opened on the day of the accident for departures only . As Heathrow typically operates with one runway for Departures and one for Arrivals , this had minimal impact on operations : <URL> In Turkish flight 1878 , the aircraft impacted Runway 5 , then again on Runway 35L , but as far as I 'm aware no significant damage was done . The other runways were inspected and used until the aircraft was moved . Ataturk is a busy airport , but not so busy that it ca n't cope with the loss of a single runway . Again a few hundred flights were delayed , cancelled , or diverted . In neither incident was wreckage left on the actual runway , so once inspected they could be used as normal . There was some disruption in both cases - although no more than that caused by bad weather . If the aircraft had remained on the runway in either case , however , and had the accidents been at a single airport runway ( eg London Stansted rather than Heathrow ) , the airport would likely have been closed for several days . Another interesting case is <URL> - an accident at San Francisco which closed the Airport for a few hours , and the runway for around a day . The other two runways ( 1/19 L/R which are perpendicular , as San Francisco has 4 runways arranged as 2 pairs ) re-opened after around an hour and meant there was minimal impact , along with the parallel runway ( 10L/28R ) which re-opened 24 hours later . The accident runway ( 10R/27L ) re-opened around a week later . One thing to note is that in most cases , an airport only needs runways in one direction - so for example at San Francisco there is a lot of resilience in the runways . As long as the accident does n't cause damage too close to the " crossover " of the runways , San Francisco should almost always be able to operate at near full capacity shortly after an accident , even with a runway closed , due to always having a pair of runways available . Airports such as Heathrow with a single pair of runways are less resilient
After reading that article carefully , here 's what appeared to have happened : Pilot collapses Passenger-with-pilots-license comes to flight deck ( with both elitist and sexist chip on his shoulder ) First officer moves to left seat , PwPL takes right seat , runs the radios and checklists , maybe drops the gear . First Officer is a right-seat qualification , on 737s ( and many others ) the steering handle is on the left side . So it 's quite possible that the FO has never steered a 737 on the ground . It 's quite IMpossible that the FO has never taxied an aircraft of any kind before . And there 's a huge difference between driving a Gulfstream around and driving a 130-passenger jet around . If you do n't take a corner just right , the main gear ends up in the ditch , the wing hits the ground , the engine inhales grass , gravel and maybe the taxiway sign and a couple of gophers . Trashing a Ferrari is cheaper . The FO moving to the left seat and flying the plane was the correct action - the B-1 pilot was no more qualified to fly a 737 than I am . But radios are radios , and even the greenest flight attendant can read a checklist .
Yes you may , but you need to carry a <URL> while above 10,000 ft or in some types of <URL> and have it switched on . Which pretty much negates the stealth capabilities of your aircraft . To quote the linked AOPA page : According to 14 CFR 99.13 , no person may operate an aircraft into or out of the United States , or into , within , or across an ADIZ designated in subpart B unless operating a transponder with Mode C. Certain exemptions might apply to aircraft that were not originally certified with an engine-driven electrical system ; see 99.13 ( d ) .
Although I used to think this was impossible , I now believe this can be done using weathervaning . At a fast enough forward speed , the airflow will naturally keep the helicopter facing in that direction . For an example of someone doing this in reality , for an almost identical time period that OP requested , see this link : <URL> According to the link , he needed to maintain 80 knots forward speed to prevent it from rotating out of control . Note whether this is possible may well depend on the weathervaning charactistics of the particular helicopter .
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
Yes . You can , as long as you have the appropriate rating and are the sole manipulator of controls . From a <URL> : ... a private pilot may log pilot-in-command time , in a complex or high performance airplane , for those portions of the flight when he or she is the sole manipulator of the controls because the aircraft being operated is single-engine land and the private pilot holds a single-engine land rating . ... 14 CFR section 61.31 requires a person to have an endorsement from an authorized instructor before he or she may act as pilot in command of certain aircraft ( a complex airplane , a high performance airplane , a pressurized airplane capable of operating at high altitudes , or a tailwheel airplane ) . These endorsements are not required to log pilot-in-command time under 14 CFR section 61.51 ( e ) . ( emphasis mine ) Excerpt from <URL> : ( e ) Logging pilot-in-command flight time . ( 1 ) A sport , recreational , private , commercial , or airline transport pilot may log pilot in command flight time for flights - ( iv ) When the pilot performs the duties of pilot in command while under the supervision of a qualified pilot in command provided -- ( A ) The pilot performing the duties of pilot in command holds a commercial or airline transport pilot certificate and aircraft rating that is appropriate to the category and class of aircraft being flown , if a class rating is appropriate
The current QNH at an airport is included in METARs so you can grab it form there . There are a few online services to retrieve the METAR automatically , such as <URL> ( using Vienna airport as an example ) . The latest METAR when I wrote this answer was : which shows a QNH of 1012 . Note that depending on the country the format may vary slightly , but in Austria ( and European countries ) you should always find a value in the report .
This is called <URL> , most aircraft can do it , but it is not done very often . In a jet aircraft , the three main problems are : Reverse thrust tends to throw a lot of debris into the air because the exhaust is deflected to the sides and up and down too . This debris can damage the engine itself , other things on and around the aircraft or injure someone on the ramp . It is less of a problem for aircraft with tail-mounted engines ( so DC-9s often used powerback ) , but that engine configuration is not used as much any more in transport aircraft , as it is less aerodynamically efficient . A related problem is that the compressor might suck in its own hot exhaust gases . This might lead to temperature-induced damages in the last ( high-pressure ) stages of the compressor and health issues for passengers , since the air conditioning system works with bleed air from the compressor . Reverse thrust is rather inefficient on jet engines , so it uses a lot of fuel . As <URL> , the pilot has to be careful using the brakes during powerback : the main wheels are very close behind the centre of gravity , so harder braking can lift the nose wheel , causing the pilot to lose control and even causing damage to the tail if it hits the ground ( " tail-tipping " ) . So a tug is both cheaper and safer . In propeller aircraft , reverse is more efficient and does not throw up as much debris , so it is sometimes used . But a tug is still preferred because transport aircraft do n't have any rear visibility , so the pilots ca n't see where they are taxiing . With tug the driver can see behind the aircraft , and a ground marshaller walks along side each wingtip with an intercom connected to the plane . Lastly , since aircraft are able to turn almost on the spot using differential braking and thrust and 180-degree nosewheel steering , at airports with few facilities there is generally enough space around the aircraft to permit the pilot to reverse out easily .
" We know that most of the plane accidents and deaths result from the explosion of fuel tanks in the planes " This is a fallacy . Most deaths do n't happen because of explosions , but because of impact damage , fire , and inhalation of toxic fumes ( in no particular order ) . Next to that , many people tend to get killed because they are crushed by fellow passengers during evacuations . And some die on the ground being run over by emergency vehicles or from environmental conditions ( heat , cold , wildlife ) . Ratchet Freak correctly points out why your " solutions " wo n't work ( in fact one of them will make the problems worse ) . And yes , research is being done and has been done . Modern jet fuel has a much higher flame point and vapour pressure than does regular gasoline as a result . Fuel tanks are fitted with baffles and sometimes coolers to keep the fuel liquid so it does n't explode easily . This is in part a result of what happened to TWA800 , one of the very few accidents to be caused by a fuel tank explosion ( and there the explosion was itself only possible due to a combination of rare circumstances and chance events , made worse by maintenance problems with the aircraft ) . The image of aircraft ( and cars , trains , ships , buildings , anything really ) blowing up in a wall of flame at the least trouble is one created and perpetuated by Hollywood and has no reflection in reality whatsoever .
Chances are you would not survive but lets explore this a bit more in depth for the sake of education . This <URL> explores the very issue . There is some research that has gone into the topic of hitting the ground but the research is rarely about cases from the height you are asking about ( ~ 30,000 ft ) . Some relevant info First off at that altitude you really ca n't breathe that effectively so hypoxia will be your first concern followed closely by extreme cold . Hitting water : Studies of bridge-jump survivors indicate that a feet-first , knife-like entry ( aka " the pencil " ) best optimizes your odds of resurfacing . Hitting the ground : The question of how to achieve ground contact remains , regrettably , given your predicament , a subject of debate . A 1942 study in the journal War Medicine noted " distribution and compensation of pressure play large parts in the defeat of injury . " Recommendation : wide-body impact . But a 1963 report by the Federal Aviation Agency argued that shifting into the classic sky diver 's landing stance -- feet together , heels up , flexed knees and hips -- best increases survivability . Your best bet for surviving the airplane break up is if you are stuck in a situation similar to that of <URL> who did survive the situation you describe . Unfortunately there is some debate as to what actually happened so take the info at face value . " Speed has never killed anyone . Suddenly becoming stationary , that 's what gets you . " -- Jeremy Clarkson
end question
start question
Which is longest Oceanic crossing for any commercial flight route ?
For the longest Oceanic Crossing , the following are the top three contenders : Sydney to Vancouver Melbourne to Los Angeles Auckland to Vancouver Out of this , 1 and 2 pass over a few islands on their way , 3 does not pass over any landmass . Have a look at this : <URL> Image : ( Image Source : www.gcmap.com )
On high-altitude North Atlantic flights , planes can fly zero , one , or two miles to the right of the centerline of your assigned track . The offset is randomly selected . This is called Strategic Lateral Offset Procedures . It 's used in the oceanic flights or flights over remote land where there is typically no radar service , and ATC can not " see " traffic separation . It provides , on average , additional horizontal separation between planes reducing the likelihood of midair collision and high altitude wake turbulence ( which can occur as a result of RVSM ) . Strategic lateral offsets can be authorized in en-route oceanic or remote continental airspace . The decision to apply a strategic lateral offset is the responsibility of the flight crew , and only where offsets have been authorized by the ATS and when the aircraft is equipped with automatic offset tracking capability . <URL>
The device you are talking about is called a <URL> . This is a device that listens for a signal ( an interrogation ) and responds with information about the airplane including an ATC assigned code , altitude information and additional aircraft info for certain equipment . There are 2 ways ATC watches airplanes : <URL> <URL> The transponder is interrogated by the Secondary radar and the response is listened for . Even with no transponder , the aircraft can still be tracked by primary radar . This is just a normal radar that is good at seeing airplane sized objects and not so great at seeing weather and can occasionally spot a large flock of birds . The primary radar is what provides the " blip " on radar and tracks the airplane . The datablock ATC has on the airplane comes from the secondary , so what ATC will see is a blip with no information . Turning off the transponder is as simple as setting it to OFF or pulling a circuit breaker and yes , it can be selected OFF in flight , it is just a switch . The problem with radar is that it only works so far from a radar transmitter and the further away you are the higher you must be to be seen by the radar . Over the ocean away from land , you are going to be on the fringe of radar or out of radar contact completely and thus unable to be tracked directly by ATC ( at this point , non-radar procedures such as position reporting and ETAs can be used to track positions ) . The flight in question was apparently visible by a military radar before it disappeared from the scopes ( it allegedly observed what appeared to be a turn back toward its origin ) .
In the ICAO PANS ATM ( Doc 4444 ) ( * ) the vertical separation is specified as : 5.3.2 Vertical separation minimum The vertical separation minimum ( VSM ) shall be : a ) a nominal 300 m ( 1000 ft ) below FL 290 and a nominal 600 m ( 2000 ft ) at or above this level , except as provided for in b ) below ; and b ) within designated airspace , subject to a regional air navigation agreement : a nominal > 300 m ( 1000 ft ) below FL 410 or a higher level where so prescribed for use under > specified conditions , and a nominal 600 m ( 2000 ft ) at or above this level . The minimum horizontal separation mimumum is for flights under radar control : 8.7.3 Separation minima based on ATS surveillance systems 8.7.3.1 Unless otherwise prescribed in accordance with 8.7.3.2 , 8.7.3.3 or 8.7.3.4 , or chapter 6 ( with respect to independent and dependent parallel approaches ) , the horizontal separation minimum based on radar and/or ADS-B and/or MLAT systems shall be 9.3 km ( 5.0 NM ) . The approach and departure phases of flight has some small deviations , e.g. small aircraft behind heavy aircraft have to keep horizontal separation because of wake vortexes . ( * ) Unfortunately I could n't find the official Doc 4444 on the ICAO website .
<URL> contains recommended crew member procedures and training for combating in-flight fires . It has information about causes , indications and procedures of in-flight fire fighting . According to the AC , Upon discovering a fire , the initial focus should be on aggressively extinguishing the fire with a readily available extinguisher ( which will likely be halon ) , but do not use water if it is believed the fire is of aircraft electrical system origin . Generally , you should consider using the first available extinguisher rather than delaying your firefighting efforts while you locate a particular extinguishing agent for a class A , B , or C fire . Airbus <URL> also says pretty much the same thing : Any fire , no matter how small , may rapidly become out of control , if not dealt with quickly.The first priority will always be to put it out . Coming to the Galaxy Note 7 issue , the AC says , h . What are the Recommended Procedures for Fighting a Lithium Battery Fire ? The following procedures are recommended for fighting a fire in a lithium-type-battery-powered PED . The procedures consist of two phases : extinguishing the fire , and cooling the remaining cells to stop thermal runaway . ( 1 ) Utilize a halon , halon replacement , or water extinguisher to extinguish the fire and prevent its spread to additional flammable materials . ( 2 ) After extinguishing the fire , douse the device with water , an aqueous-based extinguishing agent , or other nonalcoholic liquids to cool the device and prevent additional battery cells from reaching thermal runaway . Though the standard procedures in case of a fire has to be decided by the company , the FAA recommends some procedures to be followed , like : • Be aggressive ; if flames are visible , fight the fire immediately . • Someone must immediately notify the flight crew to describe the fire , smoke , smells , action being taken , etc. . • If flames are not visible , find the base or source of the smoke . • Pull circuit breakers , in applicable area . • Do not reset circuit breakers , unless instructed by flight crew . • Relocate passengers as necessary . • Locate hot spots using the back of your hand . • Don PBE ( not necessarily in this order ) . The flight crew ( who are supposed to don their oxygen masks on indication of smoke/fire ) are supposed to inform the ATC and plan for an emergency landing , if necessary .
You will likely not see a price cut , but you also might not see a price increase . Seat pricing ( along with just about any other service in a competitive market ) is a complex function of actual cost to the company + desired profit + market factor . The last one is the difference between what they want to get and what the market is willing to pay . It is sometimes negative .
<URL> that the pressure decreases over the wing . We can also assume that a particle of air travelling above a wing does it so fast that does not have the time to exchange energy with the sorrounding ones ( called <URL> ) We can now look at a pressure/volume diagram for an adiabatic process that goes from " high " pressure ( the free undisturbed air in front of the aircraft ) to low pressure ( the air on top of the wing ) : image <URL> ( currently unreachable ) As you see from the diagram , if you move along the Adiabat line from the top to the bottom , the temperature drops . If the air has already a temperature near the water condensation one and a high enough humidity , it will condense . From the Wikipedia article linked before : Adiabatic cooling occurs when the pressure on an adiabatically isolated system is decreased , allowing it to expand , thus causing it to do work on its surroundings . When the pressure applied on a parcel of air is reduced , the air in the parcel is allowed to expand ; as the volume increases , the temperature falls as internal energy decreases .
I work as a fixed-wing pilot for a hospital-based Air Ambulance program . Let me add my experience to the ATC orders accurately cited by Pondlife 's answer : the <URL> call sign ( the old " Lifeguard " is still used when filing the flight plan ) indicates a need for priority handling . ATC is often helpful in providing us with priority routing . This includes giving us direct clearances , moving us up in the landing que , allowing us an unrestricted approach speed , and otherwise expediting our flight . However , ATC does not always provide priority handling , and I have often experienced ground delays of 5-10 + minutes as ATC apparently prioritizes other traffic , including air cargo and the like . This is rarely a big problem as patients are typically stable , but it can be frustrating when priority handling is expected . However , if medical staff determine that a patient is in critical condition , we will announce this to ATC -- typically accompanied by a request for a specific clearance or change to a previous clearance . This announcement re-iterates our need for priority handling and indicates the urgency of the situation . In this way we can work with ATC to best care for the patient . We will often make such an announcement when checking on with approach control for their information with no specific accompanying request . Occasionally , however , we will need to request such priority handling because ATC has issued us speed restrictions or delaying vectors to put us behind other traffic . ATC is very good at working with us when we do need the priority handling . In other words , ATC usually automatically gives us priority handling , but when they do n't -- and we need it -- we ask for it and they are very good at working with us to provide the priority handling .
The FAA ( unsurprisingly ) has definitions of different types of Electronic Flight Bag ( EFB ) systems , which you can find in <URL> . It 's targeted at airlines , but the concepts are generally applicable . They break them down into Class 1 , Class 2 , and Class 3 EFBs , and the answer is a little different for the different classes : Class 1 EFB Hardware . This is what most of us General Aviation Folks use : A portable computer or tablet considered " portable electronic devices " with no specific FAA approvals . Per the FAA a Class 1 EFB ca n't be " mounted to the aircraft " or connected to the aircraft systems or a dedicated power supply ( i.e. they ca n't be permanently wired into anything ) , but you can plug them in to an " existing aircraft power supply " ( like the cigarette lighter port ) for battery recharging . This is what most of us GA folks are using - an iPad with Foreflight and Stratus is technically a " Class 1 EFB " . This is just a regular computer , so it can in fact be the same device you play Plants vs Zombies on ( though if you 're using it in an airline environment they 've probably locked it down and restricted what you can do : Plants vs Zombies is probably not available in the cockpit of your Southwest flight ) . Class 2 EFB Hardware . Class 2 EFBs are essentially Class 1 EFBs that get mounted to the aircraft , but can be easily removed by the flight crew ( for example a GPS or iPad in a panel-mounted cradle ) and may connect to aircraft data systems via cables or wireless connections ( for example Garmin 's Flightstream system ) . Class 2 EFBs have the same battery-charging provision as Class 1 EFBs , but ca n't be directly wired into aircraft power . As far as the FAA is concerned they 're still " portable electronic devices " . This is what the more advanced bits of GA are using - An iPad with Garmin Pilot communicating with your GTN stack via flightstream to get its GPS position &amp; transfer flight plans . Again this can be the same device you play Plants vs Zombies on , but the operator may have locked it down to keep their crews from flying past their destination <URL> . Class 3 EFB Hardware . Class 3 EFBs are installed systems with FAA approvals ( for type-certificated aircraft ) . The chart data stored on e.g. a GTN650 or GMX200 with charts and plates loaded on it would qualify here , as would flight management systems on larger aircraft . Generally you wo n't be playing Plants vs Zombies on Class 3 EFB hardware because the approvals for it would n't include that capability . The exception here is the Experimental Aircraft community : Such aircraft may have a consumer tablet installed in the panel and wired into ship 's power in such a way as to qualify for all practical purposes as a " Class 3 EFB " , and it 's possible you could play Plants vs Zombies on your installed iPad in such an aircraft .
With respect to avionics and fault logs , flight legs is just one more data point . It 's not any more important than any other piece of data , but it does have value . Avionics are not structure and do n't care as much about pressurization cycles , but it can be a factor - the pressure change between sea level and 8000 cabin altitude does have some effect . It 's just that avionics can easily count flight legs and it makes for an easy way to organize the fault logs along with flight phase . It is useful data when trying to find the root cause of an intermittent fault in a piece of avionics . Fault logs typically log at least 20 legs before they " roll over " and overwrite old data . With some aircraft flying 6 or more legs a day , that ensures the plane can get to a base with maintenance before the fault gets overwritten . The value is the ability to help detect patterns . I 've seen faults that only occur on the first leg of the day after the plane was parked overnight at a very humid airport . Re-creating the conditions allowed us to duplicate the fault . The problem was a flaw in the conformal coating ( sealant ) on a circuit card that allowed moisture to cause a short . Once the unit had operated for an hour or so , the heat had dried it out and it worked fine .
If you mean a <URL> , then it 's easy . Airliners <URL> , so the longest range ones would typically have the longest endurance . The longest range airliners currently are the <URL> and the <URL> . The Wikipedia article <URL> may be of interest . This may or may not assist in your story , but there are two ways to increase the endurance : Fly slower , and/or Shut down one engine and increase the power of the other ( s ) 1 . Both 1 and 2 may require flying lower , and both will hurt the range . 1 Explained in the last part of <URL> , but in short it 's because jet engines have the lowest fuel flow per unit thrust when they are running at near their maximum continuous thrust setting .
<URL> has a list of historical routes both by <URL> and ( a few ) <URL> . Though it is not complete , it has a lot of data .
Really this is a moot point ... <URL> ( a ) states : ( a ) No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate -- ( 1 ) For other than the purpose for which the certificate was issued ; or ( 2 ) Carrying persons or property for compensation or hire . And again ( e ) states : ( e ) No person may operate an aircraft that is issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 ( i ) of this chapter for compensation or hire , except a person may operate an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 ( i ) ( 1 ) for compensation or hire to -- ( 1 ) Tow a glider that is a light-sport aircraft or unpowered ultralight vehicle in accordance with § 91.309 ; or ( 2 ) Conduct flight training in an aircraft which that person provides prior to January 31 , 2010 . <URL> is in reference to operating light-sport aircraft and how it obtains an experimental certificate . There are very few auto-gyros that are factory built and certified , and none that I can find that are currently being built . Anything you build in your home ( home-built ) needs to pass certain FAA inspections before it is issued an airworthiness certificate and/or experimental certificate . All home-builts are experimental since they are not built under the manufacturers quality control system . Either way , the FAA certifies that you build it to a safe standard and a standard in which the manufacturer intended it to fly . Being used for a commercial purpose , even if that were possible ( which it is not ) would not change the certification process for that aircraft . It would not require you to abide by any different rules or build standards . That is implying that personal aircraft would be built to a lower safety standard than commercial ones , which is n't the case .
C-5 Galaxy was designed to military requirements that for cargo aircraft include : operating from unpaved runways ( I am not sure in case of C-5 , but probably yes ) operating from airfields without much support operating from short runways paradrop capability These basically imply a high-wing design so that engines are high ( to minimize risk of foreign object damage ) and the deck is lower for easier loading , front and rear cargo door with loading ramps so loading is possible without any ground infrastructure and some excess thrust for sufficient performance on short fields . However that design is less efficient . It has higher operating cost . The air force is willing to pay it , because it needs the capabilities it requested . But commercial operations do n't need those things , because it has enough well equipped airports to operate from . So the higher cost of operating an L-500 ( as civil version of C-5 would be called ) makes it uninteresting . B-747 only shares one design feature with C-5 , the raised cockpit that allows full-height cargo door in the nose , but otherwise it is optimized to minimize operating cost , making it great cargo plane for operations between airports . On a side note , there is some commercial demand for transporting heavy or large cargo to less equipped airports . These are currently covered by ex-soviet-military An-124 aircraft that look very similar to Galaxy , are a bit larger , are certainly able to land on unpaved runways and were simply available when Soviet Union collapsed .
While there is not a specific physical system dedicated to instrument departures per se , there are procedures that rely upon instrument flight rules ( IFR ) navigation equipment that ensure obstacle clearance when departing from an airport in instrument meteorological conditions ( IMC ) . From the <URL> 5-2-8 . Instrument departure procedures are preplanned instrument flight rule ( IFR ) procedures which provide obstruction clearance from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . There are two types of DPs , Obstacle Departure Procedures ( ODPs ) , printed either textually or graphically , and Standard Instrument Departures ( SIDs ) , always printed graphically . All DPs , either textual or graphic may be designed using either conventional or RNAV criteria . RNAV procedures will have RNAV printed in the title , e.g. , SHEAD TWO DEPARTURE ( RNAV ) . ODPs provide obstruction clearance via the least onerous route from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . ODPs are recommended for obstruction clearance and may be flown without ATC clearance unless an alternate departure procedure ( SID or radar vector ) has been specifically assigned by ATC . Graphic ODPs will have ( OBSTACLE ) printed in the procedure title , e.g. , GEYSR THREE DEPARTURE ( OBSTACLE ) , or , CROWN ONE DEPARTURE ( RNAV ) ( OBSTACLE ) . Standard Instrument Departures are air traffic control ( ATC ) procedures printed for pilot/controller use in graphic form to provide obstruction clearance and a transition from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . SIDs are primarily designed for system enhancement and to reduce pilot/controller workload . ATC clearance must be received prior to flying a SID . All DPs provide the pilot with a way to depart the airport and transition to the en route structure safely . Pilots operating under 14 CFR Part 91 are strongly encouraged to file and fly a DP at night , during marginal Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) and Instrument Meteorological Conditions ( IMC ) , when one is available . The following paragraphs will provide an overview of the DP program , why DPs are developed , what criteria are used , where to find them , how they are to be flown , and finally pilot and ATC responsibilities . There are many details involved in actually using these procedures to make safe departures in IMC . The <URL> is an excellent resource for pilots who want to review these procedures , what they provide and how to use them correctly . Here is an example of an ODP from my home airport , KCRG . There are some very tall towers less than 10 nautical miles from the airport . They are enormous and easy to avoid under visual conditions , but when IMC prevails these procedures are absolutely life-saving with such large obstructions nearby . They are taken from this <URL> . Here is an example of a SID . These are always graphically depicted and will usually be found at larger airports . Here are pages <URL> and <URL> of the full SID .
Most of the time the turbulence we experience is termed " chop " , which is akin to what you experience on a boat on the lake -- bumps but no real altitude deviations . With altitude deviations we 'll call it " turbulence " . Within these broad categories we 'll qualify them with " light " , " moderate " , " severe " and " extreme " in reports to ATC and other aircraft . These reports do suffer from a fair bit of subjectivity with respect to aircraft type ( wing stiffness ) and pilot experience . If it is light chop , I 'll generally just ride it out and turn the seatbelt signs on . The first thing I 'll do if encountering moderate chop or turbulence is to query ATC and get ride reports from aircraft ahead of us and at different altitudes than us . From this information I 'll make a determination to ride it out or to request a climb/descent . If the turbulence was particularly bad , slowing down was an option , but I only came across that need a few times . Our ability to descend would often be limited by route length and fuel and major lateral deviations also depended on contingency fuel , so in some cases we had no choice but to stay in the chop . If the turbulent areas were well forecast or had lots of PIREPS , our dispatchers would sometimes route us differently . As for power adjustments , if we were n't slowing down due to aircraft limitations I would just adjust power so that maximum airspeed deviations stayed below Mmo .
The passengers on Helios 522 were incapacitated or died due to hypoxia . Those masks in the aircraft only have enough oxygen to sustain the passengers while the plane descends to a safer altitude , or about 12 minutes . Helios 522 was on autopilot at 34,000 feet for 2 and a half hours . The autopsy showed that the passengers were alive at the time of the crash , but it could not determine if they were conscious . The aircraft was unpressurised at an altitude as high as the peak of Everest , the crew were incapacitated , so it follows that the passengers would have been as well , despite the fact that the autopsy showed that they were still alive at the time of the crash . Now , let 's suppose that they had survived the crash . They were hypoxic for 2 hours , which means they would have suffered brain damage and would be suffering with the long term effects of that ( Insomnia , amnesia , etc ) as well as injuries sustained from the crash itself .
I suspect that you 're thinking of <URL> that took effect from June 30th , 2010 . Before the change , a taxi clearance could indeed allow you to cross multiple runways , but now you can only be cleared to cross one runway at a time : This change establishes the requirement that an explicit runway crossing clearance be issued for each runway ( active/inactive or closed ) crossing and requires an aircraft/vehicle to have crossed the previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued . At airports where the taxi route between runway centerlines is less than 1,000 feet apart , multiple runway crossings may be issued after receiving approval by the Terminal Services Director of Operations . It was a big change at the time ( according to what I 've read ) and it was widely publicized by the FAA and other organizations . The relevant ATC instructions are in the <URL> 3-7-2 : Aircraft/vehicles must receive a clearance for each runway their route crosses . An aircraft/vehicle must have crossed a previous runway before another runway crossing clearance may be issued . The orders have several examples and the corresponding phraseology .
Typically , the checklists in normal operations are : External walk around and preflight Before start Before taxi Before take-off After take-off Cruise Descent Approach Landing Shutdown Secure This list is pretty much the same for all aircraft . Normally , each checklist is only used once at the appropriate time but a wise pilot would re-run a checklist if interrrupted . For example , you are cleared to start and complete the before start checklist but there is then an unexpected delay before you actually start . You wait for 30 minutes . No need to redo the before start checklist because you did it earlier ? No , do it again . Something might have changed .
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
end question
start question
Why are n't airports built identically ( like aircraft ) ?
1 . Terrain and land use Several new airports are build on landfill island or coast next to mountains , their shape is influenced by the terrain and their size . <URL> runways and shape are influenced by the terrain . Its curved east bank looks like the Chek Lap Kok island , which the airport is built on there . Both HKIA runways are parallel to the hill of Lantau island , south of the airport island . HKIA is on the north of Lantau island ( largest green shape ) , the grey colour stands for reclamation land and the green colour is the originally <URL> island . <URL> 2 . Prevailing wind Prevailing winds influence the runway heading . Since takeoffs and landings are usually done as close to headwind as possible , wind direction generally determines the active runway . If the prevailing wind is uncertain , multiple runways with different directions will be built , <URL> is a extreme example . <URL> 3 . Terminal building and bargaining power of airport management This factor largely influences the terminal layout . In USA the airport management is largely influenced by the airlines , sometimes the terminal buildings are managed by airlines themselves , like <URL> . The airlines prefer the terminal building which can minimize the taxiing time , passengers transfer time and maximize the perimeter ( and hence the number of gates ) , <URL> is one good example . Its linear shape can minimize the taxiing time and increase the number of gates available . <URL> On the other hand , for main airports outside USA and Europe , the airport owner has strong marginal power of the airport management . They will choose the terminal building which can best fit for their strategy . Some airports owned by the government prefer a massive size of airport as an image of the country/cities ; and some airports prefer large commons which can maximize the shopping experience ( and hence rental income ) . Pictured below is Beijing Capital International Airport . <URL> 4 . Historical factor Several airports were built before World War II and some even existed before World War I . At that time the airport was just a new concept . A full development and operation methodology for airport had not been developed . Many full airport layouts , which nowadays seem to be " inefficient " , were developed . And since the layout with the buildings were built , it is costly and time-consuming for reconstruction , especially at the busiest airports . Airport managers tends to expand the existing building with new gates and other facilities , rather than total reconstruction . Pictured below is a master plan for O'Hare International Airport from 1948 . <URL> Heathrow airport is reconstructing Terminals 1-3 , replaced by linear buildings like Terminal 5 . It will take 5 years to destroy the old Terminal 2 and phase one was just completed last year . Terminal 3 will be rebuilt after 2019 and the whole project will take more than a decade . <URL> 5 . Airport operation Operations of the airport are influencing the airport layout . For airports have more flights for both general aviation and airlines , they tend to have more runways , like <URL> and <URL> . On the other hand , in most parts of the world there are only 1 or 2 runways even for the most busiest airports where most of the flights are from airliners , like Dubai and Hong Kong , ranking for 6th and 10th busiest airport in terms of total passengers . <URL> 6 . Reversal : Experience On the other hand , huge number of airports has been built in the half century , several airport design has been well developed . We can see the latest airport may share similar terminal shape , runway plan and airport layout . Hong Kong international airport and Hamad International airport <URL> Chongqing airport ( Far future ) and New Lisbon airport proposal <URL> Conclusion To sum up , there is not one optimal conclusion of airport layout . The airports are built related to physical limitation , historical constraints , stakeholders opinions , and , of course , the architects ' designs . No airport will be identical , regardless the layout , terminal shape and style . On the other hand , the experience from airport planner will create a similar airport .
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
This is related to an answer I gave <URL> about why aircraft typically do not have mirrors and external cameras . Short answer : yes aircraft do have sensors to detect damage , but not the kind of damage you 're talking about . Long answer : to design or decide what sensors to put on the aircraft and where , we have to get started with failure modes . There are at least a million way for components to fail , however , some failure are more likely to occur than others . Do we have sensors which detect failures / abnormal situations ? We do ! We have sensors for control surfaces , hydraulics , gears , tire pressure , cabin pressure , engine temperature , oil pressure etc. . Here is an image of one of the cockpit screens on a Boeing : <URL> ( <URL> ) OK , so why not more sensors ? Because sensors can fail . Now that would be a nightmare to troubleshoot : the sensor says the right outer landing light is not illuminated . Is that true ? Let me exit the aircraft and take a look ... . It turns out that : Many failure modes are " internal " , e.g. a valve malfunctioning . They are invisible on the exterior of an aircraft . Aircraft rarely collide with any other objects . Relying on visual indication is actually a good thing , because it is reliable and it 's free . Building an array of sensors covering each skin on the aircraft would be extremely complex , the construction cost would be high and the system would be heavy . Sensors are just another component of the system . The more sensors , the more likely something will fail . At some point one has to trust the underlying component to function without relying on system indications . Perhaps this is the kind of system you have in mind : <URL> ( Screenshot of " Stealth " ( 2005 ) , 01:01:11 ) Nah , that 's just Hollywood artistic license .
Pilot here ( with Cessna 152 hours ) as well as an engineer who made it most of the way to an Airframe and Powerplant technician license at one point in life . There are several reasons that conspire to produce ' unusable fuel ' : Fuel tanks on airplanes have complex shapes - they include baffles and other walls ( with holes in them ) to prevent oscillations from building up during in-flight movement . Sometimes these baffles are even engineered into the tanks late in the design cycle as testing finds oscillation issues . These baffles result in ' geometric trapping ' of fuel in nooks and crannies . Drawing fuel from a fuel tank is more complicated in a plane - cars are pretty much flat with minor tilts while airframes can have all sorts of odd and sustained directions that the fuel wants to go due to acceleration . Imagine an extended tilted spiral while descending - that fuel experiences far more lateral acceleration over a longer time period that a car would have . Getting the fuel system to pull fuel out from these different angles is challenging ( note that I 've picked a non-aerobatic maneuver for which the Cessna 152 of your question is qualified here ) . All of this is a cost/complexity tradeoff - solutions exist for 1 and 2 above - fighter jets use fuel bladders that have pressure bladders arranged to squeeze the fuel out so that they can get almost all the fuel even at high G-forces and unusual angles . Aerobatic planes have similarly more expensive and complicated systems than the old and cheap Cessna 152 . There are other considerations as well , but mostly it comes down to whether the plane in question can justify the cost and effort to get every last drop of fuel . Things get even more complicated in rockets - the moon rockets ( properly the Saturn 5 although it was an upper stage specifically ) had special extra engines called ullage motors whose only job was to give the stage a little boost in space to push the fuel towards the rear of the rocket so that the main motors could draw fuel and start . Addendum edit : @supercat below - the definition of unusable fuel is set by federal aviation regulation part 23 , section 959 ( <URL> ) and basically is the worst case under " intended operation " for the particular plane . Since the Cessna 152 is not aerobatically rated , for example , the unused fuel is defined as the fuel level where SOME intended maneuver would be capable of causing a fuel system error . In practice , especially in flat level flight , some of that unusable fuel would be available for use although you are not supposed to plan to use it in your flight planning .
According to <URL> DFW ( <URL> ) is the largest at 4360 hectares . According to <URL> DXB ( <URL> ) has the largest terminal in terms of floorspace at 1,713,000 m2 ( 18,440,000 sq ft ) with a volume of approximately 10.0 million m ³ ( 360 million cu ft ) According to <URL> ATL ( <URL> ) has 206 gates Ca n't find this one
Instead of having a set of contra-rotating proprotors on each side , if you 're after decreasing the disk loading , a span increase would also do the trick , allowing wider proprotors . However the Wikipedia paragraph starts by saying : Due to the requirement for folding rotors ... The main contributor to its less-than-ideal size is the folding requirement to save parking space aboard ships , since the primary operators are the US Navy and the USMC . Adding another set of rotors or increasing the span wo n't help : <URL> ( <URL> )
Simply put , ExpertFlyer gets its data from purchasing it from the GDSs ( global distribution systems for airlines ) these are the same systems that travel agents ( online and off ) use to book tickets/travel for their customers . This has a cost but has advantages vs free but less reliable means of acquiring flight data . Other services may screen scrape ( take ) information from public airline websites , however airlines frown upon that . We have seen active campaigns by airlines to go after services that collect data in this manor . Please note , this post is not meant to be " promotional " however fully answering the question posed requires explaining how different services may acquire flight data . Also , if the name " ExpertFlyer Voice " did n't indicate to you , I am a representative of ExpertFlyer.com
Very very uncommon . Goose Bay , Canada , is a diversion airport for US-Europe flights . If you search <URL> for " goose " , you will find about 2 to 3 flights divert there each year . 3 flights diverted in 2017 : Delta A330 Oct 20 , engine problem SAS A340 April 16 , low cabin pressure Air France A380 Sep 30 , engine structural failure 2 flights diverted in 2016 : Virgin B787 Nov 22 , engine oil leak United B767 Sep 15 , generator/APU failure 3 flights diverted in 2015 : American B757 Sep 30 , electrical problem Delta B767 July 31 , generator failure United B767 June 12 , flight controls 2 flights diverted in 2014 : Delta B767 Aug 9 , engine problem Delta B767 May 1 , engine shut down In all these incidents except for 2 , the report in Aviation Herald states a replacement aircraft was required . Sometimes the delay was 6 hours , sometimes the next day . In the 2 other incidents , it 's unclear if a replacement aircraft was required or not , but in both cases maintenance was required , so at least a delay occurred . This compares with a bird strike , or fumes/smoke in the cabin , almost daily somewhere . It 's much rare than even lightning strikes , of which 25 were reported in 2017 .
The planes I have trained in ( single engined Piper Cherokees/Warriors ) do indeed have an ignition key , without which the magneto system ( which drives the spark plugs ) and the starter can not be engaged . Without being certain , I would assume the same goes for other small GA aircraft . When you get to airliners I have no idea whether there are keys for locking the controls - as the controls are much more complex , the keys probably wo n't be directly connected to ignition systems or starters , and I would n't be surprised if the primary security method is keeping doors locked .
There is no switch for the FDR , but there is a circuit breaker and by pulling this you are removing aircraft power from the FDR . However , this does not mean you are necessarily turning it off , as some FDR can be equipped with an internal power supply as a backup to aircraft power . The quote in the question ( bolded emphasis mine ) : You also can not turn off the black box , as it runs throughout the flight , recording every 30 to 60 seconds . is a case of an " expert " or journalist confusing the lack of an on/off switch as an inability to turn something off . As you 'll find many examples of in the media , they do n't always get it right . The circuit breaker may not be a true on/off switch , but pulling it does accomplish de-powering ( assuming no internal power supply ) and thus turning off the FDR .
Formation lights are used so that aircraft can fly close formation at night . They are typically luminescent strips positioned so that an aircraft can be in the desired position ( i.e. fingertip formation ) and have references fore-aft , up-down , and near-far similar to references as used for daytime formation flying . Something along the lines of , " keep the position light just below the formation light ( strip ) under the cockpit and the aft fuselage light ( strip ) just touching the wing hardpoint , and you 're in the right position . If the position light goes farther below the strip , you 're getting high ; if the hardpoint is sliding back into the aft light you 're getting close , etc. " Obviously these references are very specific to each individual aircraft . You can see the formation lights in this picture of an F-14 ; the dots are actual position lights , while the strips are the formation lights . <URL> <URL> As to why only military aircraft have them ... how often have you seen or heard of civil aircraft flying formation at night ? Yeah , me neither . There are very , very few non-military reasons for formation flight , and essentially none that require it to be done at night .
Boarding takes a long time , true . There are <URL> which <URL> to speed up boarding by between 20 % and 50 % , still they are not adopted . Why ? You need to load the baggage , too . Also the catering . And fuel . You need to inspect the aircraft , run through checklists and brief the new crew . This all takes up time , too . Airlines do not see a big saving by loading passengers faster , and then waiting for all other jobs to be completed . Your radical idea of containerizing passenger transport would certainly speed up things , but it would cost a lot of payload . The most efficient pressure vessel is a sphere , and the next efficient is a cylinder with spherical ends . Pressurizing a boxy container is structurally very inefficient . Loading passengers on palettes first and sliding those palettes through a narrow opening takes time in itself . And the palettes have their own weight , their own floor , their own support structure for the baggage racks , their own cabeling for the entertainment system . They would , however , not need their independent pressurization , so their weight impact would be moderate . A possible " flatbed " airliner which could attain the shortest boarding times has only half as much fuselage height ( or less ) to transmit bending loads along its length . <URL> for an example of buckling in a fuselage skin due to bending loads . Now consider that reducing height by 50 % will need four times more cross section in the longerons to keep stiffness constant . That will make the fuselage much heavier . In the end , airlines go with the solution which maximizes their profits . By using a hollow cylinder and let their " cargo " self-load , they can maximize their payload and get tolerable boarding times . Tolerable for them , that is . That better loading procedures could allow you to come to the airport later is of no interest to them . If they would see an advantage in shorter boarding times , there would be ample of opportunity by improving strategies , even with existing airplane designs .
You 're almost certainly talking about a <URL> , who is just an airport ( FBO ) employee who gives information to pilots on their request . The FAA 's Pilot Handbook <URL> : UNICOM is a nongovernment air/ground radio communication station which may provide airport information at public use airports where there is no tower or FSS . On pilot request , UNICOM stations may provide pilots with weather information , wind direction , the recommended runway , or other necessary information . If the UNICOM frequency is designated as the CTAF , it will be identified in appropriate aeronautical publications . The important point is that UNICOM is not ATC . A UNICOM operator can not give you instructions , clearances or require you to do anything . He can only give you information , and as PIC it 's up to you to decide how to use that information . The <URL> that Porcupine911 <URL> is a great example of that . A student pilot thought that UNICOM was telling him which runway to land on , whereas in fact the operator was only recommending a runway ( presumably based on the prevailing wind or whatever ) . Unfortunately , the operator recommended the opposite runway to the one that was actually in use by other pilots . Like pilots , UNICOM operators vary in their experience and competence . A good UNICOM operator ( in my opinion ) will give you the local wind and altimeter information , tell you if there are other aircraft in the pattern or nearby , tell you which runway is in use by those aircraft , and give you any essential safety information ( like a closed runway ) . But as PIC , I 'm still going to listen to CTAF and AWOS and look for other traffic before choosing a runway and joining the pattern . It 's also common for no one to reply to a UNICOM call ( because the operator is out fueling aircraft in his other role as lineman , for example ) , in which case you 're going to have to sort things out without it anyway . So there 's no need to " report " anything : UNICOM operators are a well-known and official service , but you have to know how to use them and what their limitations are .
It depends on the type of bird and mammal species in native to the area and also the type of grass used in turfing ; some of them may not survive if mowed very closely . FAA 's <URL> concedes : Species-specific responses may be expected . ... Airport managers need to work with airport wildlife biologists to determine what species of concern in regards to aircraft safety are in their area and what the habitat needs are for those species . For most airports , FAA recommends a height of 5-8 " of grass . Considering bird , mammal and vegetation limitations , mowing at least monthly at a target of 5 - 8 inches may work in many airport environments as part of a wildlife hazard management program . ... Mowing at 5 - 8 inches should also reduce small mammal abundance .
Shades of Blue-grey you say ? So ... . . The F15 <URL> The Mig21 The AWACS <URL> The Eurofighter <URL> To name a few I could think of from the top of my head . Almost every military aircraft has a variant that has been painted along the blue-grey spectrum at some point or another .
Actually , the FAA does n't always require the preceding airplane to clear the runway if they have the required separation unless it is dark ( when it is very hard to visually estimate distances ) . According to the <URL> : 3-10-6 . ANTICIPATING SEPARATION a. Landing clearance to succeeding aircraft in a landing sequence need not be withheld if you observe the positions of the aircraft and determine that prescribed runway separation will exist when the aircraft crosses the landing threshold . Issue traffic information to the succeeding aircraft if a preceding arrival has not been previously reported and when traffic will be departing prior to their arrival . EXAMPLE - " American Two Forty-Five , Runway One-Eight , cleared to land , number two following a United Seven-Thirty-Seven two mile final . Traffic will depart prior to your arrival . " " American Two Forty-Five , Runway One-Eight , cleared to land . Traffic will depart prior to your arrival . " NOTE - Landing sequence number is optional at tower facilities where the arrival sequence to the runway is established by the approach control . b. Anticipating separation must not be applied when conducting LUAW operations , except as authorized in paragraph 3-10-5b2 . Issue applicable traffic information when using this provision . EXAMPLE - " American Two Forty-Five , Runway One-Eight , cleared to land . Traffic will be a Boeing Seven-Fifty-Seven holding in position . " And the separation is specified in the same document : 3-10-3 . SAME RUNWAY SEPARATION a. Separate an arriving aircraft from another aircraft using the same runway by ensuring that the arriving aircraft does not cross the landing threshold until one of the following conditions exists or unless authorized in para 3-10-10 , Altitude Restricted Low Approach . The other aircraft has landed and is clear of the runway . ( See FIG 3-10-1 . ) Between sunrise and sunset , if you can determine distances by reference to suitable landmarks and the other aircraft has landed , it need not be clear of the runway if the following minimum distance from the landing threshold exists : ( a ) When a Category I aircraft is landing behind a Category I or II - 3,000 feet . ( b ) When a Category II aircraft is landing behind a Category I or II - 4,500 feet .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
It 's partly inherent in the way things scale . If you double the length of the model , then the wing area ( length times width ) increases by a factor of 4 , but the weight and volume ( length times width times height ) will increase by a factor of 8 ... so doubling the size means halving the weight-to-lift ratio . In the most extreme cases , a tiny model will blow away on a puff of wind , and a huge model ( bigger than the real plane ) ca n't take off at all . I suppose you might theoretically try to make small models harder to fly , by adding extra weight . The above is theoretically true but maybe nonsense in practice : it assumes that structural materials become thinner when the model is scaled , in reality the structure is n't even the same material . So let 's look at it another way : A full-scale A380 weighs let 's say 500 tons , length about 70 metres . Decrease that to 1 metre model and the surface area has decreased by ( 70x70 =) 5000 . So for the model to have the same weight-to-area as the full-scale plane , it would need to weigh ( 500 tons / 5000 =) 100 kg . Your 1 metre model presumably weighs much less than 100 kg , therefore it has much less weight-to-area ratio . QED . It 's also important to consider the <URL> , which depends on the air 's viscosity and density , and on the size and speed of the model . The Reynolds number affects turbulence , which is very important to a wing 's lift ( for an example of how even a tiny change has a large effect , see <URL> ) . To get the right Reynolds number for a small model you must increase the density ( e.g. pressure ) of the air , or increase its speed . But given the ordinary speed of aircraft , you could n't increase ( scale up ) the air speed because it would become super-sonic , which would change the scenario . Based on <URL> , and the comments below it , I think that a 1-metre model of a 70-metre A380 ( so a scale of 70:1 ) might behave like the full-scale model if it were flown under the following conditions : air density is scaled up , so 70 atmospheres of air pressure lift and drag are scaled down , so : weight of the model is 7 tons ( instead of 500 tons ) thrust of the model is 4,000 lb ( instead of 300,000 lbs ) , i.e. about 2 tons air speed is realistic ( e.g. 150 knots to take off ) Obviously this would be quite unusual for a model airplane1 . 1Air liquifies at 60 atmospheres ; and the model would need a specific density of about 100 , i.e. 5 times heavier than gold or uranium ) .
This is not implemented anywhere in the world . <URL> : As of 2012 this category is not yet in operation anywhere in the world as it requires guidance to taxi in zero visibility as well . Category IIIc is not mentioned in EU-OPS . <URL> : As far as I know NO airport in the world currently offers catIIIc as it has the most ridiculous minima both in the horizontal and vertical plane ...
Some deicing fluids can leave a gel-like residue on the airplane . Several incidents occurred with 737s where the residue accumulated in the elevator balance bay , causing severe oscillation/vibration in flight above 270 KIAS . These incidents resulted in the issuance of <URL> , which required adding the 270 KIAS limitation you discovered into the 737 's Airplane Flight Manual ( AFM ) . The required " maintenance procedures " consist of cleaning off the deicing fluid residue . The AD also requires a one-time cleaning and sealing of the elevator balance bay . The FAA has received reports of numerous incidents of severe airframe vibration , or limit cycle oscillation ( LCO ) , in flight after the horizontal stabilizer had been deiced/anti-iced on the ground . The reported incidents occurred on Boeing Model 737-600 , -700 , and -800 series airplanes . The empennage structure on these , as well as Model 737-700C series airplanes , is identical ; therefore , all of these airplanes are subject to the identified unsafe condition . These events have been attributed to an accumulation of deicing/anti-icing fluid or other residue in the elevator balance panel cavities and on the external surfaces of the elevator tab . A <URL> gives some more information and also has some photos showing the residue . Here 's what a gummed-up 737 elevator balance panel looks like : From the article : Airplane deicing and anti-icing fluids can leave residue in critical areas in the wings and stabilizers . This residue can rehydrate and expand into a gel-like material that can freeze during flight and cause restrictions in the flight control systems . Therefore , attention to this residue should be part of a regularly scheduled inspection and cleaning process . ... Although Type III fluids have not been specifically linked to any events involving flight controls , the composition of these fluids makes them equally susceptible to residue problems as the Type II and Type IV fluids .
end question
start question
At what altitude do vacuum powered gyros become ineffective ?
Just <URL> , it depends on the specifications . The manual for this <URL> vacuum attitude indicator says up to 40,000 feet . <URL> ( <URL> ) In an aircraft , the vacuum source is often used to power gyroscopes in the various flight instruments . To prevent the complete loss of instrumentation in the event of an electrical failure , the instrument panel is deliberately designed with certain instruments powered by electricity and other instruments powered by the vacuum source . -- <URL> In a piston engine airplane the vacuum pump is geared to the engine . Historically electric motors were n't reliable , that has changed now of course . At 80,000 feet the air density is only 14 % compared to 40,000 feet . I highly doubt it would be feasible ( size , weight , RPM ) to create such a pump . And I 'm pretty sure it 's of no use to jets .
The FMS Bridge Visual Approach 28R is a version of the Quiet Bridge Visual Approach 28R which is coded with GPS coordinates and can be included in an FMS database for approved operators . This allows the procedure to be used when the SFO VOR is out of service , and also gives ATC additional flexibility by allowing them to clear pilots direct to any of the fixes without needing to intercept the radial on the standard arrival . The pilot must either tell ATC that they can accept it verbally , or include FMS28R ABLE in the remarks of their flight plan so that they know that the flight is capable of flying the approach .
Check your temperature conversion : 25F is -3.9 C. . . Should be ( 25-32 ) * ( 5/9 ) .
The ADS-B signal used by FR24 is transmitted on 1090 MHz . Signals at that frequency do not follow the curvature of the earth very well . They work best in line of sight . Aircraft far away from the receiver must be at high altitude to be above the horizon . At 1000ft , the horizon is about 33 nautical mile away . Aircraft further away will be shielded below the horizon . For 40000ft , the horizon is about 220 nautical mile away . Due to a slight refraction of the signal the practical range is about 15 % further .
In the UK a paramotor does not have to take off from an airfield . There is an explanation of the UK regulation of paramotors on the <URL> website . You do need the landowner 's permission to take off , but you do n't need any type of pilot 's licence . You have to comply with the rules of the air ( the <URL> ) , as does any other flyer Taking off from an airfield that is being used by faster aircraft ( anything else with an engine is faster than a paramotor ) may be a bad idea !
Please let me assume that you wonder about control surface effectiveness rather than their efficiency . Both are closely related , but I prefer to address their effectiveness - doing what the pilot demands them to do . The aerodynamic forces are proportional to the dynamic pressure $ q $ of the flow , which is density times velocity squared , as in $ $ q = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ $ To create the same amount of lift at a higher altitude , the airplane has to fly faster , so in effect the forces can stay the same . Only the true air speed will be different , which helps to get where you want faster . The control surface effectivity remains unchanged . If we dig a little deeper , the atmosphere cools down with increasing altitude until you reach the <URL> . This cooling makes the engines <URL> but also <URL> of the flow around the aircraft . A lower Reynolds number translates into a thicker boundary layer , which will reduce the effectiveness of control surfaces a tiny bit and will reduce the range of their best effectivity . But this effect is so small that it has no practical consequence . Airliners fly at transsonic speeds at altitude , so now sonic effects become more pronounced . For the control surfaces this means that they will <URL> . For small corrections all is very similar to low level , slow flight , but if you need full deflections the control surfaces are indeed less effective at altitude . Another effect will be rather more pronounced , and this is aerodynamic damping . Damping is the tendency of a system to create additional forces from movements which run against this movement . Take a wing : If the aircraft rolls , the wingtips will move up on one side and down on the other . Both movements will add a small angle of attack , lowering the total angle of attack on the up moving tip and increasing it on the down moving tip . Both tips will see a change in lift which will counteract the rolling motion . If the rolling speed is $ \ omega_x $ , the resulting change in angle of attack $ \ alpha $ at a wing station $ y $ is $ $ \ Delta \ alpha = arctan \ left ( \ frac { \ omega_x \ cdot y } { v } \ right ) $ $ As you can see , the flight speed is in the denominator , so a higher flight speed will create a smaller angle change for the same roll rate . The same holds true for the other axes of movement , and in consequence the <URL> or an artificial damper . I guess it is the lower damping which made you think that the control surfaces are less effective . They are n't .
Here is the text extracted from Boeing 's 777 Flight Crew Operations Manual : In cabin altitude controller cruise mode , maximum cabin altitude is 8,000 feet . When the takeoff field elevation is higher than 8,000 feet , the cabin descends to the cabin cruise altitude while the airplane is climbing . When the destination airport elevation is greater than 8,000 feet , cabin altitude controller cruise mode maintains a cabin altitude of 8,000 feet . ( ... ) At touchdown , the outflow valves open to depressurize the cabin . Therefore , when the airplane is on the ground , its cabin altitude is always equal to the ambient altitude . When it is in the air , the maximum is 8000 feet . Whether the cabin altitude will climb to 8000 feet or descend to 8000 feet depends on field elevation . The reverse happens upon landing . If landing at an airport at 10,400 feet , the cabin altitude is < = 8000 feet until touchdown , then raises to 10,400 feet . This make sense - if the outside pressure is greater , how do you open the door ? ( well with enough force you can , but I will leave it to your imagination as to what happens the moment the door is opened ) .
First of all , gliders fly slowly . Everything happens more slowly than in other aircraft , and this helps to make flying them less challenging than you might think . Flying them well is a different matter - this requires a lot of skill and good physical health . Historically , the early age limits were introduced in Nazi Germany when the Deutscher Luftstportverband ( <URL> ) and later the <URL> organized groups of adolescents to let them build and fly gliders . Flight training started at the age of 14 , mostly in very simple , <URL> ed gliders like the Zögling or <URL> which were flown in summer and built or repaired in Winter . Since bungee launching is a very labor-intensive process and flights last only a few seconds , this was less about pilot training than keeping the young occupied and under the influence of the Nazi party . <URL> Bungee launch of a Zögling glider ( picture <URL> ) And it worked . Accidents did happen , but were almost never fatal since all operations happened at low speed and altitude . Therefore , these age limits were exported together with the idea of flying unpowered aircraft . Note that in Europe the same health certificate is required for glider flying as for flying GA aircraft . Now to your concerns about the demanding nature of gliding : Glider flying is done from airfields which are suitable for GA aircraft ( or the gliders could not be aerotowed ) or winch launching . 800 meters is about the minimum , and this leaves plenty of space to land a glider . Flight training is done initially only in the direct vicinity of the airfield , and students are supposed to stay within a cone which allows them to reach the airfield at any moment . Flying cross-country comes much later , when the students have made more than a hundred landings and know how to get the plane down in a certain spot . Again , the slow speed helps to make such landings simple if the pilot is prepared . Today , training is initially in two-seaters , so there is an experienced pilot around for the first landings and the first cross-country flights . Aerotowing is also quite simple , and altitude management while in tow is more challenging than keeping the right distance from the towplane . Again , this is done initially in two-seaters , and all the glider pilot has to do is to fly with the same bank angle as and slightly above the towplane . The rope takes care of the rest .
As a general average , Chicago O'Hare ( KORD ) seems to do somewhere between 1.5 and 2 operations per minute ( so roughly one takeoff or landing every 30-40 seconds ) . I based this on data from the FAA 's <URL> report , and specifically looked at November 23 through November 30 of 2014 ( 17835 operations , over 8 days works out to 1.55 operations per minute - I poked around randomly and found days as high as 1.7 operations per minute ) . One of the limiting factors for number of operations at any airport is separation between aircraft , which is covered <URL> Incidentally we were discussing airport/tower activity levels <URL> earlier today , and Chicago O'Hare is the busiest airport in the United States overall - a title it recently stole back from ATL ( which was # 1 from 2004 to 2013 ) .
The factor affecting TSFC is speed , not altitude . Altitude is indirectly responsible because the lower density requires a higher flight speed . Low-bypass engines have a higher exit speed , so the change in speed affects their efficiency less . High-bypass engines double their TSFC between static and Mach 0.8 and only the lower temperature at altitude <URL> a bit . If you look at the formula for thermal efficiency in <URL> , you see that efficiency drops more over speed for high-bypass engines . Only the much better propulsive efficiency of high-bypass engines makes them overall better for airliners .
Looking at the route your plane took , this low altitude flight was likely to avoid the polar jetstream . This is a band of wind that blows west to east in roughly the area the first half of your flight was flying through . It exists mostly between 30,000 and 39,000 feet altitude , and can range from about 60mph to over 200mph . I suspect that the low altitude was to keep the plane below this jetstream , avoiding the headwind and fuel and time costs that flying through it would create . To answer the other part of your question , as I mentioned in the comments , weight should n't have been an issue because the plane you were in ( a 777-300ER ) , has more than enough engine power to maintain a higher altitude , even fully weighted .
The higher takeoff speeds might exceed the speed rating of the usual tires . As a tire is rolling it deforms in two directions . <URL> As each section comes in contact with the runway it is pressed inward by the weight of the plane . After it leaves the runway surface the deformation is in the opposite direction from centrifugal force . This constant flexing is what causes the tires to fatigue and possibly fail . The flexing also causes heat to build up in the rubber which causes the rubber to lose its flexibility . The faster the tire spins the more centrifugal flexing occurs and the shorter the period between force reversals . This shortens the time the tire has to dissipate heat . The two ways to increase speed rating of a tire is to reduce the flexing and to reduce heat retention . The way manufacturers reduce flexing is to add cap plies . These are usually of nylon or other synthetic material placed on top of the body plies on axial ply tires and on top of the steel belts on radial tires . These help keep the body plies from deforming outward from centrifugal force . The faster the tire must spin the more cap plies are used . To reduce heat retention the rubber used between plies and at the shoulders must be made of compounds that have lower heat retention . These things combined , more or stronger cap plies and better rubber compounds in key places , increase the cost of higher speed rated tires . Image source : <URL> , David Osborne
Shhhhhh , here is the biggest secret of aviation : It 's actually quite easy to become a pilot . You can actually get your private certificate before you are allowed to drive ! <URL> . When most people think of piloting small general aviation aircraft , they are thinking about the <URL> certificate . Part 141 is the most common route for that . The hardest part is being able to pass the FAA physical , but keep in mind that as a private ( or even recreational ) pilot , you do n't need to get a Class I , just a Class III . To become an airline ( ATP ) or military pilot does require a great deal more work and training , but I think that may be beyond the scope of your question . The best advice is to go to the local airfield or FBO and find a flight school . Good luck .
The thrust variation with altitude would be highly engine specific , but the general trend is nicely depicted in the image below : <URL> this for further details .
I think there are already plenty of answers here to give you a clue : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Normally , atitude restrictions give a top limit . A minimum altitude is hard to enforce when one engine fails - then the aircraft can only continue at a lower altitude ( typically around 15,000 ft for a two-engined jet ) or the cabin pressurization fails ( now the aircraft needs to continue below 10,000 ft ) . This is speculation , but maybe the 26,000 ft limit is caused by information that rebels in the West Sinai have gotten hold of <URL> . Those have a fairly low upper limit to their effectiveness .
There 's no " standard holding pattern " at any airport , towered or not . If the runway is occupied or temporarily closed for some reason , you might was well leave the traffic pattern and go putt around for a while someplace where there are fewer aircraft . At a towered airport , the controller will likely tell you what to do - but again , you can make both his life and yours easier by just leaving the pattern and going somewhere else until the situation is resolved .
There have been many accidents because the vacuum system failed ; AOPA has <URL> that discusses some of them , and see <URL> for an example . As for accidents caused because the pilot did n't notice , that 's a more difficult question : if the pilot did n't survive then there 's <URL> and what he experienced . It 's always possible that the pilot was fully aware that the vacuum system failed , he just was n't good enough at <URL> to keep the aircraft under control .
Yes , it is possible . The shockless transition from supersonic to subsonic . It has been tested both experimentally and numerical solution . Read <URL> . But in your case I would suggest you to be a bit cautious and recheck your mesh and boundary condition in CFD solver .
By definition , the transition level is the lowest usable flight level above the transition altitude . So if there is a transition altitude , there is a transition level . In the USA , the transition altitude is 18 000ft . If the QNH ( altimeter setting ) is higher than 1013.25 mbar then the transition level is FL180 . This provides at least 1000 ft separation from aircraft flying at 17 000 ft ( or 500 ft from the VFR at 17 500 ft ) . If the QNH is lower than 1013.25 mbar then the transition level is FL190 or even FL200 to ensure there is at least 1000 ft separation from 17 000 ft. The transition level in other countries is based on similar logic .
It depends . As always . If thrust is high enough , why not ? <URL> is a regular part of aerobatic performances , and the fuselage is producing almost * all the needed lift . This requires Enough speed , A low ratio of aircraft mass to fuselage side area , and Enough rudder deflection to trim the aircraft in a sufficiently high sidelip angle . For horizontal flight your installed thrust must be sufficient to compensate for the high drag in this attitude . This should be no problem with powerful propeller aircraft if their fuel system keeps them supplied at this attitude . Jets must make sure that the sideslip angle can be tolerated by the intake . The smoke from the exhaust indicates that this biplane flies horizontally . Yes , it is a large model airplane ( not man-carrying , but almost big enough for that ) . But the laws of physics do n't change with scale . For an example of a full-size aircraft doing a knife edge , see <URL> . Thanks go to @romkyns for pointing this out to me ! Note the rudder deflection to keep it at this angle of sideslip . Direction is controlled with the elevator . At this rate of sideslip the propeller thrust contributes to overall lift as well , however , the vertical adds a substantial downforce in order to trim the aircraft and the fuselage has to supply the remaining lift . * Almost means that the propeller will carry some of the weight , but the large downforce on the vertical needs to be compensated , too . In sum , the lift contributed by the fuselage is very close to the weight of the plane .
end question
start question
How is the pitot system drained ?
Though it 's often omitted from diagrams , most pitot tubes have one or more drain holes connected to the pressure chamber , and are essentially " self-draining " ( water does n't make it into the lines ) : <URL> <URL> In addition to drains on the pitot tube itself some aircraft have separate " drip chambers " and drains for the pitot ( and occasionally static ) system to remove condensation or rain that got past the drains ( marked as in the photo below ) : <URL> Regarding other contaminants , at altitude the air is generally pretty clean . The biggest problem you 'll have with contaminants in the pitot tube is usually bugs ( either building a nest in the opening , or smacking into it in flight ) . Pitot covers can be used on the ground to prevent this ( and they 're also used when washing or painting aircraft to prevent water or paint from getting into the system ) . Often some tape serves the same purpose - but you need to be sure to remove the tape or cover before flying .
You have a few questions here so I will address them independently . But first off in a more general sense you should understand that everything on an airplane is generally designed with a <URL> this helps to ensure that if something fails it fails in a way to create the least adversity to flight . However there are event scenarios where multiple units fail in such a way that an adverse condition can be encountered . Generally ( if you read accident reports ) these can be avoided if an emergency landing is executed earlier on . What happens if the GAS fail , if for instance two ailerons get stuck in an extreme position ? Or maybe even worse : imagine a sensor failure that produces two opposite extremes on each wing , such that e.g. the left wing have all its ailerons in the up position , and the right wing ailerons in the down position . In this case the plane still , to an <URL> . I do n't know for the Airbus , but generally speaking all systems like this have a manual override and can be disconnected . So this is implying that the system is somehow stuck on and not responding . It should be noted that in the Airbus this system does not independently actuate the flight control surfaces and most likely is bused as input to the fly by wire system . On that note a sensor failure generally does not cause extreme inputs but instead causes no input . Most things like this are <URL> ( so that you can figure out which sensor is bad ) and if all are providing inputs that disagree the system usually disconnects and becomes inop . So to create the case you ask about you would need to have 3 independent sensors provide the same erroneous input which is highly unlikely . Could this be fatal ? Its hard to say , but generally speaking no , the direct failure of a single system would not be fatal . Are there procedures for this in some checklist ? More than likely but I do n't have access to the official checklists so I cant say for sure .
<URL> They provide unambiguous and easily understood English words in a uniform manner in place of the original designations , which either may have been unknown to the Western world at the time or easily confused codes . Much the like the NATO alphabet rules the names but be easy to understand ( possibly under multiple speaking accents ) and must be non ambiguous . The following rules are also applied Aircraft The first letter indicates the type of aircraft , like Bear for a bomber aircraft , or Fulcrum for a fighter aircraft . F -- fighter aircraft , also later ground attack aircraft : <URL> B -- bomber aircraft : <URL> C -- commercial aircraft and airliners , and cargo aircraft : <URL> H -- helicopters : <URL> M -- Miscellaneous ; trainers , reconnaissance , seaplanes , tankers , AEW etc. : <URL> For fixed-wing aircraft , one syllable names were used for propeller-powered craft ( turboprops included ) , while two-syllable names indicated jet engines .
The fly-by-wire is absolutely vital for control of the aircraft , and the three dominating factors here are safety , safety and safety . Weight is not one of them . The fly-by-wire system is triple or quad redundant : instead of removing a set of cables , the manufacturers are installing 3 more cable looms , just to make sure that the system always works . <URL> Wires are safer than wireless ! . There are active transmitters and receivers in wireless systems , which can fail . Signal reception depends on the quality of the space between transmitter &amp; receiver : can the signal always penetrate the aluminium bulkhead ? What happens to the wireless signal when flying past airport radar or in the weather radar field of another aircraft ? Shielded wires are passive and relatively immune to electro-magnetic radiation , and are the means of choice for such a safety critical system . Update The OP was on fly-by-wire . In a sense , the flight control system is the most safety critical system on board and must be immediately available at all times . The <URL> in a comment reports on the progress of on-board wireless communication , for systems with a less critical safety aspect : Examples of Potential WAIC Applications Low Data Rate , Interior Applications ( LI ) : Sensors : Cabin Pressure - Smoke Detection - Fuel Tank/Line -- Proximity Temperature - EMI Incident Detection - Structural Health Monitoring - Humidity/Corrosion Detection Controls : Emergency Lighting - Cabin Functions Low Data Rate , Outside Applications ( LO ) : Sensors : Ice Detection - Landing Gear Position Feedback - Brake Temperature - Tire Pressure - Wheel Speed - Steering Feedback - Flight Controls Position Feedback - Door Sensors Engine Sensors - Structural Sensors High Data Rate , Interior Applications ( HI ) : Sensors : Air Data - Engine Prognostic - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Images/Video Comm. : Avionics Communications Bus - FADEC Aircraft Interface - Flight Deck/Cabin Crew Audio / Video ( safety-related ) High Data Rate , Outside Applications ( HO ) : Sensors : Structural Health Monitoring Controls : Active Vibration Control <URL> From the same presentation : An A380 has 5,700 kg of wires on board , and 30 % of them are potential candidates for a wireless substitute . So wireless communication on board of aircraft does make sense , starting with the non-safety critical systems first .
Historically , avionics manufacturers have used off-the-shelf processors on custom circuit cards . Processor selection has been based on getting a reliable processor ( established history ) at a reasonable price and an expectation that it will be available for a long time . The high turnover ( obsolescence ) in processor design along with a lack of design integrity in commercial products is causing avionics companies to move towards custom chips . Though some products meet the integrity by using two dissimilar processors ( though it does n't address the obsolescence issue ) . I am aware of a number of older designs using 486 and PowerPC processors . Operating systems ( just like all the a/c software ) have to comply with the appropriate level of DO-178 ( currently rev C ) . In practical terms , that means the OS has to meet DO-178 Level A . There are a number of commercial solutions available . LynxOS-178 is one . Integrity-178 is available from Green Hills . Wind River also has a product available .
It completely depends on the accident and airport . For example if I crash land on 10R at San Francisco , and it 's a fairly quiet time of day ( eg below the capacity of one runway ) , the airport could just use 10L and continue operations as normal . Similarly if there was no wind they could just switch to 1/19 L/R instead of 10/28 L/R . I 'll discuss this toward the end of this answer . Even if the crash did n't damage the runway , if the accident did n't damage the runway and the aircraft could be safely moved the airport would be back to normal as soon as the aircraft was moved and the runway had been checked . This could be within an hour . On the other hand if at a single runway airport , with severe damage to the runway and a need to leave the aircraft in situ to be inspected , it could take several weeks . In the cases you mentioned , BA 38 landed short of the runway . The airport was closed to arrivals for a few hours , however , and hundreds of flights were delayed , cancelled , or diverted . In the meantime , the runway in question ( 27L ) was closed entirely for arrivals until 3 days later when the aircraft was recovered . However the runway re-opened on the day of the accident for departures only . As Heathrow typically operates with one runway for Departures and one for Arrivals , this had minimal impact on operations : <URL> In Turkish flight 1878 , the aircraft impacted Runway 5 , then again on Runway 35L , but as far as I 'm aware no significant damage was done . The other runways were inspected and used until the aircraft was moved . Ataturk is a busy airport , but not so busy that it ca n't cope with the loss of a single runway . Again a few hundred flights were delayed , cancelled , or diverted . In neither incident was wreckage left on the actual runway , so once inspected they could be used as normal . There was some disruption in both cases - although no more than that caused by bad weather . If the aircraft had remained on the runway in either case , however , and had the accidents been at a single airport runway ( eg London Stansted rather than Heathrow ) , the airport would likely have been closed for several days . Another interesting case is <URL> - an accident at San Francisco which closed the Airport for a few hours , and the runway for around a day . The other two runways ( 1/19 L/R which are perpendicular , as San Francisco has 4 runways arranged as 2 pairs ) re-opened after around an hour and meant there was minimal impact , along with the parallel runway ( 10L/28R ) which re-opened 24 hours later . The accident runway ( 10R/27L ) re-opened around a week later . One thing to note is that in most cases , an airport only needs runways in one direction - so for example at San Francisco there is a lot of resilience in the runways . As long as the accident does n't cause damage too close to the " crossover " of the runways , San Francisco should almost always be able to operate at near full capacity shortly after an accident , even with a runway closed , due to always having a pair of runways available . Airports such as Heathrow with a single pair of runways are less resilient
According to <URL> , the total length of the horizontal stabilizer on a 737-800 is 47 ft 1 in .
I do n't know about a formal structure , but ground to air and air to ground communications usually follow the 3-W or the 4-W rule . For air to ground communication - use the 4-W rule : Who the controller is ( identification of the controlling agency ) Who you are ( Aircraft Identification ) Where you are ( what is you position and altitude ) What do you want ( state your intentions or request ) Example : Grand Junction Approach , Cessna one seven two Sierra Papa , five miles southwest of the ABC VORTAC at five thousand , five hundred , inbound for Grand Junction to land with ATIS Kilo . Here the pilot identifies himself as a Cessna with the identification N172SP , that he is five miles southwest of the ABC VORTAC at 5,500 ft MSL , and that he intends to land at Grand Junction airport and has the latest ATIS weather report for Grand Junction . ARTCC and other air traffic controllers will generally use the 3-Ws to communicate with you Who you are ( the aircraft they are giving their instructions to ) Who they are ( the name of the controlling agency ) What they want you to do ( instructions for the aircraft in question to follow ) Example : Cessna one seven two Sierra Papa , Grand Junction Approach , turn right to 030 . Descent and maintain three thousand two hundred . Expect vectors for runway three zero left . Squawk six four one one and ident . Here the controller ( Grand Junction approach ) has advised Cessna 172SP to turn to a heading of 030 and to descend to 3,200 ft MSL . He should also expect further heading instructions for insertion into traffic for runway 30L at Grand Junction airport . The controller also tells the pilot to set his transponder to the code 6411 and ident , so the controller can verify his position . As a courtesy , and often requested or implied by controllers to verify the pilot in question heard the instructions and will comply , the pilot will read back the instruction in full to the controller , followed by his/her callsign . Example : Right to 030 , descend and maintain three thousand two hundred , expect vectors for runway three zero left , squawk six four one one and ident , Cessna one seven two Sierra Papa . The NATO phonetic alphabet will be used for individual letters to avoid confusion by both parties as many letters can sound similar on a garbled radio transmission . Other oddities include the use of the word ' niner ' in place of the number 9 ; This is to distinguish from the number 5 , which is pronouced " fife " . English is also the accepted international language for use in flying and radio communications .
Engine failure is not that common . For a gas turbine engine , a press release by <URL> gives some data as a reference point . In 1995 they quoted various engines as having a dispatch rate of between 99.99 % and 99.89 % . That is only 0.01 to 0.11 % of flights could not depart due to an engine issue . However , that does n't identify in flight failures , best captured by the inflight shut down ( IFSD ) rate . Data on this is difficult to get for specific engines , as the OEMs consider it competitive information , so the best guide is probably as mentioned the ETOPS rating . The ETOPs fleet is <URL> as achieving a shut down rate of less than 0.01 per 1000 engine hours . Another way of defining reliability is the ( repair ) shop visit rate ( SVR ) . Figures given for this ( by GE in the same link as above ) were between 0.085 and 0.231 visits per 1000 flight hours . However , this covers both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance ( i.e. failures ) , so perhaps does n't identify what you want . For piston engines , the answer to this <URL> probably has some useful data . In addition , Continental <URL> in 2014 that they had an IFSD rate of 0.0061 per 1000 flight hours , which they claim is the most reliable piston engine in general aviation . This compares with " less than " 0.01 for gas turbines , so , it seems very similar . It maybe possible to find a better value for the IFSD rate for gas turbines . Given the rate is so low , it really needs to be quoted to more than 2 decimal places , or given per 100,000 flight hours . Ultimately , I would expect the IFSD rate for gas turbines to be lower than for piston engines , due to the huge economic incentive gas turbine manufacturers and the commercial airline industry has increasing reliability for turbofan engines , that does not exist to the same extent , for general aviation piston engines .
Yes , there are several systems . The simplest are REALLY BIG WINDOWS ( and binoculars ) : <URL> When the entire wall in front of you is an big expanse of glass looking out over the runway there 's a good chance you 'll notice something trying to roll onto the runway . Many runway incursions are detected visually . Really big windows do n't work as well when you have multiple runways and larger airport complexes though , so we have some technological solutions too . The most common is Automated Surface Detection Equipment ( ASDE ) , the one being deployed today is <URL> . This is basically " radar on the ground " which interrogates aircraft transponders and shows the controllers which aircraft are where on the airport surface : <URL> There are also systems on the ground designed to prevent incursions , but those are mainly for use by pilots . These include <URL> , <URL> ( which include " stop bars " that light up on hold-short lines ) , and " runway guard lights " ( which may be mounted either in the pavement or <URL> ) . Many of these systems can be controlled from the tower , either by automatic systems or manually by the controllers .
The empty weight of airplanes can only be given to single-pound precision for one specific airplane . Minute differences in metal sheet thickness , equipment and paint will make sure that there is a difference of many pounds between airplanes of the same type and furnishing . Add to this the difference in seating , galleys and instrumentation between airplanes of the same type which are operated by different airlines , and a precise number as in your question becomes almost meaningless . A better way would be to give a range in which most airplanes will fall , or to round the number like the Concorde weight of your question . Weighing is quite straightforward : All tires of the landing gear are placed on scales and the weights are summed up . If the attitude of the airplane does not change , the weight on the tires can even be measured consecutively , so only one scale is needed . Small floatplanes can be suspended from a crane with a scale in the line holding the aircraft . In <URL> 's biography he remembers an aircraft deal with the Soviet Union in the late 1920s . He had to deliver five floatplanes of a specified weight , and the Russian approval inspectors insisted on all planes having the exact same weight . Of course the planes were not identically heavy , but his advantage was that the scale in his factory was indicating the weight by printing it on cards . So the evening before the inspectors came , he let one aircraft be weighed five times , put the cards back into the machine and had the printing mechanism disabled . The next day he closed the business successfully with his very happy Russian guests .
As the commentators above pointed out , there are some issues with your question due to the concepts involved . As @Bluephoenix mentioned , the security domains are defined in ARINC 664 Part 5 . These domains specifically apply to ARINC 664 networks , though the concepts can be applied to other networks . You also reference a Cabin Intercommunication Data System ( CIDS ) which is an Airbus specific system in the A320 series -- which does not have an A664 network . But we can look at its functions to see which domain would apply if they were implemented on an A664 network . The A664P5 descriptions are : Part 5 describes the objectives , characteristics , services and functions that should be satisfied and provided by the aircraft computing network as a whole . Their allocation to specific networks and devices is the responsibility of aircraft network designers and specified by other documents . The Aircraft Control Domain ( ACD ) and Airline Information Services Domains ( AISD ) can be divided into sub-domains . The ACD can be divided into two Sub-domains : • Flight and Embedded Control System Sub-domain , where the aircraft is controlled from the flight-deck • Cabin Core Sub-domain , which provides environmental functions dedicated to cabin operations , such as environmental control , passenger address , smoke detection , etc. . The AISD can be subdivided into two sub-domains : • Administrative Sub-domain , which provides operational and airline administrative information to both the flight deck and cabin • Passenger Support Sub-domain , which provides information to support the passengers Subsystems within the Passenger Information and Entertainment Services Domain ( PIESD ) could be supplied by different suppliers . Passenger Owned Devices ( POD ) can be supported by onboard networks . The Passenger Owned Devices Domain ( PODD ) is constituted of only those devices that passengers may bring on board the aircraft . Reviewing the CIDS documentation of functions and comparing it to the A664P5 definitions , it would appear that the CIDS has functions within the ACD Cabin Core Sub-domain ( environmental control , passenger address , smoke detection , etc. ) and AISD Administrative Sub-domain ( operational and airline administrative information to both the flight deck and cabin . ) To your last question , ACARS is a legacy communications link designed to support Airline Operational Control ( AOC ) and Airline Administrative Control ( AAC ) messaging . With advances in data link systems and applications , ACARS can refer to either the AOC messaging ( most correctly ) or the entire data link system ( not so correct ) which also includes Air Traffic Control ( ATC ) messaging . The ATC portion of data link falls under the ACD . AOC and AAC messaging fall into the AISD . In the case of the A320 , the CIDS does not have a direct interface to the AOC/AAC messaging . These messages ( manifests , gate assignments , etc. ) are printed out in the cockpit and passed to the cabin crew as needed . On some newer aircraft , this may be accessible by the cabin crew via a terminal .
While it is not on the required parameters list , it would not surprise me if it would be recorded - most FDRs record considerably more than the 88 mandatory parameters , and cockpit doors are of course interesting in accident investigations . That being said , it should also come across pretty evidently on the Cockpit Voice Recorder if somebody was trying to get in . The normal request is a pretty distinct buzzer and the emergency request is the same buzzer for 5 minutes unless denied / cancelled by the pilot . The door also locks quite loudly . Both should be able to be picked up by the general area cockpit microphone .
In subsonic flow , a pitot tube measures the total pressure $ P _ { 0 } $ , while a static port measures the static pressure $ P$ . For very small Mach numbers , we can use the incompressible form of Bernoulli 's Equation for determining the speed . As there is no energy due to compressibility , the density $ \ rho $ is constant . This means that along a streamline , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } + gh = constant $ Neglecting gravity , we have , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ Using this , we can determine the velocity as $ v = \ sqrt { 2 \ frac { P _ { 0 } - P } { \ rho } } $ This equation , however does not take the effect of comprehensibility into account . While at low speeds this is not a problem , this causes an error as the Mach number increases above ~ 0.3 . As the speed increases above this value , the term $ \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho v ^ { 2 } $ no longer gives the difference between the Total and static pressure . In case of compressible flow , neglecting gravity we have , $ \ int _ { P _ { 0 } } ^ { P } \ frac { dP } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ along the streamline as $ \ rho $ is no longer constant . For adiabatically expanding gas , we have , $ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } = ( 1 + \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { 2 } M ^ { 2 } ) ^ { \ frac { \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } } $ where $ \ gamma $ is the specific heat constant and $ M$ is the mach number . In this case , the velocity can be calculated as , $ v = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } \ frac { P } { \ rho } [ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } ^ { \ frac { \ gamma - 1 } { \ gamma } } -1 ] } $ This difference gives rise to the error , which is positive i.e. compressibility error produces ASI readings that are too high . In terms of the pressure ratio , the error is more than 8 % as the aircraft approaches transonic speeds . The following image shows the difference in pressure ratio between readings using assumptions of incompressible and compressible flow . <URL> Image from Mechanical Measurements and Metrology - Measurement of Fluid Velocity by S. P. Venkateshan Basically , the issue is with the assumptions in the method use to calculate the velocity - for low speeds , we assume that the density is constant , which is clearly not the case as the speed increases . Usually , M = 0.3 is taken as the cutoff point .
Accumulators act as storage for flow . At times of peak flow demand , the accumulator delivers a large flow supply at nominal pressure until its oil has been used up , after which the maximum flow is the pump flow . The same functionality that a capacitor or a battery has in an electric system . If there are no accumulators installed : Peak hydraulic power is greatly reduced : peak flow supply equals the pump flow , and pressure drops when the pump supplies high flow . Pressure surges are high when the pump is running and demand suddenly stops , the accumulator evens out the pressure peak , again like how a capacitor functions . ( From @Gerry comment ) .
The system you 're asking about is called radar : ATC should monitor it to see what the plane is doing and ask what is going on when something unexpected happens . It 's hard to " automate " these kinds of alerts . For example , a sudden dive can also be cause by an uncontrolled control-surface hard-over ( like the <URL> that brought down 2 planes ) , or a loss of cabin pressurization ( which requires a rapid descent to an altitude where your passengers can breathe ) . The other option is having a second person in the cockpit who can wrest control away from the disobedient pilot ( or let people in the cockpit to help ) .
One particular example I can recall is Extra 330 . Modification with electric engine have been built ( Extra 330LE ) keeping the rest of the aircraft quite similar to the original petrol-engine version as far as I know . According to <URL> electric version was measured to produce 14.5 dB less noise compared to the combustion engine aircraft . Maybe you can try too look for other combustion engine aircraft converted to electric without making other significant modifications ( I am not aware of any other than this Extra 330LE though ) as a source for data you are looking for .
Though it 's often omitted from diagrams , most pitot tubes have one or more drain holes connected to the pressure chamber , and are essentially " self-draining " ( water does n't make it into the lines ) : <URL> <URL> In addition to drains on the pitot tube itself some aircraft have separate " drip chambers " and drains for the pitot ( and occasionally static ) system to remove condensation or rain that got past the drains ( marked as in the photo below ) : <URL> Regarding other contaminants , at altitude the air is generally pretty clean . The biggest problem you 'll have with contaminants in the pitot tube is usually bugs ( either building a nest in the opening , or smacking into it in flight ) . Pitot covers can be used on the ground to prevent this ( and they 're also used when washing or painting aircraft to prevent water or paint from getting into the system ) . Often some tape serves the same purpose - but you need to be sure to remove the tape or cover before flying .
On any large jet ( the DC-10 was a wide-bodied plane , seating around 300 people ) , the control surfaces are simply too large to move without hydraulics . Manual control is impossible , and multiple redundant hydraulic systems are provided . This applies to any large plane . It 's considered unlikely that all the hydraulic systems will fail independently . The specific problem on United flight 232 was that the failures were n't independent : all three hydraulic systems were severed by the engine in the tailplane failing and spewing lumps of metal into the narrow conduit that carried the hydraulic lines .
You 're correct that there are two ways to connect the tug with an aircraft . In case a tow bar is used , it is fixed laterally at the nose landing gear , while allowing slight movement for height adjustment . Usually , the tow bar may pivot freely laterally and vertically at the end that attaches to the tug rather than the aircraft end , which is fixed . The following image shows the tow bar attachment point in Airbus A380 . <URL> Image from alamy.com . The attachment points differ from aircraft to aircraft , so the tow bar basically operates as an adapter between the aircraft and the tug . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . When using a towbarless tug , the nose wheel is simply scooped off the ground using hydraulic ( for large aircraft ) or electric power . The tug has a movable arm , which is opened and the tug is moved and placed so that the nose wheel fits inside the fixed arms of the tug . The movable arm is then closed . The movable arm and the opposite side has sloping edges , over which the wheels slide and the nose is lifted off as the arm closes due to hydraulic power . This video shows how its done in case of Airbus A380 . Video from Youtube : How to lift up the world 's largest commercial aircraft the Airbus A380 . by user Kasavubu The nose wheel dimensions and aircraft weight do matter and tugs are certified for different ramp weights .
end question
start question
Is there an FAA rule or Advisory Circular with regard to blood donation ?
An air carrier that I have worked for specifically addresses this issue in their <URL> -- which is accepted by the FAA . The manual gives the following requirement : Flight Restrictions After Blood Donations Flight personnel shall not participate in any capacity as flightcrew members for a period of 24 hours after donating more than one-half pint of blood . Note that this portion of this manual is accepted by the FAA , not approved .1 One <URL> is generally 470-500 mL , or one pint . The one-half pint specified above half of a regular unit of blood . According the the <URL> , a typical donation is about one pint , or one unit . The FAA also publishes the <URL> . I am not an AME , nor am I fully familiar with the Guide or how to interpret it . However , I understand that the following table shows that outside the listed time-frames , an applicant for an airman 's medical certificate could be considered medically fit for flight duty : <URL> 1 The terms Approved and Accepted mean specific things to the FAA . See <URL> : Approved : When approved is used to describe a document , manual , or checklist , it means that a regulation requires FAA approval and that the FAA has evaluated and specifically approved the document , manual , or checklist . Accepted : Accepted is used to describe a document , manual , or checklist that does not have , or is not required to have , FAA approval . Only a portion of an operators manuals are required to have FAA approval . The remaining portions are accepted by the FAA . Operators are required to submit the entire general manual to the FAA for review . If the FAA concludes that an accepted section of the general manual is not in compliance , the FAA must formally notify the operator of the deficiency . Upon notification , the operator must take action to resolve the deficiency .
According to <URL> they used to be very customizable , but not very much interchangeable at least to the point that no one bothered to change them on second-hand aircraft . They are reducing it because it only causes confusion . Aircraft change owners and pilots change employers and it 's most useful if all aircraft of the same type have the same cockpit layout . As far as 787 goes , it has very similar flight deck to 777 , always , to the point it has <URL> .
Airports are assigned IATA codes when an air servicer ( airline , cargo operator , etc ) requests a code for an airport . The code is requested by filling out a form on the <URL> . This is not done by the airport management because it is meant to be for use by a commercial operation , and not the airport itself . <URL> do n't really have a lot of meaning to pilots and other general airport users . They are of use to air travelers and cargo operations as a means to identify airlines , destinations , baggage codes , accounting codes , and traffic documents . It is designed as a standard for industry wide usage , otherwise airlines may use many different codes/abbreviations for the same thing ( an airport for example ) that do n't mix well with other airline systems . So after your airport is built ( or while it is being built ) , an airline or cargo operation may ( or may not ) request an IATA code for the airport . Participation in the IATA program is purely voluntary , and it may be that your airport does n't handle services that conform to IATA .
The FAA 's <URL> says that it 's about formatting : Q : Will an FPL be automatically rejected or is that a manual function ? A : ERAS automatically rejects an improperly formatted FPL . The Rejection ( REJ ) message usually includes information which identifies the error . The filer should correct the error and reenter the FPL . That seems to be confirmed in this <URL> that goes into detail on computerized flight plan formats , filing etc. . Section 3.7.2 lists all the possible reasons for the ERAS computer to return a REJ ( rejected ) message , and they 're all to do with formatting or invalid values , e.g. airspeed ca n't be zero . To me , that makes sense : no one knows the equipment or capabilities of an aircraft except the person ( or organization ) submitting the flight plan . Even if the FAA had a database of every aircraft in the world , what happens if your GPS unit burns out and you want to file IFR using only standard IFR equipment ( VOR , ILS ) ? Or you want to fly at a reduced ( or increased ) cruise speed for some mechanical or performance testing reason ? The FAA could n't possibly know if your submitted values are correct . I do n't know ( and could n't find out ) if there 's any situation where <URL> ca n't generate a <URL> even though the flight plan is accepted as valid . If it does happen , I suppose that would be a sort of secondary check . As an aside , I was at an <URL> meeting last week and we discussed the new ICAO flight plan format ( new to the US , that is ! ) . A couple of controllers were there , and they said that you have to be careful about what equipment you put in your flight plan in case you get assigned something beyond the pilot 's capabilities . For example , a Cirrus is <URL> and if you input all the equipment correctly in the flight plan then you may get a complex SID rather than just departure vectors . If you are n't familiar and comfortable with the avionics then you might get yourself in trouble , so it would be better to file only basic avionics . That kind of decision is n't something the FAA could or should validate .
First , one small clarification : ATC does n't offer any services to an aircraft on a VFR flight plan unless you call and request them . <URL> from AOPA has some useful comments : Controllers do n't know anything about your VFR flight plan VFR flight plans are for search and rescue purposes only Even if you call ATC and request flight following , they only enter the destination into their system , not your route ( I assume that 's because your route could be ' follow that river and then that interstate ' ) The key point is that VFR flight plans are recorded and managed by FSS , not ATC . So , does FSS accept whatever they 're given ? I could n't find a direct answer to that question , but the FAA 's <URL> for receiving and handling VFR flight plans ( see Chapter 6 ) do n't include any steps to " validate " the plan ( whatever that would mean anyway ) . Although there 's a lot of detailed , tedious information there so I may have missed something :-) In fact , <URL> implies that no one even looks at the route unless it 's as part of the SAR process : ETA plus one hour Within a half-hour of becoming overdue or at ETA plus one hour , the search is widened by sending an INREQ ( information request ) to flight service facilities along the route ( which is why the route of flight is specified on the flight plan ) . If [ the pilot ] had been on an IFR flight plan , the INREQ would have gone out at ETA plus 30 minutes . The bottom line seems to be that no one really cares about your VFR flight plan unless it 's actually needed to find you . So even if you can enter a nonsense plan , it would n't be a very good idea .
Long story short is that the manufacturers instructions take precedence over all . <URL> requires that at each annual and 100 hr the compression be checked and that if there is " weak " compression further inspection of condition and tolerances of the engine have to be made . Now the term " weak " is kind of broad . <URL> states : If a cylinder has less than a 60/80 reading on the differential test gauges on a hot engine , and procedures in paragraphs 8-14b ( 5 ) ( i ) and ( j ) fail to raise the compression reading , the cylinder must be removed and inspected . However , it also states : This advisory circular ( AC ) contains methods , techniques , and practices acceptable to the Administrator for the inspection and repair of nonpressurized areas of civil aircraft , only when there are no manufacturer repair or maintenance instructions . So the gist of it seems to be that if the compression is below 60/80 on a hot engine IN GENERAL , then yes it needs to be removed and inspected , UNLESS the manufacturers instructions state otherwise . Keep in mind Advisory Circulars are guidelines and not regulatory in nature although they are usually used as best practice guides . There is a great AVweb article <URL> that has more in depth analysis .
Good question . 14 CFR Part 139 requires FAA to issue airport operating certificates to airports that : Serve scheduled and unscheduled <URL> with more than 30 seats ; Serve scheduled air carrier operations in aircraft with more than 9 seats but less than 31 seats . Also : VFR charts depict airport 's hard and soft surface runways . Enroute charts depict airports having hard surface runways of at least 3000-foot in length . If your airport meets those criteria , you may contact the local Federal Aviation Administration , Airports District Office or Aeronautical Information Management , AJV-21 , at 1 - (866) 295-8236 to have your airport charted . That means for a private airstrip , it 's your call as the owner to have it placed on a chart . Pretty cool . More : <URL>
An air carrier that I have worked for specifically addresses this issue in their <URL> -- which is accepted by the FAA . The manual gives the following requirement : Flight Restrictions After Blood Donations Flight personnel shall not participate in any capacity as flightcrew members for a period of 24 hours after donating more than one-half pint of blood . Note that this portion of this manual is accepted by the FAA , not approved .1 One <URL> is generally 470-500 mL , or one pint . The one-half pint specified above half of a regular unit of blood . According the the <URL> , a typical donation is about one pint , or one unit . The FAA also publishes the <URL> . I am not an AME , nor am I fully familiar with the Guide or how to interpret it . However , I understand that the following table shows that outside the listed time-frames , an applicant for an airman 's medical certificate could be considered medically fit for flight duty : <URL> 1 The terms Approved and Accepted mean specific things to the FAA . See <URL> : Approved : When approved is used to describe a document , manual , or checklist , it means that a regulation requires FAA approval and that the FAA has evaluated and specifically approved the document , manual , or checklist . Accepted : Accepted is used to describe a document , manual , or checklist that does not have , or is not required to have , FAA approval . Only a portion of an operators manuals are required to have FAA approval . The remaining portions are accepted by the FAA . Operators are required to submit the entire general manual to the FAA for review . If the FAA concludes that an accepted section of the general manual is not in compliance , the FAA must formally notify the operator of the deficiency . Upon notification , the operator must take action to resolve the deficiency .
The planes I have trained in ( single engined Piper Cherokees/Warriors ) do indeed have an ignition key , without which the magneto system ( which drives the spark plugs ) and the starter can not be engaged . Without being certain , I would assume the same goes for other small GA aircraft . When you get to airliners I have no idea whether there are keys for locking the controls - as the controls are much more complex , the keys probably wo n't be directly connected to ignition systems or starters , and I would n't be surprised if the primary security method is keeping doors locked .
You might have heard of the elliptical lift distribution which minimizes induced drag for a given span and a given lift . Area ruling is similar , but here it is about the lengthwise distribution of cross-sectional areas of a plane , and it minimizes wave drag at Mach 1 . The first picture is from a Junkers patent of 1944 : Junkers found out in 1943 that transsonic drag can be minimized by shifting the parts of an airplane around . In this case it was the EF-122 , a research project which became the Ju-287 . The easiest bodies to shift were the engine nacelles , that is why the end product has such odd engine locations . The drawing shows several shaded cross sections along lines which carry Roman numerals : Plot the sum of all areas along each line over the aircraft 's length coordinate , and you get a distribution which must be optimized such that it has the maximum area for the smallest gradients . The next picture shows how those plots look like . This is from a different source , so it shows generic wing-body combinations . On the left is an airplane with a fuselage shaped like a <URL> . A Sears-Haak body is an optimum shape for the biggest volume with a given wave drag and was discovered by Wolfgang Haak in 1941 and again by William Sears in 1947 . The wings come on top and mess up the area distribution by creating a bump in the middle . The right plot shows what can be achieved by taking all parts of the airplane into account . The difference is shown in the small center plot . How this is done : Take away from the fuselage what is added by the wings . The result is a fuselage wich looks like a coke bottle . You can also add Küchenmann bodies ; older airliners have plenty of them . Look especially at fuselages like those of the <URL> , or T-tails like those of the <URL> or the <URL> . Today , things like engine pylons or flap track fairings are used as Küchemann bodies to smoothen out the lengthwise area distribution , and if you look carefully you will see the coke bottle technique on the fuselage around the horizontal tail of many airliners . They do n't fly at Mach 1 , but close enough that area ruling makes a difference already . The dawing below shows the general concept and the magnitude of drag reduction achievable :
You ca n't get real-time data from the FAA without an operational need , and organizations which do receive real-time data can not legally re-distribute this data publicly , except to other organizations approved by the FAA . An operational need pretty much means you have to be a flight dispatcher for an airline or commercial operator , not just have an interest in tracking flights . You can get some real-time data from your local area using an ADS-B receiver . See this question for more information : <URL> . If you are okay with the five minute delay , then <URL> you might consider . The direct feed from the FAA is called <URL> and I believe you can apply for the delayed feed , though I 've never gone through the process , and the government 's site is very sparse in information . I would suggest contacting them before attempting to apply if it 's something you 're interested in .
The requirement which states that at least 51 % of the tasks needed to make the aircraft airworthy must be accomplished by amateurs is <URL> . Presumably this would exclude finishing items like paint , some instruments , avionics , interiors , etc. , as those are items which in most cases are not required for airworthiness . The FAA has <URL> which inspectors use to evaluate the " major portion " requirement . Homebuilders thoroughly document the construction process ( or at least , they should ! ) in a builder 's log ; a lot of these tend to turn into massive photoblogs . <URL> . The " two weeks to taxi " builder-assist programs that exist out there generally get the basics working , but they certainly are n't " two weeks to flight " . Most manufacturers carefully calculate the amount of work they can offer as a kit , based on the number of tasks remaining for the builder to finish . I 'm not a builder , so I ca n't say for sure , but I understand most of the advantage to these programs is not that somebody is helping you - it 's that they can supply tools , jigs , and a lot of behind-the-scenes support like organizing your workflow and providing answers to questions with no turnaround time . They 're not there building the plane with you ; they 're there to make it possible for you to build the plane more quickly ... if that distinction makes sense . <URL> , which I admit to paraphrasing here and there !
Unless there is a TBO Airworthyness Directive for that particular engine/airframe/serial number , it is not illegal for GA operations to fly beyond TBO . I ca n't find an example of a TBO AD but I do remember seeing some . TBO is a manufacturer recommendation for that particular engine , and does not have any legal enforcement with the FAA . An engine that is well cared-for and has good compressions and clear oil screens ( along with other positive inspections ) is perfectly fine to fly beyond TBO . There are even stories of people flying 1000 hours or more beyond TBO . Here are some good reads from around the web : <URL> <URL> <URL> In any case , flying beyond TBO is controversial . Some say that an engine near or over TBO is less likely to fail than one that has been recently taken apart , or at least less likely to fail suddenly . The key aspect though when buying used aircraft is you do n't know how the engine was treated in its run up to TBO . Was it shock cooled ? Used for training ? Operated out of a grass strip ? Poor maintenance ? Flown rarely ? There are way too many conditions to consider when buying an aircraft near TBO to make the judgement of going beyond it safely or not . The only person who can answer that question is an A&amp;P . That is why TBO is tied so closely to the value of an aircraft . Engine overhauls are expensive , running $ 25k or more .
As several commenters have noted , medical rules are different in each country . ICAO provides guidelines and recommendations , but it 's up to each country to actually implement them . ICAO 's personnel licensing requirements are in Annex 1 which is <URL> but their <URL> implies that transgender pilots should be considered ' higher risk ' : Applicants with disorders of behaviour ( for example regarding habit , gender identity , sexuality ) should be assessed on the basis of their ability to put aside the disorder ( or any conflicts related to the disorder ) in order to attend to the aviation task at hand . These persons may have significant conflicts with their environment , leading to further difficulties , which may become an impediment for them to hold an aviation licence . Looking at specific countries , the FAA may be an unusual case by explicitly mentioning gender identity issues . I could n't find any mention of them in the <URL> , <URL> or <URL> medical requirements . But all countries ' medical requirements include something general like this ( this example is from EASA ) : ( g ) Personality or behavioural disorder Where there is suspicion or established evidence that an applicant has a personality or behavioural disorder , the applicant should be referred for psychiatric opinion and advice . That catch-all clause would - I assume - include <URL> and therefore require psychiatric evaluation of the pilot . And in cases where a pilot has had gender reassignment surgery and/or drug treatment , the surgery and drugs regimen would almost certainly trigger additional testing and investigation ( so would any other major surgical procedure or long-term drug treatment ) . Finally , it 's worth noting that whatever the general rules are , every case is different and the only way to get a specific answer for an individual is to consult with an aviation medical examiner for that jurisdiction . ( Disclaimer : I know nothing about medicine except that it 's complicated . Consult an aviation medical specialist if you want a real answer . )
Yes , the required obstacle clearance is based on this minimum performance : Cross the departure end of the runway ( DER ) at at least 35ft AGL ( that 's above the DER , not above the airport reference elevation ) Climb to 400ft above the DER before turning Maintain a climb of at least 200ft per nautical mile ( FPNM ) until reaching minimum IFR altitude The minimum IFR altitude is 1000ft above obstacles , or 2000ft in mountainous areas . This is explained in detail in <URL> ( starting on page 1-14 ) . The FAA carries out an assessment to see if the airport needs a specific procedure ( ODP or SID ) and if it does n't then the standard clearance performance above applies : If an aircraft may turn in any direction from a runway within the limits of the assessment area and remain clear of obstacles that runway passes what is called a diverse departure assessment , and no ODP is published .
Short answer : No easy way . It may be possible for a crew to detect some drift by comparing the IRS mag heading to the magnetic compass . This does have problems though as the IRS does n't really ' measure ' mag heading . It works in true heading and calculates mag heading by applying a magvar correction from a table . Modern aircraft do not have free gyros that output data . They have inertial reference systems ( IRS ) . The IRS has multiple gyros and accelerometers and outputs a complete navigation solution . They also have an internal GPS ( or an input from an external GPS ) to improve their accuracy . So there 's not a lot of ' drift ' in the output solution . These units have internal integrity monitors and will report a fault to the crew if the nav solution exceeds limits . In some failure modes the IRS will revert to an attitude only mode ( ATT ) that just outputs raw rates and accelerations ( free-gyro mode ) . In this case , the crew can provide a heading update to set a heading . This will drift just like a stand-alone directional gyro . The crew will have to check it regularly against the mag compass and update as necessary ( ~ every 10 minutes ) .
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
The protected area for circling approaches is based on distance from the runway ( s ) , and the size of that area ( and your approach MDA ) depends upon your aircraft 's VREF or 1.3 & times ; VSO -- or , if higher , your actual IAS approach speed . Here 's the graphic the FAA uses to demonstrate this , along with the old protected area radii : New circling minumums For approaches that use the new criteria , both Aeronav and Jeppesen charts show an inverted " C " in the circling minimums section of the approach plate . This signifies that the approach uses the new , altitude-dependent protected areas . Those areas are defined in the same way as before , but with different radii . Aeronav ( NACO ) format : Jeppesen format : As far as figuring out how large your protected area is in flight , you 'll have to use the inverted " C " as a cue to look up the table that will be included in the appendices of the approach plates : <URL> The NBAA has <URL> , but this basically sums it up . The update leaves us with what is honestly a less-than-desirable system . Looking up a table to brief your circling radius in flight ( or even prior to your flight ) is certainly a lot less useful than simply printing the protected area radius on the minimums section . It 's worth noting that feature <URL> ( p. 4 ) when the change was being discussed .
In addition to the systems listed by RedGrittyBrick , it is also possible to let the aircraft detect itself , from its sensors , potential crashes . This problem has been studied , and is pretty well documented in a report made by the BEA ( the French equivalent of the NTSB ) after the crash of the flight AF447 . The full report is available in <URL> and in <URL> . I made a summary of their work in this answer . The solution proposed in this report is a triggered transmission of flight data . The aircraft transmits them only if it detects a potentially dangerous situation from its sensors ( this reduces the load on communication systems ) . Two types of triggering criterion are proposed : One base on binary logic One based on Fuzzy logic They both take into account several parameters ( speed , pitch angle , pilot 's inputs ... ) and verify some relations about them . For example , if , something is probably wrong . The criterion have been check against a database of real flight data recovered from crashed aircrafts , in order to assess their performances : The robustness of the triggering criteria was evaluated using the following metrics : False detection rate ( or nuisance trigger rate ) : out of all the normal flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation Nuisance transmission time that the nuisance triggers generate Emergency situation detection rate : out of all the accident/incident flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation For flights with a correctly detected emergency situation , what is the warning time between the time of detection and the time of impact with the surface The conclusion of these tests is that accidents were almost always predicted ( binary logic failed in only one case out of 44 , fuzzy logic detected every case ) . On average , the problem was raised about 350s before the actual crash ( the median is around 33s , minimum at 3s and maximum at 10,019 s ) . The second half of the report discusses different system to transmit these triggered alarms to infrastructures on the ground . It is also interesting and well written , but outside the scope of this question .
The components of attitude vector are called : yaw ( or heading ) is the angle of longitudinal ( x ) axis in horizontal plane , pitch is angle of longitudinal ( x ) axis from the horizontal and roll is angle of lateral ( y ) axis from the intersection of the yz ( orthogonal to longitudinal axis ) plane with horizontal . And their derivatives are usually yaw-rate , pitch-rate and roll-rate . Second derivative names probably vary . Regarding coordinate system , the first axis , called x , is always longitudinal and positive direction is forward . The second axis , called y , is usually lateral one , but positive direction is right in some systems and left in others . And z completes a right-handed coordinate system ( so your vector products work the usual way ) , so z down if y points right . Edit : I thought u , v , w is sometimes used as alias for the axis , but actually they are usually rather used for the velocity vector components .
end question
start question
Why is water in the fuel tank bad ?
Fuel systems are in general fed by gravity , at least until the fuel leaves the tank , where sometimes ( always if the tank is lower than the engine ) a pump pushes it toward the engine . This means that fuel is generally extracted from the bottom of the tank ( or slightly above the very bottom to avoid having small particles from the bottom of the tank clogging up the fuel filter , incidentally this also introduces the concept of , as the stuff remaining at the bottom of the tank , although there are a lot more factors to this ) . Fuel is less dense than water , meaning it 'll float on top of the water . Or if you want to think of it the other way around , water is heavier and will sink to the bottom , right where you 're trying to get your fuel to feed to the engine . Water does n't burn very well and the engine will stop . Avgas is generally 0.72 kg/l and Jetfuel around 0.82 kg/l ( water being 1 kg/l , see have <URL> units work well that way ? ) . A tiny amount of water probably mix with the fuel and simply reduce the power output slightly , whereas anything more will be drained from the tank first , and it 'll be very hard to restart the engine . You 'd have to pump all the water through the cylinder and out the exhaust , and I do n't think this is generally possible in flight , especially right after takeoff which is generally the case when you have water in the fuel ( could be right after switching tanks too though ) . I do n't know much about turbine engines , but I suspect they 're less susceptible as the water will not prevent relighting the engine ( the pumps will simply push the water out , there 's no cylinder that could fill up with water ) , and you 'll generally be using up more fuel on the ground making the problem readily apparent . This is pure speculation though .
Unlike with driving , in aviation the major variable when planning fuel consumption is n't how far you 're traveling but how long you 're traveling : Distance traveled in aircraft is a derived value ( calculated from groundspeed and time - groundspeed also being a derived value affected by many factors including wind ) . A pilot may not readily know their groundspeed ( it can be quite different from airspeed ) , but at a given power setting they know an engine will burn a specific quantity of fuel per unit time , therefore fuel consumption is generally expressed that way ( in gallons per hour or pounds per hour ) , and if they know how long they 've been flying they can reliably estimate how much fuel they 've burned , how much is left in the tanks , and how much longer they can keep flying before running out of fuel . To illustrate why this is superior for flight planning consider the following ( extremely simplified ) flights fitting the following profile : <URL> A 200 nautical mile trip An airspeed of 100 knots A fuel burn of 10 gallons per hour A 25-gallon fuel tank . Scenario 1 : No Wind With no wind the flight will take two hours to complete . The groundspeed is 100 knots . The aircraft will burn 20 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 10 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with 5 gallons of fuel left in the tank - that corresponds to 30 minutes , which is the minimum legal reserve for day VFR flight per FAA regulations . Scenario 2 : 25 Knot Headwind With a 25 knot headwind the flight will take about 2:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 75 knots . The aircraft will burn 27 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 7.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we run out of fuel 2:30 into the flight . Running out of fuel is generally considered to be a Bad Thing : The passengers complain , and the FAA asks a lot of uncomfortable questions . Scenario 3 : 25 Knot Tailwind With a 25 knot tailwind the flight will take about 1:40 minutes to complete . The groundspeed is 125 knots . The aircraft will burn 16 gallons of fuel . The fuel efficiency is 12.5 miles per gallon . In this scenario we land with almost an hour of fuel still in the tank - a very comfortable reserve . On longer flights , and in slower aircraft , the effects of wind can be extremely pronounced , and a 5 or 10 knot difference from the forecast winds can mean the difference between arriving at your destination or having to add a fuel stop .
The fuel used by civilian airlines , fueled in the USA , is <URL> . To acquire some , go to a nearby airport which can handle operations by Turboprop or Turbofan aircraft . Some of the smaller airports , only supporting piston aircraft operations , may not be able to help you , but anything which can handle a Lear Jet should be able to supply you with examples of it . There 's no specific chemical formula for this . It is a mixture of a variety of compounds . And no , you ca n't isolate just one particular compound and use it as a representative sample . There are reasons for the various additives , and all of them will have SOME effect on the burn characteristics . Try not to breathe the fumes , before or after combustion . Do not operate any kind of radio transmitter ( including a cellphone ) within 50 feet of the vapors of it ( when the fuel is exposed to air , before or during combustion ) . Make sure that whatever vessel you 're going to burn it in is metal ( plastic does n't respond well to burning petrochemicals :-) and make sure there is good electrical conductivity between the vessel and the ground . Have a large , CO2 - or Halon-based ( NOT water or dry chemical ) fire extinguisher nearby . When I was refueling F-16s in the Air Force : no radio transmitters ( walkie talkies , at the time ) were allowed with 50 feet of refueling operation the aircraft and the refueling vehicle BOTH had to be grounded and connected to each other BEFORE connecting the refueling line no refueling ops were permitted if there was lightning within 5 miles no refuelings ops were permitted without a 50-pound halon-based fire extinguisher and a dedicated person ( fire guard ) to man it This should give you some idea of proper safety around this stuff .
ICAO Class F airspace is a bit of an odd duck ( and the US FAA is apparently not the only agency that thinks so - from a quick check on <URL> it seems more jurisdictions ignore class F than implement it . They only mention Class F as being in use in Germany and the UK ) . From a functional/regulatory standpoint Class F is a sort of hybrid between " Class E " controlled airspace and " Class G " ( fully ) uncontrolled airspace : Class F airspace is designated as " uncontrolled " , but you can get ATC clearances in Class F airspace just like in controlled airspace . The catch is they 're " advisory only " ( so you do n't have to comply with them , and all the weight is on the pilot 's shoulders ) . Similarly ATC will provide separation services to IFR flights in Class F airspace , but they do so " where possible " , which means they might tell you they ca n't provide that service and you 're on your own with see-and-avoid . The general use case for Class F airspace seems to be allowing IFR flights to operate in " uncontrolled airspace " . As a US pilot ( and thus having no experience with Class F Airspace ) , it sounds like the services provided in Class F airspace are effectively the equivalent of <URL> : Controllers can give you advisories and make suggestions , but all responsibility is ultimately still on the pilot 's shoulders , and you can politely tell the controller to get stuffed if you do n't like their suggestions ( without needing to declare an emergency to vest yourself with that authority ) . In the US we already have the Flight Following system and culture set up for VFR folks ( and generally speaking it 's available nationwide , irrespective of airspace class , as long as the controller can get you on radar and is n't overworked ) . We also have a pretty robust Class E airspace nationwide . Because of this the FAA probably sees no need to designate specific " Class F " regions where IFR flights can get the equivalent of " Flight Following " : If you 're VFR you can usually get flight following if you want it , and if you 're IFR you should have no trouble staying in controlled airspace ( Class A , B , C , D , or E ) for your entire route of flight .
In addition to <URL> , I am contributing some more details . Airbus 380 has room ( <URL> ) for potable water tanks which can be added to existing on-board water capacity for showers etc. . As we know , the showers are n't available for everyone but only for first class , which is probably less than 5 % of the total number of passengers , so the water usage is not tremendously huge . Waster consumption and shower duration is also controlled . <URL> makes the showers for Emirates and states : Low water consumption of less than 5 litres per minute When <URL> shower duration is consumed , it shuts down and you have to turn it on again for the remaining 75 seconds . Here is a <URL> ( including video ) of a passenger enjoying the spa .
TesterMen Tester provided some very good information , which I think requires a bit of explanation . The older version of the regulation seems to require fuel dump if MTOW is more than 105 percent of MLW . <URL> have weight limits meeting that requirement , so based on that regulation , it seems like fuel dump would be required . But as the Boeing info shows , none of the 737 versions have fuel dump capability . <URL> to allow a plane to not have a fuel dump system as long as it can meet certain performance requirements . The <URL> includes this as well . However , this does not explain why the 737-100/200 , which were certified before that amendment , do n't have fuel dump capability , when the MTOW listed by the Boeing info above are 108 % and 112 % of the MLW . <URL> is that the original versions of the aircraft had lower MTOW , which met the 105 % rule . Newer engines allowed the MTOW to be increased , but as rbp mentioned , MLW is based on landing gear and structural limits , so it did not change . The FAA amended the regulation with the required performance option to allow the higher MTOW without requiring fuel dump capability . Also , as explained in answers to <URL> , planes can land over MLW , there just may be required inspections . Note that the similar-sized A320 family <URL> .
In theory it could be done , you could rapidly dump fuel into empty tanks below the wings and drop them . At a certain height they deploy Parachutes and land . Just like the Space Shuttle ejects the side tanks . But where ? Some fuel dumps are only authorized over water and it would cost more to rescue the tanks and bring them back to the airline . Over land they 'd probably smash into populated areas . The cost for saving some thousands of $ of fuel is not fesable for the rescue . Short answer yeah it could be possible , but dangerous and costly .
In the US , yes . Kerosene [ for use in aviation ] is taxed at $ 0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies . These taxes mainly fund airport and Air Traffic Control operations by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , of which commercial aviation is the biggest user ( <URL> ) . More information from <URL> . In the UK , it <URL> on the user . Aviation turbine fuel used for private pleasure flying : # 0.5795 per litre Aviation gasoline ( Avgas ) : # 0.3770 per litre Air transport <URL> . Furthermore : Article 24 of the [ 1944 Convention of International Civil Aviation ] requires all contracting states not to charge duty on aviation fuel already on board any aircraft that has arrived in their territory from another contracting state . Further to this , the exemption of airlines from national taxes and customs duties on a range of aviation-related goods , including parts , stores and fuel is a standard element of the network of bilateral ' Air Service Agreements ' ( ASAs ) between individual countries .
A vertical take-off , known as a " towering " or " confined area " take-off , is normally only used when it is not possible to take-off and remain in <URL> before gaining speed and climbing away . For example , your operational need is to land in a clearing in a forest or perhaps a field surrounded by tall trees . In order to take off again , you need to climb vertically until you 've cleared the tops of the trees so that you can transition forward to gain speed . You might need to use on at night ( because you can not see if there are any obstacles ahead ) or when taking off from snow or sand when your vision will be obscured , making a vertical take-off safer . It is technically defined as any take-off which requires you to climb vertically until out of ground effect . <URL> , I 've discussed the reasons why the power required to transition in ground effect to forward flight is much less than that required in a hover or a vertical climb out of ground effect . Before attempting a towering take off , the pilot should conduct a power check to establish that they have enough power to hover OGE ( out of ground effect ) . If you do have enough power to hover OGE , then in theory , you could continue to climb vertically until the reduction in engine power output or lift ( small effect ) as you gain altitude reduces the power margin to the point where further climb is not possible without exceeding limits . So , to the point of your question , why is it not safe ? The main reason is a scenario which is common to all helicopter operations , not just a towering take off . Climbing vertically to 90 feet is exactly as dangerous as coming to a 90 foot hover in an arrival from forward flight . This scenario is putting yourself into a shaded area of the <URL> , known by pilots as the " avoid curve " or perhaps more accurately the " dead man 's " curve . Importantly , this has nothing to do with how much power you have which of course , if the engine stops , suddenly becomes zero ! <URL> <URL> In short , test pilots , using a fully loaded helicopter over level , prepared surfaces , try to enter <URL> from different combinations of height and speed . At some point , they look at each other and say " a normal , well trained pilot , could only just auto-rotate safely from that combination of height and speed . They plot these points on a graph , join the dots and say " see those shaded areas , do n't go there " . It represents the areas where you will not have enough of the combination of potential and kinetic energy to make a safe landing . As you can see , the towering take-off puts you deep inside the avoid curve . This is the first safety concern . If the engine stops , you will almost certainly crash . I chose that curve , for an Enstrom F28 , because it nicely illustrates that if you continued climbing vertically to 300 feet , you would pop out of the top of the curve . From this height , you could auto-rotate safely . The second safety concern goes back to the power required . If you run out of power during the climb , the aircraft may start to descend into its own rotor vortex and can enter a <URL> . In a confined area , you have no options for escaping it and certainly , all but the best pilots will not avoid a crash or , at best , a very heavy landing . I 'm a relatively low time private pilot and when I do my power checks , I want to see at least a 10 % additional reserve over the measured power check . There have been times when pilots have landed in confined areas but have then not had the power to hover OGE . They have had to reduce the weight and/or wait for a lower temperature before trying again . The third safety concern is the need for good skills and training . When performing towering take-offs in typical sport and private helicopters , the pilot must be gentle on the controls . Relatively large or rapid control inputs cause large spikes in the power required . When you have plenty of speed , <URL> but when climbing vertically , you might be calling for more power than is available . You must climb OGE slowly with gentle collective increases and , when clear of the top of the trees or other obstacle , ease the cyclic forward gently . It is this last input which is especially risky . If you push the cyclic forward as you would in a normal take off , you could find yourself running out of power and settling into the top of the tree with nothing left to give . The safe way to do it is a slow climb but obviously , this leaves you in the shaded area for longer . I was always relieved when I cleared the trees and got back into normal flight and the temptation , which must be resisted , is to increase your climb rate to reduce the time on the curve but of course , this reduces your power margins . The general principle is to use the power required and no more . Gentle climb , gentle movements , be ready to pick up wind as you clear the obstacle , and you 'd better have made sure before you get there that it 's a head wind . The fourth safety concern ( and the last one to my knowledg
Positioning cargo such that the center of gravity of the plane is within a certain range is essential , but is there any advantage to having the center of gravity closer to some ideal point within the acceptable envelope ? There is no one ideal point for all large cargo aircraft as defined by a c.g. expressed as the percent of the mean aerodynamic chord ( % mac from here on ) . There are a lot of aircraft model and operational variations . The general idea for large aircraft like the 747 is to put the c.g. as far aft as possible while keeping undesirable operational characteristics within reason . The farther aft the c.g. is the lower the fuel burn because as you move the c.g. aft ( toward the center of lift of the wing ) , the pitch down moment of the wing lift decreases and thus the tailplane has to supply less downward force , which means there will be less overall drag and fuel efficiency goes up ( the aerodynamicists here can probably say that more succinctly ) . The operating envelopes of the airplane define how far aft you are allowed to put the c.g. . There are multiple constraints insofar as determining the aft most limit . Two obvious ones are controllability in engine-out situations and in turbulence . One does n't always try to put the c.g. just forward of the aft limit , though . There can be other considerations . For example , on 747-100/200 / 400 aircraft at typical weights , the aft c.g. limit is 33.0 % mac , but a common aiming point for the zero fuel weight c.g. is 26.6 % mac . While I do n't know all the reasons for using 26.6 % , one is that that is the location of the wing gear , so if for some reason you could n't extend the body gear , the aircraft might sit on its tail when landing depending on how much fuel you had left and how far aft of 26.6 % you are . Loadmasters for a given aircraft are a good source for what the usual aiming point is for the c.g. Would additional control surface drag be caused by cargo loaded right on the edge of operating standards ? Yes , if you had the c.g. up against the forward limit , the tailplane would have to generate a greater downward force than otherwise , and that would mean more drag . Also , on wide-body aircraft , if you were up against the maximum lateral imbalance moment , you 're going to have aileron drag that you otherwise would not have . Would finding an optimal loading be computationally complex ? Not really , especially if its the case that all pallets/containers are going to be off-loaded at a single destination . If there 's more than one off-loading destination it gets more complicated since you 'd want those pallets getting off first to be positioned such that you could move them to the cargo door without having to move pallets not getting off . There might be other constraints as well . For example , let 's say you had a 30,000 lb pallet to be put aboard a 747-100/200 / 400 . The only area that can take that kind of weight in a single size M pallet is over the wing box . That limits you to using one side of three side-by-side position pairs . Let 's say you put that pallet on the left side of the aft most side-by-side position pair . That 's fine , but you have now limited the right side to a max of 6250 lb . You also have to ensure that you do n't violate cumulative loading limits from the front of the aircraft to the middle and from the aft to the middle , and a few other things besides . Computer programs for doing weight &amp; balance for large cargo aircraft have been able to handle all of these things since the 1980s . I wrote a DOS application in 1988 that did all these things and was eventually used by three cargo carriers . It was finally phased out in 2016 . The algorithm it used was straight forward . Sort the pallets by weight and allocate from heaviest to lightest . Put the heaviest in the position closest to the target c.g. . Then put the next pallet either aft or forward of the previous depending on which will produce a c.g. closest to the target , and so forth . After each position allocation , it checked to see if any limitation had been violated . If so , it reallocated until there were no violations . Even on slow computers of the DOS era , it never took more than a few seconds to complete . How many cargo pallets/containers fit in a large cargo aircraft ? Depends on the size of the containers and the size of the aircraft . There are a lot of choices . Go to this <URL> to see common sizes . For 747s carrying civilian cargo , size code M is probably the most used on the main deck , with either 29 or 30 positions . For military cargo size code B was that size I mostly saw on the 747 main deck , usually with 33 aboard . The lower holds on 747s had a lot of variability insofar as the ULDs used down there . If you want to explore 747 cargo position configurations , go to this <URL> . The POSITION CONFIG menu will allow you to select different configurations between 30 , 29 , and 33 main deck positions . After selecting a configuration , you can scroll down to see the arrangement ( or pres
The plane was certified with US Gallons . Use those for fuel consumption . The conversion tables are there in case your FBO 's fuel pump is calibrated in L or Imp Gal .
It 's not this does that and nothing else . It is always a combination . In climb you need to provide more energy to the aircraft because you are increasing it 's potential energy . This can be taken from the energy which would have been spent to overcome drag in horizontal flight by flying slower . Less energy is needed to sustain the now lower flight speed , so some is left for climbing . When you pull on the stick , you trim the aircraft for a lower flight speed ( at least if you fly a naturally stable configuration ) , so some of the excess energy needs to be spent in other ways . The aircraft climbs . If you advance the throttle , the trimmed speed will stay the same , but now more energy is available to be spent . It will be spent on climbing , because speed is already set by your elevator angle . In a non-supercharged ( normally aspirated ) piston engine , the decreasing air density with increasing altitude will provide less air with every filling of the pistons . You need to lean the engine to keep the fuel-to-air ratio constant , so the engine will consume less fuel at the same engine speed , but also provide less power and thrust . Since air is also thinner for all other parts of the airplane , your true air speed will increase , your drag will decrease at the same true air speed and you can fly faster . But since your normally aspirated engine will provide less power , you need to advance the throttle in order to keep your attitude , speed , and climb rate . At some point , you will reach maximum power , and as you climb further , climb speed will decline until you reach the maximum flight altitude your airplane is capable of . Flying higher will increase the efficiency of the engine due to lower air temperature , but this effect is small for piston-powered aircraft . Once you switch to supercharged aircraft , turboprops , and jets , however , <URL> . Flight speed , however , does make a substantial difference , especially for piston-powered aircraft . Their <URL> is $ c_L = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda } $ and is rather high . Flying low means that you will fly a lot faster than what this optimum demands , and the higher you fly , the closer you will be to this optimum , simply because your engine will not allow a higher speed . That is why flying higher helps to fly more efficiently .
There are a number of factors that go into it : <URL> Jet-A is used in a much higher volume than 100LL . All the jet engine commercial aircraft each day burn through orders of magnitude more Jet-A than piston aircraft burn through 100LL . That means that there is a much higher production volume , and therefore a cost savings as a result . Buying in volume It is pretty rare for a jet to taxi up and take on 50 gallons of Jet-A . Even the smaller jets rarely take on less than a couple hundred gallons . If you went up to your local FBO and said that you wanted 500 gallons of 100LL , they would find a way to get a discount for you . 100LL is special Leaded fuels are not manufactured anymore for any other purpose than 100LL . There is a push in the aviation industry to <URL> altogether , but this is n't happening for a while . As a result , it takes a special process to add lead to the fuel , equipment not used for any other purpose . Jet-A on the other hand is n't incredibly different from diesel # 1 or kerosene , at least in the way it is processed . Negotiated contracts Because airlines buy so much fuel , they have negotiated contracts directly with fuel suppliers . These contracts help bring the price down because of competition , and the supplier is running a steady supply of fuel for the airline . I 'm not sure why you would think that 100LL would be cheaper , it 's sold in low volume , it is expensive to make , and it is environmentally unfriendly and toxic .
This is actually a fairly standard thing to do with electronics that have been submerged : They are placed in water ( ideally fresh , clean water ) to both delay the onset of corrosion and dilute any salts or other chemicals that they came in contact with while submerged . When you remove electronics from water and let them dry out they begin to form corrosion on all the little exposed bits of metal - chip legs , solder joints , capacitors , etc. - which can badly damage the device when it is powered back on . Keeping the device submerged in water delays the onset of this corrosion because the dissolved oxygen in the water is lower than the oxygen in the air that would be hitting those parts as they dry out . The Cockpit Voice Recorder and Flight Data Recorder are water resistant , but they are not necessarily waterproof ( particularly after a crash , which may puncture their casings or damage seals ) , so they get placed in a container of fresh water for their trip to the NTSB 's lab . When the still-immersed equipment arrives at the NTSB laboratory it can be examined and dried in a controlled environment , maximizing the chance to recover data . For more gory details check out <URL> . Bonus Factoid : Archaeological recoveries from bodies of water use similar procedures , for similar reasons : If you bring up a clay pot that 's been sitting at the bottom of a lake for a thousand years and let it air-dry naturally there 's a good chance it will crack and be destroyed . In archaeological recoveries the usual practice is to keep the item " waterlogged , ideally in waters associated with the original context " ( i.e. " in a bucket of water from where you got the thing " ) .
In the examples cited , there is a slight increase in Density Altitude ( DENALT ) , which results in a slightly higher TAS . As the air becomes thinner , fewer molecules pass by the aircraft per mile , resulting in a lightly less loss due to drag . Increased temperature does not have the same range of change as altitude , however , it is nonetheless a higher DENALT , which is thinner air . As an aside , in practice , you will note that the throttle becomes wider open with less dense air , until it is fully open . ( Note that RPM is not the primary measure of power , rather fuel burn is . RPMs will become higher at higher DENALT for the same power . ) At that point there will be no more available power , and any increase in temperature or altitude can not be compensated for by increasing the throttle setting . You will also note that less energy is expended per mile at higher DENALT , not factoring in the cost of a climb to that altitude . Finally , a different practical example of this : When flying in icing conditions , conditions ( and the POH ) may call for continuous carburetor heat at altitude . When this is done , the engine should be releaned , as the DENALT will be higher , and if uncompensated for , will result in a rich mixture which could foul spark plugs .
Yes , Jetstreams are a net benefit on longer flights because it is easy to minimize headwinds and maximize tailwinds for both directions . Longer flights can detour hundreds of miles in order to take advantage of more favorable winds and still result in a net gain . I frequently fly from Toronto to Hong Kong . We always fly a polar route YYZ-HKG as it is shorter , but usually take a HKG-YYZ North Pacific route over Alaska to take advantage of the prevailing winds . This daily flight is always scheduled at 15 hours 40 mins for Toronto to Hong Kong over the pole but only 14 hours 45 mins returning via a longer route over Alaska . The longer flight routing over Alaska is a net benefit in time and fuel due to the prevailing westerly winds over the North Pacific . This type of flexibility is not available on shorter flights . YYZ-HKG 6,787 nm non-Stop 15:40 HKG-ANC-YYZ 7,050 nm non-Stop 14:45 <URL>
OK -- first , a quick review of what vortex ring state is . I 'll be brief , but there 's more detail over here : <URL> Vortex ring state ( VRS ) occurs when the rotor 's shed vortices begin to recirculate into the rotor system , effectively stalling out the rotor and significantly decreasing the total thrust produced . It is one of 4 working states of the rotor , 3 of which are described in the picture below ( note : descent rates are approximate . What really matters is the ratio of the velocity induced by the rotor to the helicopter 's descent speed ) . The propeller working state is the normal working state of a helicopter . VRS is the second state shown , where descent rates are relatively low ( and forward flight speed is typically very low/zero ) , and the windmill-brake state is what you 'd see in autorotation . <URL> In the following plot ( from Leishman 's Principles of Helicopter Aerodynamics ) , these working states are superimposed on a graph of climb velocity and induced velocity at the rotor disk . In short , VRS occurs when you 're not descending fast enough to let the downwash be blown upward and you 're still trying to produce thrust . One example would be a helicopter attempting to hover above its hover ceiling ( so , even at max power , it can not maintain altitude and has a small , negative climb velocity ratio if referenced to the below plot ) . As a result , it begins to descend at an increasing speed ( and , by corollary , it is falling " into " its own downwash as its downward speed increases ) . <URL> So why is autorotation a way out ? Autorotation is what happens when , in a sense , you stop trying to hold yourself up . In autorotation , the thrust produced by the rotor is minimal ( depending on how you do your bookkeeping of forces acting on the aircraft ) during descent . As a consequence , the aircraft is descending so quickly that the rotor wake is actually above the helicopter ! Also , while the rotor is producing some lift , and hence some downwash , the induced velocity of the downwash in the vertical direction is very small compared to the velocity of the relative wind going through the rotor disc ( in the opposite direction of the downwash ) . Putting this all together in different words : vortex ring state is sustained by the pilot trying to keep pouring power into the rotor system while descending into his or her own downwash ( without changing forward flight speed or tail rotor thrust , as mentioned in this neat article : <URL> ) . He or she is producing downwash by producing thrust , and , as the descent speeds more or less balance with the downwash velocity , the same aerodynamic forces that produce the thrust end up recirculating the downwash through the rotor . To go into autorotation , the pilot drops collective and throttle to zero and lets the aircraft fall ( more or less -- it 's a little more nuanced , but that 's a separate question ) , which , in turn , drops the induced velocity of the downwash such that it is much smaller than the vertical speed of the aircraft , allowing the vortices move with the relative wind away from the rotor ( upwards ) as the rotor enters the windmill-brake state . Since there is no mechanism to hold the vortices close to the rotor ( or produce them in the first place ) , the vortices can not recirculate and induce VRS .
It is possible to overfill a wing . You fuel the aircraft when its wing is cold . Later as the aircraft sits on the ramp the outside temp increases causing the full to expand in an already full wing . So they have the overflow system dumps the excess fuel on the ramp . Its usually not a lot of fuel just a few gallons . It also prevents the fueler from over fueling the wind . It can sometime dump 50 gallons or more if the fueler it not paying attention .
EASA : this is a European Union body , so yes , the UK is a member state . CAA : There are many Civil Aviation Authorities worldwide , basically each is a national entity within the corresponding state . So , specifically for the UK , yes , there exists a body known as CAA that is a state entity , formally independent but in practice dependent on the UK Government ( Dept. of Transport ) . Their web page is : <URL> Due to the complex configuration of EU law , both EASA and the UK CAA can have their word to say on operations within UK territory . Though , as CAA say themselves : The CAA works closely with the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) to promote the highest common standards of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation .
If such a pair of states does exist it ought to be straddling a Mach boundary ( I think ) <URL> e.g. . A subsonic &amp; B trans-sonic . Or A trans-sonic &amp; B supersonic etc. . Reasoning : To get from any point A to B in parameter space should usually be a state function i.e. path independent . i.e. . You can give many tiny increments or one large increment . In our context a parameter space means mostly a pair . To go from to you need a certain thrust profile . The required thrust profile is not unique . Now the above path independance statement is true in general , except when a dissipative force exists . Now you no longer have a state function . Since drag , a dissipative force , is indeed a strong function of speed it will help to not linger in the high drag region i.e. transsonic region with wave drag . In this zone the drag coefficient increases rapidly and you will have a total drag much higher than at both sub-sonic and super-sonic speeds . And that would give a high thrust afterburner the advantage needed over a dry engine : On afterburner you can zoom through the transsonic region rapidly than trudge through it incrementally on dry thrust . Thereby saving on drag losses . You are still consuming more fuel per unit time but the time spent is reduced so much that it makes the higher specific consumption worthwhile . Caveat : This is just an qualitative argument . A more mathematical argument is needed to add rigor to the analysis . Edit : Maybe these schematic plots help clarify my argument . <URL>
end question
start question
How much damage could a landing gear malfunction do ?
According to <URL> : During a belly landing , there is normally extensive damage to the airplane . Belly landings carry the risk that the aircraft may flip over , disintegrate , or catch fire if it lands too fast or too hard . Extreme precision is needed to ensure that the plane lands as straight and level as possible while maintaining enough airspeed to maintain control . Strong crosswinds , low visibility , damage to the airplane , or unresponsive instruments or controls greatly increase the danger of performing a belly landing . Still , belly landings are one of the most common types of aircraft accidents , and are normally not fatal if executed carefully . It is possible that the friction from a belly landing could wear a hole through the underside of the fuselage . However , even if this were to happen , airliners carry the passengers and crew in the upper half of the fuselage , so nobody would be likely to notice ( from inside the aircraft before emergency evacuation ) .
<URL> ( <URL> ) Direct Operating Costs What percentage of a commercial airline 's costs are labor costs ? By labor I believe you mean flight - and cabin-crew , the percentage is roughly 12 % . Can an airline run a low-cost operation without reducing the wages for crew and pilots , or subjecting them to long shifts ? Yes , but they wo n't make money . What Low Cost Carriers do is save in everything by making sure each expenditure runs more efficiently , so they can offer cheap tickets , which in turn enables them to fill all the seats . Examples for saving : Single-type fleet greatly reduces maintenance cost , which is 15 % of an airline 's operating costs . <URL> removes the risk of fuel price hikes , but when oil is cheap , it 's offset by having to pay more .
Estimations We can at least estimate a reverse thrust case based on some numbers and some physics , a bit of a specific case of <URL> . The stopping distance equation : $ $ d_f = \ frac { v_i ^ 2 } { 2a } $ $ The information <URL> for the 727-200 gives stopping distances for different cases . If we look at a sea level pressure altitude case with 120,000 lb gross weight , the stopping distance is 2452 feet . The correction for a reversers only case is 2.57 , bringing the distance to 6302 . At a landing speed of <URL> , the plane will take 11500 lb of force to stop in that distance . Each engine on the 727-200 provides 14500 lb of thrust force maximum . Considering that part of the stopping force will be provided by drag and surface friction , the reverse thrust is about 25 % of the maximum forward thrust . The reversers will be more effective at higher air speeds , so the maximum will be higher than this . Figure 39.5 <URL> shows a graph of reverse thrust compared to forward thrust for different bypass ratios and reverse thrust types . This is a good check for a general case . The GEnx-1B64 has a bypass ratio of about 10 , and reverses the fan but not the primary exhaust , which gives a ratio of 30 % of maximum forward thrust . Summary The engine will not run at full power when in reverse mode , so accounting for this and the bypass ratio will leave you with about states that modern thrust reversers can convert up to <URL> of their forward thrust into reverse thrust .
This should apply to the most advanced modern airliners . Older aircraft may not have all of the same automation available . The autopilot can take care of most tasks between takeoff and landing . The pilots have to take care of starting the airplane . This includes turning on electronics , bringing up the aircraft systems , and starting the engines . Taxiing is pretty much on the pilot , there is no automatic taxi yet on commercial airliners . Once the aircraft is lined up with the runway , the pilot can hit the TOGA ( Takeoff/Go Around ) button . The plane will automatically apply the right amount of thrust for takeoff . The pilot will then rotate the plane ( lift the nose ) at the rotation speed ( calculated before the flight ) , and the plane lifts off . Shortly after that , the pilot will engage the autopilot . If the autopilot is set up to follow GPS waypoints and proper altitudes , it will be able to take care of the climb , cruise , and descent portions of the flight . The autopilot can follow the best speeds and fly through each waypoint in the flight plan . Once the aircraft is approaching the runway , the pilot will tune the proper ILS frequency for the runway into the navigation radio . They will then engage the Approach mode , which captures the localizer ( lateral navigation left/right to align with the runway ) and glideslope ( veritical navigation up/down to have the proper approach path ) . The pilot then needs to deploy the flaps and landing gear as the plane slows down for landing . In the lowest visibility conditions , the plane is capable of the approach and touchdown on the runway all by itself . The pilot will then apply reverse thrust and brakes as needed to slow down . Now that the plane is back on the ground , it is once again the pilot 's job to exit the runway and taxi to the gate . Shutting down the engines and then the electronics will also be up to the pilot . What is the autopilot still missing ? Responding to ATC ( readback clearances , change frequencies ) Reacting to nearby traffic Following ATC instructions ( climb/descend , turn , slow/accelerate ) Reacting to emergencies or system failures Controlling lights , flaps , landing gear This is of course a high level view and there is so much more that goes into the flights . Also , keep in mind that we have the technology to do much more . It just has n't made it into service for one reason or another ( lack of development and testing , not seen as important , etc. ) . We have UAVs that are much more automated than this . However , they are still working on how to effectively avoid other aircraft .
All gliders can be disassembled to take off wings and elevator . For each glider type there is a car trailer into which the glider fits after disassembling . <URL> Here you see the " reverse " process ( assembly ) :
Generally , it is more efficient to have one large than two small devices . The twin fan solution not only needs a gearbox and driveshafts that a single fan solution does without , it also has more intake and nozzle surface area per cross section than the single fan . This will cause more viscous losses and lower efficiency . The only advantage would be if size limitations make a single fan impossible , but in that case it would be more straightforward to have each fan driven by its own core engine . Famous examples of aircraft which used a <URL> would start with the <URL> models , all of which had a single engine drive two propellers via bicycle chains . But the list is short . The list of opposite designs where <URL> would drive a <URL> or fan would probably be longer , and my favourite from this list is the <URL> .
There is indeed such a system installed at some airports . It is called an <URL> . Incidents such as <URL> have shown the potential safety issues of runway overruns , as you have pointed out . The EMAS solution uses a pad of special material at the end of the runway , designed to allow landing gear to sink into the material . The landing gear is not ripped off , but as the gear travels through the material , the plane is slowed down . Destroying the gear is not a desirable option . Although the gear on airliners is designed to safely separate from the aircraft , there is still the potential for damaging fuel tanks or other structure . The aircraft will also be even less controllable after the loss of landing gear . If a small aircraft is not going very fast , a small wall could cause it to flip over , worsening the situation . In the crash you referenced , the aircraft was traveling very fast at the end of the runway , and an EMAS may not have been sufficient to stop the plane . An EMAS typically has a max entry speed of <URL> , so in incidents like the one linked from the question , this kind of system may not completely prevent a fatal incident . Since the aircraft 's gear must break through the material , lighter aircraft may not be stopped as effectively . However , <URL> with such a system . <URL> <URL> at places where these systems could be useful , with a focus on runways that can not have the recommended 1,000 foot safety area at the end . The runway safety area ( RSA ) is the best option for a safety buffer at the end of a runway , providing extra distance for an aircraft to stop . The article above notes that the EMAS at Burbank airport took $ 4 million to install , and that is a fairly small airport that does n't usually see anything larger than a 737 . Any overrun will incur certain recovery costs , but an EMAS will need to be repaired after any overrun or accidental damage , possibly closing the runway , and will be less effective until repairs are completed . Airports must weigh all of their options for providing a safe facility .
The Turbo Dakota ( PA-28-201T ) is very close to what you seem to be describing and is likely much less expensive to buy outright vs. the time and materials required to modify a lowly PA-28-1xx . The published ceiling is FL200 with its TSIO-360 but at light weights * I 'm sure a determined pilot could coax it to FL230 or FL250 . So , the answer is : a big TSIO engine . The 260hp TSIO-470-B ( only TSIO-470 made to my knowledge ) would probably do the trick . A TSIO-520 has taken me to FL250 in a T210 so I know it would probably take a Cherokee at least that high assuming that you successfully attach the engine to the plane ( approvals , engineering , mechanical , W&amp;B , etc ) . * The Dakota is one of the few small single engine planes with a gross weight of more than twice its empty weight leaving plenty of wiggle room for a pilot seeking to extract better than book performance from the plane . ** Answer assumes you have an O2 system that will do the job at FL250 .
Yes , such system exists , for example the <URL> . * It was <URL> and installed as an option on the Boeing 707-300 freight aircraft . Other aircraft that had a similar ( optional ) system include the L1011 and Boeing 747 . It is mostly found on freight aircraft because they have a less predictable load distribution ( centre of gravity ) than passenger aircraft . The reason they are not common is that they add cost in the form of installation , weight and maintenance . While quite accurate when in good condition , the reliability of the weighing systems used to be poor , which probably contributed to the fact they never became wide spread . Because crew are commonly operating on several aircraft types these days that have take-off weights of more than 100 metric tonne difference ( e.g. A330 and A340 , B747-400 and B747-8 ) there is an increase in take-off weight confusion related incidents . This , combined with the fact that systems are becoming more reliable , makes it likely that these weighing systems will be used more in the future . * An <URL> in a 1987 Flight issue .
There are two main geometrical characteristics that affect the airflow in the situation mentioned . From one side you have a cylinder with wheels at the end ; on the other side during the transition you have an open cavity . Let 's talk about the first one . You actually have a cylinder flying perpendicular to the air speed . This is kind of canonical problem in fluid dynamics , there is a lot of literature about this problem , but to explain the effect I would like to take a simple example that I took from the website , the infinite 2D cylinder . For that , I include this picture of flow over a cylinder : Note for fluid dynamics experts : This is not relevant if Reynolds Number ( Re ) is around 10,000 , but for understanding the concept is good enough . So , imagine that we are cutting landing gear perpendicular to its length and we visualize the flow . What do we see ? Two main things ... Looking at the flow lines , they are almost not affected at 3-4 diameters of distance from the cylinder perpendicular to the flow direction there is a very local influence of the existence of the landing gear . However we see that down the flow there is a big influence with the creation of chaotic structures . That is creating a big increase in drag downstream of the landing gear and any surface behind . Basically ... low influence on the red direction and significant influence on blue . Answering your question , influences the wing in a local area . The influence anyhow is negative on the lift , as the flow is accelerated locally , reducing the static pressure below the wing , having a lift reduction , but is a local effect . This also have an influence on the wing lift distribution and a small effect on drag ... lower than the one directly produced by the landing gear itself . Now ... the cavities , they have a bigger influence , firstly because they have bigger extension parallel to the airplane surface ( the landing gear goes perpendicular to the airplane the cavity goes along the surface ) . Secondly , their flow behaviour is different , goes in and outside the cavity . I found this <URL> very good on this , but basically the flow behaviour is like these image : I found several flows similar to the second one , but depends on the airplane . You can see that flow will enter and go outside and will have a big influence . Finally , the biggest influence is found when the airplane is deploying or retracting the landing gears when you have changing conditions , difficult to predict and affecting the airplane dynamics . Usually you can notice it when landing or taking off , when landing gear is deployed you fell significant vibration on the airplane . Concerning your questions : How does the landing gear affect aerodynamics when deployed and when deploying ? There is a significant drag increase , slightly the lift , but also creates some unsteady behaviour affecting overall airplane mechanics creating vibrations ( anyhow , nothing not already taken into account ) . Is it different for aircraft whose landing gear do not retract into the wing ? I understand that you refer to airplane with non retractable landing gear . The effect is similar but usually the configuration tries to avoid having the landing gear close to the wing , as finally they do n't need to retract them back . Does this modify performance critical when taking off or landing such as stall speed , optimal climb speed ? Well , stall speed is usually defined by wing lift curve , and not so much affected by the landing gear . Usually the limitation is on the upper side due to separation . Climb speed is basically engine thrust minus drag , the drag increases the climb speed is lower . That 's why airplanes retract the landing gear as soon as possible .
It 's not there because it 's like driving with the handbrake on . [ The flight ] was climbing out of Kolkata , however achieved an unusually poor climb rate , was not able to accelerate to normal cruise speeds and leveled off at FL200 after a continuous climb for about 30 minutes ( <URL> ) . And because the flight crew should have run the ' after takeoff ' checklist , which includes checking that the landing gear is up and locked . <URL> ( <URL> ) A typical Airbus A320 checklist . Related : <URL>
<URL> 07-NOV-1971 Sikorsky CH-124A Sea King ( S-61B ) Suffered single engine failure on take-off . Pilot attempted to return while also dumping fuel . From what I 've read , fuel-dump systems are more common on military helicopters . Sometimes , a helicopter may not have enough power to hover in ground effect for a normal landing or take-off because of loss of an engine , high density altitude , or being overweight . The alternative procedure is to perform a <URL> , which is an advanced , but not an emergency , maneuver . But if the copter is landing in a confined area , such as a small pad on a frigate in a stormy ocean , there 's no room for a running landing , so its better to dump fuel to allow the copter to hover into a landing .
Turning Radius , as found in a planning document : 28.7 m for a Boeing 777-200 34.7 m for a Boeing 777-300 Rotating around one a point a bit off the wing to allow both wheels to roll throughout . Minimum Pavement Width 47.5 m for a Boeing 777-200 56.0 m for a Boeing 777-300 <URL> <URL> <URL> Be aware that this is not exactly ideal - visibility from the flightdeck is not great and you do not want the gear running into the grass or edge lights . An <URL> screwed up in Warsaw not too long ago when trying to pull this stunt . Since this width is not normally provided by the runway ( even Heathrow only has 45m and 50m runway width ) , you will add turning pads at the end unless there are taxiways you can use instead . <URL>
( I am assuming your question is asking about the FAA regulations . ) If you already have a PPL , then the requirements are modest . According to the <URL> : Additional Pilot Rating Holders of a valid FAA Power plane license with 40 hours as pilot-in-command need a minimum of 10 solo flights to qualify to take the glider flight test . No written exam is required to add a glider rating to a power license . In all cases , refer to the Federal Aviation Regulations for details on pilot licensing .
The tailwheel is much lighter and smaller than a nose wheel . That means reducing airplane overall weight and drag ( because the landing gear is usually fixed ) . And it 's probably cheaper , too .
According to <URL> from September 2014 : Thales estimates total revenue from IFE at \ $ 17.6 m a year for small/mid-sized carriers , up to \ $ 397m a year for large carriers . But that 's for all services , not just advertising . The only specific mention I could find of advertising was <URL> attributed to the CEO of <URL> : Somewhere in the middle of the second question about advertising on the system he said : " ... and we are generating somewhere between \ $ 20,000 and \ $ 30,000 per month per plane with the IFE . " The revenue is apparently generated in a similar way to internet advertising : [ ... ] every 2 weeks the airline and the advertising service bureau receives a summary of the requests/viewings and the airline gets a check . At 1 to 5 cents per click , the tally adds up as daily flights , sometimes short as an hour , record revenue and usage every passenger , every flight , every day , and every month However , there 's no information in the article about which airlines actually use that specific service , and I have no idea if those numbers are typical or not , or even exaggerated . If you need more information than that and you can afford USD 4,650 to find out , <URL> looks like a comprehensive report on the IFE industry .
Most airliners have a protection system for this which is based on Weight-on-Wheels ( WoW ) : sensors which detect load on the wheels ( which implies that the aircraft is in contact with ground ) . For safety reasons this can be bypassed and there 's usually a small lever in connection to the gear lever to do this . This image illustrates the 737 gear lever where you can clearly see a " lock override " which fills this functionality ( red part ) <URL>
During taxiing aircraft turn using their nose wheel . The nose wheel is usually hydraulically controlled . The pilot operates it through a tiller . The nose gear can rotate usually quite far , sometimes to almost 90 degrees . At high speeds , directional control is achieved using the rudder pedals . The nose gear is often linked to the rudder pedals , however the maximum rotation is limited . The nose gear steering does not exactly match to the the rudder steering at all speeds . At low speeds the rudder is ineffective so the nose wheel steering is dominant . For sharp turns the tiller is always used because of the limited rotation by the pedals . A320 Nose wheel tiller B747-400 Nose wheel tiller
If your definition of drone is any remote control aircraft freely available to consumers , then the answer is yes , but highly unlikely . <URL> Its very unlikely , but it is possible . First , I 'd like to point out that Radio Controlled Aircraft ( RC Aircraft ) have been available to consumers since at least the late 1950s . Hobbists build RC aircraft all the time , and when I was a kid I built my own RC aircraft that was much bigger than most commercially available " drones " . To focus on drones alone misses a big slice of the pie . RC aircraft are sometimes built as 1/4 scale models of the original aircraft and can weigh 100lbs or more , so imagine a remote control aircraft that is 25 % the size of the real aircraft . So , the potential has always been there for at least the last half a century for a remote control aircraft to have enough mass to potentially cause a serious collision with a real aircraft . Imagine if a couple of 18lbs geese took down the Flight 1549 , what would a 100 + lbs quarter scale RC Aircraft do . Personally , I 've never been too concerned with this because I 've flown both RC aircraft and real aircraft . It would be extremely hard for a drone or RC aircraft pilot to target an aircraft and hit it in its most vulnerable locations such as cockpit or engines . So , yes , its possible , but I would not lose any sleep over it .
The short answer : It depends . Either 10 , 20 or 30 hours of simulator/FTD/ATD time may be used , but all of it must be with an approved instructor . None of it may be solo . None of the requirements you posted are related to simulator time . 50 hours of Pilot in Command cross country This can be done solo , as you are a rated pilot and thus PIC . This need not be solo XC and can be done with a passenger or CFI . 40 hours of simulated or actual instrument time In this quote , simulated instrument time refers to time spent in the airplane during flight in visual meteorological conditions ( VMC ) that you are wearing a view-limiting device to simulate IMC . While wearing a view-limiting device you must be accompanied by another pilot who acts as your safety pilot . Thus , none of this time may be accomplished solo . You will always need another pilot either in simulated or actual instrument conditions . 15 hours of flight instruction towards Instrument Rating This time may overlap with the above ( actually , must overlap ) , the regulation reads ( <URL> ( d ) ( 2 ) ) : ( 2 ) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed in paragraph ( c ) of this section , of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-airplane rating ... Now back to your question , what about simulator time ? For this we look further down to <URL> ( h ) and ( i ) ( h ) Use of flight simulators or flight training devices . If the instrument time was provided by an authorized instructor in a flight simulator or flight training device -- ( 1 ) A maximum of 30 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter ; or ( 2 ) A maximum of 20 hours may be performed in that flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was not completed in accordance with <URL> of this chapter . and ( i ) Use of an aviation training device . A maximum of 10 hours of instrument time received in an aviation training device may be credited for the instrument time requirements of this section if -- ( 1 ) The device is approved and authorized by the FAA ; ( 2 ) An authorized instructor provides the instrument time in the device ; ( 3 ) No more than 10 hours of instrument time in a flight simulator or flight training device was credited for the instrument time requirements of this section ; ( 4 ) A view-limiting device was worn by the applicant when logging instrument time in the device ; and ( 5 ) The FAA approved the instrument training and instrument tasks performed in the device . The use of simulators and flight training devices is covered by ( h ) above , and the limit of 20 or 30 hours depends on how the training is conducted . In either case , note that time must be " provided by an authorized instructor " . Section ( i ) deals with lesser training devices that are limited to 10 hours but is also required to be conducted by an authorized instructor . Reprising the short answer , any time spent in a simulator , flight training device or aviation training device where you are solo or without an authorized instructor does not count toward anything . Sim time is only valid when conducted by an authorized instructor .
end question
start question
Where exactly can I find the FAA 's UAS pilot training course ( ALC-451 ) ?
Even when faasafety.gov is working without issue , the course can be difficult to find with the site 's search feature . The Part 107 Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems ( small UAS ) course is presently available from this direct link : <URL> . Note that you will have to be logged in to do the course . If you follow that link and are not logged in to <URL> , log in and then go to that link again . Note also that faasafety.gov currently seems to be experienceing occasional technical issues , either due to maintenance or traffic volume . The link may not work reliably at present .
In theory , it is perfectly legal to do your primary training in a jet . It is becoming common in militaries to do initial training in turboprops . <URL> Managing such a turboprop aircraft is actually simpler than managing your typical piston aircraft . One button start . One lever engine control . Maybe some day that will become a single engine jet .
YouTube is really your best bet - is there any reason you would n't be able to use one of the many <URL> ? If you need a release for legal reasons NASA is famously liberal about granting rights to their research/educational videos - just contact then and you 'll almost certainly get an official " Sure , you can use it ! "
You have a couple of options here : As Skip Miller said , you can take flight lessons . Up until you want to solo , you do n't need a medical certificate . Often flight schools have " Discovery Flights " for a reduced cost that still allows you to fly left seat and get half an hour to an hour of flight . Careful though , its addicting . Actual costs for this range from \ $ 75 to over \ $ 300 depending on the type of aircraft you are going to fly . Hourly rates for a Cessna 152 average around \ $ 90 an hour , to a 172 up to \ $ 150 an hour , and more sleek aircraft like a Cirrus SR-22 at \ $ 300 per hour or more . Instructor rates go from \ $ 35 per hour to \ $ 65 per hour ( typically ) depending on the type of instruction . Another option is to find a pilot who wants to build hours and go flying . They may let you fly the airplane around a little bit , but you 'll most likely be flying right seat and probably wo n't let you do the more complicated phases of flight like take-off/landing and operations in controlled airspace . If you find a pilot willing to do this then you can share costs ( split down the middle ) . By the way do n't get discouraged about your medical condition if you really want to fly . There are also a few options there too . First , you could go through the rather lengthy process with the FAA to have your case reviewed and if possible issued a special issuance medical certificate . Some of what you list are automatically disqualifying depending on the medications you may take , but <URL> and getting medicals issued . Second , you could get a sport pilot license , which also does not require a medical ( just a drivers license ) . There may be hiccups with your conditions here too , so its best to talk to an AME or flight instructor before getting too deep . Let me answer your specific question : Is there a way I can fly with a copilot without a pilot 's license ? I take this to mean that the " copilot " is a non-pilot rated passenger . Unless you are a certificated pilot , then no . A " co-pilot " must be just that , a pilot . Otherwise they are just a passenger sitting in the front seat . Since that person is a passenger , you must be a fully licensed pilot to fly with them ( students can not take passengers ) . If the copilot is a pilot rated individual , then yes , you can go flying with them ( provided it is not a Part 135 flight ) . That person must be rated for the aircraft that you are flying and must meet currency requirements to carry passengers ( you ) . <URL> under the supervision of the pilot provided the pilot is pilot in command and unless the pilot is a CFI , they are not providing instruction .
The FAA Regulations Division maintains a <URL> which includes a searchable database of " Legal Interpretations &amp; Chief Counsel 's Opinions " . It includes the following disclaimer : Legal Interpretations and the Chief Counsel 's opinions are now available at this site . Please note that not all interpretations or Chief Counsel 's opinions are available at this time . This database consists of legal interpretations issued from 1990 to the present and will be updated on a regular basis . The letters can be searched by year and/or keyword .
Turning on the autopilot is generally a single button or switch , but with a caveat . That big panel with the altitude selector , heading bug , nav options , etc programs the flight director , which is most likely enabled prior to even taking off and pre-programmed with your initial altitude leveloff , departure heading , etc. . While hand flying the pilot not flying who is operating the radios will update the flight director settings as your ATC instructions vary . This is generally updating altitude , heading and engaging nav . When it is time to let Otto fly , at that point it is just a single button to slave the autopilot to the flight director .
The test was carried out by the Sandia National Laboratories under terms of a contract with the Muto Institute of Structural Mechanics , Inc. , of Tokyo . The <URL> : ... was to determine the impact force , versus time , due to the impact , of a complete F-4 Phantom -- including both engines -- onto a massive , essentially rigid reinforced concrete target ( 3.66 meters thick ) . The reports on the tests can be found in these places : <URL> by von Rieseman , W. A. et al.and <URL> by K. Muto et . al. . Interestingly , the aircraft used in the tests were flyable . The report notes : A flyable F4D aircraft was acquired by Sandia . The aircraft was modified slightly in order to support the aircraft at four locations with a special carriage structure . ... the aircraft weighed 12.7 tonnes ( with some avionics removed ) . The impact weight was 19 tonnes , which included ... 4.8 tonnes of water that was added to simulate the fuel weight ... The target consisted of a block of reinforced concrete 7m square and 3.66 m thick ... with a combined weight of 469 tonnes . The aircraft was crashed with the engines and <URL> : A fully functional F4 was used in the impact test.Only the gears and flaps at the main wings were partly removed and replaced by a carriage structure and sleds . This can also been in the following mass distribution diagram for the aircraft used in the test . <URL> Image from <URL> by von Rieseman , W. A. et al. . Finally , the test was for measuring the impact forces , not the strength of the wall , <URL> : At Sandia , a spokesman , John German , said the point of the test was to move the wall , as a way to measure the impact forces . ... as a preliminary step in building a computer model of such impacts , ... Mr. German said : " That test was designed to measure the impact force of a fighter jet . But the wall was not being tested . No structure was being tested . "
Sure you can . Just request to fly the approach using either radar vectors or initial approach fixes , if available . The tower will usually comply and grant you the approach clearance , adding " maintain VFR " i.e. . The approach should be flown under visual flight rules and you can not use a view limiting device unless you have an appropriately rated safety pilot onboard with access to dual flight controls . For non towered airports , you will need to listen for traffic in the area on the CTAF and provide position reports often for the benefit of other pilots in the pattern . Flying practice instrument approaches in VFR is quite common and many pilots do this to maintain instrument proficiency . It is also common for instrument rated pilots to file a local IFR flight plan to practice as well .
Glider PPL will suffice , did it yesterday and three or four times in the past three months . That 's me in the front seat preparing to take a co-worker for her first glider ride in a <URL> : <URL>
It 's on <URL> : <URL> RF-85655 's Open Skies flights over the United States since the beginning of 2017 Here you can see <URL> over Washington . Two of the recent routes <URL> . One of them flying as low as 3,800 feet . <URL>
There are usually a minimum required hours of flying you need to do , so the answer is no . Simon mentions in the comments that in the UK the minimum hours is 45 . If money is of issue , you should also consider other options such as <URL> which is considerably cheaper . At least in Finland if you gather enough hours in a glider , you can then get other licenses with less hours required . Besides after getting enough hours you would be older and perhaps have a job that can pay for our hobby .
They are searchable at FNS NOTAM search : <URL> A link is provided to a PDF , containing a link to the actual LTA . ( Filter by LTA , remember the agreement might not be with the airport , but with the ATSU , like the local TRACON/ARTCC , try searching by airport name + radius ) . Expiry date is shown in the details view .
ICAO publishes and maintains 19 Annexes to the Chicago Convention . They pertain to all matters in aviation and provide the framework for national legislation in each of the member countries in the form of Standards and Recommended Practices ( SARP ) . In addition to the 19 Annexes , ICAO also produces more detailed guidance in the form of Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) : PANS-ABC , PANS-OPS , PANS-ATM . These are also usually referenced by their Doc number : 2007 , 8168 , 4444 , etc In addition to the PANS , for specific regions of the world ICAO publishes Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPP ) to incorporate regional variants/requirements . Any ICAO contracting state may have local legislation different from SARP/PANS , but is obliged to notify ICAO of these differences . You will find these differences in the country 's AIP section GEN. Getting electronic copies of these documents is a bit more difficult . ICAO <URL> for a very ' aviation ' price . Some CAA 's and institutions will provide <URL> , but they will most likely be out of date and their legality is suspicious at best . Welcome to the world of international law .
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
It 's not web based , but you can use Google Earth for this -- <URL> , and you can do all your flight planning by entering routes in Google Earth . Then just turn off the sectional and you 'll have the Google Earth satellite imagery to work with . As an added bonus ( relating to your comment about mainly using an Android tabled ) : Google Earth <URL> ( and the plugin version of the chart overlay should work in the tablet app -- I know it works in the <URL> ) BIG SCARY IMPORTANT DISCLAIMER As the folks who publish that collection of charts will tell you , the charts are not always current and thus should not be used for navigational purposes ( much like SkyVector ) . You can of course replace the chart graphics with current ones ( or locate a chart collection that is current ) if you want to , but as you 're only using this as a pre-flight planning aid and will be doing your real flight planning with current charts and data the ones provided in the Google Earth Library are probably " good enough " for your purposes .
The Airways that the planes fly on criss-cross the sky and there are many , many intersections where there can be a potential for 2 aircraft to meet . So yes , it is normal that aircraft are routinely flight planned to be on " collision courses " . The flight plans do n't keep aircraft separated . They are used so that Air Traffic Controllers can know the exact routing and plan where any conflicts may occur . It is normal and safe as ATC can then keep the aircraft separated using radar . Generally aircraft flying eastbound fly at odd altitudes and westbound aircraft fly at even altitudes . This works quite well but we can still have 2 westbound aircraft both flying at 36,000 ' on a " collision course " because westbound can mean any track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees . In this case the 2 aircraft were crossing paths at about 90 degrees to each other at the same altitude . Normally they would be constantly monitored and the ATC controller would simply have one aircraft climb or descend to avoid the other aircraft . Another common practice is to tell one aircraft to turn slightly off course to avoid the other aircraft . On this day the ATC system and the controller were both overloaded and a number of factors contributed to the controller not seeing the conflict until it was almost too late . At the last minute he told one aircraft to descend to avoid the other . This action alone would have been fine but the order was given far too late . The Traffic Collision Avoidance System on the aircraft also saw the conflict and automatically issued an instruction for one pilot to climb while instructing the other aircraft to descend . The controller did not know that the TCAS had also spotted the conflict and his command to descend was contrary to the TCAS climb command . The pilot chose to follow the controller 's instruction instead of following the TCAS climb instruction . The other aircraft was also following his TCAS instruction to descend so both aircraft were now descending while still on a conflicting flight path routing . TCAS is there as a safeguard when the ATC system fails . It should always take priority over an ATC instruction . It is clear that the ATC system failed these pilots and TCAS operated as it should . As pilots we spend so much time following ATC instructions that I can see how it would be difficult to ignore the controller and instead follow the TCAS instruction .
Even when faasafety.gov is working without issue , the course can be difficult to find with the site 's search feature . The Part 107 Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems ( small UAS ) course is presently available from this direct link : <URL> . Note that you will have to be logged in to do the course . If you follow that link and are not logged in to <URL> , log in and then go to that link again . Note also that faasafety.gov currently seems to be experienceing occasional technical issues , either due to maintenance or traffic volume . The link may not work reliably at present .
<URL> is such a site that offers 30-day history for METARs/SPECIs and TAFs reports . The coverage is said to be worldwide . Here is a glance at the query interface : <URL> The site states these conditions of use for the reports : About all the codified met . reports ( SYNOPS , METAR ... ) , the copyright are from every country or source institution . To use them , read <URL> . ( essentially it says it 's free for use . )
Fuel dumping was regulated by FAA <URL> , which was canceled in 2006 . FAA <URL> regarding fuel dumping : ... If the need arises , aircraft are instructed by Air Traffic Control to dump fuel at high altitudes as far away from the airport or any populated areas as possible . At present , there are no hard and fast rules ( at-least in US , for other countries , see below ) regarding fuel dumping and it is left to the air-traffic controllers to guide the aircraft . The main criteria in determining an are for fuel dumping are : - Altitude In general , fuel jettisoned above 5000 ft will vaporize before reaching the ground . Due to this , <URL> recommend fuel dumping above 5000 ft. In general , the ATC will guide the aircraft to an altitude where it can dump fuel so that it vaporises before reaching the ground . - Atmospheric conditions The evaporative characteristics of the fuel dumped depends on the altitude and the atmospheric temperature . The aircraft fuel tends to vaporise faster in a warm day . - Aircraft separation The ATC will try to keep a minimum lateral separation ( ~ 5 miles ) between the aircraft dumping fuel and other aircraft and also some vertical separation ( ~ 2000 ft , according to Order 7110.65 P ) . Except in case of safety emergency , the fuel dumping is carried out at high altitudes . Note : Some countries do have fuel dumping regulations , like <URL> , which says , The choice of the dumping area is determined by the urgency of the incident , the actual flight path , meteorological conditions and the general air traffic situation . The aircraft is led to a selected area by the air traffic control to dump fuel . At the minimum speed of 250 knots at an altitude of 6,000 ft , but usually with 350 knots at 14,000-16 ,000 ft fuel is dumped ... There exist no predefined dumping areas ...
To answer the question as asked , such data is out there , although it may be hard to get . A flight simulator program is probably much easier , although the real answer to the question probably is , the effects of anything other than straight &amp; level flight are probably dwarfed by the effects of DIRECTION of flight coupled with time-of-day ( i.e. is the sun overhead , or low on the horizon to one side or the other , or ahead of or behind the aircraft ) , and the effect of cloud cover . Airlines capture exactly the data being discussed as part of the Flight Data Recorder -- one of the two famous " black box " recorders ( the other being the Cockpit Voice Recorder ) . This data is routinely downloaded by the airlines ' maintenance departments and analyzed as part of Flight Operations Quality Assurance or FOQA programs . They can see roll , pitch , yaw , heading , altitude , position , track , and dozens if not hundreds of other parameters , all on a moment-by-moment basis , and the analysis of this data is used to inform any number of proactive safety efforts . Rather than waiting for an accident , they can see where things are starting to drift away from what 's desired , and take preventative actions . The problem here is that FOQA data is extremely sensitive , and for an outsider to get access to it is probably somewhere between extremely difficult , and absolutely impossible . The next step down from that would be the logged data as has been discussed in the various comments , and I 'm not smart enough on those specifics to add anything useful to what 's already been posted as far as where and how to get those logs . After that , it is possible to record data yourself , with the right equipment ( not cheap ) . Using an iPad with Foreflight and an AHRS unit ( essentially a self-contained INS , with receivers for things like XM satellite weather , GPS , and ADSB , you can record a track log that includes all the parameters mentioned . Here 's the issue : if you 're paying for that equipment and the flight time , you will want to get DATA for your efforts ... so let 's go do STUFF so we have an interesting track log : do some holding , fly a few approaches , maybe a steep turn or a stall series . Because that 's much more interesting DATA ! But the simple fact is that when airplanes are actually being used for anything besides flight training , most of what they 're doing is simple boring straight &amp; level flight , probably on autopilot . Most of the maneuvering happens at the beginning &amp; end of the flight , on the departure and then on the arrival and the approach , and that all happens at lower altitudes where clouds will have the greatest influence how much sun your solar collectors are getting . Up in the 30-to-40-thousand feet range is where most of the cruise flight happens , mostly straight and level , and with most ( though not all ) of the sun-blocking clouds below you . For a realistic estimate of how much solar energy your panels can get , I strongly suspect that you 'll do best with an assumption of straight &amp; level flight , and models of the various possibilities of direction of flight and time-of-day . And combine that with estimates of how cloud cover will affect your ability to collect solar energy ( remembering that plenty of flights happen at night ) . A really accurate log of a particular flight could allow you to calculate to fairly high precision how your received energy would vary over time for that exact flight , but when you want to generalize that out to a large number of operations , you 'll need to look at the factors that influence collection the most , and those will be the variables other than detailed records of roll &amp; pitch .
end question
start question
How do I determine the best altitude to fly for fuel economy ?
The optimum altitude depends on your aircraft , the engines and the weather . But most important is to decide what you are trying to achieve . If you would like to optimize your fuel consumption per distance travelled , the altitude you will fly at will be higher than if you try to optimize your fuel consumption per time unit . Fuel per distance travelled is usually better at altitude , while fuel flow per time unit is lower at lower altitudes . In other words , if you want to go far , fly high . If you want to keep flying long , fly low . Winds play an important role as well . If you have a strong headwind high up , you might go further staying low . There is quite some difference between reciprocating engines and jet / turbine engines here . The former perform better at lower altitudes , while the latter do just fine until much higher .
Simplest answer : Call the tower . Or ask instructors/schools in the area if the controllers care when you arrive and want to practice . Usually if you arrive during the busiest time , you 'll likely be accommodated as best as they can , but there 's a chance you could be told to just do a full-stop taxi-back operation if that helps out or told to go fly around elsewhere for a bit . It depends on what airport you 're thinking about going to . If you want to go to ATL , well , you 'll be vectored in a gap , and told go as fast as you can for as long as you can , and be told to land ( or if you go around , expect a long delay to find a new gap ) . If it 's just a general aviation airport , anytime is fine .
On the first flight of the day , after every refueling , and if you have flown through precipitation or the plane is left in the rain , you check the fuel for water and to make sure you have the right kind of fuel . Since water is heavier than fuel , if there is just a little bit of water in the fuel it could cause the engine to stop . You ca n't pull over to the side of the road like you can in a car , so you need to immediately deal with the problem . The most likely place for this to occur is on takeoff . If you think fast and switch tanks , you might get lucky and only have water in one tank so you can continue your takeoff . If not , you may need to find a place to land . In 17 years of flying , I have only found water in the fuel once , and it was n't even my airplane . But since it was on Catalina Island , a stopped engine would not have been pretty . The other reason to check the fuel is that airplanes designed for 100LL do not burn Jet Fuel . Jet fuel is denser than 100LL so it will sink to the bottom of the tank . It is straw colored and somewhat greasy so you can tell if you plane has accidentally been filled with it , but you really have to be paying attention . It would be easy to miss if you just topped off . There have been incidents when twin-engine planes have mistakenly been filled with Jet A and have either crashed or had expensive fuel system cleaning required . In this article , <URL> describes his experiences . After the <URL> of a Cessna 421s someone did a <URL> to see how easy it is to identify a combination of Jet A and Avgas . It 's fairly hard using standard pre-flight practices . That 's why many people recommend watching the fuel truck if you have a twin-engine plane or one that prominently says " Turbo " on the side . Many aircraft have rubber bladders to hold the fuel . Most older Cessnas have them . Water can get trapped in the folds of the bladder and get into the engine later when the fuel is sloshed around . Even if the fuel source is free of water , a tank that is not full can have water condense in it . Most autogas has some ethanol in it . Water will dissolve in a gas-ethanol mixture and so a slug of water wo n't get into the engine like it will in an aircraft engine . Contamination is less of an issue and is one that is really hard for a GA pilot to determine . You really ca n't tell if the fuel is contaminated with other petroleum products just by looking at it .
In the US , yes . Kerosene [ for use in aviation ] is taxed at $ 0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies . These taxes mainly fund airport and Air Traffic Control operations by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , of which commercial aviation is the biggest user ( <URL> ) . More information from <URL> . In the UK , it <URL> on the user . Aviation turbine fuel used for private pleasure flying : # 0.5795 per litre Aviation gasoline ( Avgas ) : # 0.3770 per litre Air transport <URL> . Furthermore : Article 24 of the [ 1944 Convention of International Civil Aviation ] requires all contracting states not to charge duty on aviation fuel already on board any aircraft that has arrived in their territory from another contracting state . Further to this , the exemption of airlines from national taxes and customs duties on a range of aviation-related goods , including parts , stores and fuel is a standard element of the network of bilateral ' Air Service Agreements ' ( ASAs ) between individual countries .
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
The CVR and FDR have impact switches to stop recording when they experience high acceleration . In incidents and accidents that do n't involve high enough acceleration , the plane remains intact enough for the boxes to be immediately found and switched off manually . In more serious crashes , the boxes stop recording because of the physical destruction of everything but the memory units ( only the memory units are built to survive crashes ) .
<URL> this about their new <URL> ( aka " Sharklets " ) , being fitted to new A320s , and retrofitted : Airbus ' next step is the large Sharklets ™ wingtip devices , representing another element in the ongoing continuous improvement programme for its best-selling A320 Family . These devices improve aerodynamics , reducing fuel burn by up to 4 per cent -- which amounts to annual savings of more than 900 tonnes of CO2 per aircraft . Given that an A320 's fuel burn rate is approximately 5.13 gallons per seat per hour , reducing this by 4 % gives you 4.92 gallons/seat/hr . Comparatively , a 737-800 burns about 4.88 gallons/seat/hr . <URL> : A 737-800 burns 4.88 gallons of fuel per seat per hour , compared with the comparable A320 's burn of 5.13 gallons per seat per hour , according to The Airline Monitor , an industry publication . So they 're near enough the same .
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
Most modern jets use an Air Data Computer ( ADC ) to calculate ( among other things ) Mach Number . <URL> Air Data Computer An ADC is simply a computer which accepts measurements of atmospheric data to calculate various flight related data . A typical ADC may be connected to $ ^ 1 $ : Inputs Static System Pressure Pitot Pressure Total Air Temperature ( TAT ) Outputs ( Calculated ) Pressure Altitude Baro-Corrected Altitude Vertical Speed Mach Number Total Air Temperature Calibrated Airspeed True Airspeed Digitized Pressure Altitude ( Gillham ) Altitude Hold Airspeed Hold Mach Hold Flight Control Gain Scheduling . Each of the inputs and outputs may be analog or digital depending on the design of the system , and are used for many purposes throughout the airplane . Each output is a purely calculated value based on the various input measurements and data stored within the unit . To answer your question about the pitot source for the Mach Meter : Yes , they use the same pitot and static sources as the airspeed indicator . In the case of mechanical instruments , they are both connected directly to the pitot static system . In the case of an ADC , the pitot static system is connected directly to the ADC and then electrical signals communicate the airspeed and mach number to the electric airspeed indicator and mach meter ( or EFIS ) , which no longer require actual pitot static connections . The Math A simplified example for the Mach Number calculation $ ^ 2 $ would be based on the pressure inputs : $ $ Mach ~ number = 5 ( ( PT/PS +1 ) ^ { 0.2857 } -- 1 ) ^ \ frac12 $ $ Where : $ PT$ = Total Pressure $ PS$ = Static Pressure The actual calculation makes corrections to the pressure data to compensate for installation errors and nonlinear sensor readings . Note that it does n't actually calculate the ( local ) speed of sound ( LSS ) in order to determine the current mach number , but with the TAT input and the calculated mach number , it could calculate it by calculating the outside air temperature ( OAT/SAT ) first : $ $ SAT = \ frac { TAT } { 1 +0.2 \ times { Mach } ^ 2 } $ $ $ $ LSS = 38.945 \ sqrt { SAT } $ $ For example , let 's say that the TAT is -36 C ( 237.16 K ) and we are flying Mach 0.80 : $ $ SAT = \ frac { 237.16 } { 1 +0.2 \ times0 .8 ^ 2 } = \ frac { 237.16 } { 1.128 } = 210.25 ° K = -63 ° C$ $ $ $ LSS = 38.945 \ sqrt { 210.25 } = 38.945 \ times14 .5 = 564.70 knots $ $ Again , these are simplified formulas because the actual ones would consider sensor error , etc. . $ ^ 1 $ List of inputs and outputs obtained from <URL> . $ ^ 2 $ Formula from <URL> .
The basic problem is that no matter how the aircraft 's fuel tanks are designed , if there is an air gap in the tank , then there is an attitude and/or a g-loading that puts that air gap over the inlet to the fuel line running to the engine . There are a lot of solutions to this problem . The first is exactly as you say ; do n't sustain any maneuver that starves the fuel pump ( and by extension the engine ) for a longer period than you have fuel in the lines to feed the engine . You can actually do a lot without the fuel system seeing a single hiccup in supply ; the fuel tanks are designed to feed while under positive G-load ( otherwise you could n't get any fuel to the engine just sitting on the tarmac ) , so hard turns , rolls , loops etc that keep a force on the aircraft and its contents acting downward towards the floor of the cockpit will keep the fuel flowing into the engine . Spins and high negative-G maneuvers tend to be the things that starve the engine ; if the tanks are in the wings , a hard spin , snap roll or zero-g parabola will push the fuel out away from the inlets at the wing roots . Most fuel systems except on the lightest aircraft have at least two fuel pumps per engine ; one electric pump on the tank side to shove fuel into the line , and one crankshaft-powered pump that draws fuel out of the lines into the carb chamber or other fuel delivery system . The checklist often involves turning on the electric fuel pumps just before startup to prime the fuel lines , then turning them off once the engine is running smoothly , but you can keep the electric pump on if you plan on really twerking the aircraft in flight . The line between these two pumps actually holds a fair amount of fuel , plenty for a minute or more of sustained operation with the inlet at the tank totally starved , and coupled with a bleed valve on the engine side to release any air that 's entered the line , the two pumps running together can usually keep an uninterrupted flow of fuel into the engine by having the electric pump shove fuel down the line as fast as it can whenever the inlet is under the liquid level . For mild aerobatic maneuvers , a " flop tube " is put into the fuel tank . This is simply a flexible hose with a weight , that keeps the hose under the liquid level , no matter what forces are acting to move the mass of liquid around in the tank . This is a simple and very effective way to keep fuel flowing to the engine while the aircraft is under load in any direction , but because the flop tube requires a significant volume of fuel to sink underneath and draw from , flop tubes can increase the " unusable fuel " capacity of the aircraft ( fuel that exists in the tank , but the fuel system ca n't draw out in some normal circumstance ) . However , there 's a tradeoff ; the heavier the weight on the end of the flop tube , the more reliably it will stay under the fuel level regardless of attitude , but the more force with which it will impact the sides of the tank in violent maneuvers ( and padding the weight further increases unusable fuel ) . For the real aerobatic nuts , though , the maneuvers are so violent and so long that even a flop tube , redundant fuel pumps and bleed valves might get starved as the fuel sloshes and churns and there is n't a real " liquid level " to draw from . Many of these aircraft go one step further ; a bladder-style fuel container . Within the fuel tank is a flexible polymer vessel that actually holds the fuel ( typically in either wingtip tanks or a fuselage tank ; it 's usually impractical to try this with in-wing tanks ) . This bladder keeps the liquid and gas in the tank shell separate as the tank empties , and may also keep the fuel under some static pressure . If there 's no air to draw into the fuel lines , then no matter how the aircraft is oriented or how many Gs it 's pulling in any direction , the fuel lines ca n't be starved . Of course , the fuel lines are only one consideration . Most " normal " - rated aircraft have float-type carburetors , which hold a reservoir of fuel with another air gap , and the fuel level in the reservoir is controlled by a float that opens the inlet from the fuel pump ( this system also deals with small hiccups in the fuel flow from the tanks ; the air just forms part of the air gap and the float keeps the inlet open until fuel flows in to raise the level ) . This type of carb will starve the engine during any maneuvers involving less than 1g of force acting towards the " floor " of the float chamber , as the float will keep the inlet closed and the reservoir will starve the fuel feed tube that allows fuel to dribble into the throttle body at the throat . For aerobatics , either a diaphragm-chamber carb ( which has a flexible wall on one side of the reservoir chamber that is connected to the fuel inlet ) or a fuel injection system must be used to avoid dependence on gravity to get fuel into the engine . The downside of these systems are increased complexity , and in the case of the diaphragm-chamber carb , intolerance of air this far along t
I 'm answering the question of after the Edit . Simple momentum theory : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 \ tag { Thrust } $ $ $ $ P = C_P \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 3 \ cdot R ^ 3 \ tag { Power } $ $ $ $ C_P = \ frac { { C_T } ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt2 } \ tag { Ideal Power } $ $ $ $ FM = \ frac { Ideal Power } { InducedPower + ProfilePower } \ tag { FigureOfMerit } $ $ The Figure Of Merit is a dimensional unit and provides an efficiency measure . It always gives a better result for higher disk loadings , but does provide a correction for real life effects on the ideal power . So for your case , with A = 3.14 m $ ^ 2 $ , $ \ rho $ = 1.225 , T = 981N , the ideal power is : $ $ P _ { ideal } = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( T/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A } } \ right ) = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( 981/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 3.14 } } \ right ) = 7.8 kW $ $ From J. Gordon Leishman , Principles of Helicopter Aerodynamics : <URL> $ $ C_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 } \ tag { CT } $ $ Tip speed $ V _ { tip } = \ Omega \ cdot R$ should not exceed critical Mach = 0.7 * 340 m/s = 238 m/s . At this tip speed , $ C_T $ = 981 / ( 1.225 * 3.14 * 238 $ ^ 2 $ ) = 0.009 0.0045 . Corresponding Figure of Merit = 0.75 0.55 . So the power to drive the rotor would be $ $ 7.8 / 0.55 = 14.2 kW $ $ The rotor would turn at 238 rad/s = 2,270 rpm , hopefully that is around the rpm for max . torque for your engine . Otherwise you need to gear up/down as required , you have gearboxes anyway . You would need to add transmission losses for driving the two rotors from your engine . Prouty gives a power loss per stage of 0.0025 [ max.power + actual power ] . Each disk has 2 stages , so a power loss of about 0.005 * 2 * 14.2 = 0.14 kW per disk . $ $ Torque = P / \ Omega = 14,200 / 238 = 60 Nm $ $ EDIT A numerical error in calculating $ C_T $ = 0.0045 not 0.009 , so the FM is lower and torque may not be enough . In that case the rotor diameter should be reduced and the rpm increased .
<URL> ( aviationweather.gov ) Significant weather chart . Note the numbers in boxes . They decrease as the latitude increases : 450 → 400 → 350 → 250 . Note : those values change day to day and season to season , they 're not fixed . Those are the <URL> . 450 is FL450 , i.e. , 45,000 feet at a <URL> . This figure is very important in flight planning . Jets typically fly around this figure for optimal aircraft/engine performance . So yes , you 're right , the farther you fly from the equator , the lower you should fly . However , the following two statements are incorrect : I 'd expect that the air pressure at the top of the troposphere [ be the same regardless of latitude . ] The pressure gradient is still the same . See : <URL> As the altitude of an airliner increases , the angle of attack [ also increases . ] As the altitude increases , so does the speed , to counter the thinner air . Until you end up in a <URL> . Also , for high latitude polar flights , an airline can do away with the optimal performance , because the rise in temperature helps keep the fuel from freezing , however I may stand corrected on that .
When I have had to file NOTAMs for skydiving demonstration jumps , I just called AFSS ( 1-877-4-US-NTMS ) and asked to file . The folks at Lockheed are way more helpful than the Feds used to be and will walk you through the process , but it is still good to have your information together before you call . At a minimum you need a description of your activity , altitudes in MSL , times in zulu , and a location . Location should be in reference to an aiport or nav aid ( " Within one nautical mile of the BFE airport " , or " 27nm from the BADGER VOR on the 340 radial , for a radius of 2 nm " ) . If the activity requires authorization , you will also need to have that squared away before calling .
This depends on what exactly you want the aircraft to do : Immediately depart the hold and fly directly to another fix : N1234 cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Immediately depart the hold and fly an assigned heading : N1234 Cleared to ' clearance limit ' via radar vectors . Fly heading ' heading ' . Proceed to another fix after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 After ' holding fix ' , cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Fly the published approach after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 Maintain ' altitude ' until ' holding fix ' , cleared ' approach name ' . Altitude Lastly , add the altitude to any of the above clearances if it is different than the current altitude by adding a climb/descend and maintain ' altitude ' clearance .
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
As Ron Beyer pointed out in a comment , your instructor was showing you a <URL> - a pretty standard maneuver for light aircraft . A spin would involve full rudder and a stalled wing , which usually means pulling the yoke or stick back a lot . That 's why overshooting the base-to-final turn can be dangerous - you likely already have a lot of rudder in and it 's tempting to pull back on the yoke to try to tighten up the turn . An unexpected spin at low altitude is not recommended as recovery tends to be both abrupt and fatal . As long as you 're keeping the yoke more or less centered forward and back and your airspeed up , there should be nothing to worry about .
The answer is in the question : lateral , fwd/aft is longitudinal . The cyclic stick directions are cyclic longitudinal and cyclic lateral : move the stick and the rotor tilts , producing direct translational movement . The helicopter fuselage follows the rotor angle and therefore pitches/rolls as well , but more as a ( desired ) side effect . Desired because they enable instant judgement on the amount of stick applied . In a fixed wing , stick fwd/sideways is pitch stick and roll stick , because stick inputs primarily affect the aircraft attitudes . Longitudinal and lateral are helicopter terms because stick inputs ( in a hover ) mainly affect translations . And yes on a 6-DoF simulator motion system they are called Surge and Sway .
Yes , with a couple of exceptions . FAR 61.123 contains the requirements for a commercial certificate , while 61.153 contains the requirements for an ATP certificate . <URL> states than an applicant must : Hold at least a private pilot certificate issued under this part or meet the requirements of § 61.73 <URL> refers to the option for military pilots to apply for an FAA certificate based on their military qualifications . For non-military pilots , the commercial certificate can only be earned after obtaining the private pilot certificate . <URL> includes the ability to use a foreign commercial or ATP certificate as a prerequisite . An applicant must : Meet at least one of the following requirements : ( 1 ) Holds a commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating issued under this part ; ( 2 ) Meet the military experience requirements under § 61.73 of this part to qualify for a commercial pilot certificate , and an instrument rating if the person is a rated military pilot or former rated military pilot of an Armed Force of the United States ; or ( 3 ) Holds either a foreign airline transport pilot license with instrument privileges , or a foreign commercial pilot license with an instrument rating , that -- ( i ) Was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation ; and ( ii ) Contains no geographical limitations .
An oversimplification for sure : Turbochargers essentially compress the air going into the engine ( cylinders ) to maintain ( near ) sea level pressure internally , so the external density altitude does n't affect the performance of the engine . The " liability " at low density altutudes is that it is possible to over-boost the engine , potentially damaging it . See <URL> for more in-depth explanation and the liability of having a turbocharger at low density altitude .
Much like water , exposing fuel to below freezing temperatures does not instantly make it freeze . It takes some amount of time , and as long as the fuel is not exposed to below freezing temperatures long enough to make it freeze , it wo n't be a problem . How much time ? That depends on a number of factors like : Type of fuel Jet A ( common in the US ) has a freezing point of -40 C Jet A1 ( common outside the US ) has a freezing point of -47 C Jet B ( common for some military aircraft and very cold airports ) has a freezing point of -60 C Initial fuel temperature If you fuel in the middle east during the middle of summer , the fuel will be a lot warmer than when you fuel in Siberia in the middle of winter . Warmer fuel will take longer to freeze . Outside air temperature Much like trying to freeze water to form an ice cube , the colder the air around it , the faster that it will freeze . Aircraft speed The faster that the airplane goes , the more friction there is as the air flows over the wing . This heats up the air close to the wing and makes it take longer for the fuel to freeze ( see previous point ) . The temperature at the wing is known as TAT : For example , at an actual temperature of -56.5 C ( SAT ) and Mach 0.72 the TAT is -34 C , but at Mach 0.80 the TAT is -29 C. For more information about SAT - vs - TAT , see my answer about <URL> . Quantity of fuel Much like a small pond will freeze before a large lake , in order to get fuel to freeze you need to lower the temperature of all of it . The more that there is , the longer it will take . Aircraft design Some aircraft run hydraulic lines close to the fuel so that the heat will help slow down the freezing . Some aircraft constantly pump fuel to keep it moving and mixing if it tends to freeze in one part of the tank before the rest Some aircraft use fuel to cool the engine oil using a heat exchanger , and return the warmed fuel to the tanks Many other design factors In general , fuel will not freeze in the typical amount of time that an aircraft is aloft . If particular routes pose a problem , there are several options that the operator and pilot have : Use a fuel with a lower freezing point Fly at a lower altitude where it is not as cold Choose a route with warmer temperatures Increase the speed of the airplane Carry extra fuel Transfer fuel in a way to keep fuel warmer . Typically this is done by transferring fuel from the relatively warm fuselage tanks to the wing tanks which are exposed to more of the cold air .
end question
start question
What would happen if the blades of a variable pitch prop did not all have the same pitch ?
Never say never , but that 's not a prop malfunction that I 've heard of or that was ever addressed in the turboprops that I 've flown . We had various prop malfunctions , but the ways that things could fail that we considered would pretty much leave all blades in the same place . So without claiming that it could not , ever , ever , no way no how , not in all possibility ever happen , I 'll say that it 's not very likely . If you did get something like that , the vibration would probably be bad enough that you 'd shut the engine down , and at that point the interesting question would be , do all the blades feather for you ? ( The answer to that probably depends on what type of prop you have and what specific failure mode led to the condition in the first place , and now we 're into too much speculation for any answer to be very enlightening . )
I ca n't provide references specific to this manoeuvre . The main texts on helicopter dynamics only generalise since such a manoeuvre is n't flown in real life or tested during certifications . When you raise the collective , you increase the pitch of the all of the blades together . In most flight regimes , this means increased angle of attack and therefore lift . The cost of producing lift is drag which always increases . So , there is a direct relationship between the collective lever and power required from the engine . As you continue to raise the collective , AoA and lift will increase until you reach a point where the power required to overcome drag exceeds the rated power of the engine . Most helicopters permit operation beyond the maximum for a short time , e.g. 2 or 5 minutes , typically during take-off . Continue to increase AoA beyond this limit and drag will exceed power available and the rotor RPM will drop ( a reduction in rotor RPM caused by drag exceeding power through too much collective is known as " droop " ) . As RRPM decreases , so does lift and the helicopter will descend . The relative airflow into the disk now has a greater horizontal component and the angle of attack will increase , either causing yet more drag or stalling the rotor . So there is some point , before the collective is pulled fully up where maximum lift is attained . Beyond that , lift reduces until recovery or a stall . The only time I have ever raised the collective fully is during " full and free " movement checks with the engine off as part of pre-flight . Your hypothetical manoeuvre : From VNE in level flight , you roll into a 70 degree bank . The TRT ( total rotor thrust ) is always acting perpendicular to the plane of the rotor disk . Since you are in a bank , and I assume it is at constant altitude , there is a large horizontal component of the TRT to maintain the acceleration in the turn and a large vertical component to oppose gravity and maintain altitude . This requires a lot of power which means a lot of collective and a lot of drag . I do n't know for the AH-6 , maybe there 's a chart relating bank angle and speed to power but let 's just say , your collective is going to be somewhere near the max lift point with a manoeuvre like this . Since you are now accelerating with max power , your speed will decrease . Therefore lift will decrease and since you are at or near max power , you will begin to descend . So far , this is probably recoverable simply by rolling level and reducing collective until back inside the performance envelope . The second part is where it definitely will go wrong . In all helicopters with a non-rigid head , including the AH-6 , the disk will adopt a new plane of rotation rapidly . There is then a significant delay before the fuselage adopts a new attitude which puts the TRT perpendicular with the aircraft Z axis . Pulling hard on the cyclic will very rapidly put the disk into a new plane of rotation which has a large angle between the plane of rotation and the fuselage . Additionally , the disk loading will increase dramatically and the blades will be forced downwards . On an articulated head such as that on the AH-6 , droop stops will prevent the blades from bending down so much that they fold . Hitting the droop stops a little is uncomfortable with a lot of vibration . Pulling hard on the cyclic at VNE in a 70 degree bank at or near max power may cause failure of the droop stops or blades or cause the static droop stops to contact the mast possibly leading to rotor separation . Let 's assume that there is no failure . The plane of rotation will be at the maximum permitted by the physical limits of the flapping hinges which is greater than the angle between the plane of rotation and the fuselage . Therefore , I would expect a hard pull on the cyclic to result in a blade hitting the tail or the top of the cockpit . Either results in destruction of the aircraft , either as it breaks up at that point or when it hits the ground 10 seconds later .
Judging from <URL> , it does not have an automatic prop sync . When throttles are advanced you can hear the harmonic beat of the twin propeller blades , and during the climb the instructor seems to manually set the levers to reduce the harmonic set the correct manifold pressure . He may or may not have an indicator to help him , but judging from the sound effects there is no automatic synching taking place . And here is an old <URL> , on how to fly the aircraft . Nothing on synchronising the propellers . That beautiful engine sound is not produced by a turbine by the way .
It depends on the severity of the hailstorm . In the event of encountering large hail pieces in the sky during cruise , a pilot will generally try to climb above the storm ( of course with ATC permission ) to prevent damage to the airframe . However , it is always better to stay out of the hailstorm in the first place and pilots will usually try to negotiate a course avoiding the hailstorm entirely using available weather data . However , there are much more extreme cases such as this Boeing 727 which cracked its radome and its windshield after flying through a hailstorm at FL 350 : There were no pax onboard as it was a cargo flight for Capital Cargo International Airlines . After the severe damage to the airplane , the crew declared an emergency and safely landed at a diversion airport . Surprisingly , the airframe was repaired and put back in service after the incident .
Assuming this is the standard inclined plane task from physics textbook , as <URL> for instance , the acceleration is $ a = g \ cdot \ sin ( \ theta ) $ where $ a $ is acceleration , $ g $ is the free fall acceleration ( 9.8 m/s ^ 2 ) and $ \ theta $ is the pitch angle down ( 0 assuming horizontal ) . This equation applies does not take the air resistance into consideration so would only apply to relatively slow speeds . Interestingly , under these conditions the acceleration does not depend on the mass of the plane . The equation should also apply for the positive pitch angles , but the acceleration would be negative in this case ( slowing down ) .
A single engine plane yaws to the opposite direction of the engine spinning . This is called the <URL> It 's the same with a twin , with both engines rotating into the same direction . Rudder input is needed to fly straight . When the engines operate symmetrically , this effect cancelles out . The plane is easier to fly . It 's also explained in <URL> . An example of a counter-rotating multi-engine plane is the <URL> . [ The P-38 ] featured two 1,000 hp ( 746 kW ) turbosupercharged 12-cylinder Allison V-1710 engines fitted with counter-rotating propellers to eliminate the effect of engine torque . Counter-rotation was achieved by the use of " handed " engines , which meant the crankshaft of each engine turned in the opposite direction of its counterpart . If the engines are turning in the same direction , then if either fails , the net p-factor will not be the same . See : <URL> .
No . The transition attitude in a defined area is fixed . For example , in the USA it is 18.000 ft and in many European countries it is 5.000 ft. It 's impossible to have different transition altitudes at one airport , because that would make it impossible to use vertical separation between aircraft close to the transition layer .
I was wondering how long that it would take for this question to come up . It is the old " pitch - vs - power " airspeed control technique debate that rages throughout the aviation world . There are strong proponents of both techniques ( and they seem to view it almost as a religious debate in that the other side can never be right , no matter what ) , and both sides have good reasons for it ! Instead of saying that one is better than the other , let 's just say that they are both techniques for managing the potential energy of the airplane ( the airspeed that can be traded for altitude and vice-versa ) . In fact , this is how I like to think about it ( and do n't pick a side ) : If you change the pitch of the aircraft without changing power , the airspeed will stabilize out at a new value . Pitch up and you lower the airspeed . Pitch down and you raise the airspeed . If you change the power setting of the aircraft without changing the pitch , the airspeed will stabilize out at a new value . Add power and you raise the airspeed . Reduce power and you lower the airspeed . You can change both at the same time and get various results . You can end up with the same airspeed that you had before . You can end up with a lot more airspeed . You can end up with a lot less airspeed . Most often you need to change both at the same time in order to properly manage your airspeed . So basically it comes down to what you want to accomplish . If you need to change the airspeed you have two ways to do it , but used individually each comes with a side-effect . In some situations this may be okay or even desirable , but you need to be aware of what your actions are going to accomplish . Let 's look at a specific example : Sometimes , especially on an instrument approach , you want to maintain your current airspeed while changing your vertical speed . Let 's say that you are a little high on the glideslope . If you simply pitch down to recapture the glideslope , you will gain airspeed but will recapture it quickly . If you simply reduce the power to recapture the glideslope , you will lose airspeed but it will take longer than using pitch . If you want to maintain your airspeed while recapturing the glideslope ( typical on an instrument approach ) then you would pitch down and reduce power at the same time , and when you recapture the glideslope you will pitch back up to maintain it and add power to maintain your current airspeed .
Airspeed control is the difference . In a rapid descent , airspeed is controlled and the pilots will keep it below $ v_D $ , the maximum dive speed for which the aircraft is certified . For a modern airliner , this is somewhere around Mach 0.9 . In a dive with " nose down as far as they care to " ( I read this as 90 ° ) , airspeed is not controlled , but an outcome of the situation . The airliner will go supersonic . It is possible to recover it from a short dive , but will incur damage to the aircraft ( e.g. the pilots will need to lower the landing gear to increase drag , but lose the gear doors in the process ) . If the pilots would only care to put the nose down to the point where they not exceed $ v_D $ , we are back at a rapid descent . They could lower the gear in order to increase the sink speed , and circle to increase drag further . Circling needs more lift ( proportional to the inverse of the cosine of the bank angle ) , so more lift-induced drag is produced . To maximize drag , the pilots should fly at the maximum permissible load factor ( which is rather low at maximum dive speed due to gust loads ) . If we assume the L/D of the airliner to be 5 with gear and spoilers deployed , the pitch attitude would be between -11 ° and -12 ° and the sink speed would be between 50 and 60 m/s ( 10,000 to 12,000 ft/min ) . The bank angle would be between 45 ° and 60 ° and the plane would be violently shaken by buffeting . Going any steeper than that would only be attempted by pilots with suicidal leanings . Flying like described above is scary enough already .
<URL> shows what happens in a spin . <URL> The <URL> shows a left turn , and the slip indicator shows a skid ( ball to the far left as well ) . To get out of it you 'd want to push hard on the right rudder pedal . The yaw damper does n't allow full rudder deflection . Also as the instructor shows , pushing the stick left and right does nothing . The stall protection will push forward , again wo n't help . The TBM 930 does n't have an auto-throttle , so there is no engine control involved either . The installed Electronic Stability and Protection ( ESP ) system does n't handle developed spins -- Leveling at 4,500 feet , I performed a series of steep turns , slow flight , an imminent stall with gear and flaps down , and a power-on stall . As the stall approaches , the G3000 's Underspeed Protection ( USP ) feature , linked to the angle of attack computer , comes alive as it automatically commands the autopilot servos to lower the nose . ESP , meanwhile , will attempt to return the airplane to level flight if bank or pitch angle limits are exceeded . -- <URL> Summary : The safety features on the TBM would alert and prevent getting into a stall or spin .
The pitch of an aircraft relative to the horizon is observed on the <URL> which also displays roll angle . These are required for IFR flight but not VFR flight here in the US . As such they are found on most but not strictly all aircraft . These are typically <URL> . <URL> ( <URL> ) Here is a basic cutaway of the interior showing where the gyro is mounted . They are often <URL> driven but can be optical or electrical as well . <URL> ( <URL> ) Angle to the relative wing ( angle of attack ) is shown on an angle of attack indicator . While not required these are becoming more popular . These are controlled by a sensor on the outside of the aircraft . <URL> ( <URL> ) The sensor that measures this on the exterior looks like this : <URL> ( <URL> ) As far as I know there is no pitch rate info on your standard panel .
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
Generally yes , but not always . If you include the <URL> as an engine , the answer would need to be different , but I understand your question concerns just the engines used for propulsion . For jets , the direction of rotation does n't make much of a difference , so the same engines can be used on all stations . However , with propellers the swirl does influence flying characteristics , especially at low speed , so special left - and right turning versions of turboprop and piston engines are available . Maintenance and logistics become much simpler if only one type of engine is used . In the past , not so much emphasis was placed on this , so some airplanes used different types of engines . Examples were : <URL> , which combined piston and jet engines in the same airframe <URL> , which used a Junkers L88 inboard and a Junkers L8 outboard . Later , the outboard engines were also changed to the L88 . This can be seen from the number of propeller blades : If the outer engines drive a two-bladed propeller , it is the earlier version with the L8 . <URL> , which was almost a four-engined jet , because it had a small , tail-mounted RB-162 engine in addition to the three tail-mounted RB-163 Spey to provide thrust on takeoff . <URL> , which used a bigger front and a smaller rear engine .
Winglets on wings help because they increase the volume of air on which the wing can act . <URL> , but when span is restricted or the maximum wing bending moment is limited , winglets bring a small improvement in efficiency at high lift coefficients . <URL> , however , the winglets would run through air which is already affected by the tips of the propeller . No additional air will be involved , so no efficiency increase will be possible . Please note that propulsive efficiency is increased by accelerating more air by a smaller amount . The formula for the propulsive efficiency $ \ eta_p $ of an air breathing engine is $ $ \ eta_p = \ frac { v _ { \ infty } } { v _ { \ infty } + \ frac { \ Delta v } { 2 } } $ $ where $ v _ { \ infty } $ is the speed of the inflowing air and $ \ Delta v $ the speed increase of the air affected by the propeller disc . A smaller $ \ Delta v $ acting on a higher mass flow makes the engine more efficient . This effect is most pronounced when $ v _ { \ infty } $ is low . The prop tip winglets would operate in a region of high dynamic pressure and generate more friction drag without contributing to the prop 's efficiency . By the way : Whoever tells you that winglets reduce induced drag quite a bit has something to sell to you , but I digress .
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
It only takes 3 satellites for a GPS fix ( 4 if you want altitude ) . There are <URL> currently in orbit and at any given time you can most likely receive a signal from half a dozen of them at least . That being said the chances of them failing completely is almost 0 % . But of course what if they did , well ... <URL> There is always the Russian version of GPS known as <URL> so there is effectually an entire redundant global navigation system in space . While not all aircraft are equipped with GLONASS receivers it is of course becoming more common . Even the <URL> I use for GA flights has it now . So there is that redundancy . <URL> In controlled airspace you have ATC there to help you . They can effectively watch you on radar and tell you what to do which is basically what <URL> is . For this you will need an operational altitude encoding transmitter so that ATC knows your altitude along with position . If you are flying VFR and require assistance you could call for Flight Following here in the US , load permitting . They can offer limited guidance but if you tell them you are lost they will generally help . If there is no ATC you can hone in on <URL> , or some of the older <URL> like ADF systems assuming your aircraft is equipped with such equipment . Some modern handheld radios can also hone in on VOR stations <URL> If all that fails you have your good old magnetic compass and hopefully some way of keeping time . With close track of your airspeed , a clock , and a compass you can navigate pretty accurately even in the blind ( although I do n't recommend that ) . <URL> No compass , no problem , you always have your ground reference points to get where you need to be . Basic VFR navigation which every pilot know how to do is learned this way . This will require you have a VFR map of the area which most GA planes will carry . Note the roads , power lines and other large things marked on the map that are easily identified from the sky . <URL> Outdated/less popular systems : Inertial navigation systems are still used in plenty of places however they are not as accurate as other systems available in modern aircraft but they work by knowing how fast you have gone and in what direction you have accelerated to that speed . Thus position can be calculated . INS systems suffer from <URL> which can add up over time and make the margin of error pretty big . There was once a time in history when you could get a navigators rating on your license . These people were trained in many times of navigation including celestial navigation . Older planes were even outfitted with a sextant for that very reason . <URL> <URL> was officially shut down here in the US/Canada in 2010 but there are still active chains elsewhere in the world . Some planes out there still have the units in them ( one of the Cherokees I fly still has it sitting there ) . So depending on where you are you may be able to use it . What Time Is It : The US GPS network is synced up via the <URL> and while it is unlikely that all the satellites will fail simultaneously or fall out of the sky , or be shut down . The master clock does provide a central point of failure for the system . While I am not up to date on the full function of the system I would imagine that a downed clock could introduce a margin of error into the system . Worse so an incorrect value fed from the master system may cause an erroneous reading .
No , no , by all means do n't turn left . See also <URL> . Transport category aircraft are capable of climbing out on one engine . It is a certification requirement for them . So if the left engine failed after rotation , the first thing the pilot has to concentrate on is to keep the plane flying and under control . That means ease the pull on the stick a bit to avoid stalling as the plane is not able to climb as fast and push the right rudder pedal to keep the plane flying straight ¹ . Once the plane is in straight climb at $ V_2 $ speed , it 's time to deal with the engine . First both pilots cross-check the instruments and the rudder position to determine it was the left engine that failed . Then they feather the propeller ( auto-feather might have done it already ) and cut fuel to the failed engine . If the engine fire warning is on and did not extinguish when fuel was cut , they discharge fire extinguisher . These things are done according to standard emergency procedure that the pilots have to remember and train in simulator . I do n't know the specifics for ATR-72 , but in all aircraft it is roughly like above . Meanwhile the aircraft climbs to safe altitude and then they should level off and let it accelerate a bit to get some safety margin for manoeuvring . The plane is now in relatively safe condition . Even if engine was on fire , it is unlikely to spread while the aircraft is flying . So the pilots now have time to declare emergency and ask the controller for what options they have for landing . Whether they do a complete circuit and land back on the same runway or turn around and land in opposite direction or land on some other runway then depends on wind and where they are relative to the runways at the time . There were many accidents where plane crashed after one engine failure during take-off because pilots started manoeuvring before they attained sufficient altitude and safe speed . It is better not to hurry , engine failure does not require it . ¹ Of course provided there are no obstacles in the way . For example if you were taking off from VQPR runway 33 and your right engine quit , you 'd still have to do a right turn rather early to avoid the <URL> right in the axis of the runway and quite a bit above it . But for any airport that require such avoidance ( and there is quite a few of them in various mountains ) , the pilots are specifically briefed and trained for that airport which includes instructions on how to best handle engine failure during take-off and during approach and viability of the procedure is verified in simulator and with a test flight . The above answer just outlines the generic procedure .
MiG-23 For the MiG-23 , it was manual . [ The ] MiG-23 had a completely manual wing sweep control . But there was no gauge to indicate optimum wing position for the surrounding conditions . " You had to manually put the wings into position to safely fly the airplane , " [ ... ] " They had a very nice gauge that showed where the wings were commanded to , where the wings actually were if they were still in motion , and what the Mach limit was associated with that wingsweep position . " -- <URL> p. 176 From <URL> we learn the sweep steps were 16 ° , 45 ° , and 72 ° -- for one of the variants at least -- which makes it easy to find that gauge . Here it is magnified below with the limiting Mach number ( M2 .35 ) and Velocity ( 1400 km/h indicated ; 756 KIAS ) for the current selected max sweep of 72 ° . <URL> ( <URL> ) Su-17 / 20/22 It started as a two-position wing , then it was upgraded1 so that the wing can stop anywhere between 30 ° and 63 ° . This improved the flight range . Below , КРЫЛО means wing . And ОТКЛ means off , or deactivate -- ОТКЛЮЧИТЬ . This leads me to conclude it too was manual despite the advanced avionics the Su-17 family carried . <URL> ( <URL> ) The wing control switch and position indicator are on the left glareshield . 1 Source : <URL> Bonus : <URL> showing the pilot using that switch
None of four airlines I worked for ( two commuters , two Part 121 ) had specific guidance as to the max number of go-arounds . However , as mentioned in the other answers , 2 or 3 was believed to be a good rule . The only time I did multiple go-arounds , all missed approaches , was trying to get into Pullman , WA during a snowstorm in the late 1980s in an SA-227 Metroliner . I tried the VOR approach 3 times . Each time when we got down to the MDA , we did not have the forward visibility to descend further . Each of the 3 times the station personnel saw us pass over , and each time passengers looking out the windows saw the runway below us when we were overhead . That , of course , resulted in our being criticized when we arrived at our alternate by some passengers for not having landed at Pullman . I had explained en route to the alternate the problem with forward visibility , but when you 've disrupted people 's travel plans , they do n't want to listen . I briefly considered the feasibility , when we were over the runway , of entering a tight left turn to see if I could keep the runway in sight , but I rejected that . And , yes , I considered descending below the MDA before catching sight of the runway . That would have been doable as I was very familiar with the airport and knew that the gently rolling fields around the airport topped out well below the MDA . The problem was that with all the snow on the ground and the snow in the air , we could n't determine our altitude above the ground visually until we were actually over the runway . The fields around the airport had no trees , they were wheat fields in season . Even if I had chosen to bust the MDA , I still would have been too high for any kind of a normal landing when I caught sight of the runway end . If getting down was an emergency , we could have done it . It was n't technically legal , but you could go into beta with the props and really drop out of the sky , then as you flared come out of beta . But it was n't an emergency , so we went to our alternate , which was actually our next stop anyway , so all of the passengers were n't unhappy . The advantage of multiple approaches is that conditions might get better while you 're doing them , and you can get in . The disadvantage is that the nervous energy you 're expending is telling . Our SA-227s had no-autopilots , no radar altimeters , and , of course , no GPS . I imagine that these days that airport has one or more GPS approaches that would make landing in those conditions a piece of cake .
Solar Impulse has no flaps and a high aspect ratio wing . Therefore , the c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ of the wing should be no higher than 1.8 , most likely 1.6 . While a rigid airfoil can be designed with a higher c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ , it will not have an attractive L/D and a shorter wing would have a c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ below that of the airfoil . Since no fuel is consumed , mass is constant , which makes it very easy to give a lower bound for the minimum speed . <URL> has 269.5 m ² wing area to carry its 2.3 tons of mass . This is a wing loading of just 8.53 kg/m ² . If we assume standard day conditions at sea level ( density $ \ rho $ = 1.225 kg/m ³ ) , we find vor v $ _ { min } $ : $ $ v _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { c _ { l _ { max } } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho } } = 9.24 \ ; \ small { \ frac { m } { s } } \ ; \ text { or } \ ; 33.27 \ ; \ small { \ frac { km } { h } } $ $ For those of you from metrically challenged cultures : This is 18 knots or 20.67 mph .
end question
start question
What is the biggest airplane that does not need a paved runway ?
Military transports are designed to be operated from unpaved runways - by extension , any of these converted to civilian use can operate from unpaved runways . For example , the <URL> operates a number of <URL> , which can and do operate from unpaved runways regularly . The <URL> specifically states : Multi-leg landing gears equipped with 24 wheels allow to operate the aircraft on unpaved runways ...
How does an oversight like this exist for such an extended period of time ? Because it does n't get reported . Is this something that should be reported ? Yes , it should be reported , otherwise this oversight will exist for an extended period of time . This <URL> contains a link that should be followed to <URL> . Somewhere down those links you 'll find plethora of forms and rather confusing texts which seem not really helpful when you want to report a missing VASI . That brings us back to the answer on your first question . Update : In the comments , Kevin Cathcart pointed out the <URL> which is the appropriate form to flag the problem . Alternatively you can contact the NFDC ( National Flight Data Center ) via phone at 1 - (866) 295-8236 . Does this create a hazard to potential IFR traffic ? Whether it is a potential hazard depends mainly on the presence of other source of vertical guidance . Is there an ILS / gideslope active ? No vertical guidance at all is a safety risk in low visibility conditions .
I am neither builder nor airport manager and ca n't provide details , but as there is no answer yet , I 'll try to summarize the main differences between the materials : Concrete can support highest loads and lasts long . It is however most expensive to build and when it eventually gets damaged , it ca n't be patched and has to be rebuilt in large slabs . It also requires stable base , because it is rigid . It is built in slabs with spaces between them that are required due to account for thermal expansions and give somewhat bouncy ride . Asphalt . There is a big variation between different kinds of asphalt concrete , but it is generally cheaper than concrete , but ca n't support as big loads and is susceptible to damage by frost . Asphalt is never completely rigid and slowly deforms under load . This allows using it on unstable base , but it means bumps form by prolonged use reducing the total lifetime . It also easily cracks and when water freezes in the cracks , potholes quickly form . They can however be relatively easily patched . It does not require any thermal expansion gaps and provides smooth ride . Asphalt and concrete can be combined . A concrete with a layer of asphalt on top provides the strength of concrete and smooth ride of asphalt . The asphalt also protects the concrete base from freezing water while itself can be easily patched . This is lately common on roads ( where concrete alone is really uncomfortable ) , not sure how much on runways . Gravel is simple to build ; all you need is some stone from nearby quarry and a steamroller . The main disadvantages are risk of foreign object damage by loose stones thrown up by the wheels and need of regular maintenance . So it is used mainly in remote cold places where concrete would be too expensive and asphalt would not last long in prevailing weather conditions . Rolled earth with or without grass is even simpler then gravel , used for small airports where big loads are not needed . When runway is listed as grass , it means it is not even rolled . Usually enough for small airplanes and obviously cheapest . Other surfaces usually as provided by local conditions ( snow , salt etc. ) For every particular airport , the investor evaluates the available technologies whether they can handle the expected traffic ( to handle large jets like 747 or A380 concrete or concrete-asphalt combination is preferred ) , whether they are buildable in given location ( the ground has to support the weight too ) and how much building them will cost and choose the option that satisfies the requirements and they have money for .
Only a mechanical inspection is likely to give you a definitive answer for why the AI tumbled , but typically it 'll happen for one of two reasons : either the vacuum pump has decided to take a break , in which case the AI gyros slow down and will eventually no longer hold the instrument up , or you 've exceeded the instrument 's pitch and/or bank limits and caused it to tumble . In the case of the former , there 's not much you can do in a stock -172 about that . Section 3 in the PIM just tells to verify that the vacuum pump is operating with normal parameters ( green arc is 4.5-5 .5 in.hg ) . I 've seen PA-28Rs with electric vacuum pumps that served as standbys to the engine-driven ones , but never seen one in a -172 , not even as an STC mod . You could always try increasing the throttle ; pumps in older aircraft will sometimes fail to perform as expected at lower throttle settings , but there 's no guarantee there . The latter case can happen during maneuvering flight if you exceed + / -30 degrees of pitch and 60 degrees of bank on a non-acrobatic AI . This can inadvertently happen when certain training maneuvers such as power-on or cross-controlled stalls are performed ... enthusiastically . I 've also seen tumbling occur during spin training . And then there was the Husky we used for banner-towing and which was pitched to 45 degrees on a regular basis during banner picks ( waivers are wonderful things ) . The AI tumbled so regularly , the owner gave up on having mechanics reset it . But yea , should this happen to you again , run any checklists that might exist on the topic ( either directly concerned with the AI or with the vacuum pump system ) , and switch to partial panel ops if necessary .
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
Yes , there is an upper limit , but that upper limit might change with technological innovation . An airplane flies because of the lift coefficient $ L = \ frac12 \ rho v ^ 2 A C_L $ , with $ v $ the airspeed , which is a combination of the speed of the plane and the wind speed , $ \ rho \ approx 1 \ , \ text { kg m } ^ { -3 } $ at a theoretical mimimum of 5 km height ( remember that most planes reach 10 km , but I took this a little more extreme to show an upper limit ) , $ A$ the area , and $ C_L $ an coefficent with a typical value less than 2 , that might change with technological innovation . So the only factors we can influence are $ v $ and $ A$ . However , if we increase $ A$ , the mass $ m $ increases faster than the area $ A$ because there is more material needed to avoid the plane form breaking under the huge forces . Increasing $ A$ quadratically gives more than a quadratically in $ m $ , and hence in the needed $ L$ . If we increase $ v $ , we need more fuel . The amount of fuel per distance unit increases linearily in $ v $ , because it increases quadratically per unit of time in $ v $ . Hence $ L$ increases quadratically where $ m $ only increases linearily . This means that we might do something with increasing $ v $ . That means that airplanes have to go faster before liftoff , which will need drastically longer takeoff lanes . Note that we ca n't keep increasing $ v $ because we ca n't lose control . In summary , things we can improve are $ v $ , the speed , $ C_L $ , with technological innovations and $ \ rho $ by lowering flying height . However , it is not practical .
The term " fast ailerons " is an informal term that generally refers to the response of the plane relative to the pilot 's input to the aileron controls on the stick or yolk . The faster the plane responds , the faster the ailerons ( or other controls ) . The roll rate is the speed at which a plane can complete a roll . This depends on a number of factors , including aileron size , maximum aileron deflection , wing length , and speed . Ailerons that can deflect a lot of air without disrupting the airflow over the wing too much are desirable in an aerobatic plane , so the roll rate can be increased and so the plane will have better roll control at lower speeds . While larger ailerons are desirable on an aerobatic plane , they are also more susceptible to flutter at high speeds , which is not desirable because it tends to rip them off the wing . There are several design techniques that can be used to mitigate this , such as gap seals , counterweights , countersurfaces , etc. .
Since the aircraft is not grounded , the physics are the same as with a bird which lands on a high-voltage line . The aircraft 's skin will be charged , but very little current will be induced in internal parts in the process . The outer skin will act as a <URL> and protect the inner parts from the electric field . This is greatly helped by a metal structure . Composite aircraft parts need a copper mesh over all external surfaces to give them sufficient electrical conductivity . The terminals of that mesh must be connected to the metal parts of the structure to make sure that all parts will have the same electrical potential in case of lightning strike . However , the ionized air caused by lightning will leave burn marks on the surface , and an inspection of the affected part and the electrical equipment is advisable .
A vertical take-off , known as a " towering " or " confined area " take-off , is normally only used when it is not possible to take-off and remain in <URL> before gaining speed and climbing away . For example , your operational need is to land in a clearing in a forest or perhaps a field surrounded by tall trees . In order to take off again , you need to climb vertically until you 've cleared the tops of the trees so that you can transition forward to gain speed . You might need to use on at night ( because you can not see if there are any obstacles ahead ) or when taking off from snow or sand when your vision will be obscured , making a vertical take-off safer . It is technically defined as any take-off which requires you to climb vertically until out of ground effect . <URL> , I 've discussed the reasons why the power required to transition in ground effect to forward flight is much less than that required in a hover or a vertical climb out of ground effect . Before attempting a towering take off , the pilot should conduct a power check to establish that they have enough power to hover OGE ( out of ground effect ) . If you do have enough power to hover OGE , then in theory , you could continue to climb vertically until the reduction in engine power output or lift ( small effect ) as you gain altitude reduces the power margin to the point where further climb is not possible without exceeding limits . So , to the point of your question , why is it not safe ? The main reason is a scenario which is common to all helicopter operations , not just a towering take off . Climbing vertically to 90 feet is exactly as dangerous as coming to a 90 foot hover in an arrival from forward flight . This scenario is putting yourself into a shaded area of the <URL> , known by pilots as the " avoid curve " or perhaps more accurately the " dead man 's " curve . Importantly , this has nothing to do with how much power you have which of course , if the engine stops , suddenly becomes zero ! <URL> <URL> In short , test pilots , using a fully loaded helicopter over level , prepared surfaces , try to enter <URL> from different combinations of height and speed . At some point , they look at each other and say " a normal , well trained pilot , could only just auto-rotate safely from that combination of height and speed . They plot these points on a graph , join the dots and say " see those shaded areas , do n't go there " . It represents the areas where you will not have enough of the combination of potential and kinetic energy to make a safe landing . As you can see , the towering take-off puts you deep inside the avoid curve . This is the first safety concern . If the engine stops , you will almost certainly crash . I chose that curve , for an Enstrom F28 , because it nicely illustrates that if you continued climbing vertically to 300 feet , you would pop out of the top of the curve . From this height , you could auto-rotate safely . The second safety concern goes back to the power required . If you run out of power during the climb , the aircraft may start to descend into its own rotor vortex and can enter a <URL> . In a confined area , you have no options for escaping it and certainly , all but the best pilots will not avoid a crash or , at best , a very heavy landing . I 'm a relatively low time private pilot and when I do my power checks , I want to see at least a 10 % additional reserve over the measured power check . There have been times when pilots have landed in confined areas but have then not had the power to hover OGE . They have had to reduce the weight and/or wait for a lower temperature before trying again . The third safety concern is the need for good skills and training . When performing towering take-offs in typical sport and private helicopters , the pilot must be gentle on the controls . Relatively large or rapid control inputs cause large spikes in the power required . When you have plenty of speed , <URL> but when climbing vertically , you might be calling for more power than is available . You must climb OGE slowly with gentle collective increases and , when clear of the top of the trees or other obstacle , ease the cyclic forward gently . It is this last input which is especially risky . If you push the cyclic forward as you would in a normal take off , you could find yourself running out of power and settling into the top of the tree with nothing left to give . The safe way to do it is a slow climb but obviously , this leaves you in the shaded area for longer . I was always relieved when I cleared the trees and got back into normal flight and the temptation , which must be resisted , is to increase your climb rate to reduce the time on the curve but of course , this reduces your power margins . The general principle is to use the power required and no more . Gentle climb , gentle movements , be ready to pick up wind as you clear the obstacle , and you 'd better have made sure before you get there that it 's a head wind . The fourth safety concern ( and the last one to my knowledg
For several reasons . First to protect the drogue from damage by scraping on the pavement second to prevent it from becoming snagged on nearby objects third to prevent metal components on the drogue from hitting and damaging the tail of the aircraft , and fourth to make it easier to taxi back to the ramp without the need for higher power setting to overcome the drag and prevent damage to the drogue from this jet blast . One downside to jettisoning the drogue at a lower speed ( < 40 kts ) is that it now creates a FOD hazard on the runway and requires a waiting cleanup crew to retrieve it before another recovery is possible .
What is the purpose of runway grooving ? The channels help to remove water from the runway . They also provide an area for the water to build up . With out these channels the water runs the risk of forming a thin surface covering the runway which can be very dangerous . As mentioned by john here in the comments this is usually known as hydroplaning and is the same as what happens to a car . How does the airport drainage system work ? This is a bit of a guess but I assume they work like any other road drainage system and it will depend on where the airport is located . <URL> that you may find of some interest . Here is <URL> , it 's a bit long but should cover what you are looking for . Why do airports remove rubber from the runway ? Tires obtain the best friction when they come in direct contact with the runway surface . Excess tire rubber that wears off and sticks to the runway can affect the tire/runway interactions . <URL> covers the main points pretty well .
The relevant regulation is in 14 CFR 61.1 ( b ) ( 3 ) : Cross-country time means -- ( i ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( ii ) through ( vi ) of this definition , time acquired during flight -- ( A ) Conducted by a person who holds a pilot certificate ; ( B ) Conducted in an aircraft ; ( C ) That includes a landing at a point other than the point of departure ; and ( D ) That involves the use of dead reckoning , pilotage , electronic navigation aids , radio aids , or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point . ( ii ) For the purpose of meeting the aeronautical experience requirements ( except for a rotorcraft category rating ) , for a private pilot certificate ( except for a powered parachute category rating ) , a commercial pilot certificate , or an instrument rating , or for the purpose of exercising recreational pilot privileges ( except in a rotorcraft ) under § 61.101 ( c ) , time acquired during a flight -- ( A ) Conducted in an appropriate aircraft ; ( B ) That includes a point of landing that was at least a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure ; and ( C ) That involves the use of dead reckoning , pilotage , electronic navigation aids , radio aids , or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point . Note that the rule under paragraph ( ii ) ( B ) is " a flight " that includes " a " point of landing more than 50nm from the point of departure . It does not specify that all points of landing must be further than 50nm from the departure point , or even that the first point of landing must be further than 50nm . Since the overall trip was over 50nm , does the FAA allow you to consider that 24nm leg to be part a single overall flight ? Unfortunately , the FAA does n't provide a definition of " flight " in this context . However , it is generally accepted that short stops ( to pick up a passenger , refuel , eat lunch , etc. ) can be logged as part of a single flight . Edit to add : Please also this this <URL> , and especially the <URL> it links to .
Okay , so , going with the idea that you have a compass ( and also with the idea that this can be a general question , not necessarily about flight MH370 ) . If you 're heading from Tokyo , Japan to Seattle , Washington , USA ( direct ) , then you could be reasonably certain the craft should be somewhere between headings 45 and 135 . So if you notice the craft is on a heading of 270 ( ie. , clearly you 're going in the opposite direction ) and this direction has been sustained for say , an hour , I 'd think it would be okay to at least ask the cabin crew what 's going on . As with any time you are raising a concern with the cabin crew , you should be polite . As has been stated , they are used to passengers being a bit nervous and , as a result , they can easily interpret belligerence as a sign of irrational fear . And , as you might guess , it 's easy to ignore someone if you feel they are being irrational . So , if you want be taken seriously , be polite . You 're far more likely to get an actual answer , or raise a valid concern even . So , if you just ask , " why are we headed west instead of east " they may have a very simple answer like , " well , the pilot mentioned we might have to take an odd route to avoid some weather " or " this is the flight to Bombay India , how did you get on it ? " Or , they may have no idea and be concerned themselves , so they go and ask their superior . Thus , goal achieved , you 've alerted the flight crew :) . Either way , so long as you 're polite and do n't become insistent ( or belligerent ) that you are correct , I ca n't see any harm in just asking . And sometimes asking is what leads to a problem being solved so ... I 'd say go for it .
It appears as though the locking handle for the door has some sort of switch in it to allow for full extension of the door only if the locking handle is pulled full forward and , for whatever reason , the door handle wo n't move into this fully extended detent on its own . While the workaround is jury rigged at best , it does n't seem to pose a flight safety issue unless the door ca n't be locked when fully closed . It 's just another video from an ignoramus in the terminal with a cellphone camera .
The short of it is that most such ex-military aircraft , and replicas built new to spec on these designs , do not have a " type " as defined by the FAA at all . Because the absence of a type means the aircraft ca n't be certified as airworthy in the normal way , and pilots of these aircraft can not receive a type rating to fly them , the certification of aircraft and pilot is a bit different . The aircraft must first be issued an FAA " Special Airworthiness Certificate " . This is essentially a slightly more rigorous form of airworthiness inspections for type-rated aircraft and virtually identical to that for experimental and/or home-built aircraft , resulting in the certification of the craft as airworthy in general even though it does not fall into a predefined aircraft type for which FAA instructors can issue type ratings . The airman , because he ca n't be certified to fly a non-existent FAA aircraft type , must receive a special rating certification called a " Letter of Authorization " , allowing the pilot to fly aircraft of a specific model , and/or a " set " of aircraft that have similar configuration , power , weight and other operational specifications and limits ( but that are n't similar or common enough for a type rating ) . The training required for an LOA includes a combination of ground school and flight school containing information and in-flight training on the specific model to be authorized . But , when it is not possible or practical to do in-flight training in the exact model of aircraft to be authorized ( usually because the aircraft in question is a single-seater with no two-seat configuration available ) , flight training in a " similar " aircraft can be a substitute . Pilots of vintage single-seat warplanes like P-51s typically get their flight training for the category in something similar to what military pilots of the day would have used , such as an AT-6 . If the flight school just happens to have a Twin Mustang laying around , that would be even better , and also more directly applicable to multi-engine warbirds like the P-38 . Back to your example , say you get your hands on a " de-fanged " A-10 ( which would require a ton of ballast weight to be added , literally ; the GAU-8 weighs about as much as a Cadillac , but I digress ) . All flying examples are single-seaters ; however , the avionics , especially of the original A-10A without the glass cockpit upgrade of the PEUP program , are comparable to any 70 's - era jet trainer . So , you could receive flight training in a T-33 , which is a trainer-compatible straight-wing turbojet with more similarities in its flight characteristics to the A-10 than differences . Coupled with ground instruction and/or simulator time on the specific systems of the A-10 ( Which wo n't include any weapons integration , but honestly for the A-10A that was a single FLIR display and the arming/firing switches , and the C variant only upgraded that to a pair of MFDs ; other than relative positioning , the flight instruments of the A-10 would be familiar to any PPL ) , you could be certified to fly your A-10 solo without any flight hours in an A-10 specifically . The same might apply to aircraft that do have two-seater variants but where the flight school is unable to procure one . If you won the Powerball , and put a chunk of that money into your very own milsurp F-15C ( \ $ 38 million a pop back when they were being made and that 's in late 1970s dollars ) , it 's highly unlikely your local flight school would be willing to pony up for an F-15D two-seat configuration to train you on it ( unless you bought the plane for them with another big chunk of your lottery winnings ) . They might , however , have a T-38 in their inventory or be able to loan one from the nearby naval air station , which would give you a primer into the capabilities of a multi-engine turbofan ex-military fighter . Honestly , though , if you wanted to fly an F-15 , you 'll probably want a two-seater , and your CPL , so you could give rides to paying customers and offset the cost of running this beast ( typical fuel load without droptanks , 13,500 lbs which is about 1,985 gallons . With Jet A running about \ $ 4.85 / gallon , the cost of a fillup would be somewhere in the $ 10,000 neighborhood which would give you a cruising range of about 1,000 miles , so you could offer this as a special type of jet taxi ) . Here 's some more reading on the subject : <URL>
Normally , baggage <URL> than self-loading cargo , so your scenario is highly unlikely . In the event of a passenger missing and his/her baggage already on board , all bags need to be unloaded until the orphaned bag is found . When ULDs are used , those must be unloaded first and are then unpacked , mostly on the apron next to the aircraft . Waiting for the missing passenger is an open-ended game . At some point , you must decide on a course of action with a fixed exit so you can move on . Normally , every airline is required to unload an orphaned bag . I am sure <URL> about this than others .
Wind direction mostly , planes take off best when facing in the wind as that means free airspeed so the takeoff roll is shorter . In busier airspace ( with multiple towered airports ) each airport coordinates the corridors so they do n't intersect depending on available runways , prevailing winds and relative demands on the airports . It is possible that it is dictated by noise abatement measures so night time flights pass over a nearby forest rather than wake up the capital .
The answer is probably indeed A. Pegoud with a Bleriot monoplane in the fall of 1913 , as answered by RedGrittyBrick . After that , a real craze started in Europe with stunt pilots flying briefly inverted at air shows . The first purpose-designed airplane for inverted flight was probably a Grade monoplane which flew first in the spring of 1914 . I have found this picture on a <URL> which lists lots of photos from early issues of Flight magazine . You have to scroll down 80 % to find it . It gives the name as " Tweer monoplane " , but it was actually built by the Grade aircraft factory right after the inverted flying craze was started by Pegoud . Gustav Tweer was an aerobatics pilot ( one of many at this time ) , who was famous for diving his airplane almost into the ground at flight shows . This airplane was designed for inverted landings , and with the uncambered wing I would expect that also the fuel system was adapted for inverted flight , however , there is no mention of that anywhere I have searched .
An overview of ATC related avionics can be found on the <URL> . There are a couple of things changing in 2015 . The list below includes change to ATC related avionics requirements in 2015 . In addition other avionic requirements not related to ATC are imposed , but that is outside my field of expertise . Surveillance <URL> <URL> ADS-B ADS-B ( 1090ES ) will be mandated from 7 January 2017 for aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts with an individual certificate of airworthiness first issued on or after 8 June 2016 . For aircraft certified before 8 June 2016 with the same MTOM and max cruise speed class ADS-B will be mandated after 7 June 2020 . Applies to all IFR flights in the European Civil Aviation Conference ( ECAC ) airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Elementary Surveillance ( ELS ) Mode S ELS will be mandated for all aircraft operating according to Instrument Flight Rules from 8 January 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Enhanced Surveillance ( EHS ) Mode S EHS will be mandated for new aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts from 8 January 2015 . For existing aircraft in the same MTOM and max cruise speed class Mode S EHS will be mandated after 7 December 2017 . Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Communication <URL> Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications ( CPDLC ) CPDLC ( VDL Mode 2 ) is mandated above FL285 from 5 February 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Safety Enhancements <URL> TCAS From 1 December 2015 TCAS II version 7.1 will be mandated for all aircraft build before March 2012 with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts operating in EU airspace . Aircraft first certified after 1 March 2012 already need to operate with TCAS II version 7.1 . Outside EU airspace , but within ECAC airspace , TCAS version 7.0 is still allowed .
You are absolutely correct , <URL> . But tradition and a subjective feeling of being treated better means that people will prefer to be seated facing forward . Some even claim that they develop motion sickness when sitting backwards . This can indeed be the case for some people in trains with their big windows , but much less so in aircraft . Just note which seats will be occupied last in a train with lounge/mixed seating . In order to cram the highest number of passengers into their planes , the airlines would need to convert all seats to the backward orientation , and you can be sure there will be some passengers who will complain . If passenger safety would be important to them , airlines could already use better seatbelts , like the 5-point-harnesses used in gliders and aerobatics planes , but they all use the minimum lap belt which is mandated and nothing more . Convenience and cost always win over safety . Now I need to mention two caveats : If passengers should be seated backwards , the industry needs to develop new seats . It will not be helpful to turn existing seats around - they would collapse at much lower loads than what a backward-sitting human can sustain . However , to fully support these higher loads , seats will be more heavy and possibly even the floor structure needs to be beefed up . Backward-facing seating will only help in the fraction of cases where deceleration loads are too high for a forward-facing person , but low enough to make the crash survivable . If the plane flies into a mountain or ditches and sinks before people get out , the better seating will not help . Some military transports have backward-facing seats . In some crashes , the survivability rate was seven times higher in those than in forward-facing seats . Early air travel also used mixed seating , e.g. on the Zeppelins or the <URL> . One airline to use mixed seating was Southwest Airlines with their <URL> , and business jets have mixed seating as standard . Thanks to @reirab for pointing out that United Business class also has some backward-facing seats . Cabin of the Do-X . No seatbelts , seats not bolted to the floor . These were the days ... Cabin of the Dassault Falcon 7X business jet .
end question
start question
Can commercial airliners fly over hurricanes ?
In general , no - except in emergencies or ' small ' hurricanes . Commercial aircraft usually fly around bad weather ( like hurricanes ) , not over it . Some of the hurricanes can reach upto 50,000 + ft height , making it all but impossible for most modern commercial aircraft to fly over them ( except maybe you 're flying a Concorde ) . Even for smaller storms , the convective process over the hurricane will cause severe turbulence , affecting overflying flights . Even for hurricanes where the aircraft can fly over , there is the problem of safety - What will happen is something happens ( for example engine failure ) and the aircraft has to descend to lower altitudes ? Obviously no one wants to descend into the storm . There are some aircraft <URL> for scientific experiments . These are crewed by trained ( and experienced ) specialists and <URL> . For example , the aircraft are equipped with radar that helps in avoiding the worst parts of the storm . Still , it is risky and the aircraft is exposed to significant loads and vibrations not usually exposed in commercial service .
In order to fly an SVFR clearance , the pilot and planned flight must meet several criteria . The <URL> as well as <URL> spell out the basic requirements : You must have at least a private pilot certificate to obtain an SVFR clearance during daylight hours as well as an instrument rating to obtain an SVFR clearance at night . Student pilots are not permitted to request an SVFR clearance . You must obtain an SVFR clearance to depart from Class E , D , C and B airspace if visibility is below VFR minimums . SVFR clearance may be prohibited in some Class D , C , and B airspace due to the volume of IFR traffic . Check the airspace NOTAMs for these areas prior to departure . You must have at least 1 statute mile visibility on both the ground and in the air as well as remain clear of clouds ( airplane ) or simply remain clear of clouds and have at least 1 statute mile visibility for operations in Class B , C , and D airspace ( rotorcraft helicopter ) . All an SVFR clearance allows is for a VFR pilot to enter , depart or operate in controlled airspace using day VFR minimums for Class G airspace . If it is done correctly by a competent private pilot and only in these conditions , it can be done safely as it provides the pilot with enough visual references to safely operate in VFR . It is also advisable to do a realistic assessment of one 's own abilities to control an airplane in marginal conditions and set conservative minimums for things like congested airspace or other weather in the area . It is not advisable to do this if weather briefings anticipate IMC after departure . Likewise if you have little experience operating in congested controlled airspace or if you struggle to stay ahead of the airplane under additional stressors , SVFR may not be advisable .
This depends on the airline , but to answer your question : Yes , some airlines do have electrical outlets in the cabin . It seems that since the FAA relaxed the rules on portable devices that the airlines are seeing the need to add them to more of their fleet . For example : US Airways has a <URL> which tells which of their aircraft have outlets . There are some in both coach and first class . United has an <URL> whichs shows that a lot of their fleet has electrical outlets and more are coming . There are different types of outlets , and some of them require an adapter to use while others do n't .
What you are proposing is called a " tandem wing " , and it 's been done before . A brief search should produce more than enough research papers about the advantages and disadvantages of this particular design . The near-complete absence of multiple-wing designs in modern aviation should be a hint that the design has issues . Unless you particularly need the advantages of the design more than the drawbacks , there 's no particular reason to use it .
There are quite a lot of differences , some more subtle than others , but I tend to find this is the best angle for identification : the side view . Although as we 'll see later in this answer , the top/bottom view has a fairly obvious difference , and there 's a clue that we can use to identify from the front or rear <URL> So what are you looking at ? On the left is the Hurricane . It 's slightly larger than the Spitfire , although that 's not always a great help from distance . Perhaps more usefully , the fuselage is fundamentally different shape : I 'll elaborate on this in several areas where we can directly compare . Firstly , the rear fuselage . At first glance the two are very similar , but the Hurricane has a much more pronounced " drop " to the tail , while the Spitfire 's is a " rise " . What do I mean by that ? Follow the line of the top of the cockpit canopy : the Hurricane 's fuselage behind the canopy drops away , while the bottom of the fuselage is relatively flat . On the Spitfire , it 's reversed - the top of the fuselage follows the line of the canopy , while the bottom comes up to meet it . It 's a subtle difference at first glance , but once you 've seen it once it 's a very clear distinction . When looking at the Hurricane 's rear fuselage , it almost appears to have a " dog leg " , where the rearmost area drops in relation to the middle of the aircraft . The Spitfire 's follows a much more continuous line The Spitfire is also clearly much more sleek - it 's a " pencil " shaped fuselage , long and thin and curvy . The Hurricane is more blunt and " solid " . Other differences ? Look at the tail . The Spitfire 's is relatively small and curves upward from the top of the fuselage in a smooth curve , while the Hurricane 's comes off at a sharper angle . Similarly the Hurricane 's horizontal stabilizer is higher - almost in line with the top of the fuselage . The Engine cowling shape , as with the cockpit , is different : where again the Spitfire 's continues a nearly straight line from the bottom of the cockpit , the Hurricane 's has a distinct curve . If you can get closer , you will also note that the Hurricane 's fuselage is almost " ridged " - it 's a metal frame with a fabric covering , and that gives it a bumpy appearance , vaguely visible on the above photo . <URL> What about if you ca n't get a side view , though ? Here 's the Spitfire ( below ) and Hurricane ( above ) from the front ... but you can see the same from the rear Well from the front , there 's a single very nice clue under the fuselage : the radiator housing : that box-like structure hanging from the bottom of the plane . The Hurricane has one , and it 's on the centre of the fuselage . The Spitfire 's is not , it 's under the right wing . On some later models , there are two , one under each wing . The next photo is included mostly for the wing shape , but the aforementioned radiator boxes are visible too : from this , we can tell the Spitfire is a relatively late war model : a Mk IX ( 9 ) onward : although there are other subtle clues that suggest this is a much later model ... the 5 bladed propeller indicates a Griffon engine , so a Mk XIV ( 14 ) or later . Anyway , we can see the Hurricane 's single centre radiator , and the Spitfire with one under each wing <URL> And finally , how about the bottom ? Well , the Spitfire 's wing is extremely distinctive : it has an " Elliptical " wing , shared with only one or two other aircraft . Once you can recognise the Elliptical wing , you can recognise the Spitfire very easily in flight . The Spitfire 's wing , particularly the trailing edge , is very curved compared to most other contemporary aircraft . The Hurricane 's wings are much more conventionally shaped , with both leading and trailing edges being straight ( a trait shared with aircraft like the Typhoon/Tempest , P-51 , Me109 , A6M " Zero " and most other aircraft from the WW2 era ) <URL> Late War Spitfires ( the above is a Mk 22 ) are even more distinctive : they have a " bubble " canopy that protrudes entirely from the fuselage .
For a commercial pilot ( without a CFI rating ) you 've got some options , but the real golden goose of time building is flight instructing . Most folks I know who are time-building accumulate the minimum amount of time until they have enough to get the CFI rating , then go out and instruct to get to their end goal ( time / types ) . Without the CFI rating , some things to look in to include : Banner Tow ( if available in your area ) Crop dusting ( again , if available in your area ) Glider towing Skydiving <URL> Ferry Piloting ( if you do n't mind the travel ) Photo work - anything from costal erosion photos to event coverage depending on your location . News work - Hand in hand with Photo work , but also traffic and the like . Sightseeing flights <URL> , take care as you almost certainly want to be sure you fall under Part 91 and not Part 135 ! Deliveries . Someone needs a wedding cake moved across the state ? You can often do that in a Cessna more efficiently than they can by car , and as a commercial pilot you can even charge for it . Corporate Flight Jobs Sightseeing within 25sm of an airport There are some outfits that will " sell " you SIC in their cargo twins . It 's a way to build TT , but it 's considered an unscrupulous practice . Many of these will probably require the very time you 're looking to build , or experience in specific types of aircraft , but it ca n't hurt to investigate .
If ATC allows a direct-to , then yes . However , what you will file is a flight plan based on published waypoints , but not airways . So pick and choose based on great circle and trade winds and so on . Airways The en route airspace structure of the National Airspace System ( NAS ) consists of three strata . The first stratum low altitude airways in the United States can be navigated using NAVAIDs , have names that start with the letter V , and are called Victor Airways . They cover altitudes from approximately 1,200 feet above ground level ( AGL ) up to , but not including 18,000 feet above mean sea level ( MSL ) . The second stratum high altitude airways in the United States all have names that start with the letter J , and are called Jet Routes . These routes run from 18,000 feet to 45,000 feet . The third stratum allows random operations above flight level ( FL ) 450 . The altitude separating the low and high airway structure varies from county to country . For example , in Switzerland it is 19,500 feet and 25,000 feet in Egypt . ( FAA Instrument Procedures Handbook - <URL> ) And from the FAA AIM : Operations above FL 450 − Use aids not more than 200 NM apart . These aids are depicted on enroute high altitude charts . compared to Operation off established routes from 18,000 feet MSL to FL 450 − Use aids not more than 260 NM apart . These aids are depicted on enroute high altitude charts . and finally Operation above FL 450 may be conducted on a point-to-point basis . Navigational guidance is provided on an area basis utilizing those facilities depicted on the enroute high altitude charts . Special RNAV points can also be used , such as the HAR , see here : <URL> HAR <URL> up to 500 NM between waypoints . The reason for the limitation in filing a huge distance without points is the air traffic optimization . The computers are limited by how far to look ahead for conflicts is one of the reasons . I do n't have numbers at the moment but I 'm mentioning it in case you were wondering . Also because the different sectors and FIR 's prefer to have a complete leg ( s ) within their own airspace . However , they can coordinate together and shoot you direct-to the destination .
ATC can assign speeds en-route for separation or in the <URL> for sequencing aircraft onto the approach . Speeds en-route in upper sectors are assigned using <URL> : In the TMA area , aircraft are sequenced for an approach and reduced to similar speeds to maintain lateral separation . These restrictions can be paired with conditions , until when the speed needs to be maintained : Certain approach or arrival charts list maximum speeds for certain turns , marked with , indicating that this turn should not be flown with more than 210 KIAS to make the radius . Speed restrictions imposed by ATC need to be maintained until cancelled by the ATC unit : The pilot however is responsible for ensuring a safe flight and can report that he is unable to follow the instructions due to performance limitations . There is also legal considerations when it comes to aircraft speeds , such as general rules for traffic below certain altitudes or in some jurisdictions , only for certain airspace classes ( related : <URL> ) . The <URL> says : § 91.117 Aircraft speed . ( a ) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator , no person may operate an aircraft below 10,000 feet MSL at an indicated airspeed of more than 250 knots ( 288 m.p.h. ) . The <URL> however rules that a speed limit of 250 KIAS below FL100 only applies to VFR and IFR aircraft in airspaces class D , E , F , G and only to VFR aircraft in airspace class C. IFR aircraft in airspace class C do not have a speed limitation . Regarding the general authority over a flight , see the related question : <URL>
Update : Satellites were eventually used in the search for MA370 , see <URL> . This question might be better answered by the <URL> but here 's a shot : Oil slicks are not uncommon at sea , so finding one from the aircraft is not too easy . It 's an incredibly large area pulling a lot of processing power . You 're going to need pretty good resolution imagery over several square kilometers and then run image recognition on it . Look at this image which has a scale of 25 miles which is still a fraction of what you would need to get an idea : The fragments you 're looking for are very small in regards to waves . I suspect depending on where you are there 's a large amount of noise from other rubbish which is hard to filter out , such as a white plastic sheet to a door . You might even go confusing big aircraft parts to other white boats . Yes , you can continue the search but it takes time to go through all of these and dismiss them . A lot of volunteers searched for Steve Fossett when he went missing , and there was some attempts to locate him by satellite imagery from google maps , which was not successful . Aircraft , while not fast , can be over the side within a few hours , while I think you have to wait until the satellites have caught all the imagery you would like . While I think it could be done as you say , you would need to develop software and I do n't think the market for it exists , but that 's just my guess . Reading up it appears that satellites are used against drug cartels along the USA-Mexico border and against illegal immigrants elsewhere in the world .
A rainbow is created by refraction of sunlight so you have to be in the right position to see it . The effect is only created at some distance . A rainbow that you see from the ground may appear to be in a particular place in the sky . An airplane could fly through that space and it might appear to you that it is passing through it The occupants of the airplane , however , would not see a rainbow there .
The air conditioning system on board airliners is an open system : it scoops up air from the atmosphere , compresses it , expels it through the cabin vents , and then outflows it through discharge valves . In modern airliners there is a certain amount of re-circulation : the expelled air was of such good quality that it seemed a waste to just dump it in the atmosphere . <URL> <URL> In the A320 family of airliners : Outside air is compressed in the engine compressors , part of it is tapped of as bleed air : already compressed and warmed , it is used for refreshing the cabin air ( marked green ) . Temperature and pressure regulators then provide automatic mixture control for the amount of outflow : the outflow valve is regulated , decreasing the opening results in increase of cabin pressure and decrease of flow . The recirculation fans regulate how much air is re-used , after being filtered through HEPA filters which remove pathogens and other nasty stuff . The whole cabin air volume is refreshed every 2 - 3 minutes , as also referenced in <URL> : with such a frequent refresh rate , it would be pretty safe to assume that there will always be roughly the percentage of oxygen in the cabin as there is in the outside atmosphere ( see below for the actual percentage ! ) . People have climbed to the <URL> without the help of oxygen masks , and that summit is about at cruising altitude of an airliner . AFAIK , the aircon system does not have oxygen sensors , but it does have temperature and pressure sensors which are of more immediate concern . Low concentration toxic gases are much more dangerous than a drop in oxygen concentration . In fact , the human body makes use of this : when holding your breath , the urge of breathing fresh air again after a while comes from the <URL> , not from any decrease in oxygen . So CO$ _ 2 $ detectors on board of aircraft would make sense , as would detectors for the very lethal carbon monoxide . These are available , even in the form of a key hanger for GA pilots ( not including any links due to them being adverts ) . There have been reports of dizziness and fainting on board of airliners , and investigations into these . <URL> did not reveal a particularly high carbon dioxide content : Discussion With additional measurement reports pending , I found in-flight cabin air quality measurements of oxygen to be relatively stable , ranging from 11.2 % to 12.5 % . Typical outdoor CO2 levels are between 350-400 ppm ( 0.035 % - 0.04 % ) or up to 500 ppm by some sources . Carbon dioxide levels measured in-flight in the aircraft cabin ranged between 0.04 % or 400 ppm and 0.1 % or 1000 ppm to date in our studies and were measured at close to 0.5 % or 5,000 ppm in earlier studies . As indicated at CO2 HEALTH EFFECTS , occupants are unlikely to be affected or to notice CO2 levels under 2 % or 20,000 ppm - a far higher number than in-flight aircraft cabin carbon dioxide levels . Notice that the oxygen contents on board is a bit over half of that of the outside air - the cause of dizzy passengers ? Reports of dizziness do keep appearing , and nothing beats direct detection of noxious gases by a sensor . Problem is , there are so many of them . Oxygen , carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide sensors would be good candidates for inclusion into the aircon systems . On your second part of the question Is there any situation ( emergency or not ) in which some other gas could pressurize the cabin and lower the O2 percentage inside it ? Yes , in air conditioning systems that use bleed air there definitely is , an engine malfunction can for instance inject gases from burning oil into the cabin air , a problem that was reported a few times for the BAE 146 . <URL> The British Aerospace BAe 146 was the aircraft type most commonly involved in fumes/smoke events when taking into account flying activity . The Airbus A380 , Boeing 767 , Embraer EMB-120 and E-190 were among other aircraft types that also had a higher than average rate of fumes/smoke occurrences over the period . The most common source of fumes/smoke was aircraft systems issues , primarily relating to failure or malfunction of electrical and auxiliary power unit ( APU ) systems . Equipment and furnishings also featured highly as a source of fumes and smoke . Within this category , air conditioning and galley equipment were the most common sources of fumes/smoke . External sources of fumes/smoke and cargo/baggage related events were relatively rare .
Surface air temperatures are n't really going to be relevant for an airliner . The temperature of the troposphere does n't vary that much . In fact , the troposphere is warmer at the poles ( from Wikipedia <URL> ) : At middle latitudes , tropospheric temperatures decrease from an average of 15 ° C at sea level to about − 55 ° C at the tropopause . At the poles , tropospheric temperature only decreases from an average of 0 ° C at sea level to about − 45 ° C at the tropopause . At the equator , tropospheric temperatures decrease from an average of 20 ° C at sea level to about − 70 to − 75 ° C at the tropopause . Sightseeing flights are indeed run during the summer months , but that is because it 's actually possible to see things , not because it 's any warmer . It would n't be very interesting to do a sightseeing flight in darkness . The biggest obstacle to doing winter commercial flights over Antarctica is the lack of suitable alternate places to land in the event of an emergency .
787 On the 787 there is no activate/deactivate button for it . Yaw damping and turn coordination are always active as long as the flight controls law is in primary mode . In secondary or direct modes , yaw damping becomes degraded . Primary being the fly-by-wire 's fully functional mode . Source : 787 FCOM . MD-11 On an older generation plane , for example the MD-11 , there are buttons for the yaw damper , 4 in fact for the 4 channels , they are rarely used ( always on ) unless there 's a fault and after troubleshooting you want to take a channel out . <URL> ( <URL> ) Four yaw damper buttons on the MD-11 's overhead panel . 737 Next Generation On a 737 , after a flight is completed and the <URL> knobs are moved to the off position , the yaw damper switch automatically goes to the off position . I suspect the rationale back then ( carried over from earlier 737 variants ) was you ca n't have the switch on the " on position " and the fault light illuminated when there was no fault . ( The yaw damper needs a functioning <URL> , which needs input from the IRS . ) <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Yaw damper and IRS controls on the 737 overhead panel . Autopilot and yaw damper In most ( if not all ) planes that come with a yaw damper ( YD ) , engaging the autopilot ( A/P ) is not needed to enable the YD , i.e. , you can hand fly and still have the YD on , whether there 's a switch for it ( 737 ) or not ( 787 ) . In the MD-11 if all four channels failed , the A/P can only be used in cruise . So as you can see , you need the YD for the A/P in the MD-11 , not the other way around . Source : MD-11 QRH .
Polar curves for older airliners can be found in lecture notes or technical publications . The drag polars of the most recent ones , where no independent measurement is yet possible , are a closely guarded secret . If you see something , it will be restricted such that an important part of the puzzle is missing . For the polars to be meaningful , you need aircraft mass and flight conditions , air temperature and density and sometimes also engine thrust information to make any meaningful comparisons . Also be aware that the Airbus method to determine the reference area is different from Boeing 's , but at least those methods are published . Full disclosure is only available to potential customers on the basis of an Non-Disclosure Agreement ( NDA ) .
I do not have a sanctioned answer , but I can give you my take on an overview of what I would plan for someone in your situation . Your certificate duplicate can be ordered . You will need a through review of airspace ( things have changed ) , weather gathering ( also changed ) , AIM stuff ( changed runway markings , phraseology , etc. ) . I would urge <URL> for various topics you might feel you can get brushed up in . On the air side , if we were flying , we would do a " checkout " in the 182 , covering the systems , cowl flap operation , targeted power settings , trim usage , etc. . A little airwork , steep turns , turning to headings , power on and off stall recoveries , emergency procedures and landings , takeoffs and go arounds . Everyone is different , but the last guy , similar to you , flew C208 and stopped in 2003 , and did not fly since then . This summer he hit the books , watched a few videos , took a practice commercial written , and flew 3.4 hours with me . I was real comfortable signing him off , and his wife , who was the concerned party , was real happy with the results . Two months later we did a instrument proficiency ride , and that was a little more difficult for him , but he completed the ride in two flights and less than 4 hours . Good luck and enjoy . Have your instructor put a new high performance endorsement in your new logbook for the 182 .
There is no set legal limit ( ultimately it is up to the PIC to decide ) but condition reports are available to pilots at many airports to assist in assessing takeoff and landing performance . The FAA has recently created a standardized way of reporting runway conditions through their TALPA ( takeoff and landing performance assessment ) initiative . TALPA is an improved way of assessing runway conditions , based on contaminant type and depth , which provides an aircraft operator effective means to anticipate airplane braking performance . The RCAM ( shown below ) is the tool airport operators use to report a runway surface assessment when contaminants such as water , ice , snow , slush , and others are present on runways , taxiways , and aprons . To find an updated RCAM look in Chapter 5 of Advisory Circular 150/5200 -30 , Airport Field Condition Assessments and Winter Operation Safety . The RwyCC is the runway condition code -- as you can see a code of 0 yields minimal to non-existant braking and/or directional control . <URL>
In an event of failure of all engines of a commercial aircraft in mid air ... That would be a very rare event . In the modern cases where this has happened within an ATC area , it has not prevented location of the aircraft so far as I know . ... and no secondary backup or generators powering the plane Even a two-engined airliner has an Auxiliary Power Unit ( APU ) and a Ram-Air Turbine ( RAT ) . I believe they also typically have 10-15 minutes <URL> for critical systems . I do n't know if any airliner has ever lost all generators other than in cases where the aircraft was destroyed in flight ( e.g. PanAm 103 ) . would the ATC still be able to detect the aircraft with accuracy If an aircraft 's transponder and secondary-radar are not operating , ATC would rely on primary radar , which is less accurate , particularly for altitude . They would also ask the pilots for their position over VHF radio and ask other aircraft in the area to locate the aircraft . Example : <URL> All four engines flamed out due to ingestion of volcanic ash . Despite the crew " squawking " the emergency transponder setting of 7700 , the aeroplane could not be located by Air Traffic Control on their radar screens . The pilot communicated with ATC over VHF radio and later restarted the engines . The engines had enough electrical power to restart because one generator and the onboard batteries were still operating Example <URL> ( the " Gimli Glider " ) This 767 ran out of fuel mid-air and all engines stopped . The 767 was one of the first airliners to include an Electronic Flight Instrument System ( EFIS ) , which operated on the electricity generated by the aircraft 's jet engines . With both engines stopped , the system went dead , leaving only a few basic battery-powered emergency flight instruments . The pilot communicated with ATC Winnipeg and First Officer Maurice Quintal began to calculate whether they could reach Winnipeg . He used the altitude from one of the mechanical backup instruments , while the distance traveled was supplied by the air traffic controllers in Winnipeg , measuring the distance the aircraft 's echo moved on their radar screens . So yes , If the aircraft with all engines out is in radar range and ATC are attentive , they can track the aircraft 's location .
China is well known for having very strict air traffic control , who often are reluctant to give pilots the flexibility to deviate around bad weather or try a different - smoother - flight level ( as I 've experienced first-hand ) . That can lead to aircraft in Chinese airspace encountering more turbulence than in other parts of the world . Secondary to that , China can get some nasty weather : Particularly in the South . Compared to Europe they 'll have more thunderstorms , for example , and that can lead to increased turbulence . This image <URL> gives an overview of the number of lightning strikes around the globe . Aside from a few patches in Italy , China has more lightning - and hence more turbulence due to thunderstorms - than anywhere in Europe . As you mention , the mountainous terrain in some parts of the country also has an effect , although you get that in Europe too .
The answer is : no , normal flights are not allowed under the canyon rim . If you look at the sectional chart , you see this notice : Searching through the CFR ( Title 14 , Part 91 ) brings up this <URL> - Special Flight Rules in the Vicinity of the Grand Canyon National Park , AZ. . Ther is also <URL> of Part 93 . The Subpart U regulations seem to be the most current applicable regulations ( please correct me if I am wrong ) . The rule applies to everything under 18,000 feet MSL within an area around the park ( like the chart says ) . Except in an emergency or if otherwise necessary for safety of flight , or unless otherwise authorized by the Flight Standards District Office for a purpose listed in 93.309 , no person may operate an aircraft in the Special Flight Rules Area within the following flight-free zones : It then describes the four zones : Desert View , Bright Angel , Toroweap/Shinumo , Sanup Flight-free Zone . You ca n't fly through these , but between them are " corridors " in which you are allowed to fly above a certain altitude . See <URL> for locations of the Flight-Free Zones and corridors . There are also minimum sector altitudes for different areas , including the corridors , which are going to be the main thing preventing you from flying very low . The altitudes are different for commercial air tours versus transient and general aviation . Also : no person may operate an aircraft within 500 feet of any terrain or structure located between the north and south rims of the Grand Canyon . There are also noise limits depending on the aircraft type . For some info on the background of these rules , see this <URL> .
Design The key point is that these vehicles are not designed to perform such maneuvers . A coast-guard lifeboat is designed to self-recover from a capsize and can <URL> . A cruise-liner would not survive being rolled over completely . If a vehicle is not designed to perform a high stress maneuver it is safe to assume an unmodified vehicle can not do so without incurring severe damage . Inside loop Regarding an inside loop , the <URL> says Looping a 747 or a DC-10 would be trickier [ than rolling one ... ] Boeing suspects its planes could make it , but since no one has ever been silly enough to try , there 's no way of knowing for sure . Outside loop An outside loop is much much more stressful on airframe and pilots as it involves negative G. Airliners have flight envelopes that have much less capability under negative G . There must be a very high probability the aircraft would break up when attempting an outside loop . Roll A barrel roll is a less stressful maneuver . 60 years ago , in 1955 , <URL> , a Boeing test pilot performed a <URL> . So far as I can find out , no one has since deliberately attempted to replicate this stunt in a commercial airliner . At the time of publishing his autobiography , the pilot claimed in a <URL> that the stunt was planned by him but unknown to his boss . in 1985 <URL> , a 747 , inadvertently executed a half roll but suffered structural damage . It rolled to 60 degrees before the pilot disengaged the autopilot , the pilots suffered spatial disorientation and the roll continued into a dive . The pilots obviously were n't flying the aircraft within its limits - meaning you ca n't read a lot into this , other than it might be easy to break up the aircraft while attempting this sort of maneuver .
end question
start question
How does an aircraft tailplane work ?
For conventional designs , the tail is composed of two parts : the horizontal tail and the vertical tail . They play a role in the trim and the manoeuvrability of the aircraft but at different levels . The horizontal tail is mainly used for longitudinal stability ( and trim ) while the vertical tails used for the lateral stability ( and trim ) . About Stability It is possible to talk of stability only after having defined an equilibrium point around which the stability is studied . An aircraft is in equilibrium if the forces and moments it experiences are balanced . Using a simple model for the longitudinal analysis , it can be decomposed in three relations called the trim equations . In order to keep it simple , it will be assumed here that the angle of attack and the flight path angle are zero . ( Note that the same reasoning can be achieved with non-zero values but the equations then become quite messy . ) Longitudinal Equilibrium These three equations are : $ $ L = mg $ $ $ $ T =D $ $ $ $ M = 0 $ $ where $ L$ is the total lift , $ mg $ is the weight of the aircraft , $ T$ is the thrust , $ D$ is the drag and $ M$ is the pitching moment around the centre of gravity of the aircraft . The second equation wo n't be studied further since it does not help to understand the role of the horizontal tail and its influence . Looking at the following picture , one can see that usually , the centre of gravity and the point where the lift applies ( called the aerodynamic centre ) are not the same . This means that the lift generated by the wing creates an induced moment around the centre of gravity that one should add to the already intrinsic pitching moment due to the main wing ( usually a pitch down moment for conventional airfoils ) . Knowing that , it is possible to rewrite the two equations of interest including the contributions from the main wing and from the horizontal tail . $ $ W+L _ t = L_w $ $ $ $ M_0 + bL_t = aL_w $ $ From these equations and the figure , it appears that the horizontal tail is used to generate a lift which induces a moment helping to balance the moments equilibrium and thus prevent the aircraft to spin on itself ( pitchwise ) . Drawback and Solution From both the figure and the equations it turns out that the lift contribution from the tail is usually negative , meaning that more lift from the main wing is needed to keep a trimmed ( or balanced ) aircraft . This drawback can be overcome by the use of a canard configuration instead . Lateral Stability The same can be done for the lateral equilibrium and stability but there it is the vertical tail that is used . It is symmetrical so that there is no yaw induced and if there is some side force experienced , it will create a moment in order to reduce the side-slip angle . Comparison of Lift Created by the Tail and Main Wing For a trimmed configuration , it is easy to see that the lift created by the main wing is more or less the one created by the tail plus the total weight of the aircraft , which gives an idea of the difference between the two forces .
On many early jet airliners water was sprayed it into the engine air intake or compressor where evaporation cooled the air and allowed cooler , denser air to be ingested by the engine . The result was increased thrust , especially needed for operation from hot and high airfields , or a cooler temperature in the hot section of the engine at the same thrust . From <URL> : Water injection was first used over 45 years ago on commercial transport aircraft to increase thrust . Boeing 707-120 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C-6 engines and later , the Boeing 747-100 &amp; 200 aircraft with Pratt &amp; Whitney JT9D-3AW and -7 AW engines , all used water injection for thrust augmentation . This report discusses various techniques for water injection : ahead of the low pressure compressor . This is the common method for thrust increase in hot and high conditions . ahead of the high pressure turbine . This is used in cold weather , when injection ahead of the low pressure compressor would run the risk of ice accretion . together with fuel into the combustor . This technique is commonly used with stationary gas turbines in order to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions . And <URL> is more specific on the system : Four water-injected Pratt &amp; Whitney JT3C -- 6 engines were used on early Boeing 707 -- 120 Stratoliner aircraft to augment takeoff thrust on days above 20 ° F . This system used a belly tank to store demineralized water and an electrically driven boost pump to deliver water to the four engines . At that point , an engine-driven mechanical pump increased the pressure to about 400 psi for injection before the low-pressure compressor ( LPC ) on days as cold as or colder than 40 ° F and for injection into the high-pressure compressor ( HPC ) only on days between 40 and 20 ° F . What would happen if kerosene instead of water was filled into the water tanks was tried out by a <URL> : The aircraft collided with a bridge , shearing off both wings , after a double engine failure occurred during takeoff . The water-injection system to cool the engines during takeoff was inadvertently filled with kerosene instead of water . More recent work on water injection focused on the reduction of nitrogen oxides which form in lean combustion and high temperature . By lowering the temperature level of the combustion process , the <URL> can be greatly reduced .
You have 3 questions here ( Or maybe 2 because the first and second are very similar ) 1 and 2 : Flares are some sort of burning compound that generates a significant amount of heat to distract ( hopefully ) an Infra-Red guided missile . They attract the IR missiles because the amount of IR energy created by them may be greater than that of the exhaust , which is what IR missiles follow . 3 The flares are deployed when the plane detects the presence of an IR missile . ( <URL> ) Once the presence of a " live " IR missile is indicated , flares are released by the aircraft in an attempt to decoy the missile ; some systems are automatic , while others require manual jettisoning of the flares . They also <URL> too .
Most airplanes have a POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) with a table on aircraft distances . <URL> .
If they are being operated by the military , not much . Military operations can exempt themselves from the FARs ( as a matter of practice they do n't : When operating in the US National Airspace System they follow the same operational regulations we do , but as a matter of regulation they 're subject to the military 's rules for airworthiness , maintenance , etc. ) . Military pilots have a military pilot 's license ( which can be converted to an FAA license with a little paperwork ) , and the airworthiness and maintenance standards for active military aircraft are defined and managed by the branch of the service responsible for the aircraft . ( This is similar to , but legislatively distinct from , <URL> . ) This does n't mean the FAA is completely silent about military operations/aircraft : There is <URL> ( also available in an easier-to-read <URL> ) , which would be applicable to aircraft like the VC-25 ( " Air Force One " ) .
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
Yes , you could . The smaller cabin is easier to heat because of its size . If the engine is big enough to carry you to 20,000 ft , it produces plenty of waste heat for cabin heating . When the <URL> to bombers to extend the range of those fighters , the fighter pilots complained bitterly about the freezing temperatures in their cockpits once their engine was switched off . The <URL> had no armament and a shorter fuselage , so the firewall was immediately ahead of the cockpit . The test pilot said flying it felt like having his feet roasted at a fireplace because the engine heat radiated into the cockpit . Piston-engined aircraft allow to mix pre-heated and unheated air for cabin ventilation . The heat is either from a heat exchanger or just from piping the air near the engine . Jets and turbine-powered helicopters use bleed air which has been heated in the compressor as the source of cabin heat . This is different in gliders , because there is no heat source and when flying at high altitude it can be really cold . You can wear thick clothing , but another problem is frosting of the canopy from the inside caused by the moisture in the pilot 's breath . I found this more annoying than the cold temperature when flying in freezing air .
Depending on how long you are storing the plane , there are different options . Some planes may be used or sold in the future . They are just waiting for the market conditions to improve so that the owner can afford to operate it again , or someone else would be willing to buy it . Some planes are too old for anyone to want to buy them . In this case , they are most useful to the current owner , so they store them in case they will be useful in the future . Another possibility is spare parts . While the plane is stored , it can be slowly disassembled to provide parts for other aircraft still in service . Once all useful parts are removed , it will be chopped up into scrap metal . Recently , some new aircraft are being stored <URL> . There is also a case where the Air Force decided to purchase some planes , but later decided they did n't really need them . It 's cheaper to send them to storage than cancel the contract , so <URL> . You can rent hangar space somewhere to store the plane . This is much harder to do for larger planes , and hangar space is expensive and limited . However , it obviously offers the best conditions for the plane , where it can be protected from the weather . This is more likely to be a short term solution unless the plane is very important ( or the owner has deep pockets ) . Another option is the " <URL> : " <URL> Areas like the US southwest have very low humidity year round , which reduces the amount of corrosion on an airframe . Airplanes are designed to be outside most of the time anyway , so they will hold up pretty well . Windows may be covered to keep the internal temperatures down , and certain gaps may be covered as well . Small airplanes may be completely wrapped in plastic . Some examples of this include the boneyard at <URL> in Tucson , AZ , where the US military parks its planes , and nearby <URL> , where many civilian aircraft are stored .
This depends on what exactly you want the aircraft to do : Immediately depart the hold and fly directly to another fix : N1234 cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Immediately depart the hold and fly an assigned heading : N1234 Cleared to ' clearance limit ' via radar vectors . Fly heading ' heading ' . Proceed to another fix after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 After ' holding fix ' , cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Fly the published approach after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 Maintain ' altitude ' until ' holding fix ' , cleared ' approach name ' . Altitude Lastly , add the altitude to any of the above clearances if it is different than the current altitude by adding a climb/descend and maintain ' altitude ' clearance .
How are aircraft aligned with these bridges They are not ( but read on ) Aircraft are aligned to a point on the concrete , not to the jetbridge ( s ) . It is the jetbridge itself that carries out the final alignment to the aircraft door . Jetbridges are actually motor vehicles with wheels , tyres , motors and ( often ) steering . It just happens that their rear end is tethered and their bodies articulate and/or telescope to accomodate the motion at the " front " end . . You <URL> using a set of controls at the end furthest from the terminal building <URL> <URL> I believe some also have what is effectively variable height suspension like old Citroens ( except I imagine it is hydraulic or jack-screw ) . The aircraft is driven to the terminal so the nose wheel follows a guide line and stops at a marking appropriate for the aircraft type . Then the jet bridge is <URL> up to the aircraft door . As the aircraft is gradually burdened with self-loading freight and sinks on it 's suspension , the jetbridge metaphorically <URL> so that the SLF do n't trip up or fall into the aircraft . That is , the jetbridge maintains alignment , the aircraft is pretty passive in the job of alignment . I have to admit I did n't notice these jetbridge controls for many years as I was usually either busy rushing to my seat or busy rushing to the baggage reclaim . One time there was a delay at the aircraft door that was long enough for my bored gaze to alight on the controls and for the thought to briefly wander across my mind - " I wonder what would happen if I pressed that ... "
Yes , you are correct . You need three pieces of information : airspeed true compass heading ( considering magnetic variation ) multiple absolute position fixes ( eg . from gps ) The aircraft heading has to be measured by a compass within the aircraft ( it ca n't be derived from the gps track ) , and the gps position can be used to look up the local magnetic variation . The difference between the speed/heading and the ground track ( in straight and level flight , anyway ) is attributable to winds aloft .
Drag ( and lift ) increases with density . Density decreased and so did drag . So at the same power , you can fly faster . Now I do n't know whether reduction of power of a normally aspirated spark-ignition reciprocating engine at constant throttle setting would be higher or lower than the reduction of drag . But the question says power setting .
Virtual breakers use <URL> : A solid-state relay ( SSR ) is an electronic switching device that switches on or off when a small external voltage is applied across its control terminals . The relay may be designed to switch either AC or DC to the load . It serves the same function as an electromechanical relay , but has no moving parts . According to <URL> for its 787 : The remote power distribution units ( RPDUs ) are largely based on solid-state power controllers ( SSPC ) instead of the traditional thermal circuit breakers and relays . The standards for the solid state power controllers in aircraft is set by <URL> . Related : <URL>
Primarily steering is accomplished in two main ways : Steerable nosewheels - Usually limited to tricycle undercarriage , and usually controlled using the same left/right pedals as control the rudder in flight Using the rudder itself - Often associated with the traditional undercarriage ( tail draggers to some ) . In this case the rudder works on the ground in much the same way as it does in the air - ie , deflecting the rudder pushes the tail in the opposite direction , thus causing the nose to pivot in the required direction . In addition , steering can be augmented in two ways Differential braking - often the left and right main undercarriage have their own deferentially controlled brakes . These are usually controlled by " hats " on the top of each rudder pedal . By applying greater braking pressure to , for example , the left wheel will cause the aircraft to pivot more around that wheel causing a left-turning tendency . Differential thrust - in a similar vane to above , greater thrust applied to the left engine will cause a right turning tendency .
There are actually a couple of different towing mechanisms out there . You 've got your traditional banner pick , with the ropes and the hooks and all that , but there 's also a new type of billboard mechanism that allows a tow aircraft to take off with the billboard already attached ; it unfurls as the aircraft gains altitude , and can eliminate a potential inefficiency in the process ( some days are worse for banner picks than others due to high winds , turbulence , etc. ) , but it limits the tow aircraft to some pretty small billboards and letter banners are pretty much a no-go . Talking about the traditional method of banner towing , there are a couple of things to cover . The banner/billboard setup on the ground - they will be attached to a tow rope ( usually about 200 feet long ) with a loop at the end . This loop is strung out between two poles a small distance apart . The goal of a banner pick is to have the hook pass between the poles , thru the loop ; do that and you will be able to pick the banner off the ground . The banner or billboard will be laid down upwind of the poles ( with the tow rope fully extended ) , so that the pick takes place into the wind ; the lower ground speed will help with timing and allow the banner or billboard to come off the ground more smoothly . A small windsock is a common addition next to the poles to make it easier for the pilot to spot them and to give some local wind information . The banners and billboards may be set up parallel to a runway ( usually the active runway ) , or there may be a designated spot elsewhere on the field . The hook itself is attached to aircraft with a tow hitch and it is possible to have multiple hitches on the same aircraft ( highest number i ever saw was 4 on a Piper Pawnee ) ; they get used sequentially i.e. drop the hook , pick up the banner , fly the banner , drop the banner , drop the next hook , pick up the next banner , fly said banner , and so on until you run out of hooks . Most of the time , hooks that are not in use will be tied down somewhere accessible to the pilot who will drop them manually . That Pawnee I mentioned earlier , however , had the hooks attached to hitches on the aircraft 's belly , from where they would be released with a switch , so there 's more than one way to skin a cat . The hooks are normally attached prior to engine start and the pilot needs to make sure there is no slack in the line , to avoid it becoming entangled in rudder or elevator cables ( more on that later ) , or other assorted bits and pieces of equipment . Banner tow procedures Take off is normal , but depending on your hook and cockpit setup , you may have to hold the hook in your throttle hand as you 're taking off ( this was the case with the Husky I towed in ) . Be careful not to hit anything with it . After climbing through about 50 feet AGL , side-step the runway , and drop the hook . Procedure varies depending on your setup , but we used to extend the arm holding the hook as far out the window as we could get , give a gentle tap on the rudder to kick the tail out of the way and toss the hook outwards and away from the airplane . Kicking the rudder was important due to the way the rudder control cables ran in the Husky ; we had one pilot who did n't and nearly wrecked when the rope got fouled around the cables , forcing a rudder hard-over once there was tension in the line after the pick - fortunately he was a big guy and the runway was sufficiently long that he was able to overpower the rudder and make a safe landing . Tossing the hook outwards is important lest it get caught up in the propwash and bang against the skin of the aircraft . Again , this happened ( was n't me though ) . Coming around for the banner pick - depending on where the banners are set up , you may end up flying almost a regular traffic pattern , but it usually happens at much lower altitudes ( 5-600 feet ) and the banner tow waiver may require that you avoid flying over populated areas to do so , so you may end up flying , say a right-hand pattern instead of your regular left . Either way you end up doing it , you want to end up downwind of the poles , similarly , if you will , to coming in for landing . The actual banner pick - this is where you 'll see a lot of variation . Some outfits will come in flat , just above the poles and pull up once they pass them ( unusual , but some do it that way ) , others will come in high and dive towards the poles , and pull up once past them ( it 's very pretty and dramatic , but not a lot of room for error IMO ) . We used to be a bit more sedate about it , and came in as if for a landing , with the goal of touching down at the top of the banner ( i.e. the end nearest to you ) . Obviously , you have to correct for crosswind , which you can do by shifting your line left or right depending on wind direction ; the goal is to place the hook , which is trailing behind you and getting blown about by the wind , between the poles . Either way you do it , once you pass the poles , you pitch up immediately to at least 45 degrees or so , and apply f
First , the precise terms is not fins , but control surfaces . Fins would be fixed but the four rear surfaces can rotate around a spanwise axis . By rotating , they can be positioned at an angle to the airflow , thus deflecting it and creating an opposing force . Compare that to a <URL> . They work in the same way by creating a force normal to their plane . While this force has a vertical and horizontal component , the horizontal components of the single surfaces cancel each other when all surfaces are rotated by the same angle . Their vertical components will add up , creating a pitching moment . When the left and right surfaces are rotated by the opposite angle , their vertical force component will cancel while the horizontal component will add up , thus creating a yawing moment which swings the tail around . If it were to pitch downwards , which fins would need to move and in which direction ? All four surfaces will move trailing edge down , so the resulting force will point up and pitch the whole craft nose down .
1 ) Why does n't the tower use satellite throughout the flight ? The narrow answer is that the control tower is responsible for a small geographic area . The " tower " does n't want to talk to the craft at other points in the flight , so the need is not there . It only wants to talk to the plane when it is close to the tower 's airspace . Other components of air traffic control that do need to talk with airplanes in flight also divide up regions of the airspace and have radio equipment situated to talk to the necessary craft . A larger answer is that ground control and aircraft communications were under major development for decades before satellite communications were available . The system we use today is heavily based on line-of-sight VHF communication radio over most populated areas . Since these systems are already installed in many thousands of aircraft , changing to something different like satellite communication requires a significant benefit , someone to pay for it , and a lot of time to allow for the change . 2 ) Does a control tower only send voice services through the direct link ? or does it send data as well ? Data is beginning to be sent via <URL> . You can search for CPDLC on this site and find several questions and answers about it , but it is considered only a supplement to the voice communication of ATC today . Are n't there security issues or power safety issues involved in ground to air transmissions ? Unauthorized transmissions are possible , but they are managed and have n't traditionally been a big problem . There 's another question about <URL> . But much of the answer is that since ATC is monitoring the frequency , unauthorized transmissions would be heard and responded to . I 'm sure that future digital delivery will change some of these issues , but that 's likely to be true whether the message is transmitted via local radio transmitters or satellite . Not sure if that 's what you meant by security issues . I 'm not familiar with power safety issues .
Stalls occur based on a wing 's angle of attack rather than the aircraft 's airspeed . ( In fact , one of the basic facts that all pilots learn in their initial training is that an airplane can stall at any airspeed ) . The A330 measures angle of attack using vanes mounted on the fuselage : However , below 60 knots , these vanes <URL> . During the AF447 accident , the stall warning only engaged intermittently because the computers detected that the airspeed readings from the blocked pitot tubes were invalid , and therefore silenced the stall warning system . Furthermore , because of the lack of valid airspeed data , AF447 was no longer in <URL> ( and therefore had no automated angle-of-attack protection ) , a fact which the pilots may not have been aware of . By the time the deicing equipment had cleared the pitot tubes , the aircraft was at such an extreme pitch that airspeed indications were still considered invalid , and the stall warning system did not activate . The computers only activated the stall warning system when the crew pitched down , which brought valid airspeed data back into the cockpit . An <URL> suggests that this may have contributed to the accident : We also note that the aircraft , or more specifically the design of the stalling warning system , misled the pilots : each time they reacted appropriately , the alarm triggered inside the cockpit , as though they were reacting wrongly . Conversely , each time the pilots pitched up the plane , the alarm shut off , preventing a proper diagnosis of the situation . ( Emphasis mine )
A <URL> is that a stick pusher is a : ... device that pushes forward on the elevator control system whenever the aircraft 's angle of attack reaches the pre-determined value , and then ceases to push when the angle of attack falls sufficiently . A <URL> is : A stick pusher system incorporates both a passive monitoring component and an active intervention component that consists of an hydraulic or electro-mechanical pusher mechanism . The monitoring component constantly evaluates critical flight parameters such as airspeed , load factor and flap setting against the aircraft angle of attack . If the angle of attack reaches a predetermined value , the intervention component of the system is activated and pushes forward on the elevator control system until the angle of attack is reduced to an acceptable value . The system operates autonomously and without any required action by the pilots . FAA has an <URL> for stick pusher training . For Embraer 145 , <URL> shows a demo of stick shaker , stick pusher and the warning systems .
There are two sorts of " autopilots " , and it is important to make a distinction between the two . One is for the behaviour of the aircraft around its Centre of Gravity ( CoG ) , the other one is for defining the path of the CoG . The Inner Loop autopilot : behaviour around CoG , or the aircraft attitude control . This autopilot should not be called autopilot since its characteristics are actually shielded from the pilot : it does its job without showing what it is doing . It only moves the control surfaces ( elevator , ailerons ) or helicopter swash plate , and not the flying controls ( stick , wheel ) . To the pilot , the system is invisible and just results in a stable platform , in the case of the A320 and B777 a platform with envelope protection that does not allow for the aeroplane to enter a situation that would be dangerous . In helicopters this system is referred to as Stability Augmentation System ( SAS ) . The Outer Loop autopilot : defining the path of the CoG , which is ultimately what pilots are paid for :) . They are in control of the flight path and administer this control by deflecting the flying controls ( stick , pedals ) . The pilot can delegate this control to a feedback system that provides inputs to the same flying controls , via an actuator with a slip clutch . With an old fashioned mechanical linkage , the actuator moves the whole circuit from stick to surfaces ( or swash plate in a helicopter ) ; the pilot can override this input by applying a force greater than the override force of the slip clutch . So normally , by design , the Outer Loop autopilot shows the pilots what it is doing by moving the flight path input devices for them , in a way that is transparent and can be intuitively overridden by applying a high force . It is this bit where the A320 has a different philosophy : the input stick never moves other than by the hand of the pilot . This main distinguishing feature between the two types of autopilot does not exist in an A320 . It does in a B777 , which also has an inner loop autopilot plus envelope protection , and an outer loop autopilot which actually does move the column/yoke . So the B777 is functionally identical to the A320 in every meaningful way , plus retains the feature of moving flying controls . It has no mechanical linkage , and it uses two separate sets of actuators for this function : one set for the surfaces , and one for the flying controls . This is the situation on both Airbus > A320 and Boeing > 777 , when all systems are functioning . These aircraft are all dynamically stable : aerodynamics take care of bringing back the aircraft attitude to a neutral position . The F16 for instance is aerodynamically unstable in order to provide high manoeuvrability : it always wants to pitch and roll already , and the flight control computers provide constant rapid inputs to elevators and ailerons to maintain attitude by active control . This is not the case with passenger aircraft , which do not need to be as manoeuvrable as a fighter jet and just need to bring the passengers home safely . Therefore , both on the Airbuses &amp; Boeings , the aircraft can fly without the Inner Loop autopilots as well , without any problems . The aircraft just lose their envelope protection and now it is possible to command them into potentially dangerous situations such as fully developed stalls . In both types , it is always possible to disconnect the outer loop autopilot . For the inner loop ones : The B737 does not have one . In the A320 , it is not possible to disconnect the inner loop autopilots if all is functioning correctly , except by pulling circuit breakers for resetting the ELACs as <URL> indicates ; In the B777 there is a guarded switch that allows disconnection of the envelope protection as @Cpt Reynolds pointed out . In the latter two types , the system disconnects features by itself if failures are detected , to allow control in degraded mode . Both manufacturers have implemented a direct mode as the lowest mode , where surface deflection is a direct function of stick deflection . There is however no direct mechanical cable connection to the surfaces , even the direct mode is still an electrical input , so technically still Fly By Wire . <URL> Above picture is from , and shows the top level comparison of the implementation of the flight control loops . The redundancy features are different , functionality is much the same : both implementations prevent excessive AoA that brings the aircraft into a stall , and excessive bank angle . So although the functionality of modern Airbuses and Boeings is very similar , we do often see the myth that Airbus ranks the automated systems higher than the pilot . There is a difference in user interface implementation , in that Airbus has sticks that are not coupled with each other , and have no means to be driven other than by hand . At the time of implementation , this was a new feature that pilots were not accustomed to , as was the envelope protection system . New features can be poorly understood by inexperie
end question
start question
What do numbers signify in airport codes ?
The code for Markham Airport , CNU8 , is a Transport Canada identifier . The codes for the other airports are <URL> . ICAO airport codes always consist of 4 letters . Markham Airport does not have an ICAO airport code .
Most airliners are designed to accommodate reasonable sideloads on the landing gear during touchdown per the Part 23 requirements for transport aircraft . Sideslippimg at touchdown creates a risk of contact with the engine nacelles and FOD ingestion . Therefore most manufacturers and airline SOPs suggest touching down in a crab , then aligning with the runway centerline after touchdown .
The air conditioning system on board airliners is an open system : it scoops up air from the atmosphere , compresses it , expels it through the cabin vents , and then outflows it through discharge valves . In modern airliners there is a certain amount of re-circulation : the expelled air was of such good quality that it seemed a waste to just dump it in the atmosphere . <URL> <URL> In the A320 family of airliners : Outside air is compressed in the engine compressors , part of it is tapped of as bleed air : already compressed and warmed , it is used for refreshing the cabin air ( marked green ) . Temperature and pressure regulators then provide automatic mixture control for the amount of outflow : the outflow valve is regulated , decreasing the opening results in increase of cabin pressure and decrease of flow . The recirculation fans regulate how much air is re-used , after being filtered through HEPA filters which remove pathogens and other nasty stuff . The whole cabin air volume is refreshed every 2 - 3 minutes , as also referenced in <URL> : with such a frequent refresh rate , it would be pretty safe to assume that there will always be roughly the percentage of oxygen in the cabin as there is in the outside atmosphere ( see below for the actual percentage ! ) . People have climbed to the <URL> without the help of oxygen masks , and that summit is about at cruising altitude of an airliner . AFAIK , the aircon system does not have oxygen sensors , but it does have temperature and pressure sensors which are of more immediate concern . Low concentration toxic gases are much more dangerous than a drop in oxygen concentration . In fact , the human body makes use of this : when holding your breath , the urge of breathing fresh air again after a while comes from the <URL> , not from any decrease in oxygen . So CO$ _ 2 $ detectors on board of aircraft would make sense , as would detectors for the very lethal carbon monoxide . These are available , even in the form of a key hanger for GA pilots ( not including any links due to them being adverts ) . There have been reports of dizziness and fainting on board of airliners , and investigations into these . <URL> did not reveal a particularly high carbon dioxide content : Discussion With additional measurement reports pending , I found in-flight cabin air quality measurements of oxygen to be relatively stable , ranging from 11.2 % to 12.5 % . Typical outdoor CO2 levels are between 350-400 ppm ( 0.035 % - 0.04 % ) or up to 500 ppm by some sources . Carbon dioxide levels measured in-flight in the aircraft cabin ranged between 0.04 % or 400 ppm and 0.1 % or 1000 ppm to date in our studies and were measured at close to 0.5 % or 5,000 ppm in earlier studies . As indicated at CO2 HEALTH EFFECTS , occupants are unlikely to be affected or to notice CO2 levels under 2 % or 20,000 ppm - a far higher number than in-flight aircraft cabin carbon dioxide levels . Notice that the oxygen contents on board is a bit over half of that of the outside air - the cause of dizzy passengers ? Reports of dizziness do keep appearing , and nothing beats direct detection of noxious gases by a sensor . Problem is , there are so many of them . Oxygen , carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide sensors would be good candidates for inclusion into the aircon systems . On your second part of the question Is there any situation ( emergency or not ) in which some other gas could pressurize the cabin and lower the O2 percentage inside it ? Yes , in air conditioning systems that use bleed air there definitely is , an engine malfunction can for instance inject gases from burning oil into the cabin air , a problem that was reported a few times for the BAE 146 . <URL> The British Aerospace BAe 146 was the aircraft type most commonly involved in fumes/smoke events when taking into account flying activity . The Airbus A380 , Boeing 767 , Embraer EMB-120 and E-190 were among other aircraft types that also had a higher than average rate of fumes/smoke occurrences over the period . The most common source of fumes/smoke was aircraft systems issues , primarily relating to failure or malfunction of electrical and auxiliary power unit ( APU ) systems . Equipment and furnishings also featured highly as a source of fumes and smoke . Within this category , air conditioning and galley equipment were the most common sources of fumes/smoke . External sources of fumes/smoke and cargo/baggage related events were relatively rare .
Airport Capacity At major airports the capacity of the system of runways is the most restricting element . While it is usually possible to increase capacity of the other airport elements or adding a new runway ( plus associated taxiways ) is very expensive and takes a very long time to complete . The runway capacity is the principal cause of most extreme instances of delays that lead to widespread schedule disruptions , flight cancellations and missed flight connections . The runway capacity varies greatly from day to day and changes are difficult to predict ( even a few hours in advance ) . Factors : The capacity of the runway system depends on several factors , the most important ones : Mix of aircraft classes using the airport : the aircraft mix indicates composition of aircraft fleet that is using any particular runway ( e.g. 25 % S , 60 % L and 15 % H ) . Separation requirements imposed by the ATM system : due to wind tip vortices , leading aircraft and trailing aircraft must be separated by a determined distance ( Heavy aircraft are the ones that produce more wake turbulence ) . Type and location of exits from the runway : trailing aircraft of any pair can not touch down on the runway before leading aircraft is clear of the runway . High-speed runway exits ( also well placed runway exits ) reduce runway occupancy times for arriving aircraft . Mix of movements on each runway and the sequencing of the movements : specified for all combinations of consecutive operations ( arrival-departure ) . There 's an important trade-off between maximum arrival and departure rates that an airport can achieve . Lateral separation : ( especially in bad weather ) between aircraft approaching the same airport on parallel runways . Sequencing and separation of departing and landing aircraft on runways that intersect . Sequencing of aircraft approaching airports located in close proximity to one another , where one aircraft must cross the path of another aircraft landing at a nearby airport . Direction and strength of winds . Noise-related and other environmental considerations and constraints . Conclusion : It is difficult to predict the capacity of the runway system of an airport , so it is difficult to compare two airports with similar runway characteristics , since the factors depending on the airport capacity involve different design and operational parameters . Furthermore , everything is subject to the important probabilistic factor , the weather , which makes the prediction and comparison of airport capacity even more difficult .
I can see at least three questions here and only one of them is fully aviation-related . First , can an airliner legally divert to Pyongyang in an emergency , under the laws of its own country ? For US airlines , the answer is yes . <URL> bans flights over North Korea , but does allow an exception in an emergency : 2 . Flight Prohibition . Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this SFAR , no person described in paragraph 1 may conduct flight operations through the Pyongyang FIR west of 132 degrees east longitude . [ ... ] 4 . Emergency situations . In an emergency that requires immediate decision and action for the safety of the flight , the pilot in command on an aircraft may deviate from this SFAR to the extent required by that emergency . Second , will North Korea allow the airliner to land ? This is a political question , not an aviation one . Either they say yes or they say no . If they say no to an airliner in distress , how will they enforce that ? Are they willing to shoot it down rather than let it land ? Would that decision depend on the country of the airliner ? Can they even make that decision within minutes , or is it already made and they simply initiate a defined procedure ? The pilot is probably just going to try to land anyway ; assuming the alternative is a crash , he would have little to lose . Finally , what will the ' reception committee ' on the ground look like ? No idea , this is a political/military question . But practically speaking , this situation should never arise anyway ( ignoring movie plot stuff like hacked navigation systems ) . If your country is n't friendly or at least neutral to North Korea , your airlines simply wo n't plan flights where the only emergency landing possible is in Pyongyang , and for US carriers specifically it would be illegal anyway .
There is plenty of information on the Internet on how <URL> , however the codes are sometimes not directly assigned by ICAO , <URL> . ICAO Document 7910 - Location Identifiers contains codes allocated by national governments , on behalf of ICAO , to airports , airfields and other facilities such as ATC and weather stations . Ultimately , it is the national CAA 's or other authorities ' decision whether to assign a code and get it validated through ICAO . The decision may be based on political , historical or other reasons , there is no minimum requirements for airports to receive an ICAO code . Am I correct in assuming that airports without ICAO codes do n't have codes because of the lack of a control tower ? Or is there other reasons for this ? The availability of a control tower is not a requirement for ICAO codes , even small uncontrolled fields with grass strips can have an ICAO code , example : <URL> <URL>
Just call up ATC on the approach frequency and request flight following to see the location you 're interested in . They 'll assign you a transponder code and any restrictions . For example : N12345 : " Houston approach , VFR request for Cessna 12345 " Houston TRACON : " Cessna 345 , say request " N12345 : " Cessna 12345 is at 1200 ft , 3 miles south of Houston Executive , requesting flight following to overfly the Greenway Plaza area for sightseeing , aircraft type is a Charlie 172 slant Golf . " Houston TRACON : " Cessna 345 , squawk 4123 . " N12345 : " squawk 4123 for Cessna 345 " Houston TRACON : " Cessna 345 , radar contact . Cleared into Bravo , maintain at or below 3,500 , remain north of the University , advise when your sightseeing is complete . " N12345 : " Cessna 345 is cleared into Bravo . Will remain at or below 3,500 and north of the University . Will advise when complete . " Notice that it is preferred that you do n't give your entire VFR request in the initial callup to avoid overwhelming the controllers if they 're busy or not yet prepared to copy your entire request . Just ask for " VFR request " with your callsign and wait for them to ask for the details .
The FAA has issued an <URL> which covers what they call " non-towered airports " NON-TOWERED AIRPORTS When the control tower is closed or if there is no tower , the airport is referred to as non-towered . At a non-towered airport , you do not need controller permission before entering a runway or taxiway . Below are some best practices for operating on a non-towered airport : When you approach the runways and taxiways , STOP , LOOK both ways , and LISTEN for aircraft that are landing or taking off . Vehicle windows should be open to do this properly . Alert others when you are using a taxiway or runway by always making an announcement on the radio before you enter . Be specific with your location and intentions . Always yield the right-of-way to taxiing aircraft and give them plenty of room . If an aircraft is headed toward you on the same taxiway , move out of the aircraft 's way . Always carry a radio tuned to the airport 's Common Traffic Advisory Frequency ( CTAF ) or UNICOM . If an aircraft is about to land on a runway that you need to cross , stop well clear of the runway . Continue to yield to the aircraft until it has landed and taxied off of the runway . Be aware that some aircraft at non-towered airports are not equipped with radios . Before you cross a runway , ensure that no potentially conflicting aircraft are taxiing , landing or taking off . Be aware of aircraft at non-towered airports that frequently make touch-and-go landings ( immediately after landing , full power is applied and the aircraft takes off again ) . If your vehicle has a rotating beacon , be sure to turn it on anytime you are on the airport surface . Turn on headlights as well , being careful not to blind any pilots in the area .
If a " terrorist takeover " like this were to happen in the real world ... ... and the tower still had communication capability : The tower controllers would advise pilots of the situation , and likely instruct them to return to the Approach frequency to coordinate their next steps ( probably a landing at an alternate airport ) . Presumably the tower would still have telephone communication as well , and be able to let Approach know to expect the planes to come back because of the emergency , otherwise the pilots would certainly inform the approach controllers of what 's going on when they switch back to that frequency . ... and the tower has no communication capability : With no response from the tower the usual thing for pilots to do is return to the Approach frequency to find out what 's going on . The pilots could elect to attempt a landing anyway , treating the airport as an untowered field ( this somewhat famously happened at KDCA , <URL> ) , or proceed to an alternate airport . If the weather required an instrument approach and the ILS radio signals are not transmitting this would be something the pilots could detect pretty easily ( similarly if they were turned off while flying the approach there would be indications in the cockpit that the signal was lost and the pilot would execute the missed-approach procedure ) , and they would proceed to an alternate airport , again coordinating with the approach controllers . ... in any case : No matter what the situation the aircraft would divert to their alternate airports long before they were in danger of running out of fuel . They would notify ATC of the situation and proceed to an alternate airport . ( If not cleared by ATC to proceed to an alternate at some point any sane pilot will declare an emergency for low fuel and proceed on their emergency authority to make a safe landing somewhere . ) So basically there 's some " artistic liberties " taken in Die Hard 2 in the interest of making it a movie you 'd want to sit through . A movie where a bunch of terrorists take over an airport and a bunch of flights divert to alternate airports ( mildly inconveniencing the passengers ) while the National Guard surrounds the airport and deals with the terrorists would n't sell nearly as many tickets !
Yes , squawk codes are still used and required with ADS-B . It 's possible that in the future this may change , but because of the bifurcated implementation the FAA has chosen for ADS-B I do n't think it 's likely . ADS-B operates by giving additional information beyond the Mode A ( squawk ) code - this is either encoded on the 1090MHz transponder frequency ( Mode S " Extended Squitter " - what most of the world uses ) or sent on a separate frequency ( the 987MHz " Universal Access Transceiver " frequency , which is a US/FAA only thing mainly intended for light GA aircraft ) . The Mode S and Extended Squitter data includes things like the aircraft 's unique Mode S address ( a 24-bit number assigned to the aircraft by its national registry , in the US this is linked to the N number ) , and may also provide the tail number or flight number . The ATC radar system will accept and display this information for the controller . At the moment the Mode S/ES data is not used as a substitute for the Mode A transponder code , but because Mode S data is coming through the ATC secondary radar system it 's all immediately available with the secondary radar return the same way a Mode A squawk code is , and it 's possible that the FAA may use the Mode S ID in place of the Mode A squawk code for these aircraft in the future . The 987MHz UAT transmissions also include the Mode S address ( because it 's a useful unique identifier for a given aircraft ) and flight ID/tail number can be sent as well . Information from UAT transmitters is received through separate ground stations and recombined with the radar return in the ATC radar back-end . There 's some magic to that recombining which is out of my depth , but my limited understanding is that since the UAT data is n't directly correlated with a radar return squawk codes are part of how the two are matched up ( the radar computer knows your N number by your discrete squawk code , the UAT ground station knows it from your Mode S ID - if they match and the position data is within reason the ADS-B information can be associated with your radar data block ) .
The 'N' numbers you 're referring to are <URL> . The FARs ( Federal Aviation Regulations ) specifically mention registration as not being required for military aircraft : <URL> ( b ) No person may operate an aircraft that is eligible for registration under 49 U.S.C. 44101-44104 , unless the aircraft -- ( 1 ) Has been registered by its owner ; ( 2 ) Is carrying aboard the temporary authorization required by § 47.31 ( c ) ; or ( 3 ) Is an aircraft of the Armed Forces The FAA issues these registrations in accordance with its responsibilities under the <URL> , which required ( in <URL> ) that : Every aircraft engaged in international air navigation shall bear its appropriate nationality and registration marks . As per the above-cited 14 CFR 47.3 , though , the U.S. specifically requires that all eligible aircraft have registrations unless it 's either a military aircraft or it has temporary authorization under 14 CFR 47.31 ( c ) .
There is no one simple measure of " busiest " when it comes to airports , there are usually ( at least ) three . Busiest by passenger traffic - defined as total passengers emplaned and deplaned , with transit passengers counted once Busiest by cargo traffic - loaded and unloaded freight and mail measured in metric tonnes Busiest by traffic movements - total number of landings and takeoffs of all aircraft The most recent statistics produced by <URL> are from 2015 . By passenger traffic the top 3 are Hartsfield -- Jackson Atlanta International Airport , USA Beijing Capital International Airport , China Dubai International Airport , UAE By cargo traffic Hong Kong International Airport , Hong Kong Memphis International Airport , USA Shanghai Pudong International Airport , China By traffic movements Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport , USA O'Hare International Airport , USA Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport , USA ( Aside : Wow , those Americans like their traffic movements - 8 of the top 10 are USA ! ) There are a few non-standard claims too . They are interesting , if not winners . Memphis International is the <URL> , and as such was the highest freight airport for a number of years . <URL> is the busiest single-runway airport ( There are actually two runways , but only one is ever in use ) Whitman Airport hosts an <URL> which temporarily raises it to one of the busiest airport in the world for that short period . The <URL> ( Heathrow , Gatwick , City , Luton , Stanstead &amp; Southend ) host the most passengers annually for a single city 's airports combined . ( Do n't get me started on Southend being a " London " airport - it 's about 20 miles from what could sensibly be called London ) References : <URL> <URL>
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
Most modern military aircraft HUDs have two primary methods of displaying the velocity vector ( or flight path vector ) relative to the pitch ladder . Uncaged Mode When the HUD is operating in uncaged mode , the velocity vector remains fixed between the pitch ladder and , instead , the pitch ladder slews around the HUD . It is important to note that even though the velocity vector remains fixed between the pitch ladder , the velocity vector will always point in the instantaneous direction the aircraft is headed ( ie , in relation to the sum of all forces acting instantaneously upon the airframe ) . Thus , to compensate for the velocity vector 's fixed position on the pitch ladder , the entire pitch ladder slews around the HUD to indicate instantaneous velocity . I 've generally found this mode most useful for landing because the pitch ladder creates a massive target to bracket the field , and it is very obvious if there is any crosswind component because the pitch ladder will fly out as you roll onto final . Caged Mode In this mode the pitch ladder will remain in a fixed position and the velocity vector will fly out independently to indicate instantaneous velocity . Tactically speaking , this is generally the preferred mode because it is both less distracting ( the giant pitch ladder is n't bouncing everywhere ) and the pilot always has an artificial horizon to reference in the HUD during maneuvers . During tactical maneuvers its commonplace for the velocity vector to become HUD limited so having a stable horizon to reference greatly increases situational awareness . This Video To your specific question , this F16 is operating the HUD in uncaged mode . Every HUD has visual limits ( JHMCS withstanding ) and there are obvious visual limits on the HUD in this video . As the pilot commands the jet to increase the G-Load you can see that the pitch ladder rapidly disappears to the right of the screen . This is indicating that the aircraft is in a hard left hand turn and that the pitch ladder has become HUD limited . Once the G-loads relax , you can see the pitch ladder fly back into the center of the HUD . The pilot finishes the maneuver inverted by overbanking through the left hand turn . Further Comments Upon further review of the video it appears the pilot either ALOCs or GLOCs partway through his break turn at just over 8 Gs . This video is a pretty terrifying look at the realities of BFM training in the military . They started their exercise at 16,000 ft and the pilot aircraft 's Auto-GCAS in the video makes a supersonic recovery at 660kts , slightly below 3000ft AGL ! At that speed ejection could lead to possible death or permanent disfigurement , and the ground is a mere seconds from impact . His recovery altitude is well below safety altitude for BFM , and arguably within immediate ejection considerations ( There was an eagle driver that punched out at Mach 1 + during a similar GLOC episode when he woke up pointed at the ground seconds from death . His ejection nearly killed him . ) The pilot Auto-GCAS begins recovery at 55 degrees nose low , 8,500 ft MSL at 665 kts . The recovery is a max performance 9 G pull and takes roughly 7 seconds , during which point , while recovering , the aircraft loses an additional 4,500 ft. Just think , if the aircraft lost 4,500 ft during a 9G recovery , impact with the earth was well under 10 seconds had he not regained control of the aircraft .
No , that 's all it means . Aviation regulations tend to be put in place in response to accident reports , where a plane crashed or almost crashed for lack of the regulations . So , if you 're confused why a stupid-seeming regulation exists , there 's a good chance that people died because of the thing the regulation changed . Obviously , not all regulations are like that ; for instance , noise limits are based on quality of life for those near airports , not crashes . However , a good number of aviation rules came into effect as recommendations following a crash report .
Yes , there is <URL> on this : [ ... ] under the express language of the regulation , aircraft operating in the airspace underlying Class B airspace - irrespective of whether the underlying airspace is controlled or uncontrolled - may not exceed the 200-knot speed limitation So it is indeed any and all airspace underlying class B. And note the exception to the rule : We note § 91.117 ( d ) does provide that , if the minimum safe airspeed for any particular operation is greater than the maximum speed prescribed in § 91.117 , then an aircraft may be operated at that minimum speed .
All gliders can be disassembled to take off wings and elevator . For each glider type there is a car trailer into which the glider fits after disassembling . <URL> Here you see the " reverse " process ( assembly ) :
Airline pilots generally arrive at the airport 2 hours before departure . Typically , a pilot will gather in a meeting with other pilots flying the same flight ( who he/she may have never met before ; but that is not a problem as there are Standard Operational Procedures which every pilot follow ) . They will discuss the flight plan ( including expected delays , departure / arrival routes and procedures ) , weather , review the loading sheet &amp; fuel etc. . After the pilots ' meeting , they will also meet the flight crew and have a brief discussion about the flight . Matters such as expected delays , transport of patient ( sick passengers ) needing medical attention etc. will also be brought out . Around 30 ~ 45 minutes before departure , the pilots will board the plane . One pilot will program the Flight Management Computer in the cockpit while the other will conduct a walk-around . There are " stand-by " pilots ready to takeover whoever is unable to report to duty at the airport . They can be anywhere and doing anything while on call , however they must be able to arrive at the airport typically 1 ~ 2 hours after receiving a call . Also , they must not consume alcohol while on call as this will invalidate their flying status .
Radio frequencies in the USA are assigned by the <URL> , not the FAA . There 's no ' private ' air-to-ground frequency mentioned in the AIM but <URL> does say that the FCC has assigned 122.900 as a MULTICOM frequency for : Activities of a temporary , seasonal , emergency nature or search and rescue , as well as , airports with no tower , FSS , or UNICOM Arguably your fly-by is " temporary activity " , however the definition of MULTICOM is : A mobile service not open to public correspondence used to provide communications essential to conduct the activities being performed by or directed from private aircraft So if your fly-by is " essential " ( and safe ! ) then I guess you could use 122.9 . There are <URL> for requesting temporary air-to-ground frequencies for air shows , but that 's obviously a special case . As for legality , it seems that <URL> to use an aviation handheld radio on the ground : You may only use your hand-held aircraft VHF radio in your aircraft under the terms of your aircraft license . You are required to have a separate Ground Station license to operate your radio on the ground . But because this is more about FCC regulations than FAA ones , I suggest that you ask on <URL> ; they 'll probably know a lot more about how it all works .
The two aircraft in question were actually only one . Apparently it was a glitch in the FR24 system . It was an Embraer ERJ-190AR , registration number N949UW on flight AA1678 from ATL to LGA . <URL> <URL> <URL> This also pretty much validates sweber 's assertion that the numbers are internal FR24 codes , because the mode-S ID is AD306E .
end question
start question
Why does the vortex created by wing affects its own angle of attack ?
The wingtip vortices create both upwash and downwash ; The downwash lies within the wingspan and affects the wing angle of attack while the upwash region lies outside the wingspan and can be utilized by another aircraft ( or bird ) flying behind and above the wing . The flow induced by the downwash reduces the effective angle of attack of the ( finite ) wing and causes the induced drag . See if this image clarifies your doubt . <URL> Source : aerospaceweb.org Consider the upwash before the wing and downwash after the wing ( section ) . <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com As it can be seen , the airflow in front of the wing is slightly directed upwards by the upwash . Now , the angle the wing makes with the horizontal datum ( i.e. relative airflow ) is the same . However , the airflow is slightly turned upwards and the wing sees the air coming at it at a different angle compared to the relative airflow . As a result , the effective angle of attack ( defined as the angle of attack that lies between the chord of an airfoil and the effective airflow ) is reduced , so that the relative and effective airflow looks something like this : <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com This difference between the relative and effective airflows is what that causes the induced drag . <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com
Aspect ratio $ AR$ can be written as $ \ frac { b } { c } $ which is equal to $ \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ . Before we start substituting , note that $ C_L $ also depends on the wing surface area $ S$ . $ L = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 C_L S$ or $ C_L = \ frac { L } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S } $ Substituting all this in the induced drag formula yields : $ D_i = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S \ frac { C_L ^ 2 } { \ pi AR \ epsilon } = \ frac { L ^ 2 } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 S \ pi AR \ epsilon } = \ frac { L ^ 2 } { \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 \ pi b ^ 2 \ epsilon } $ This shows that the induced drag is proportional to the inverse of the square of the wingspan .
If the controlling software allows it then yes . There 's at least one drone available where autonomous flight <URL> ; the <URL> says that the drone will continue its " mission " even if you lose the signal to it , although the overall length of the flight path is limited to 5km and the drone will not fly close to airports . Other drones stop and hover or land if they lose the connection to the controller . Whether doing this is actually a good idea ( or legal in whichever jurisdiction you want to operate in ) or not is a whole other question .
Basically , dihedral effect is that during banking , the ' lower ' wing will experience a higher angle of attack compared to the ' higher ' wing , and a result , a greater lift . The resulting net force and moment reduces the banking angle , reducing stability . Consider a wing with a dihedral angle $ \ Gamma $ with a forward airspeed of $ u $ . If the sideslip angle is $ \ beta $ , the wind due to sideslip is $ u \ cdot sin \ beta $ . From geometry , the normal velocity induced due to dihedral , $ v _ { n } $ becomes $ u \ cdot sin \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ . <URL> Image from <URL> Note : The notations are different in the figure ; but the principle is the same . For our purposes , we can take the sideslip velocity ( $ u \ cdot sin \ beta $ ) as $ v _ { y } $ . Now , consider two sections from the wing - one each from the ' lower ' and ' higher ' sides . The induced velocity is of the same magnitude in both the sides , while the direction differs , as can be seen from the above figure . <URL> Image from <URL> <URL> Image from <URL> For small angles , $ v _ { y } $ is nearly equal to $ u \ beta $ . The induced angle can be given as , $ \ Delta \ alpha = \ frac { v _ { n } } { u } $ . From the earlier relations , we have , $ \ Delta \ alpha _ { 1 } = \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ , and $ \ Delta \ alpha _ { 2 } = - \ beta \ cdot sin \ Gamma $ . Because of these induced angles , the lift on the downgoing wing increases by $ \ Delta L$ , while of the other one decreases by $ \ Delta L$ . The net result is that the ' lower ' wing experiences an increases lift , causing a rolling moment , which causes the banking angle to reduce . <URL> Image from <URL>
In AF447 the falling motion most definitely affected the angle of attack . Due to the fact that the pf did keep the stick pulled back for all but the last few seconds of the fall the aircraft was so steep that , although the aircraft was falling at a slight pitch up , angles of attack actually reached as high as 60 ° . The descent was so steep that the air was passing over the pitot tubes at such an angle that it was reading below 40 knots , although the plane was moving far faster then that . The computer required that the airspeed be of a certain value to consider the aoa plausible so the stall warning stopped sounding even though the aoa was between 30 ° and 60 ° during the fall . When it hit the water the forward ground speed and the vertical speed were both 107 kts . As far as why the pilot did not realize he was stalled , that 's the question of the century . Much effort has been put into figuring that out , and there are numerous things that are at play . But in the end I do n't think anyone has come up with a satisfactory answer for that . If you want to dig into the causes of this crash and get a good understanding of Airbus systems in general I highly recommend <URL> and it 's companion <URL> . The author is uniquely qualified and gives the most thorough explanation yet is not as technically challenging as reading the BEA report . All of the numbers mentioned in this answer come from the linked book .
Normally the relation is <URL> used in flight . However , the Mach number and the Reynolds number will cause shifts . For the Mach effect , use the Prandtl-Glauert rule in subsonic flow up to Mach 0.7 : $ $ ( \ alpha - \ alpha_0 ) _ { Mach } = ( \ alpha - \ alpha_0 ) _ { incompressible } \ cdot \ sqrt { 1-Mach ^ 2 } $ $ A higher <URL> means a relatively thinner boundary layer , and since the boundary layer on the suction side of the airfoil grows in thickness with increasing angle of attack , the same airfoil will have less boundary layer growth at a higher Reynolds number . This translates into a higher effective angle of attack at the same geometrical angle , so the lift curve slope becomes steeper and will reach stall at a higher angle . There are no standard conditions , but a proper lift curve graph should note both the Mach and Reynolds number for which it is valid .
You are missing the weight force . The wing should stall first because then it will produce less lift and the weight will make the aircraft pitch down . In attached flow , the lift from wing and tail is <URL> such that the combined resulting force is acting exactly at the longitudinal position of the center of gravity . If the wing stalls , the balance of lift is shifted backwards ( regardless of the tail producing lift or a downforce ) , because now the forward part of the wing-tail-combination will produce proportionally less lift than it did in attached flow . The center of gravity will then be ahead of the resulting lift force and will pull the nose of the aircraft down . A tail stall is bad news for the pilot and should be avoided : A stalled tail will have much less elevator effectivity , reducing the control power available to the pilot A stalled tail at high angle of attack is stalling at maximum lift , so it produced positive lift before . If it stalls , its lift will shrink and make the aircraft pitch up . In a conventional configuration the tail flies in the flow field of the wing . Because the wing 's <URL> , the angle of attack variations at the tail are reduced . This helps to keep the flow at the tail attached over the whole useable angle of attack range of the wing . A tail stall is either caused by a wrong location of the center of gravity ( CG ) or by a very poor transsonic design which causes <URL> when the wing is still doing fine . Very rarely can you stall the tail by a wrong trim setting when a <URL> , or in a <URL> . Some supersonic aircraft compensate for the backward shift of the center of lift in supersonic flow by pumping fuel from forward to rear . If an airplane with such a rear CG location slows down to subsonic speed , it will need to produce proportionally more lift with the tail than with the wing . If it now pitches up ( say , for a tight turn ) it will risk a tail stall . Note that such a configuration is <URL> at subsonic speed . EDIT : Now you define the center of gravity as ahead of the wing , which makes for a very stable configuration . The tail is producing a downforce to compensate the pitch-down action of the wing 's lift . If the wing stalls first , lift will become less than weight and the aircraft will accelerate downwards . Now the angle of attack will increase at both the tail and the wing ; at the tail even for two reasons : The downward acceleration will change the local flow direction to a larger angle of attack , and The diminished downwash from the wing will cause an angle of attack increase of its own at the tail . This effect takes a little longer to manifest itself : The delay is the distance between the quarter points of tail and wing divided by the airspeed . Both effects will quickly create a dominant pitch-down moment for the aircraft because the tail will contribute much less downforce than before the stall , and the diminished pitch-down moment of the wing will become insignificant .
A <URL> mentions that the UK borrowed the numbering system from the US . I believe the magnetic headings were adopted by the RAF in the UK early in 1944 and were inspired by American practice . Prior to that , RAF runways were numbered clockwise from north . From the <URL> on page 515 from the snippet view ( unfortunately ca n't find a fully scanned version ) there 's mention of a plan based on recommendations to number the runways . <URL> This is confirmed by <URL> : <URL> So the when is circa 1943 , the who is US Department of Commerce . It caught on by regulation based on recommendations . Naming runways north-south or 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 were probably very confusing as the number of users grew .
Short answer : They only need to develop , build and maintain one type of wing . And there 's no reason not to do it . That , however , leads to the question : How does it affect performance ? From the formula for aerodynamic lift we see there are generally 4 ways to increase a wing 's lift : Increase the angle of attack Increase the wing area Increase speed Increase air density Angle of attack The angle of attack is what defines our aircraft 's state , like stall , best cruise , etc. . So we can take it as fixed for a given situation . Wing area As you suggested , we could increase the wing 's span or depth . Speed Lift goes with speed squared . To cope with the additional weight of the larger aircraft , we need to increase airspeed for a given situation by the square root of the load factor . Let 's say the larger aircraft is 1.5 times as heavy , all speeds scale with sqrt ( 1.5 ) = 1.22 . So all characteristic speeds like stall speed , best climb speed , best cruise speed , etc. 1.22-fold . Air density Well , we ca n't change air density . We can , however , fly in denser air , i.e. lower . To put it the other way round , the heavier aircraft suffers from a lower service ceiling . Conclusion Given the same wing , the heavier aircraft performs worse in terms of service ceiling , short take of and landing , but better when it comes to cruising fast .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
In an event of failure of all engines of a commercial aircraft in mid air ... That would be a very rare event . In the modern cases where this has happened within an ATC area , it has not prevented location of the aircraft so far as I know . ... and no secondary backup or generators powering the plane Even a two-engined airliner has an Auxiliary Power Unit ( APU ) and a Ram-Air Turbine ( RAT ) . I believe they also typically have 10-15 minutes <URL> for critical systems . I do n't know if any airliner has ever lost all generators other than in cases where the aircraft was destroyed in flight ( e.g. PanAm 103 ) . would the ATC still be able to detect the aircraft with accuracy If an aircraft 's transponder and secondary-radar are not operating , ATC would rely on primary radar , which is less accurate , particularly for altitude . They would also ask the pilots for their position over VHF radio and ask other aircraft in the area to locate the aircraft . Example : <URL> All four engines flamed out due to ingestion of volcanic ash . Despite the crew " squawking " the emergency transponder setting of 7700 , the aeroplane could not be located by Air Traffic Control on their radar screens . The pilot communicated with ATC over VHF radio and later restarted the engines . The engines had enough electrical power to restart because one generator and the onboard batteries were still operating Example <URL> ( the " Gimli Glider " ) This 767 ran out of fuel mid-air and all engines stopped . The 767 was one of the first airliners to include an Electronic Flight Instrument System ( EFIS ) , which operated on the electricity generated by the aircraft 's jet engines . With both engines stopped , the system went dead , leaving only a few basic battery-powered emergency flight instruments . The pilot communicated with ATC Winnipeg and First Officer Maurice Quintal began to calculate whether they could reach Winnipeg . He used the altitude from one of the mechanical backup instruments , while the distance traveled was supplied by the air traffic controllers in Winnipeg , measuring the distance the aircraft 's echo moved on their radar screens . So yes , If the aircraft with all engines out is in radar range and ATC are attentive , they can track the aircraft 's location .
Aspect ratio is the ratio based on the span and chord of an aircraft 's wings . The span is the length of the wings measured wingtip to wingtip ; the chord is the ' depth ' of the wing from the leading edge to the trailing edge , measured in a straight line . Because very few aircraft have constant chord planforms , this requires a not-very-fancy formula to calculate ( <URL> ) , so that we can effectively average the chord : $ $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ $ Where : $ AR = $ Aspect ratio $ B = $ Wingspan $ S = $ Wing 's area Math aside , aspect ratio is chosen based on an aircraft 's role or requirements . A need for agility dictates a low aspect ratio , as does a need for compactness . In both cases , fighter aircraft and bush aircraft benefit from agility and small size . High aspect ratios provide great cruise efficiency but can have poor landing characteristics ( high drag at low speeds or high angles of attack due to frontal area ) that are often offset by high-lift devices like flaps and slats . To the second half of your question : even when a high aspect ratio is desired , wings are not made as long as possible for two reasons . The first is structural ; the bending forces associated with wings of extreme length are , well , extreme , and the materials required are pretty space-age . See high-performance gliders , or at the crazy end , solar - or human-powered aircraft , for examples of this . It 's just hard to do at the size of an airliner . The second reason is more practical : space is expensive . An extremely high-aspect ratio wing takes up a ton of space relative to the rest of the aircraft . In an attempt to offset this , early 777s ( which had a larger span than 767s and 747s ) were offered with folding wingtips , but nobody bought that option and it got dropped .
The two main reasons for wings with a subsonic leading edge are : The lower lift coefficient in supersonic flight , and the need to keep wing thickness down in order to minimize wave drag in supersonic flight . Your observation is correct : The lift-related drag coefficient is proportional to the inverse of the aspect ratio , regardless of flight regime for slender bodies . In all cases , lift is created by accelerating air downwards , and efficiency is better when <URL> . But another factor is the lift coefficient , the square of it to be precise . Again this influence on drag is equal for sub - and supersonic flight , but the magnitude of the lift coefficient is n't . Take the XB-70 , for example ( <URL> ) : Cruise lift coefficient : 0.1 to 0.13 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 0.01 to 0.0169 Takeoff lift coefficient : 1.3 to 0.73 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 1.69 to 0.533 Landing lift coefficient : 0.626 , $ c_L ^ 2 $ = 0.392 Even at the highest supersonic cruise lift coefficient , the approximated lift-dependent drag coefficient is only 4.3 % of what it is at landing speed . Supersonic drag is dominated by pressure and friction , and the cost of lift creation is dwarfed by the other sources of drag . Or let 's look at another aircraft designed for sustained supersonic flight , or more specific , it 's flight envelope ( <URL> ) : <URL> The aircraft operates in a narrow band of dynamic pressures , trading density for speed to stay within a corridor of 310 KIAS to 450 KIAS when flying at supersonic speed . Here the lift coefficient is roughly between 0.1 and 0.3 ( depending on aircraft mass and load factor ) and again much lower than at low speed , where minimum speed drops to 145 KIAS . Note that the lift wave drag formula for slender bodies is only strictly true for $ AR$ approaching zero . At higher aspect ratios and especially with a supersonic leading edge this relationship is diminished . In supersonic flow the aspect ratio only comes into play by influencing the part of the wing that is within the Mach cone of the wingtip . In other words : The supersonic flow around a slender body is everywhere influenced by tip effects , whereas the inner and forward part of a higher aspect ratio wing experiences two-dimensional flow , being blissfully unaware of lateral limitations to wingspan . Now to the structural factor : Wave drag has two components , one from lift and the other from the displacement effect . <URL> at <URL> must be avoided as much as possible , because it is doubly punished : Surfaces facing in flight direction experience higher pressure than ambient , and those facing backwards experience lower pressure ( i.e. suction ) . In all , zero-lift wave drag increases with the square of the thickness ratio , so there is no space in supersonic wings for the beefy spar a high aspect ratio wing would require .
Vortex ring state is characterized by rapid descent and reduced effectiveness of control inputs . At the onset , it is characterized by increased vibration and buffet of the airframe , with uncommanded changes in helicopter attitude . Also , any increase in the collective is ineffective and counterproductive . From <URL> : Incipient vortex ring conditions are typically : increased vibration and buffet , the onset of small amplitude ' twitches ' in pitch and evidence of longitudinal , lateral and directional instability . Established vortex ring conditions are characterised by : a very rapid increase in rate of descent towards and beyond 3000fpm , reduced effectiveness of cyclic inputs in roll or pitch the application of collective pitch failing to arrest the rate of descent and usually increasing it . From FAA Helicopter Flying Handbook - <URL> : A fully developed vortex ring state is characterized by an unstable condition in which the helicopter experiences uncommanded pitch and roll oscillations , has little or no collective authority , and achieves a descent rate that may approach 6,000 feet per minute ( fpm ) if allowed to develop . The best measure against vortex ring state is quite simple - go forward i.e. increase airspeed . Basically , you enter into forward flight so that the rate of descent does n't oppose the induced flow . You need ' undisturbed ' airflow over the rotor disc . Power is to be applied after gaining sufficient airspeed . From skybrary : Incipient Stage ... Keep the collective position unchanged and apply forward cyclic to achieve an accelerative ( nose down ) attitude so as to increase forward airspeed quickly . As soon as a steady increase in airspeed is indicated , and above 30 KIAS , more power can be applied if necessary without waiting until the best rate of climb speed is reached . If this action does not resolve the situation rapidly then it is best to treat the condition as established and take the actions below . Established Condition . Recovery can only be effected by changing the airflow around the rotor and will inevitably lead to significant loss of height , which makes recovery from a low level occurrence impossible . There are two theoretically possible actions : Moving the cyclic forward and lowering the collective . Combining these actions is likely to produce the quickest recovery with the least height loss . Application of forward cyclic should increase airspeed but a large input held for several seconds may be required before significant pitch attitude and consequent speed change is achieved , with a significant nose down attitude resulting . Lowering the collective to reduce power towards auto-rotation , so unstalling some of the inboard portion of the blades , may also be effective but forward airspeed must be gained before power is re-applied during recovery . Autorotation has also been suggested as a measure for overcoming the vortex ring state ( by the FAA handbook , for example ) , but it may lead to further loss of height , which has to be taken into account . Another issue is that there are some variations between the different helicopter types - in case of tilt-rotor aircraft like V-22 , the only way is to go into forward flight .
The vortex lift is the method by which highly swept wings ( like delta wings ) produce lift at high angles of attack . In the case of wings having sharp , highly swept leading edges like delta wings , the leading-edge separation vortex phenomenon occurs at subsonic speeds . However , the separation does not destroy the lift as in the case of low sweep wings ; instead , it forms two vortices which are ( nearly ) parallel to the wing edges . <URL> Vortices over a delta wing with a sweep angle of 70 ° , Separation in three-dimensional steady flow , ONERA In case of Concorde , the vortices look like this : <URL> Vortices over the Concorde wing , Separation in three-dimensional steady flow , ONERA A cross-section of the vortices looks like this : <URL> Flow above the Concorde Wing , Separation in three-dimensional steady flow , ONERA Unlike the ( bound ) vortex of the conventional wing , these are real in the sense that they represent an actual mass of air rotating at high speed compared to the air in front of the wing . The vortices form ' vortex sheets ' along the wing . Air is sucked into the vortex sheets and accelerated downward . As the airspeed in the vortex is high , the pressure is low . This low presssure on the upper surface produces lift . From Low Aspect Ratio Wings at High Angles of Attack at adg.stanford.edu : ... the leading edge vortices , increase the wing lift in a nonlinear manner . The vortex can be viewed as reducing the upper surface pressures by inducing higher velocities on the upper surface . <URL> Source : adg.stanford.edu Basically , the vortices increase the lift from the baseline ( potential flow ) values , with the extra force being equal to the loss of leading edge suction associated with the separated flow in high angle of attack highly swept wings . This analogy gives the same result as before . <URL> A Concept of the Vortex Lift of Sharp-Edge Delta Wings based on a Leading-Edge suction Analogy , Edward C. Polhamus , NASA Technical note D-3767 A major advantage of vortex lift generation is that it is effective at high angles of attack , over which the wings would normally stall . Actually , that Concorde used this method of lift generation is the reason for the high AoA during landing and its droop down nose . <URL> Source : <URL> One thing to be noted is that vortex lift generation happens at high angles of attack or in case the wings are designed to generate separated flow ( with sharp edges as in Concorde ) in normal conditions . Otherwise the lift generation is by conventional means . The same mechanism is responsible for lift generation in : Strakes <URL> By U.S. Navy photo by Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class James R. Evans [ Public domain ] , via Wikimedia Commons Chines <URL> Image from Effects of Vertical Tail and Inlet/Strake Geometry on Stability of a Diamond-Wing Fighter Configuration by Mitchell E. Fossum et al. , accessed through <URL> Canards <URL> Source : forum.keypublishing.com
Unless you tell us which book you read this in ( and what exactly it said ) , it is not possible to answer your question ( the answer depends on whether the zero angle of attack is that of the airframe or the airfoil ( wing ) ) . We can try for a general answer though . As far as angle of attack is concerned , there are two kinds - geometric and absolute . First , angle of attack is the angle between some reference line and the freestream ( i.e. the velocity vector ) . The selection of reference line determines the ' kind ' of angle of attack . Geometric angle of attack , $ \ alpha $ is the angle between the chord and freestream ; this is the one usually used . Absolute angle of attack , $ \ alpha_a $ is the angle between the freestream and the zero lift line ( the line , which when parallel to the freestream , produces no lift in the wing ) . The geometric and absolute angles of attack can be related through $ \ alpha_a = \ alpha - \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ , where $ \ alpha _ { L = 0 } $ is the angle between the chord and zero lift line . <URL> Relation between geometric and absolute angles of attack , image from <URL> For a cambered airfoil , the zero lift line is negative i.e. the airfoil will produce lift even when the geometric angle of attack is zero ( in this condition , the absolute angle of attack is positive ) . For a symmetric airfoil , of course , the zero lift line coincides with the chord and as such , the airfoil produces no lift when the geometric ( or absolute ) angle of attack is zero . As far as the lift is concerned , what matters is the absolute angle of attack , while we usually use the geometric one . Simply put , what matters is the absolute angle of attack of the wing . If this value is positive , lift will be produced and level flight is possible , whatever the aircraft attitude .
Seems you guessed right , actually . <URL> does indicate that you can get a letter of authorization in lieu of a type rating : B. Requirements for Aircraft Undergoing Certification . During the type certification process , it is sometimes necessary for industry pilots or FAA inspectors with airman certification responsibility to be qualified in a particular aircraft before a pilot certificate type rating designator is established for that aircraft . In these circumstances , and at the discretion of the manager of the aircraft evaluation group ( AEG ) , an LOA ( Figure 5-187 ) may be issued in lieu of a type rating . This LOA and Letter of Application ( Figure 5-188 ) must be in the pilot 's possession when exercising the authorized privileges . The LOA can eventually be surrendered to a district office in exchange for a temporary airman certificate bearing the category , class , and type ratings .
You are mostly correct , but the fuselage distorts the airflow in sideslip such that the windward wing sees a higher angle of attack near the root , and the leeward wing a lower angle of attack . Please see the drawing below for an explanation . The blue lines show the sideward component of air flow and the red arrows the resulting rolling moment . This is why low wing airplanes need more dihedral , and high wing planes like your 172 almost none . Wing sweep adds more directional stability , and then you even find aircraft with pronounced anhedral , like the <URL> or the <URL> . See <URL> for more detail on this .
To be more general , a vortex generator is a small angled plate installed on an outer surface of an aerodynamic body . The angle of the plate causes the air to swirl , creating a vortex behind it . This effect allows the air flow to remain " attached " to the surface even at points where the flow without a vortex would separate from the surface . One of the most common uses of vortex generators is on aircraft wings forward of the ailerons . When the aircraft wing <URL> , the flow detaches from the wings . This means that the flow will detach before it reaches the ailerons , making them ineffective . The use of vortex generators helps the ailerons to provide control even if the rest of the wing is stalled . <URL> Of course , these also add drag , even when the wing is not stalling , so they are only added where needed . They are also used in other places , such as the engine , as in <URL> , and also <URL> .
I finally found several arguments to answer this question from different sources . Sweep and Mach Number from Airbus This argument is developed in an <URL> . To grasp it it is important to understand the purpose of swept wing . By sweeping the main wings one introduces an angle between the leading edge of the wing and a line perpendicular to the fuselage axis . Let 's consider two airplanes , one with swept wings ( A ) and one with straight wings ( B ) . One of the most important parameters is the Mach Number experienced by the wings . It is measured normal to the leading edge of the wing which means that for the two airplanes flying at the same Mach Number , the Mach Number seen by wings of ( B ) is larger than the one seen by the wings of ( A ) . This allows to fly at higher speed because it delays the large increase in drag ( drag divergence ) and other effects linked to the Mach Number around the airfoil . However , if the isobars on the wing are not aligned with the leading edge , they are following a less swept pattern which tends to reduce the benefits from the sweep angle of the main wing because the effective sweep angle is smaller and the Mach Number around the wing should not be computed normal to the leading edge but normal to the isobars close to the leading edge . From a theoretical point of view it would even be better to have isobars not aligned with the leading edge but having a larger sweep angle . However this never happens due to boundary conditions at the root and the tip of the wing . Other sources All this is also explained <URL> . Finally , this last <URL> deals also with the matters but does not justify the need for the isobars to be parallel to the leading edge . It deals more with the shock on the wing and the ways to weaken it and thus reduce the drag .
end question
start question
Why is air mixed with bypass air on the A/C of an aircraft ?
You almost have the answer in your question ; bleed air is hot , compressed air taken from the engine compressors . Bypass bleed air here refers to some of that air which is bled off the engine , but not routed through the air cycle machine ( pack ) . When the air comes out of the pack , its really cold . The pilot has a knob which blends the cold air from the pack with the hot bypass air to adjust the temperature that comes through the actual ductwork ; this is similar to the blender box in a car . For example , in this image taken from <URL> , the bleed air from the engine comes in at the top right corner , and you can see the line for bypass bleed air along the top of the diagram in the pipe labelled " hot air " .
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
Yes , a hot air balloon would change class , if you are adding an engine and propeller to provide thrust . With powered flight comes the need to provide some form of flight control ; at this point , you have an airship , albeit a <URL> . According to the FAA 's <URL> , and much like @voretaq7 's citation in another answer : An airship is an engine-driven , lighter-than-air aircraft , that can be steered . The FAA has a whole section on <URL> , for further reading .
Systems vary . Transport aircraft and larger biz aircraft have airpacks handling the AC and at flight idle power settings there is less bleed air , and pressurization is a priority . The packs simply do not have full power when in a flight idle descent on many aircraft . The aircraft I routinely fly have separate radial compressor driven refrigerant systems , and have large heat loads from onboard electronics and laser systems . They have to remain cool , and normally both AC systems are left on until just prior to engine shutoff after taxi . If it is a hot environment , we use the APU and keep the AC on after engine shutdown . Once again , the situation is different in different aircraft , and is dependent upon the cooling system , the power plants , the installations and the design and operational goals . Addendum # 1 : Some aircraft APUs can provide bleed air for cabin pressurization , but this is not universal . Also , some aircraft , such as the 787 do not use engine bleed air for pressurization , and rather use electrical compressors . The flow of pressurized air is rather constant in flight .
Practically speaking , the ' heavy ' designator ( ' super ' for A380 and An225 ) is to help enforce separation requirements due to wake turbulence . In case of AF1 , it is not as if other aircraft are going to be allowed near it , so the designator is redundant . Regulation wise , FAA <URL> , specifically states that the ' heavy ' designator should not be used : When in radio communications with " Air Force One " or " Air Force Two , " do not add the heavy designator to the call sign . State only the call sign " Air Force One/Two " regardless of the type aircraft .
The " packs " ( or A/C on the aircraft ) are powered by engine bleed air . When bleed air is extracted from the engines , less thrust can be produced . This may be a problem if the airplane is taking off at a high elevation airport or the departure path requires a certain climb gradient to clear obstacles . This action does create some discomfort in the cabin so it 's usually not preferred unless required for safety . Some newer airplanes are manufactured with an " APU to pack " configuration - i.e. the pilots leave the APU running during takeoff , which provides bleed air to power the packs . The workload on the engines are now reduced .
The APU is usually located at the rear of the aircraft , in the tail , so the intake is generally somewhere on the side of this location . Aircraft place the inlet in different places though , and some even put the APU somewhere different . For some examples : 737 intake , the small <URL> at the bottom <URL> ( the place they do n't want you to put de-icing fluid ) <URL> ( the scoop that opens upwards ) <URL> ( a scoop on the underside of the tail ) <URL> ( inside of the wheel well ) <URL> is an interesting thread including other examples .
Ram Air Turbines have variable pitch which is set according to demanded load and airspeed , and the controller keeps the rotational speed as high as possible for maximum efficiency . Typical operational RPM of a RAT is between 5500 and 7700 rpm , at speeds between 125 - 375 knots . Let 's take the averages : 6600 RPM @ 250 knots = 700 rad/s @ 130 m/s . At a disk diameter of 1 m and a spinner diameter of 20 cm , lets look at velocity triangles at the blade root , centre and tip : Blade root : R = 0.1 m , rotational speed $ V _ { rot } $ = 0.1 * 700 = 70 m/s . With incoming air at 130 m/s , this creates a local velocity pitch angle of arctan ( 130/70 ) = 62 deg Blade centre : R = 0.3 , $ V _ { rot } $ = 0.3 * 700 = 210 m/s , velocity pitch angle = arctan ( 130/210 ) = 32 deg . Blade tip : R = 0.5 , $ V _ { rot } $ = 0.5 * 700 = 350 m/s , velocity pitch angle = arctan ( 130/350 ) = 20 deg . Note that these are unloaded velocity triangles , the blades can only generate power with air coming in at a local angle of attack . We 're rough estimating , so you could take a pitch of 25 deg at tip , 35 at centre , and linearly twist onto 45 deg at root ( most of the power is generated at the outer part of the blade ) .
If you mean a <URL> , then it 's easy . Airliners <URL> , so the longest range ones would typically have the longest endurance . The longest range airliners currently are the <URL> and the <URL> . The Wikipedia article <URL> may be of interest . This may or may not assist in your story , but there are two ways to increase the endurance : Fly slower , and/or Shut down one engine and increase the power of the other ( s ) 1 . Both 1 and 2 may require flying lower , and both will hurt the range . 1 Explained in the last part of <URL> , but in short it 's because jet engines have the lowest fuel flow per unit thrust when they are running at near their maximum continuous thrust setting .
Then It used to matter , because aircraft would sometimes approach the carrier at a lower altitude than even the flight deck before pulling up briefly and practically stalling onto the deck , allowing for a lower speed landing . Similarly , the higher flight deck would give an extra couple of metres of acceleration if over-shooting the flight deck and having to go around . As such a high-decked carrier gave a little more margin for error . Now It makes virtually no difference - modern aircraft approach at the same angle and airspeed regardless of the height of the deck ( within reason ) . They also perform approaches significantly more accurately . If anything , the higher deck could be considered a ( very ) slight disadvantage , as it may display a higher rolling moment than a low deck carrier . This is unlikely to cause any issues , however .
Yes , this is the system used on the Boeing 737 . As the document mentions , it is similar to the system design on the Boeing 757 and 767 models .
fooot has pointed out the <URL> ( powers the B-1 Lancer ) has a BPR ( bypass ratio ) of > 2:1 and comes with an afterburner . Other examples are the <URL> ( 1.1:1 ) and the <URL> ( 0.97:1 ) . Generally , anything <URL> is a low BPR , and bypass air is needed for cooling . Pure turbojets resort to other means of cooling , such as the ram air inlet <URL> , or they run inefficiently at low combustion temperatures . I ca n't speak for the inner workings of a classified military engine , but an ideal supersonic engine would be a variable cycle engine ( VCE ) . Operating with bypass in the subsonic regime , and without in the supersonic high-power demand regime . Such theoretical ( to the public at least ) examples from the 90 's are shown ( and linked ) below . Do note the idea behind the VCE is the elimination of the wasteful and noisy afterburner . So , it 's an either/or situation . A dual operation of afterburner and high bypass in a non-VCE would not have benefits . <URL> ( <URL> ) Image shows how a VCE routes the bypass air in both modes of operation . Other variations by RR and Snecma can be <URL> . Note the novel design of the Snecma with the free-turbine -- extra-fan . VCE 's would definitely be heavier and more complex engines . Related : <URL>
Latest FCOM , after revision 24 of section 3.01.21 , contain the explanation : AIR CONDITIONING WITH LP GROUND UNIT Do not use conditioned air simultaneously from packs and LP ground unit ( to avoid chattering of the non return valves ) . The non-return valves prevent air in the mixer unit to return into any source in the case this source delivers air at a lower pressure , or does n't deliver air . Valves are the one-way separation between the air generation section and the air distribution section : <URL> <URL> If the LP ground connection is used while the packs are ON , pressure will be comparable on both sides of the valves . Valves can start chattering instead of being stable in the open position . While pressures compete , air from the mixer unit can return to the packs . Damage can occur , as described in this <URL> ( air conditioning duct and non-return valve damaged ) .
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
Simple answer : yes , air travel can deflate or pop air pillows . Longer answer : Cargo holds are at the same pressure as the rest of the airplane , it 's part of the pressure vessel . Generally airplanes are pressured to about 8000ft , so the air is a lot thinner and therefore there will be a higher pressure differential between the air in the pads and the air in the hold . Thin plastic is somewhat porous and will leak some air , the rate this happens will be faster when there 's a higher pressure differential . This differential <URL> to the point many will not use them when shipping by air . Styrofoam , cellulose pops , or crumpled paper are the preferred method . You can see these forces at work next time you fly yourself by taking an empty disposable plastic water bottle on board . Seal it with the cap at airport altitude before departure . After takeoff as the airplane climbs the plastic will bulge as the cabin pressure drops , and when you uncap it you will probably hear a hiss . Seal it back up and then during descent the bottle will crumple as the air pressure increases .
If you know the pressure coefficient of the flow , the rest is easy . The equation for the pressure coefficient $ c_p $ is : $ $ c_p = \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } = 1 - \ left ( \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } \ right ) ^ 2 $ $ $ q _ { \ infty } $ is the dynamic pressure and contains air density $ \ rho $ and the flight speed $ v _ { \ infty } $ : $ $ q _ { \ infty } = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v _ { \ infty } ^ 2 $ $ The equation for the local speed , relative to flight speed , is : $ $ \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } = \ sqrt { 1 - \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } } = \ sqrt { 1 - c_p } $ $ Now you need to know the pressure coefficient . At Mach 0.85 the local Mach number of the 747 wing , which has a wing sweep of 37.5 ° , is 0.674 . Since I do not have the airfoil of the 747-400 , I used one from the same family ( BACJ ) , found <URL> . If you are interested , many more can be found in Michael Selig 's <URL> . The plot is from a <URL> calculation of the 2D flow around BACJ at Mach 0.8 , so it needs to be taken with a grain of salt . Note that it shows a stagnation point , and , therefore , Mach = 0 at the leading edge . The leading edge of the 747 wing is swept by 45 ° , so it will only slow the orthogonal speed component to zero . Consequently , the 747 wing has a stagnation line where the lowest speed will still be Mach 0.6 . On the suction side , the airfoil reaches Mach = 1.2 quickly and even Mach 1.3 near the trailing edge . Modern , so called <URL> s can tolerate mildly supersonic speeds on their suction side , and the Boeing 747-400 makes use of them . However , since the wing sweep reduces Mach effects , the top speed will be Mach 1.2 or slightly lower , and the TSFOIL calculation shown here is not exactly correct for flight at Mach 0.85 , but gives a general idea what happens on the wing . To answer the many questions you posted directly : The shape of the airfoil is immensely important . Thicker airfoils need to displace more air , and higher flow speeds are created on both sides . Camber will increase the pressure ( and speed ) difference between both sides . Changing the angle of attack will add a roughly triangular difference , which is highest at the leading edge , to the difference between both sides . Lower side pressure is increased slightly , and upper side suction goes up by a lot at the nose . Good wing designs have a triangular lift distribution over wing span , with the highest lift at the root . Since the displacement effect of the fuselage is added to the flow effects , the highest speeds will be encountered at the wing root . Just look at the pretty pictures ...
Bypass ratio is the ratio of the core flow ( which goes eventually through the combustion chamber ) to overall flow . Overall flow is either the flow captured by the intake or going through the propeller disc . Even for piston aircraft it is possible to define a bypass ratio if you interpret the air which flows through the cylinders as the core flow . A turbofan essentially uses a shrouded propeller of high <URL> ( or activity ratio ) which helps to accelerate the flow through it as much as possible . It needs to produce the most thrust from the limited air volume captured by the shroud 's intake . The limitation is needed to limit the tip speed of the fan and the overall size and drag of the shroud . Propellers , on the other hand , accelerate a bigger flow by less and need to cover less of the propeller disc for doing this . To keep thrust constant , a bigger mass flow needs to be involved into the acceleration . <URL> Plot of the thrust specific fuel consumption in lb of fuel per lb of thrust per hour of different engines over the logarithm of their bypass ratio ( picture <URL> ) . A comparison is only sensible if we look at the same core component : If a turbofan and a turboprop share the same high pressure components . One example would be the <URL> and the <URL> . Wikipedia gives the mass flow of the 3007 as 109 - 127 kg/s but gives no information for the 2100 . Using the maximum flight speed of the <URL> of 167 m/s and its propeller diameter of 4.15 m , we can find a lower bound for the mass flow through one of its propellers if we make the heroic assumption that the maximum speed is reached in 25000 ft ( 7620 m ) where <URL> is 0.55 kg/m ³ . Mass flow through the propeller of one 2100 is at least 1242.4 kg/s or about ten times of what it is for the 3007 . The mass flow though the core is the same because both engines share the same hot section . The static thrust of the 2100 is higher than that of the 3007 but drops more quickly with speed , so at high speed the 3007 produces more thrust .
Why do passenger embark on the left side of an aircraft ? Because the cavewoman who invented the log-canoe was right-handed ? Note : I arrived at this answer by looking at a kind of etymology of the terms starboard &amp; port but that 's incidental . The answer to this question happened to be contained in an answer to a rather different question . Some groups of aviators may have dropped the archaic terms while still being subject to a continuation of an archaic habit/convention . People get on the left side of a jet airplane because Vikings ( etc ) steered their wooden boats with a steering board ( hence starboard ? ) held in their dominant right-hand . Since it was inconvenient to have your steering apparatus wedged against a quayside ( or earthen bank ) they docked at the port along their left side and therefore loaded and unloaded on the left . <URL> leads you to <URL> in English.se which I reproduce here for convenience Excerpt from <URL> : Port and starboard Port and starboard are shipboard terms for left and right , respectively . Confusing those two could cause a ship wreck . In Old England , the starboard was the steering paddle or rudder , and ships were always steered from the right side on the back of the vessel . Larboard referred to the left side , the side on which the ship was loaded . So how did larboard become port ? Shouted over the noise of the wind and the waves , larboard and starboard sounded too much alike . The word port means the opening in the " left " side of the ship from which cargo was unloaded . Sailors eventually started using the term to refer to that side of the ship . Use of the term " port " was officially adopted by the U.S. Navy by General Order , 18 February 1846 . So it 's a historical convention , many arbitrary choices are of this sort . Pioneers of a new form of transport adopt the terms ( port , startboard ) and habits of more ancient forms of transport . Ironically , since aircraft became able to carry substantial non-human cargo , the cargo entry has moved to the other side to reduce the chances of crushing the human cargo with the non-human cargo . Presumably also because having lots of large holes all in one side may be structurally disadvantageous .
Long story short is that both Newton 's third law and the Bernoulli 's effect are two different ways of explaining the same phenomena . Accurate equations have been written to explain both . Newton 's third law , the air being forced down and forcing the airplane up , is actually the effect of lift though not the cause . The cause of lift is the change in pressure . The falsehood that is taught is usually that the two little air particles actually meet up at the same point downstream at the trailing edge of the wing at the same time . This is completely false . In fact , if you were to actually track two air particles , one over the top , and one across the bottom , the one going over the top of the wing will probably arrive much sooner than the one on the bottom ! [ Even though the distance IS longer ] It picks up that much speed . Also they do n't actually really meetup again afterwards at all . The real pivotal relation ( which I learned in my Advanced Aerodynamics class at ERAU using John . D. Anderson 's book <URL> ) is the Kutta-Joukowsky theorem . Taking the time to explain this to a Private Pilot student would probably be a waste of your time and theirs but I will sum it up here anyway to be fair to the question . I will assume incompressible flow because after about Mach .3 < it starts to get more complicated . The Kutta-Joukowsky theorem takes the integral of velocity times the cosine of the incremental angle of the distance along the closed curve . This is a quantity called circulation . The lift equation is then formed as lift equals density ( altitude basically ) times velocity times circulation . So if you really want get in-depth here is an <URL> that explains potential flow theory . What you will find is that the cause of lift is indeed directly related to Bernoulli 's principle in that the change in pressure is what creates the lift . However it has nothing to do with particles meeting up at the trailing edge because they never really do meet up . This does n't discount Newton 's third law either : lift can be explained that way but it is the effect of lift , not the actual cause . And yes , like you mentioned , even a flat-plate for example can create lift when angled right in a wind tunnel .
Sweden currently has a surplus of controllers , so you are unlikely to find open positions . However , since you are a qualified controller and speak Swedish , you should be qualified to apply for any position that might come up . I suggest you have a look at LFV , which is the largest Swedish ANSP : www.lfv.se/en
end question
start question
Which source to use when reporting the current altitude to ATC ?
When asked for altitude , you report the altimeter reading , utilizing the correct barometric pressure entered into the Kollsman window . ATC separates traffic based upon indicated altitude . The indicated altitude may include errors , such as the pressure ATC provides , but all aircraft in the area will presumably be using the same barometric pressure , and will have similar errors . GPS altitude , which some call an absolute altitude , is an altitude relative to a model , normally the WGS84 elipsoid , and has it 's own set of errors . By convention , indicated altitude , based upon local pressure , is used for aircraft separation .
According to <URL> the UK FIRs meet the ICAO requirements with the following Flight Information Services ( FIS ) : Basic Service , Traffic Service , Deconfliction Service and Procedural Service . This is an extract of the contents of the chapter : Basic Service Provides advice and information useful for the safe and efficient conduct of flights . This may include weather information , changes of serviceability of facilities , conditions at aerodromes , general airspace activity information , and any other information likely to affect safety . The avoidance of other traffic is solely the pilot 's responsibility . Basic Service is available under IFR outside controlled airspace in any meteorological conditions , or under VFR . A pilot may change heading , route , or level without advising the controller . A controller will not issue specific heading instructions ; however , generic navigational assistance may be provided on request . Traffic Service Traffic Service is a surveillance based ATS , where in addition to the provisions of a Basic Service , the controller provides specific surveillance derived traffic information to assist the pilot in avoiding other traffic . The avoidance of other traffic is solely the pilot 's responsibility . Traffic Service is available under IFR outside controlled airspace in any meteorological conditions , or under VFR . Deconfliction Service A Deconfliction Service is a surveillance based ATS where , in addition to the provisions of a Basic Service , the controller provides specific surveillance derived traffic information and deconfliction advice . A Deconfliction Service shall only be provided to flights under IFR in Class G Airspace , irrespective of meteorological conditions . [ ... ] A controller will provide traffic information , accompanied with a heading and/or level aimed at achieving a planned deconfliction minima . Procedural Service A Procedural Service is a non surveillance ATS where , in addition to the provisions of a Basic Service , the controller provides instructions , which if complied with , shall achieve deconfliction minima against other aircraft participating in the Procedural Service . Neither traffic information nor deconfliction advice can be passed with respect to unknown traffic . A Procedural Service shall only be provided to flights under IFR , irrespective of meteorological conditions . [ ... ] the pilot remains wholly responsible for terrain clearance at all times . [ ... ] A controller will provide deconfliction instructions by allocating levels , radials , tracks , routes , time restrictions , approach clearances and holding instructions , or use pilot position reports , aimed at achieving a planned deconfliction minima .
<URL> . The UK has some very strange ideas about Radio , which bear no resemblance to the reality of physics and how radio actually works . Foremost among those ideas is the idea that you are only legally allowed to listen to transmissions intended for " general reception " : The services that can be listened to under the definition of general reception are : licensed broadcasting stations ; amateur and citizens ' band radio transmissions ; and weather and navigation transmissions Radio scanners should not be used to listen to any other radio services , including illegal radio stations ( pirates ) ( by virtue of the fact that they are not licensed radio stations ) . Aviation-band transmissions are not on Ofcom 's list , so even though they are broadcast entirely " in the clear " and anyone with an appropriately tuned AM receiver could hear them you are legally prohibited from listening to them . Providing feeds to LiveATC would also appear to be a violation , though it 's not clear to me that listening to LiveATC streams would put the listener in violation of the law . From the same Ofcom site : ... it is illegal to listen to anything other than general reception transmissions unless you are either a licensed user of the frequencies in question or have been specifically authorised to do so by a designated person . and ... it is also illegal to tell a third party what has been heard in a transmission a person has listened to illegally . So anyone providing UK aviation band transmissions to LiveATC may be in violation of both of those laws , but I 'm not certain what that means for LiveATC listeners ( that would be a question to ask Ofcom ) .
The UHF air band operates in AM in a general range of 225.0 -- 399.95 MHz . Many ATC functions have both VHF and UHF frequencies . For example , <URL> Tower uses 118.3 and 257.6 . ATC will often broadcast on both the VHF and UHF frequencies . You can look up these frequencies on the <URL> to see who is allowed to use these frequencies . This is also located in CFR Title 47 , § 2.106 . According to the table , the the non-emergency allocation of these frequencies is Federal use : In the bands 225-328 .6 MHz , 335.4-399 .9 MHz , and 1350-1390 MHz , the fixed and mobile services are limited to the military services . The bands 235-322 MHz and 335.4-399 .9 MHz are also allocated on a primary basis to the mobile-satellite service , limited to military operations . There are no non-Federal uses cited for those ranges . Also , per <URL> : Non-Federal stations may be authorized to use Federal frequencies in the bands above 25 MHz if the Commission finds , after consultations with the appropriate Federal agency or agencies , that such use is necessary for coordination of Federal and non-Federal activities So it seems that if you do n't have a military purpose , outside of special agreements you are not allowed to use these frequencies . For more information , the National Telecommunications &amp; Information Administration ( NTIA ) has reports on the usage of the <URL> and <URL> of this band . Technically there are also limited non-Federal uses but they do n't apply to this question : The frequency 243 MHz is the frequency in this band for use by survival craft stations and equipment used for survival purposes . ... may also be used , in accordance with the procedures in force for terrestrial radiocommunication services , for search and rescue operations concerning manned space vehicles . For the gap in the ranges mentioned above : The use of the band 328.6-335 .4 MHz by the aeronautical radionavigation service is limited to Instrument Landing Systems ( glide path ) . And additionally for 322-328 .6 MHz : ... all practicable steps shall be taken to protect the radio astronomy service from harmful interference .
Yes , they do . They are called Anti-Skid and they go from Mark I of 1948 , with simply an on-off switch triggered by wheel lock , till Mark V ( or at least that 's the last I 've seen ) , with quite complex control systems and sensors behind . The full details are a bit long to include them all here ( there are <URL> ) . For a brief overview , see <URL> from slide 12 till 18 .
It is the larger aircraft that came first . Historically , the runway length ( and design ) of an airport has depended on the aircraft operating there ( among other things ) , though this is changing . For example , the <URL> : The main runways -- RWY 04/22 and RWY 13/31 -- were continually lengthened during post WW II operations which kept them in line with the demands of the aviation industry until the mid 1960s ... The runway required for the aircraft depends on the take-off weight and the lesser runway length restricts the payload or range . As a result , for economical operation , the runway needs to be longer . However , there are other constraints to consider : For large aircraft , the runway ( and taxiway ) width , apron and parking space are important considerations . In most cases , lengthening the runway will be easier than taking care of these other constraints . In the end , airports have to weigh the benefits of letting heavier aircraft operate against the resources required for runway lengthening . For major airports ( like Heathrow , for example ) , the cost of runway expansion will run into the billions . Unless the aircraft is going to be operated regularly ( which depends on how many airports it can land ) , there is no point in lengthening the runway in an airport . The economic operation of the aircraft has to be considered . For example , the A380 was designed around a 80m ' box ' , which the airlines had decided is the maximum size they can operate economically . A bigger aircraft does not mean more runway required . For example , the A380 requires ( slightly ) lesser runway compared to 747-400 . If it comes to that , aircraft requiring more runway can takeoff from smaller ones . For example , a Boeing Dreamlifter once <URL> runway ( it normally requires > 9000ft ) . The airports with longest runways have them for different reasons - the Qamdo Bamda Airport ( 5500m runway ) has a long runway due to its elevation ( > 4300m above MSL ) , while the Ramenskoye Airport as a long runway ( 5400m ) due to the aircraft operated there ; it was a test facility , for among other things , the Soviet Buran spacecraft .
The original 757 cockpit was considered " glass . " It consisted of six screens : Pilot 's PFD and ND , Co-pilots PFD and ND , and an upper and lower EICAS screen . Behind the scenes , there is a triple autopilot system ( left , center and right ) , two flight management computers , three flight control computers , three display control units ( think SGU or symbol generator ) , two to three air data computers depending on customer option , and two EICAS ( Engine Indicating and Caution and Advisory System ) computers . There are also a large number of card files that process various system discretes to provide aural warnings . A more modern upgrade to this , called " IS&amp;S " keeps the same " boxes " in the shelves , but changes the PFD/ND displays to 4 LCD displays . This also got rid of the standalone airspeed indicators and altimeters ( save the standby ) as well as VSI 's . It makes the aircraft " NextGen " compliant .
Yes , this is allowed , subject to certain conditions . See <URL> ( the ATC " bible " ) , section 5-5-7 , for the full details . ... all other approved separation may be discontinued and passing or diverging separation applied when ... Aircraft are on opposite/reciprocal courses and you have observed that they have passed each other ; or aircraft are on same or crossing courses/assigned radar vectors and one aircraft has crossed the projected course of the other , and the angular difference between their courses/assigned radar vectors is at least 15 degrees . That 's in the terminal environment ; it 's still possible in the enroute environment but a bit more restrictive due to the greater aircraft speeds and poorer radar accuracy .
These days , with digital recording , it 's likely that nothing special happens . " Mark the tape " is a holdover from when ATC recordings were actually on tapes - you could ask a controller to " mark " a tape to hold it and prevent it being recycled for another recording while your <URL> is being processed . ( Anecdotally I 've been told some facilities had tape rotations as short as 15 days , and a FOIA request letter could easily take longer than that to make it to the facility ) . Today much ( probably most ) of what is said on the frequency is recorded digitally , direct to hard drives , and kept around " essentially forever " as one of our local controllers put it when this came up at a recent event . Basically the virtual " tapes " stick around for as long as the facility 's recording machine has disk space to store them , and since audio files are n't that big facilities can store recordings a lot longer than they did in the days of tape . All that 's really needed to pull a record to review it with a controller/supervisor is the date , time , facility , and frequency ( and your aircraft callsign would probably be helpful too ) - e.g. " April 4 , 2014 - JFK Local Control for Runway 04R ( 119.1 ) - United 123 Heavy " . " Mark the tape and give me a phone number " survives as non-standard phraseology that lets the controller know that you will likely have a bone to pick with someone when you get on the ground and gives them the opportunity to tell their supervisor that an annoyed pilot will be calling the facility in the near future ( and hopefully give the supervisor time to listen to the tape ) . The useful part is really getting the facility phone number so you know who to call when you land .
The Air Traffic Control system does transmit information over the internet . The Air Traffic Control system has a number of components , some of which transmit information over the internet . According to <URL> , Office of Inspector General , DoT , . . Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) has increasingly turned toward the use of commercial software and Internet Protocol ( IP ) - based technologies to modernize ATC systems . Note that the ATC is not connected directly to the internet . It is the behind scene connections , that are routed through the internet . According to <URL> , ... when most managers say there is no connection to the Internet , they are unaware of maintenance connections . Behind the scenes there are almost always semi-direct connections through routers shared between the control system and business systems that can be exploited Actually , the use of internet for sharing of information is increasing . <URL> modernization involves a significant amount of information transmission over the internet . According to US <URL> , NextGen is a modernization effort begun in 2004 by FAA to transform the nation 's ground-based ATC system into a system that uses satellite - based navigation and other advanced technology . ... These new technologies will use an Internet Protocol ( IP ) based network to communicate . <URL> Image from GAO report on Air Traffic Control This increasing connection to the internet does increase the associated risks . From the same GAO report : ... the shift to NextGen technologies will require FAA to replace its proprietary , relatively isolated ATC computer systems with information systems that interoperate and share data throughout FAA 's operations and those of its aviation partners . ... These new systems ... will also employ digital and Internet-based computer-networking technologies , exposing the air traffic control ( ATC ) system to new cybersecurity risks . As to why the ATC is connected to the internet , it basically boils down to ease of operation . According to [ NATS ] , which manages UK airspace , We ... are now working all over the world within an industry where systems are connected across organisations , countries and continents . Such an interconnected worldwide system requires a standard platform , which will not be possible ( or atleast very difficult to maintain ) if a closed , proprietary platform is used . So , the ATC does use internet , though this is mainly to transmit information . However , I 'm not aware of the security systems , though we can be sure that they do have some sort of encryption ( If I 'm correct , Lockheed Martin supplies the software ) and have firewalls to protect the systems .
The <URL> has a relatively comprehensive list on how they derive at the " generation " of the fighter . For example , here is how the Air Force classifies them : 1 : Jet propulsion : F-80 , Me 262 2 : Swept wings ; range radar ; infrared missiles : F-86 , MiG-15 3 : Supersonic , pulse radar , Beyond-visual-range missiles : Century Series , F-105 , F-4 , MiG-17 , MiG-21 4 : Pulse-doppler radar ; high maneuverability ; look-down/shoot-down missiles : F-15 , F-16 , Mirage 2000 , MiG-29 . 4 + : High agility ; sensor fusion ; reduced radar signature : Eurofighter Typhoon , Su-30 , F/A -18 E/F , Rafale 4 + + : Active electronically scanned arrays ; continued reduced signatures or " active " ( waveform canceling ) stealth technology , supercruise : Su-35 , F-15SE 5 : All-aspect stealth with internal weapons bays , extreme agility , full-sensor fusion , integrated avionics , some or full supercruise : F-22 , F-35 , 6 : extreme stealth , morphing capability , smart skins , highly networked , extremely sensitive sensors , optionally manned , directed energy weapons . Until we have a major leap in technology , it would seem we are capped off at 5th generation fighters for the moment .
A windmill is a turbine , so it 's better to build an optimized turbine . I 've studied your idea and this draft design has come out : <URL> The apparatus has these innovating characteristics : Configurable for 2 , 3 and 4 engine aircraft Can be positioned exactly for optimal efficiency Adjustable up or sideways for local constraints Bird/snake anti-roasting protection ( removable ) Simple and robust 50 or 60 Hz AC selection by adjusting engine thrust Optional gas water extractor For increased operation time , the apparatus can move with the airplane until a certain speed ( configurable ) is achieved ( cable not included ) .
Can a sextant be used while flying ? Yes it can . Some aircraft like 747 for example had a sextant port to allow celestial navigation . How accurate/reliable is a sextant , both standing still and at 500 + mph ? Sextant is not accurate . At least not accurate enough for today 's navigation purposes . You can not perform a RNP-RNAV approach with a sextant . Per wikipedia , the best accuracy you can get with a sextant is between a tenth to a quarter of nautical mile . But it is a very good alternative if everything else fails . Are sextants found in any cockpits today ? As for sextants in modern cockpits , my best guess is you wo n't find any , at least in the form of one " left in a drawer " . See that image of a sextant being operated on a VC-10 . It 's more like a submarine periscope than a traditional naval sextant . <URL> Retrieved from <URL> unknown copyright owner . Finally , as KRyan notes and as voretaq7 wrote <URL> , pilots do n't need to know , but they can attend training in order to know .
Whether there are any formal policies for when to request descent will depend on the airline . However , I doubt formal procedures are established , since it should be pretty obvious to pilots when to request descent . From a controller point of view , I will expect you to request descent when you are ready for it - so a minute or so before reaching your top of descent point . Controllers are able to estimate when you are going to request descent , based on experience , known level restrictions and typical aircraft performance . Controllers who have been working the same sector for a few years will be able to tell pretty much exactly when a certain flight is going to request descend , based on the current wind , runway in use , airline and aircraft type . What this means to you , as a pilot , is that you can expect the controller to be ready for your request ; You can normally expect to receive a clearance for descent immediately after requesting it - so there is no reason to request it several minutes in advance . Very few pilots will request descent several minutes before ToD . If they do , I can - if traffic flow permits - use the phrase " When ready descent to FL160 " . You are then free to start your descent when passing the ToD . Honestly though , if you call me up and say " Request descent in 5 minutes " , I will most likely just reply with " Roger , call me back when ready for descent " . The traffic situation can change significantly in 5 minutes , so I do n't want to issue a clearance that may not fit into the future traffic picture . In the end , the early request just costs time on the frequency , which can be a scarce resource in a busy sector . Moral of the story : as a controller , I know my airspace very well , and I have a pretty good idea of when you are going to be ready for descent . Because of this , there is no reason to request descent before you are ready for it . If you do , it will not matter at best , and be slightly annoying at worst . ATC can of course also descend you before your ToD for various reasons , but that is another discussion .
It helps to know the objective of both ICAO and IATA to understand when which code is used . <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) is a UN-body which focusses on international harmonization of civil aviation regulations . ICAO codes are used for " official " purposes such as Air Traffic Control ; E.g. flight plans use ICAO codes for airports and airline flight identification . <URL> ( International Air Transport Association ) is a trade association that focusses on making air traffic businesses safe , secure , reliable and efficient . IATA codes are mainly used for ticketing . E.g. travel itineraries use IATA codes for airports and IATA flight numbers .
TL ; DR : Do you change altitude after the heading change , before , or during ? When flying under Air Traffic Control , you are expected to execute instructions after you receive them , following the motto . When receiving a turn and climb instruction at the same time , you are expected to start both , e.g. What 's the proper procedure for changing altitude when you change headings ? You do not change altitude or flight level on your own when flying IFR . When flying VFR , you should adhere to the semi-circular rules when changing your direction and end up in one of the semi-circular areas . On turn techniques that allow direction change and altitude change at the same time , see <URL> . Is this made more complicated if you are flying Visual Flight Rules instead of Instrument Flight Rules ? Yes and No , because remember : You do not change altitude or flight level without being cleared or instructed to do so when flying IFR . Whether having to choose the correct altitude or flight level when flying VFR is more difficult than having ATC select one for you , is debatable . Additional Information : The rule you are talking about is the <URL> , which depending on the country , can either be applied West to East or North to South . Let 's assume the example you have already used and differentiate between westbound and eastbound flights . ( Image Source : <URL> ) The above picture shows that aircraft on a eastbound general track between and are bound to odd flight levels , such as FL210 , FL230 , FL250 , etc. . Opposite traffic on a general track between and is bound to even flightlevels , such as FL220 , FL240 , FL260 , etc. . This flight level you are bound to use is also the flight level you request in your flightplan , called the Requested Flight Level or RFL . Imagine you have a flight going westbound and you have requested FL280 as your cruise level . You would maintain this flight level until you are cleared to descend by ATC . Even if a portion of the descent or arrival route leads in the opposite direction of your orignal track , it will be ATC who is responsible to assign the correct desend flight level , but these do not have to be necessarily following the semi-ciruclar flight level rules . There is one scenarion where a pilot may want to initiate a flight level change due to changing jurisdiction and use of the semi-circular flight level rules , which is when crossing borders between countries that use west-east and north-south rules . If are on a westbound flight ( approx track : that requires even flightlevels , such as FL280 and cross the FIR border into a country with north-south rules that require an odd flight level , you would have a step climb or descent in your flightplan to accomodate this , e.g. : It would still be ATC who clears you to climb to FL290 at that fix , but this way your flightplan is in accordance to local semi-circular flight level rules . Remember that when flying IFR , you never change the altitude or flightlevel unless you have been instructed or cleared to do so . The same semi-circular flight level rules apply to VFR , just with the added 500ft to stay clear of the IFR flight levels . In most cases however , VFR does not entirely follow these rules , as the are VFR and their separation is based on visual identification and the see-and-avoid principle . I am not familiar with airspace class B procedures , but in class C airspace , you require permissions to enter the airspace and will thus be assigned restrictions , which can be either a single altitude or flight level , an upper or lower restriction or a level or altitude band . If you are assigned either of the two latter options , you could apply the semi-circular flight level rules . See below on an overview how other countries handle these semi-circular rules . ( Image Source : <URL> - Not for real navigational use ) See also these related questions : <URL> <URL>
The estimated off block time , EOBT , which is the time at which the flight is planned to leave the gate at the departure airport , has a validity of + / -15 minutes . If the plane is not able to depart within this window , the company must send a new ATC flightplan with an updated EOBT . In some cases a calculated takeoff time , CTOT , is issued to a flight . This is the exact time the plane must begin its takeoff roll . It is given based on airspace or airport congestion along the planned route of the flight , to prevent overload in individual ATC sectors . The flight must begin its takeoff roll within -5 / +10 minutes of the CTOT . If unable to comply , a new CTOT must be requested .
You are n't missing anything obvious , ADS-B spoofing ( the sending of faked messages ) and tampering ( putting incorrect information into a message ) is possible as there is no message authentication built into the protocol . The receiving station has no way to check whether messages are fakes . There are some proposed solutions <URL> and <URL> , to my knowledge there has been no decision to change the protocol standard . Keep in mind that even if you add message authentication to the protocol there would still be ways to send faked messages . ADS-B uses GPS , there 's no reason you could n't fake the GPS data being sent to a broadcast unit . The unit would have no way of knowing the GPS data is not genuine , and would send position information thinking it was authentic . So even with authentication and security in the broadcast protocol you still can not implicitly trust the information sent as potential attackers have access to the actual transmission hardware and systems . This means in order to trust the information you have to validate it using another source . The FAA has been close-lipped about it , they say they have the situation covered but they wo n't say how . It may be that they feel that the continued use of radar in built-up and secured areas ( there 's no plans to ditch radar completely in favor of ADS-B ) will allow ATC computers to filter out the fakes . Radar is computerized , some smart algorithms would be able to match radar data to ADS-B broadcasts and alert when ADS-B data does n't match up . An aircraft trying to fly into the Washington DC zone would not be able to use spoofing to get close to a sensitive target for example . This would mean that the areas where spoofing is more likely to be successful would be areas where there is no radar coverage . Yes , someone could mask their aircraft 's true location or fake an airplane in these locations , however the benefits of the system would seem to outweigh the potential risks .
The optimum altitude depends on your aircraft , the engines and the weather . But most important is to decide what you are trying to achieve . If you would like to optimize your fuel consumption per distance travelled , the altitude you will fly at will be higher than if you try to optimize your fuel consumption per time unit . Fuel per distance travelled is usually better at altitude , while fuel flow per time unit is lower at lower altitudes . In other words , if you want to go far , fly high . If you want to keep flying long , fly low . Winds play an important role as well . If you have a strong headwind high up , you might go further staying low . There is quite some difference between reciprocating engines and jet / turbine engines here . The former perform better at lower altitudes , while the latter do just fine until much higher .
If the RVR is less than the minimum value that can be measured , M will precede this value e.g. R24L/M0050 . If measured in ft , then FT will follow . For example : R24L/M0200FT For greater than can be measured and trends : If the RVR is greater than the maximum value that can be measured , P will precede this value e.g. R24L/P1500 . If RVR trends can be measured then U , D , or N will follow the RVR value to indicate increasing , decreasing or no change respectively . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
Is " General Aviation " a well-defined term in the US , in the EU and/or elsewhere ?
In common parlance , " General Aviation " typically means " not-airline " . In the <URL> , the FAA now defines General Aviation as : That portion of civil aviation that does not include scheduled or unscheduled air carriers or commercial space operations . and it gives the ICAO definition : All civil aviation operations other than scheduled air services and nonscheduled air transport operations for remuneration or hire . Both these definitions are closely tied to commercial operations , and they go out of their way to point out that non-scheduled air carriers are NOT general aviation . Note that " civil aviation " would mean " not military " . Historically the term has been very colloquial , and to some extent you will still find different definitions from everyone . However , IMHO these are the most clear definitions available .
Well , pretty much anything can be given a US airworthiness certificate provided it 's not literally falling to pieces . You could certificate such an aircraft as a <URL> -- Specifically one of : Experimental -- Research and Development To conduct aircraft operations as a matter of research or to determine if an idea warrants further development . Typical uses for this certificate include new equipment installations , operating techniques , or new uses for aircraft . or Experimental -- Showing compliance with regulations To show compliance to the airworthiness regulations when an applicant has revised the type certificate design data or has applied for a supplemental type certificate or field approval . If your goal is to ultimately get this aircraft a <URL> you would probably want the latter , to allow you to conduct test/certification flights in the modified aircraft . To then get a standard airworthiness certificate things are a bit more murky . You could get a US STC based on the European STC &amp; using this aircraft as the example for conformity inspections and flight testing , but that would require going through <URL> . The other option would be the 337 process , in which case you are also going to need an A&amp;P mechanic ( preferably one with Inspection Authorization ) and the cooperation of your local FSDO to approve the modification as a " major alteration " ( <URL> - Instructions <URL> ) . As you alluded to in your question , something like installing a Rotax engine in a Cessna 150 is a " Major Modification " that has no " FAA Approved Data " ( STC procedure/drawings/etc . ) to include with the 337 , so you would need to submit " Acceptable Data " for your modification ( the European STC is a good starting point ) and work with the FAA to obtain approval for the modification . This is something you would want to talk to the FAA about before purchasing an aircraft with such a modification ( there 's a good chance they may not approve the modification , which would leave you with an unairworthy aircraft , or one restricted to the Experimental category ) .
My copy of " EW 101 : A First Course in Electronic Warfare " calls it " formation jamming " . <URL> Mind you , an operator of a radar with non-cooperative threat recognition capability will at least suspect something is wrong ( although not from all aspects and ranges ) .
Proficiency in English is something very much required in aviation . One other major accident I remember is the <URL> , which resulted in 349 fatalities , and one of the major reasons was believed to be the poor English of Kazakh Airlines crew . Keeping such importance of English in mind , and the need to standardize English testing and training , the <URL> has issued <URL> Training Candidates are trained for Aviation English in a very similar way to it would be for any other purpose , other than ensuring the following points : Use of operationally relevant , work-related language . Exposure to an aviation environment . Practical training activities such as Listening practice in ATC lab . Testing The Test of English For Aviation is a test Developed by <URL> in accordance with ICAO 's ratings . Here is how the candidates are tested in TEA : TEA candidates can score from Level 1 to Level 6 but most candidates score Level 3 , 4 or 5 . Candidates are awarded a mark from 1 to 6 for each of the 6 skills : pronunciation , structure , vocabulary , fluency , interactions , comprehension . <URL>
A diverse departure is a default departure procedure , named " omnidirectional " by ICAO . To answer your question : It is normally not published . The only thing that is required on aeronautical publications is a wording preventing or limiting the use of this procedure . BUCKLEY AFB ( KBKF ) , AURORA , CO TAKEOFF MINIMUMS AND ( OBSTACLE ) DEPARTURE PROCEDURES 11013 Diverse departure not authorized . Use published departure procedures for obstacle avoidance . Sometimes there is a reminder that it can be used : CANNON AFB ( KCVS ) , CLOVIS , NM TAKEOFF MINIMUMS AND ( OBSTACLE ) DEPARTURE PROCEDURES ORIG 15064 Diverse departure authorized all runways . This default procedure is valid only when : Not explicitly prohibited , There is at least one instrument approach for the airport No obstacle departure procedure ( ODP ) and No standard departure ( SID ) has been published for the airport . A diverse departure is conducted this way : Cross the runway end at 35 ft , maintain heading and a 200 ft/NM gradient until 400 ft above the runway end . The 200 ft/NM gradient is TERPS ' minimum climb gradient , and corresponds to ICAO 's 3.3 % for the minimum procedure design gradient . Continue or turn in any direction while maintaining a minimum rate of climb of 200 ft/NM . Maintain this rate of climb until reaching a 1,000 ft obstacle clearance or a 2,000 ft obstacle clearance in mountainous areas . <URL> <URL> The 40:1 ratio ( 152 ft/NM ) delimits a surface from the runway end , named the obstacle clearance surface ( OCS ) . The diverse departure ensures being above the OCS until enroute . Whenever the conditions exist for a diverse departure , it is implicit ATC authorities have assessed the absence of obstacle above the OCS . This assessment is named the diverse departure assessment . Given the 40:1 slope and obstacle clearances , the area assessed may have a radius from 25 to 46 NM .
In the US , for general aviation flights , operating under <URL> , it is legal to take off with zero visibility ( <URL> , PDF ) . In my opinion , it is not safe . If an emergency were to take place , you would be unable to return and land ; under Part 91 , it is not legal to land unless conditions are equal to or better than a runway 's published approach minimums . Unless you 've got a great alternate nearby , conditions are improving rapidly , or you 've got an extra engine or two , you probably should n't take off in conditions you could n't land in .
The UHF air band operates in AM in a general range of 225.0 -- 399.95 MHz . Many ATC functions have both VHF and UHF frequencies . For example , <URL> Tower uses 118.3 and 257.6 . ATC will often broadcast on both the VHF and UHF frequencies . You can look up these frequencies on the <URL> to see who is allowed to use these frequencies . This is also located in CFR Title 47 , § 2.106 . According to the table , the the non-emergency allocation of these frequencies is Federal use : In the bands 225-328 .6 MHz , 335.4-399 .9 MHz , and 1350-1390 MHz , the fixed and mobile services are limited to the military services . The bands 235-322 MHz and 335.4-399 .9 MHz are also allocated on a primary basis to the mobile-satellite service , limited to military operations . There are no non-Federal uses cited for those ranges . Also , per <URL> : Non-Federal stations may be authorized to use Federal frequencies in the bands above 25 MHz if the Commission finds , after consultations with the appropriate Federal agency or agencies , that such use is necessary for coordination of Federal and non-Federal activities So it seems that if you do n't have a military purpose , outside of special agreements you are not allowed to use these frequencies . For more information , the National Telecommunications &amp; Information Administration ( NTIA ) has reports on the usage of the <URL> and <URL> of this band . Technically there are also limited non-Federal uses but they do n't apply to this question : The frequency 243 MHz is the frequency in this band for use by survival craft stations and equipment used for survival purposes . ... may also be used , in accordance with the procedures in force for terrestrial radiocommunication services , for search and rescue operations concerning manned space vehicles . For the gap in the ranges mentioned above : The use of the band 328.6-335 .4 MHz by the aeronautical radionavigation service is limited to Instrument Landing Systems ( glide path ) . And additionally for 322-328 .6 MHz : ... all practicable steps shall be taken to protect the radio astronomy service from harmful interference .
The ones I know of <URL> ( out of production ) <URL> ( they claim its the only pressurized piston single on the market ) <URL> ( out of production ) <URL> ( falls under experimental but is in " production " none the less ) For what its worth this is a pretty small category of plane to begin with . The M22 was not very successful ( although it was ahead of its time ) and there are not that many left flying ( less than 20 I think ) . The P210N saw some better success and the Mirage seems to be selling but in the end of the day extra maintenance and complexity of the plane its self does not lend to a very practical plane considering there size and performance numbers . If we are talking about the less produced or experimental designs we can add , <URL> - One of the early test beds for pressurization <URL> - Altitude record plane <URL> - Another early frame used for testing
Metal fatigue is normally the limiting factor of an aircraft 's lifespan . Fatigue cracks build up every flight ( start &amp; landing ) , called a cycle . Therefore the design life of an aircraft is typically given in cycles . Metal fatigue cracks source : <URL> For long haul aircraft , that make relatively few cycles , the design lifespan is in the order of 40 000 cycles . For short haul the number is higher , sometimes up to 111 000 cycles . For example , the Boeing 747 has a design number of cycles of 35 000 , the MD-80 has 110 000 . An aircraft should be operable for about 30 years before reaching the cycle limit . The lifetime can be stretched by special inspection and maintenance programs .
Perhaps an aeronautic version of one of the Voith maritime systems ? This one appears to be electrically powered . <URL> ( watch the " installation " video ) . Also , this video explains the concept a bit ( for maritime applications ) I suppose if you could arrange a lightweight frictionless magnetic ring bearing ( possibly integrating electric drive ) , and/or peripheral drive linking system , it might be worth it if you needed to have two or three smaller fans beside each other , driven by a single core , rather than a singe large fan , in order to reduce fan/nacelle height . ( imagine a B52 nacelle with one side shortened to just a fan cowling ) I doubt that this would reduce overall drag , though , but I am intrigued by the concept of the greatest chord of the blades travelling the fastest .
If you hold a Sport Pilot certificate and are looking to upgrade it to a Private Pilot certificate , your best bet is to use the requirements of <URL> . All of the flight time you logged earning a Sport Pilot certificate applies towards Private , but additional hours and types of flight time need to be logged . The requirements for each are paraphrased below . You 'd have to log the difference , which is a minimum of 20 hours , including another 5 hours of dual and 5 hours of solo . There 's a lot more to it than what I reference below , but this is the basics . How much of the training will have to be re-done ? This should vary wildly from pilot to pilot . You 'll need to redo training as required to meet standards . If you 're transitioning right away , theoretically none , but it 's likely that some retraining will be required . Does it depend on the type of your flight instructor 's certificate ? Yes . If the instructor has only a sport pilot instructor certificate , none of the dual instruction hours are able to be counted for the private pilot dual hours criteria . They are not an " authorized instructor " for private pilot privileges . If the CFI had a CFI-airplane certificate then those dual hours working towards the sport pilot certificate will count toward the dual hour requirements of the private pilot . See the <URL> Required for Sport ( <URL> ) Required for Private ( <URL> ) If you 've chosen a flight school that operates a Part 141 program , you get to do it all over . Hooray !
The language is intentionally vague . Much like Justice Stewart said about pornography , when it comes to " information relating to the safety of flight " <URL> Birds flying around in the approach path ? Yup . Wind shear on short final ? Yup . ( Even if it 's forecast/reported telling them how much airspeed you gained or lost helps . ) " Drone " buzzing around in the traffic pattern ? Yup . Deer grazing in the middle of a grass runway ? Yup . Bird strike ? Absolutely . ( There are regs/procedures specifically for this . ) The guy in row 3J is threatening the flight attendants ? Yup . The guy in row 3J spilled his soda on his lap ? ... Not so much .
Firstly , " co-pilot " is not a term that is really used anymore . When people say that they usually mean the First Officer . It 's a bugbear of mine because " co-pilot " implies that there is one real pilot and a half pilot , when the reality is an airliner needs at least two fully qualified pilots to fly it safely ! When it comes to actually flying the plane , the two pilots have designated roles - Pilot Flying ( PF ) and Pilot Monitoring ( PM - sometimes this is called Pilot Not Flying ) . Both the Captain and the First Officer share these roles - usually one of them is PF on the outbound leg and the other one is PM on the inbound leg . The PF manipulates the controls to actually fly the plane , whereas the PM handles communications and other required tasks that do n't involve actually flying the plane . The biggest difference between a Captain and a First officer is responsibility . The Captain is the Pilot In Command ( PIC ) , who has ultimate responsibility for everything that happens throughout the flight . There are some practical things that only Captains can do , like flying into some tricky airports , landing in strong crosswinds , and on many aircraft only the Captain can use the steering wheel ( or Tiller ) for taxiing . Historically there was a strong heirarchy - the Captain was the boss and the co-pilot was , you could say , a servant . This posed big problems , because the Captain is not always right . The advent of Crew Resource Management ( CRM ) has brought this down to a much more desirable level - where there is still a heirarchy to ensure decisions are made , but not so much that they are unquestionable . The future of the First Officer role will be one of continuing to recognise that they play an important role in a functioning cockpit , rather than just there to serve the Captain . And hopefully people will stop calling them co-pilots !
No . It varies from state to state . <URL> , for example , requires tax payment but no aircraft or pilot registration . <URL> does n't require any registration and did n't mention any taxes . In <URL> , registration is required but taxes can be waived if you register your aircraft under your corporate , instead of your own name . <URL> requires registration and so does <URL> . I could not find a single resource which lists all states and their aircraft and pilot registration requirements . FAA does not have this information , probably because FAA does not care about state regulations . We can create a Wiki on this topic here .
Depending on how much detail you want , you can read the <URL> , which is the most recent and highest-level ruling on general aviation flightsharing . The Supreme Court <URL> . Essentially , <URL> wanted to let pilots find passengers willing to share the costs of a flight . They emphasized repeatedly that all decisions about if and when to fly , the route to take etc. would be made by the pilot , not the passengers . The FAA said that by advertising for passengers , pilots would be <URL> , which makes it a commercial operation . There were plenty of arguments on both sides , but ultimately the courts decided that the FAA was acting consistently with previous decisions and regulations . Flytenow made three legal arguments , all of which were <URL> on appeal : Advertising for passengers is protected free speech under <URL> Private pilots ' <URL> under the Fourteenth Amendment are infringed if they ca n't share costs The FAA 's ruling was vague But if you read the <URL> , you can see that the court basically agreed with the FAA that protecting passengers justifies limiting what private pilots can do : The FAA 's distinction between pilots offering expense-sharing services on line to a wide audience and those offering expense-sharing services to a limited group is justified : holding out to the public creates the risk that unsuspecting passengers , under the impression that the service and its pilots lawfully offer common carriage , will contract with pilots who in fact lack the experience and credentials of commercial pilots . To put it even more simply , the basic difference between Uber and Flytenow is that the FAA believes that the general public can identify a bad driver , but not a bad pilot . That 's the fundamental reason for having commercial licenses , part 135 etc. .
Based on the ATA iSpec 2200 , ATA Standard Numbering System , which provides a standard for structuring maintenance data by the manufacturers . The structure helps the airlines by providing a common structure regardless of manufacturer . While voluntary , most aircraft manufacturers use it . The spec is organized into chapters by aircraft system . ATA Chapter 32 is LANDING GEAR . Chapter subsections cover subsystems . Subsection -10 is Main Gear and Doors and subsection -20 is Nose Gear and Doors . So that 's the ' common ' terminology in the aircraft manufacturing and maintenance world .
There are basically two effects here : One is the ducted fan effect . Ducted fans are more efficient than open fans , specifically creating smaller vortices at the blade tips . The other is the fact that the tail rotor of a helicopter is not situated in an area with almost linear airflow along the rotor axis . It is also submitted to : A steady flow due to helicopter forward motion . This is coming from the side of the rotor , so affects opposite rotor blades differently . A buffeting flow from the h/c main rotor . This is an unsteady flow , also coming laterally from the point of view of the tail rotor ( actually , the top ) . Fenestron tail-rotor ducts can be considered a fairing that reduces airflow across the rotor . The end result is that the rotor blades are in a much smoother flow that helps reduce unwanted turbulence . This is one of the reasons such rotors are quieter than regular open tail-rotors ( the other being the fairing material absorbing some of the noise ) .
The wing thickness is basically the distance between the upper and lower surface of the wing ( or airfoil ) . ` <URL> Source : NASA . The wing thickness is usually given as a percentage of the wing ( or airfoil ) chord ( the distance between the leading and trailing edge ) . This is to make it a non-dimensional quantity for ease of comparison across different scales .
In the US , yes . Kerosene [ for use in aviation ] is taxed at $ 0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies . These taxes mainly fund airport and Air Traffic Control operations by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , of which commercial aviation is the biggest user ( <URL> ) . More information from <URL> . In the UK , it <URL> on the user . Aviation turbine fuel used for private pleasure flying : # 0.5795 per litre Aviation gasoline ( Avgas ) : # 0.3770 per litre Air transport <URL> . Furthermore : Article 24 of the [ 1944 Convention of International Civil Aviation ] requires all contracting states not to charge duty on aviation fuel already on board any aircraft that has arrived in their territory from another contracting state . Further to this , the exemption of airlines from national taxes and customs duties on a range of aviation-related goods , including parts , stores and fuel is a standard element of the network of bilateral ' Air Service Agreements ' ( ASAs ) between individual countries .
The closest EASA equivalent would be the Design Organisation Approval ( DOA ) . According to <URL> : A Design Organisation Approval is the recognition that a Design Organisation complies with the requirements of Part 21 Subpart J. Privileges : A DOA holder can Perform design activities within the scope of approval Have compliance documents accepted by the Agency without further verification Perform activities independently from the Agency
end question
start question
Why do I get that funny stomach drop feeling right after takeoff ?
It happens when the airplane levels off after takeoff , usually either at the first assigned altitude or at a safe altitude where it will be accelerated in order to retract the flaps . The feeling is a result of negative vertical acceleration . It can also happen at other times during the flight , such as during turbulence or when starting a descent . Basically you and the airplane are both in a steady climb and when the aircraft levels off you continue to move up faster so it ( via the seatbelt ) keeps you at its same level and decelerates your own personal vertical climb . It is just like the feeling you get in a roller coaster . My wife calls it a wee-hill ! :-) EDIT : Another more familiar example happens anytime that you are traveling in a car : If you are in a car moving at a constant speed ( let 's say 55 MPH ) you are moving at the same speed along with it . When the brakes of the car are engaged , they slow the car down but your inertia tends to keep you moving in the direction that the car was going . This will be more noticeable as the brakes are applied harder and harder because the deceleration of the car is more extreme . You will notice this as pressure against the seat belt as the car holds you in place . You are still moving forward , but you are getting slower ( decelerating ) . In an airplane the exact same thing is happening only it is in a vertical direction instead of a horizontal direction like in the car . What you are feeling is your stomach floating up a little inside your body , because while the seat belt is holding you down , it does n't hold your stomach in place !
Balanced field length calculations by definition are the greater of three factors . As Lnafziger noted in his answer to the linked questions above these three factors are : 115 % All engine takeoff distance Accelerate-stop distance Accelerate-go distance The manufacturer will choose a $ V _ { 1 } $ speed that will all the accelerate-stop and accelerate-go distances to be as close as possible . This reduced the takeoff distance to the lowest possible since the takeoff distance is the greater of those three factors . This means that our takeoff distance must be less than certain declared distances . See the linked questions for a discussion on declared distances . The TORA value may or may not equal the runway length but it will never be greater than that length . The TODA is the TORA plus a clearway . The ASDA is the TORA plus a stopway ( it can be lower than the TORA value ) . Using common sense , our accelerate-go distance can not be greater than the TODA value and our accelerate-stop distance can not be greater than the ASDA value . If we take this one step further , since we have one number for takeoff and we do n't know if that number is limited by the accelerate-stop or accelerate-go performance we can not use the TODA value for the accelerate-go distance . We must use the TORA value . Hence , for multi-engine airplanes with balanced field length calculations we are limited to the lower of the TORA or ASDA values for our takeoff distance . As Aeroalias and Lnafziger pointed out , for unbalanced field length calculations we can indeed use the TODA value for the accelerate-go distance and the ASDA value for the accelerate-stop distance . References : The <URL> has some great videos on the subject . Here is the video on <URL> . <URL> also has information on the subject
There are two processes you can go through if your medical is denied - one is to appeal the denial to the FAA ( which you 'd do if your AME messed up and you can prove they 're wrong ) , the other is to reapply ( which is probably what you 'll want to do if you get denied ) . When you reapply you 're basically starting the medical certification process over from the beginning . You can reapply right away if you want , but practically you would reapply when you 've corrected whatever condition ( s ) caused you to be denied , and go back to your AME with documentation showing that your condition has been corrected ( or determined to be benign ) . I assume based on your question that you 've had to check the " Frequent or Severe Headaches " box , so you will continue to check that box , and may require a <URL> because of that -- your AME can give you more details if you wind up in this situation . If you do get denied talk to your AME ( and any other doctors you may be seeing ) about your next steps before doing anything - obviously medical issues are serious not just because they keep you out of the sky but because your health is important . You may also want to take advantage of <URL> - they have folks on staff who are experts at navigating the FAA medical process and can help you out . It could be worth it if you anticipate you 'll need assistance with medical certification over the long haul .
For low drag , you want to minimize the surface changes presented to the air flow . Large changes in the surface will create turbulence and pressure changes that contribute to drag . Small changes will minimize these sources of drag . When you move a control surface like an aileron or elevator , air is flowing past both sides of the airfoil . Although this changes the direction of the flow , which gives the control force as well as some drag , the air can still flow past both sides . In the case of a spoiler , the air can not flow past both sides . This increases the frontal area presented to the flow , and creates a low pressure area behind the deployed surface . Creating a low-pressure area behind an object is a big contributor to drag , which is why <URL> . Spoilers on the wing also have the effect of reducing lift . By disrupting the smooth low-pressure flow over the upper surface of the wing , they reduce the effectiveness of the wing , effectively <URL> . For an illustration of both principles in action , <URL> of a speed brake on a Mooney . This shows how even a relatively small object , when disrupting the air flow , can add a significant amount of drag .
When an Aviation Medical Examiner , AME , issues you a medical certificate , that is the relevant " permission " you need . Having sleep apnea complicates that issuance process , but does n't necessarily make it impossible . Along with what you read on the AOPA forums , I would suggest making an appointment to talk with a local AME , preferably one who has accomplished this process with other pilots before . He can give you a picture of what the process is likely to look like in your case , which is a better answer than assuming that your journey will look like that of somebody you read about on the internet .
The license they are talking about is an FAA license issues on the basis of your Italian one , provided that license is up to an FAA standard . See @Pondlife 's answer for some links , and here 's one on the <URL> . The FAA license would be restricted to the privileges of your Italian one . For example , if you do not have privileges to fly at night on your Italian license then you would not be able to fly at night . If your Italian license defines the day as being shorter than the FAA you 'd have to use the Italian definition . To get one you have to show up in person at an FSDO unless the Italian FAA equivalent has an agreement in place where they can validate identity , etc. .
The first and perhaps most important thing to do is NOT turn around . Generally speaking you wo n't have the airspeed/altitude to make a full 180 and return to the field . While it can be done , it 's advised to continue forward and put the plane down as you would in any emergency . Trim for best glide and pick a landing spot ( limited options in this case ) . In some cases with small plane/long runway situations you will be able to execute something like a short field landing with the remaining runway but that is very situationally dependent . When I flew out of KPNE in a Warrior 24 was 7000ft ; if you lost an engine at rotation you had plenty of runway . At DYL where I fly now that 's not really the case . Every airport is different but a good deal of the airports I have flown out of recently have had long fields at either end of the runway giving maybe an extra 1000 ft or so . Airports in populated areas may have roads you can touch down on . You should always consult the POH of the specific aircraft in this case for proper emergency procedures . Specifically to the 152 point , the take off distance is around 1400 ft. full loaded if memory serves . Unless you are training on 2000 ft strips you should have no problem getting the plane back down with remaining runway at all but the shortest of fields . If you are only 10ft up you should be able to put the plane down fast , albeit a bit hard , but fast none the less . For what it 's worth <URL> . Once you have touched down it would be advised to retract your flaps , this will increase the load on the gear ( by reducing your wings ' effectiveness ) and increase brake effectiveness . You should take care to not lock the brakes as well . Side Story : This happened to a buddy of mine in his Archer a bunch of years back ( I 'll try to find the incident report ) . The plane was fresh out of annual and something was not hooked up correctly and shook loose on take off causing the engine to cut out around 100ft or so . There was a corn field dead ahead and he was able to put the plane down smoothly . Thankfully no one was hurt and he simply owed the farmer for the corn he took out on landing & hellip ; .
Interesting question . <URL> mention only two reasons that controllers have to say " at your own risk " : The pilot " insists " on using a closed or unsafe runway ( 3-3-2 ) A helicopter takeoff or landing uses a non-movement area ( 3-11-2 , 3-11-6 ) Obviously Solar Impulse 2 is n't a helicopter , so that leaves the closed or unsafe runway reason . I do n't know for sure why the tower used the " own risk " phraseology - it would be great to hear from an actual controller - but some possibilities are : The runway was marked as closed ( for Solar Impulse 2 ) on the tower controller 's displays , and he said " at own risk " more or less out of habit There were vehicles on the runway , therefore it was " unsafe " Solar Impulse 2 is such an unusual aircraft that the controller felt he could n't contribute anything to the safety of the takeoff , so he was simply saying " go for it , I ca n't do much to help you " Of course , the problem with all those suggestions is that they should apply at all the airports , not just half of them . But I did find this quote from a controller on the AOPA forums ( members only ) : Although it 's normal for helicopters , I issued this " departure will be at your own risk " to an aircraft once . The runway was open , he was n't departing from a taxiway or anything like that . The problem was fog , where I could n't see the runway from the tower , and therefore I could n't determine whether the runway was actually " clear " for his takeoff . I do n't know if this is the right response in this situation or not , but I was a pretty new controller at the time , had n't faced this situation before , and figured the " at your own risk " was appropriate . That could have applied to the Solar Impulse situation : with other vehicles and personnel on the runway , the controller ca n't say it 's " clear " . And just like the controller on the forum , perhaps some of the controllers handling Solar Impulse 2 felt that the non-standard wording was appropriate for a very unusual situation . The other controllers who did issue a takeoff clearance presumably felt differently .
For a quick explanation you need to know that Thrust is the difference between the entry impulse of the air entering the engine and the exit impulse of the heated fuel-air mixture leaving the engine . Impulse is mass times velocity , and expressed with a mass flow $ \ dot m $ , thrust T is $ $ T = \ dot m \ cdot ( v _ { exit } - v _ { entry } ) $ $ The exit impulse is increased by accelerating the airflow through the engine , and the acceleration is achieved by heating the air . Each gram of fuel heats up a given mass of air by a certain number of centigrades . The definition of the energy content of fuels is given as the capacity to <URL> . The definition of one <URL> is similar , but in metric units . Since the heat capacity of both water and air are almost constant at moderate temperatures , the starting temperature makes little difference to the absolute temperature increase when a given amount of energy is added . Thermal efficiency Thermal efficiency is the ratio between the mechanical work extracted as thrust and the heat energy spent on heating the air , and it is affected indirectly by the flight altitude . Please see the Wikipedia article on the <URL> . This and similar cycles describe the workings of all combustion engines in thermodynamic terms . Basically , it says that the efficiency of a combustion engine can not be greater than the temperature ratio between the temperature increase from ambient ( $ t _ { amb } $ ) to the maximum temperature $ t _ { max } $ of the process , divided by the maximum temperature . All temperatures must be expressed as total temperatures , where 0 ° means 0 K or -273.15 ° C. Operating in colder air makes the ratio bigger and improves efficiency . $ $ \ eta_t = \ frac { t _ { max } - t _ { amb } } { t _ { max } } $ $ If $ t _ { amb } $ is 290 K ( 16.85 ° C or 62 ° F ) and the fuel heats up the air to 1400 K ( 2060 ° F ) , the thermal efficiency according to the formula above is 79.3 % . At cruise altitude $ t _ { amb } $ is only 220 K ( -53.15 ° C or -63.7 ° F ) , and the same fuel flow relative to air flow will lift the maximum temperature only to 1320 K ( in reality even less ; for a more precise reasoning see below ) . Now the thermal efficiency is 83.33 % ! If the maximum temperature is maintained , both thrust and thermal efficiency will go up ; the latter to 84.3 % . In reality the total efficiency will be lower because we have not included <URL> , friction effects or power offtake by bleed air , pumps and generators . Propulsive efficiency describes <URL> is performed.Heating the fuel-air mixtureBurning a fuel-air mixture will add thermal energy to it , about <URL> ( if we assume complete combustion ) . The isobaric <URL> or <URL> ( close enough , the mixture has very little fuel but lots of air in it ) is 29 J per mol and per K , so those 43 MJ will heat 1000 mol of air by 1483 K . The heat capacity changes slightly with humidity and temperature , but litte enough that we can consider it constant for this purpose . If the air starts at 220 K , precompression in the intake will heat it to approx . 232 K , further compression in the engine will heat it up to approx . 600 K if we assume a compression ratio of 25 , and this is the temperature at the entry of the combustion chamber.Those <URL> , and adding a full kilo of fuel and burning the mixture will heat it to 2083 K . If you want more details about the parameters in a typical jet engine , please see the diagram in <URL> . Since the mixture picks up speed as it burns , the fuel mass is also heated and combustion is never complete , the maximum temperature given here will not be reached in reality.If we start on the ground with an air temperature of 290 K , the temperature in the intake would drop slightly because we will not be flying fast enough for any precompression to happen in the intake . Now the compressor will heat the air to 730 K , and again adding and burning that kilo of kerosene will heat 1000 mol of air to 2213 K. Ideally.In reality , the engine control will see that the limit temperatures are not exceeded , but here we can play with the numbers as we like . The exact values will certainly be slightly different ( more frictional heating in the compressor , heat loss to the outside , slight drift in specific heat with temperature ) , but the gist of the explanation is correct.Explanation in layman 's termsBurning the fuel-air mixture heats it and makes the gas expand . This happens at nearly constant pressure and in a restricted volume , so the only way to make room for this expansion is for the gas to flow faster . Nearly constant pressure means that the density of the gas must decrease . The density ratio between the heated and the unburnt gas is proportional to its temperature ratio , measured in absolute temperature.However , the amount of fuel burnt determines the absolute temperature increase , the difference in degrees between the burnt gas inside the combustion chamber and the unburnt gas at the intake . For a given amount of fuel , the temperature ratio which c
In your situation : Oakland Center , Aircraft Identification , Altitude For example : Oakland Center , Cessna 123AB , Level four thousand fife hundred . See <URL> . b. ATC Frequency Change Procedures . 2 . The following phraseology should be utilized by pilots for establishing contact with the designated facility : ( a ) When operating in a radar environment : On initial contact , the pilot should inform the controller of the aircraft 's assigned altitude preceded by the words " level , " or " climbing to , " or " descending to , " as appropriate ; and the aircraft 's present vacating altitude , if applicable . EXAMPLE - 1 . ( Name ) CENTER , ( aircraft identification ) , LEVEL ( altitude or flight level ) . 2 . ( Name ) CENTER , ( aircraft identification ) , LEAVING ( exact altitude or flight level ) , CLIMBING TO OR DESCENDING TO ( altitude of flight level ) . NOTE - Exact altitude or flight level means to the nearest 100 foot increment . Exact altitude or flight level reports on initial contact provide ATC with information required prior to using Mode C altitude information for separation purposes . ( b ) When operating in a nonradar environment : ( 1 ) On initial contact , the pilot should inform the controller of the aircraft 's present position , altitude and time estimate for the next reporting point . EXAMPLE - ( Name ) CENTER , ( aircraft identification ) , ( position ) , ( altitude ) , ESTIMATING ( reporting point ) AT ( time ) . ( 2 ) After initial contact , when a position report will be made , the pilot should give the controller a complete position report . EXAMPLE - ( Name ) CENTER , ( aircraft identification ) , ( position ) , ( time ) , ( altitude ) , ( type of flight plan ) , ( ETA and name of next reporting point ) , ( the name of the next succeeding reporting point ) , AND ( remarks ) . REFERENCE - AIM , Position Reporting , Paragraph 5-3-2 .
It 's typically stored in the cargo bin with the checked luggage . If it is to be returned to the jetway , it will be tagged with a distinctive tag so that it 's clear that it has been screened already ( i.e. it came in through security , so it can go back out into the terminal with you at your destination ) . In many cases , though , once an item has been gate-checked , it will be delivered to baggage claim to be picked up there . The exception to that is baby strollers -- they should be returned to the jetway since parents tend to need those to get the young ones around the airport . Individual airline policies , of course , will vary . With small jets ( not a 737 , but a regional jet or turboprop , perhaps ) , the carry-on space is so limited that all sorts of things that would be accepted as a carry-on for a larger aircraft ca n't go into the cabin , so those may go into a dedicated cargo hold &amp; all returned as the passengers deplane .
As far as I know , it is n't a standard aviation term , it 's just a casual phrase that he 's using to emphasize or remind himself about the stick movement he needs . It 's like your instructor telling you to " get dancing " on the rudder pedals : it 's not an aviation term as such , but it 's a very clear , descriptive reminder . In a three-point landing you pull the stick all the way back after touchdown to keep the tail down . That helps to prevent unwanted pitch movements and gets weight on the tailwheel to help with directional control on the ground ( as airspeed decreases and the rudder loses authority ) . Deflecting the stick to the right would be because of a crosswind from the right . Put those two things together , and the required stick movement is back and to the right , which is one " corner " of the range of motion it has .
In the specific situation of a pilot who is the subject of an FAA investigation , the Pilot 's Bill of Rights requires that air traffic data ( which includes audio recordings ) be provided to the pilot . They would be expected to make the request directly to the FAA . There is a <URL> : To ensure that relevant air traffic data you are seeking from a government contractor are obtained , you should provide the following information : a. Your name and your airman certificate number ; b. other relevant information ( aircraft heading , altitude , call sign , transponder code , etc. ) that will help the contractor locate relevant data ; c. the name/location of the contractor facility that you believe has air traffic data ; d. the date and local time of day when such data relevant to the your flight operation were generated ; e. the name of the FAA inspector , investigator or other FAA official ( e.g. , an air traffic controller who advises you about a possible pilot deviation ) who notified you that you are under investigation ; f. the airman 's phone number or email The individual should provide that information to the FAA by email to the following address : AirmenDataRequest@faa.gov . The instructions include a warning about timeliness : Depending on the type of data , they will normally be stored from 5 to 45 days and then they are destroyed or discarded in the normal course of business I do n't have any information about the general case , though I imagine it depends on the facility and their workload .
Honestly , very little . First , be clear as to whether you are actually see something failing . If you see flames , or a wing has broken off , then yes , it 's a problem . However , if you see someone doing a slow spiral towards an empty field with the power idling , they 're more likely to be practicing engine out procedures ( something that 's required for all US pilots to practice and demonstrate during their checkride for their certificate ) . In the event that you actually see an impact , fire , off-airport landing and so on , call 911 and give them your location . They 'll send the appropriate crews . Otherwise , if the aircraft is still flying , there 's a strong chance the pilot ( s ) are already talking to ATC about their problem , if it actually exists . There 's nothing you really can or need to do in this case . Quick Anecdote : I 've been told the story of a local police department who gets phone calls virtually every time a citizen lands his small airplane in his private field . Fire/police/medics / etc are summoned , when absolutely nothing bad has happened . This is why you should make an attempt to verify that a problem actually exists before reporting it .
An assumed temperature takeoff ( also known as " flex " on Airbus/Fokker aircraft ) is where the engine thrust is reduced to match the performance on a higher-temperature day , up to either the maximum thrust reduction allowed or the maximum assumed temperature that meets takeoff distance requirements . Unlike a derate , assumed temperature takeoffs do not reduce the minimum control speed used for calculating takeoff speeds ( $ V _ { MCG } $ for $ V_1 $ , $ V _ { MCA } $ for $ V_2 $ ) . The minimum selectable temperature is the lowest temperature beyond the flat rating temperature range ( the range of temperatures where maximum thrust is achievable , limited by an engine control unit ) , and the highest temperature is the temperature at which the maximum thrust reduction allowed will be met . Except with specific certification and approval ( such as 40 % flex on the A340 ) , such a procedure must not reduce the thrust beyond 25 % of the nominal takeoff thrust ( either full rate or a takeoff derate ) . For example , the range of assumed temperatures permitted is 30-75 ° C ( flat rated to $ ISA +15 $ , thrust at 75 ° C is 75 % of normal rating ) . The main reason for performing an assumed temperature takeoff is to conserve engine life , therefore reducing maintenance costs . According to Boeing , engine wear exponentially increases with the takeoff thrust used -- with engines costing about 10 million USD each , this has the potential to save a lot of money for airlines . If you are taking off using assumed temperature , you may ( but are not required to ) add thrust to TOGA in the case of an emergency , however if you are using a takeoff derate , you must not increase the thrust beyond the derated N1 , as this could cause a loss of control ( higher thrust = higher actual $ V _ { MCG } $ ) . Not all aircraft allow assumed temperature in conjunction with derates . For example , you can only select a derate or a flex temperature on all Airbus aircraft ( if a derate option is offered ) . NOTE : do not attempt to " copy the jet jocks " in a piston aircraft and attempt a reduced throttle takeoff : only at takeoff throttle levels is extra fuel injected for cooling and reduction beyond this point could result in CHT levels rising to unacceptable levels , increasing the risk of engine damage .
The single biggest difference is that FAR 25 has rules that pertain to wet runways . Aside from that , <URL> uses the greater of two tests to determine accelerate-stop distance : ( 1 ) Accelerate to $ V _ { EF } $ , then reject the takeoff ( 2 ) Accelerate to the highest speed required for takeoff ( somewhat unclear ? ) , then reject the takeoff ... while <URL> is more or less equivalent to 25.113 ( a ) ( 1 ) . Comparing the three methods , the rules are mostly comparable . The only major difference is that under Part 25 " a distance equivalent to 2 seconds at the $ V_1 $ for takeoff from a dry runway " ( 25.113 a. 1 . iv and 25.113 a. 2 . iii ) must be added to the other factors . Because aircraft certified under Part 25 must use the greater of two different tests and add a distance equivalent to 2 seconds at $ V_1 $ , accelerate-stop distances will likely be greater than for Part 23-certified designs that are otherwise similar . For reference : <URL> <URL>
Ca n't hurt to ask ! I do n't know the specifics of the situation , but I would be willing to bet that your chances are better than you think . If it was one farmer with a grass strip and no accommodations for visiting aircraft you might be out of luck , but from what you describe it does n't sound like one extra airplane on the ground for a few hours is going to make that much of a difference . In fact , it might be that Fred ( or whoever ) will also be visiting friends for Labor Day and might be willing to let you use his ramp . They ca n't say yes if you do n't ask .
Before I comment I have to ask your training habit : Do you fly one lesson each week , or only occasional lessons because you 're so busy , or 3 flying days each week , or full time ? Sometimes life gets in the way In terms of progress , 70 hours and just starting cross country flights seems to be on the slow side . But then , if you 're not training regularly , you ca n't blame the CFI for spending some time reviewing previous materials during each lesson . Ideally , the flight lesson pre-flight should go like this : CFI : Today we will be practicing steep turns . We will takeoff , head North to this area on the chart and practice there . Then we will fly North East and proceed to this airfield to practice some touch and go . Our weather report says there is weather system South of us , we need to keep an eye on it in case it moves North . I will work on the radios and navigate , you will be doing all the flying . Questions ? This establishes clear goals of the lesson . A good lesson should also conclude with a post-flight debriefing : CFI : Today I noticed that you did not enter the traffic pattern correctly . You entered like this , which is not good because of that , that , and that . Given the situation , you should have went like this . We will be practicing more traffic patterns in our next lesson . If the agenda is driven by the instructor instead , you 'll get more benefits : The goals of the lessons are clear . The instructor can adjust lessons based on your weakness . For example , if you were rather sluggish during engine-out emergencies , the CFI should review emergency procedures with you on the ground and give you more practice in the air . You may not be aware that you are not getting enough practice in some areas . You can prepare for the next lesson ahead . For example , if your next lesson is a cross country , you can review flight planning , navigation principles &amp; airspace regulations . Is your situation normal ? I 'm not an instructor so I do n't know , but it can be better . Then again , if your flying schedule is rather random , learning efficiency would be lower , and you end up spending more flying time and money . Now , falling asleep ... . To me , this is a big No No . I am just a student . I have not been certified ( yet ) that I can operate an airplane safely : What if I make a navigation error and end up heading to Area 51 ? What if I 'm heading into IMC and need to turn around ? What if the fuel level is reducing at a dangerous rate but I did n't notice ? What if I got a stuck elevator ? A flight instructor is seated in the same cockpit with the student to correct mistakes or react to situations in a timely manner . To fall asleep during a flight lesson is an irresponsible behavior to the student and other people on the ground who might get hurt if your plane crashes . Of course , flight instructors are all humans and we all tend to make mistakes . Perhaps he was overstretching himself . Perhaps he got a family emergency the night before and stayed up really late . If it was just one flight , I would pass but keep an eye on . If it happens continuously , it might be a good time to turn away and look somewhere else while you 're still safe .
Yes , this is dangerous and must be avoided . Consider this : Between the low speed range where the aileron works as intended and the high speed range where it works like a Flettner flap there is one speed point where the rolling moments of the aileron and the wing twist cancel each other out . There the aircraft is uncontrollable in roll . No sane pilot would fly such an aircraft voluntarily . Set the speed at which full aileron deflection produces only a quarter of the rolling moment coefficient as the never exceed speed .
The " packs " ( or A/C on the aircraft ) are powered by engine bleed air . When bleed air is extracted from the engines , less thrust can be produced . This may be a problem if the airplane is taking off at a high elevation airport or the departure path requires a certain climb gradient to clear obstacles . This action does create some discomfort in the cabin so it 's usually not preferred unless required for safety . Some newer airplanes are manufactured with an " APU to pack " configuration - i.e. the pilots leave the APU running during takeoff , which provides bleed air to power the packs . The workload on the engines are now reduced .
end question
start question
What is " Director " in ATC ?
Some TMA arrival sectors can be further split up into an arrival/pickup part and a director/feeder part . The arrival controller is responsible for getting aircraft separated either onto downwinds or onto transitions , where they are handed off to the director . The director is then only responsible for turning these aircraft onto the approach , in most cases the ILS . Essentially , the arrival or pickup tries to get everyone onto the correct separation and speeds , so the director or feeder can turn and clear the aircraft onto their approaches , i.e. feeding the ILS with aircraft . <URL> ( Source : SentryRaven - Own Work ) The above picture shows the TMA airspace of Frankfurt ( EDDF ) . The TMA arrival controller would clear aircraft onto the transition or a vectored downwind and hand them over to director . The director position would then vector the aircraft onto the ILS for a handoff to tower .
This answer applies to the AVRO RJ ( BAe 146 ) , because this is the aircraft I 've flown . Other aircraft may or may not have similar features/issues/restrictions . Reasons for APU use in mid-air For takeoff , the APU bleed-air can be used to supply the cabin air pressure system to reduce load on engines . This leads to a significant reduction in runway length required . This is routinely used on short runways . Similar reason for the landing , where , for the missed approach/go-around phase , a high climb gradient is required . For example in mountainous areas or combined with icing conditions , where use of engine bleed air is limited , the APU bleed air can feed the cabin pressurization . During flight , when in icing conditions . Similar reason as above . The air-frame anti icing system uses that much bleed-air , there is not much left for cabin pressurization ( or the other way round ) . If the APU bleed-air is used to pressurize the cabin , the ( already low ) climb gradient is improved . During flight , in the event of a generator failure . The generator of the APU can replace one failed generator of an engine . To save engine life . If APU bleed air ( - to pressurize cabin ) is used for normal takeoff , the peak engine temperatures will be lower during takeoff . This increases engine life as the peak engine temperature is the main factor of engine life . It 's significantly cheaper to replace an APU than an engine . In all of the above cases , there are restrictions on the operation of the APU . It may not light-up above 15 ' 000 ft or operation above 25 ' 000 ft is not allowed or not recommended . General operating rules for the APU ( common sense when using turbines ) recommend to use bleed air only after couple of minutes warm-up after startup . Likewise , on shutdown , it should be left running without load to cool down for a few minutes before switching off . The exact timings differ greatly between APU models . Procedures Before Takeoff , If the API is not used during climb , the APU is normally shut down during taxi checks . If the pilots decide to use the APU during climb , it is started during normal engine start . In this case the APU bleed air is used to feed the cabin pressurization . After Takeoff depending on the model of the APU ( and following airline procedures ) , the APU usage is limited to a specified time or altitude . Before reaching this limit , the APU has to be shut down . ( cabin air changeover to the engine bleed air , cool-off period of the APU , switching off ) During Flight In case of a technical problem or emergency , the Abnormal Checklist will suggest or dictate the use of the APU for the remainder of the flight . For example : A generator problem , the APU generator replace the failed generator . This may impose limits to flight altitude and duration . Before Landing Usually after passing 10 ' 000 feet , the APU is started and before the final checks , the cabin pressurization system is switched to the APU .
It 's a <URL> , or HUD . The HUD can display a number of different pieces of information , including performance data such as airspeed , altitude , and attitude , navigation data such as waypoints or ILS glideslope , or weapons data such as the selected weapon or the targeting reticle you mentioned . Thus , its uses are varied - depending on how sophisticated the system , basic aircraft control may be accomplished using only the HUD . In some modern fighters , there may be additional data on a Helmet Display ( or in the case of the F-35 , the helmet may have the only display ) . It is not just used on fighters - some airliners , cargo planes , and trainers have HUDs : ( <URL> ) ( T-38 ) ( <URL> ) As for your last question , per fooot 's comment , <URL> has more information . The <URL> was the first production aircraft with a HUD and entered service in 1963 .
In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller ( PLC ) . As opposed to the executive controller ( EC ) , who talks to the planes , the PLC ( who will be seated right next to the EC ) handles coordination with adjacent sectors via dedicated telephone lines . There are two main parts of a transfer : the transfer of communication and the transfer of control . The transfer of communication is the actual frequency switch -- the instruction for the pilot to switch from one frequency to another . The transfer of control is the transfer of responsibility of the flight from one controller to the next . Before answering your question directly , let us establish the premises of the question . Note : this answer refers primarily to European procedures , and is largely based on <URL> In respect to your question , the transfer of control is the interesting part . Firstly , we must realise that there are two fundamentally different premises for a transfer of control . Either the transfer takes place from one position/sector to another position/sector within the same ATC unit ( for example between two area control sectors in the same area control centre ) , or the transfer takes place from one ATC unit to another ( for example when a flight crosses a state border ) . In the first case , the adjacent sector will typically already have access to information about the flight , since both sectors rely directly on the same data source . In the second case , this might not be the case . Additionally , in the first case , controllers will often be physically seated right next to each other . For units where paper flight progress strips are still used ( mainly some approach and tower units ) , this enables controllers to physically pass the flight progress strip to the next controller . In both cases , there are four required stages which lead up to a transfer of control ( refer to ICAO document 4444 , section 10.1 ) : a ) Notification of the flight in order to prepare for coordination , as necessary ; b ) Coordination of conditions of transfer of control by the transferring ATC unit ; c ) Coordination , if necessary , and acceptance of conditions of transfer of control by the accepting ATC unit ; and d ) The transfer of control to the accepting ATC unit or control sector . Doc 4444 also states that : ATC units shall forward from unit to unit , as the flight progresses , necessary flight plan and control information . Now , your question is , to what extend is this data transfer process automated . ICAO document 7030 gives us a clue to the background of the answer : When so agreed between adjacent ATC units , a computer-assisted coordination process shall be introduced to eliminate the need for verbal coordination of boundary estimates and to reduce the amount of manual data input into ATC computers . In most modern ATC units , almost all transfers are conducted as " silent transfers " . A silent transfer is a transfer where all necessary information about a flight is sent in advance to the next ATC sector by an automated system . In this case , the controller does not have to manually talk to the next sector , but will simply instruct the pilot to switch to the next frequency prior to the area of responsibility border . Silent transfer of control procedures require that traffic is predictable and sufficient system support is provided to ATCOs to ensure : - They are in possession of all elements related to the aircraft profile and - Should the agreed conditions of the transfer change , they have the means to speak to each other such that new conditions are agreed expeditiously and safely . Silent transfers are based on the exchange of flight data , which happens through connected Flight Dara Processing Systems , which make use of the OLDI protocol . The operational use of connections between Flight Data Processing Systems ( FDPSs ) at ACCs for the purpose of replacing verbal " estimates " is referred to as On-Line Data Interchange ( OLDI ) . The implementation of basic OLDI messages is mandatory in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 1032/2006 . These messages are defined by the EUROCONTROL Specifications What this regulation means in practise is that , within Europe , silent transfers are used more often than not . However , you will also see units where a manual coordination prior to a transfer is required , for example flights crossing the border from certain European countries to certain non-European countries . Where manual coordination is required , it is most likely done by the planning controller
No , the air traffic controller can not see the whether the autopilot is used or not . However , in the Mode S radar and ADS-B protocols there are messages defined that contain state of the autopilot . Currently there is no requirement that this data is provided by the aircraft , but some aircraft/transponders do provide the information nevertheless . The data is not displayed to the controller though . In some control centres the aircraft 's Mode Control Panel / Flight Control Unit Selected Altitude can be displayed to the air traffic controller . The information can be used to reduce Level Busts . From observations of the radar track it is difficult to tell . A competent pilot will be able to maintain altitude and heading in such a way that it is difficult to see the difference from an autopilot at the resolution of the ATC display . There are circumstances where the pilot is required to use the autopilot , especially to keep separation from other aircraft . In Reduced Vertical Separation Minima ( RVSM ) airspace the vertical separation is 1000 ft between Flight Level 290 and FL410 . The aircraft must be flown using the autopilot in this airspace to ensure the flight levels are adhered to strictly .
In the US , ATC simply broadcasts a notification on whatever frequency is needed . For the terminal environment , section 2-9-2 of the <URL> says : Broadcast on all appropriate frequencies to advise aircraft of a change in the ATIS code/message . The phraseology is usually something like this : Attention all aircraft , Bowman information Kilo is now current . For en route operations ( see section 2-7-2 ) the ARTCC gives altimeter setting updates directly : Attention all aircraft , the Nashville altimeter now 2992
<URL> . The UK has some very strange ideas about Radio , which bear no resemblance to the reality of physics and how radio actually works . Foremost among those ideas is the idea that you are only legally allowed to listen to transmissions intended for " general reception " : The services that can be listened to under the definition of general reception are : licensed broadcasting stations ; amateur and citizens ' band radio transmissions ; and weather and navigation transmissions Radio scanners should not be used to listen to any other radio services , including illegal radio stations ( pirates ) ( by virtue of the fact that they are not licensed radio stations ) . Aviation-band transmissions are not on Ofcom 's list , so even though they are broadcast entirely " in the clear " and anyone with an appropriately tuned AM receiver could hear them you are legally prohibited from listening to them . Providing feeds to LiveATC would also appear to be a violation , though it 's not clear to me that listening to LiveATC streams would put the listener in violation of the law . From the same Ofcom site : ... it is illegal to listen to anything other than general reception transmissions unless you are either a licensed user of the frequencies in question or have been specifically authorised to do so by a designated person . and ... it is also illegal to tell a third party what has been heard in a transmission a person has listened to illegally . So anyone providing UK aviation band transmissions to LiveATC may be in violation of both of those laws , but I 'm not certain what that means for LiveATC listeners ( that would be a question to ask Ofcom ) .
I fly daily between two small G.A. towered airports in the Los Angeles basin . There 's often police and news helicopter activity within the Class D areas . The pilots stay in contact with the tower controller and explain where they 'd like to go , and ATC generally approves , while coordinating with arriving and departing traffic . In particular the approach to runway 25 at Hawthorne runs parallel to a major freeway . Occasionally there have been police and news helicopters operating up and down that freeway , right along final approach . The tower controller points them out to me as I 'm approaching , and if I can call them in sight I 'll just maneuver visually as necessary to avoid them . If I do n't see them , they 'll usually ask the helicopter to move , though I imagine if it were an urgent police situation I could be told to go around instead . Another technique they 'll use is to tell the helicopter traffic to stay north of the highway and the fixed-wing traffic to stay south of it . That way you can be pretty close but still not have a collision hazard as long as everyone is paying attention .
There is always a backup radio system as well as a several backup systems like for example a backup CWP ( controller worker position ) in case the primary fails . PANS-ATM ( ICAO doc 4444 ) in chapter mentions that Operational and technical issues to ensure that : [ ... ] communications , navigation , surveillance and other safety significant systems and equipment [ ... ] include adequate backup facilities and/or procedures in the event of a system failure or degradation . Emphasis is mine . Also there is a standby generator ( or even more than one ) that has to instantly take over in case of power supply failure but I ca n't find any regulations at the moment . As for the " what happens if the backup fails as well " question , we need to see the fuller picture that the document provides : d ) communications , navigation , surveillance and other safety significant systems and equipment : 1 ) are tested for normal operations on a routine basis ; 2 ) meet the required level of reliability and availability as defined by the appropriate authority ; 3 ) provide for the timely and appropriate detection and warning of system failures and degradations ; 4 ) include documentation on the consequences of system , subsystem and equipment failures and degradations ; 5 ) include measures to control the probability of failures and degradations ; and 6 ) include adequate backup facilities and/or procedures in the event of a system failure or degradation ; Emphasis is again mine As you can see backup is the last line of defense . An ATS unit should ensure that equipment is regularly maintained , it 's monitored , it 's tested and any failures should be prevented if possible and their impact being documented . If everything else fails , then you use the backup . And again the " include adequate backup " phrase can be translated as " if one thinks that a second backup is needed they should install one " . But the previous 5 clauses are there to eliminate that case .
Most ATC software systems are developed by a few large companies . Companies that produce such software include Lockheed Martin , Thales , Raytheon , Indra , Comsoft , Adacel ( and maybe a few others ) . It 's not a big market since there are only a limited number of customers ( countries ) and safety critical software is very expensive to develop . One interesting offering is the <URL> open source ATC software . This is n't a complete system ( yet ? ) but some parts are available now . I 'm not sure whether this software is actually used in operations anywhere at this point . Most ATC providers ( which are usually run or owned by their government , though not always ) do not do their own software development . They buy a system from one of the established vendors , who may do some amount of customisation work ranging from none to extensive , perhaps with a support contract for future fixes or enhancements . There are a few exceptions though , for example Airways New Zealand uses software originally developed by a large vendor but also has an in-house software development group who maintains , enhances , and extends the existing software . Each system has the same general operating concept - an ASD ( Air Situation Display ) which shows the locations of aircraft , plus auxiliary windows that may contain all kinds of other things used for communication and coordination . Like any sophisticated computer software , the general idea of two different systems might appear the same , but be completely different to actually operate ( think of Photoshop vs. Gimp , or Microsoft Word vs. Apple Pages ) . A qualified controller from the US would not be expected to be able to operate in Australia straight away . Not only will the software be different ( different mouse clicks , or different key commands ) , but also the rules of air traffic control can be different between countries . Furthermore , a controller must become familiar with the local airspace and operating procedures . Having said that , the general skills of air traffic controllers are portable between countries . On moving from one country to another , a controller would be expected to go through a certain amount of training in their new country , which could range from brief familiarisation to more rigorous retraining .
EASA : this is a European Union body , so yes , the UK is a member state . CAA : There are many Civil Aviation Authorities worldwide , basically each is a national entity within the corresponding state . So , specifically for the UK , yes , there exists a body known as CAA that is a state entity , formally independent but in practice dependent on the UK Government ( Dept. of Transport ) . Their web page is : <URL> Due to the complex configuration of EU law , both EASA and the UK CAA can have their word to say on operations within UK territory . Though , as CAA say themselves : The CAA works closely with the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) to promote the highest common standards of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation .
There are 2 different black boxes . The cockpit voice recorder . This holds audio from several different sources , including the microphone for each pilot , the radio and a general cockpit microphone . The flight data recorder holds at least 88 different parameters including attitude of the craft , engine performance , autopilot setting , pilot input one the controls , etc. .
The things you mention would matter , if you wanted to know the distance to 6 or more significant digits . But ATC does not need that precision . They need to be able to tell whether it 's 4 nmi ( too close ) , 5 nmi ( still sufficient , but getting in trouble ) or 10 nmi ( no worry , but should not be heading directly towards each other ) . That is one significant digit . The controller does not use any formula . They just look at the distance of the targets on the radar scope ( which is drawn properly to scale ) . And possibly use the grid that is drawn over it or compares to the leader lines ( indicating velocity ) or history trail . The controller does n't need precision , they need to look and see . And they are not getting any precision ; on centre station ( controller handling en-route traffic ) the radar target blob is about a mile wide . Until recently , aircraft did not broadcast position at all . Many still do n't ; not all aircraft are equipped with ADS-B . For those that do n't , the interrogator may have precision similar to DME ( ~ 0.1 nmi ) in range and a degree or two in angle . Not great precision either . The radar also has single rotating antena that takes couple of seconds to scan the whole circle , so the position of the aircraft is only updated once every few seconds . Jet airliner in cruise moves some 700 m in 3 s. On such radar , the scope most likely transforms directly from the angle and distance reported by the radar to the screen coordinates . Altitude was usually not taken into account ( so higher targets appear further than they really are ! ) in the older systems . New radars with ADS-B support ( less busy areas do n't need it ) need to combine the radar data with coordinates reported by ADS-B , which are in WGS84 , so WGS84 is usually used as intermediate format for the collected data . But shortcuts can still be taken in the software . I do n't know what which radar system manufacturer uses , but I work on navigations and we tested the precision . By assuming Earth is flat and the coordinate system is orthogonal and using simple Pythagorean formula , you can still get 3-4 significant digits ( unless you are working around north or south pole ) for points tens of miles apart , which is more than enough for the radar screen . So the system can simply multiply longitude and latitude with appropriate factors ( that depend on latitude of the sector centre ) and get sufficient precision .
Some TMA arrival sectors can be further split up into an arrival/pickup part and a director/feeder part . The arrival controller is responsible for getting aircraft separated either onto downwinds or onto transitions , where they are handed off to the director . The director is then only responsible for turning these aircraft onto the approach , in most cases the ILS . Essentially , the arrival or pickup tries to get everyone onto the correct separation and speeds , so the director or feeder can turn and clear the aircraft onto their approaches , i.e. feeding the ILS with aircraft . <URL> ( Source : SentryRaven - Own Work ) The above picture shows the TMA airspace of Frankfurt ( EDDF ) . The TMA arrival controller would clear aircraft onto the transition or a vectored downwind and hand them over to director . The director position would then vector the aircraft onto the ILS for a handoff to tower .
This answer details the procedures used in the US . Other countries will be similar , possibly with different names for some positions . When preparing for a flight , after their flight plan has been filed , the pilots will first talk to the clearance delivery controller . This controller clears their planned route and altitude . At larger airports this may be done via text rather than voice . The pilots may also call their company dispatch to get the route or fix any problems . If there are significant delays in effect at the airport , the pilots may have to talk to the metering controller . This controller is responsible for holding aircraft at their gates . Weather at departure or arrival airports may reduce the number of aircraft the airport can handle . There is no sense in sending the aircraft onto the busy taxiways if they will just have to sit there and wait for weather or traffic before they can depart . The metering controller will eventually hand the pilots off to the next controller when the aircraft is finally cleared for departure . Again at larger airports , the next contact will be with the ramp controller . This controller is responsible for a ramp area near the terminals . The controller will let the pilots know when it 's safe to push back , and which way they should turn at the end of the push back . After starting their engines , the pilots will receive instructions for exiting the ramp . Once pilots reach the edge of the ramp area , they will call the ground controller . This controller is responsible for managing traffic on most of the taxiways . The pilots will receive instructions for taxiing to their departure runway . If this route takes them across an active runway , the ground controller will have to clear this with the tower controller , or possibly have the pilots switch to the tower controller for permission to cross the runway . At small airports , the ground controller handles all of the previous positions as well . Upon reaching their departure runway , the pilots will switch to the tower controller . The tower controller is responsible for the active runways . Busy airports may have multiple tower controllers managing different runways . The tower will clear the pilots for takeoff , ensuring proper separation between any other arriving/departing aircraft . Shortly after the aircraft starts climbing , the tower will hand the pilots off to the departure controller . Depending on the location and traffic levels , this could be the same controller and frequency as the approach controller . This position is part of the <URL> ( Terminal Radar Approach Control ) facility . High traffic areas will have their own separate TRACON facility , while in lower traffic areas this will be combined with a tower location . In other countries this is referred to as the Terminal Control Center ( TCC ) . The approach controller 's responsibility is routing aircraft leaving airports in the area to avoid conflicts between aircraft , but often the pilots will just fly the published departure procedure . The departure controller receives reports of weather such as precipitation or icing and passes this on to other aircraft . Upon reaching a certain altitude , the departure will hand the pilots over to the center controller . This position is part of an <URL> ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) , often abbreviated to " center " . The US has <URL> , each further divided into different sectors . Sectors are consolidated between controllers depending on traffic levels . Other countries refer to this as an Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The center controller is responsible for traffic at higher altitudes , primarily enroute traffic . The aircraft may pass through multiple centers , and each center may have different sectors controlled by different controllers . The pilots will be handed off between these controllers . Pilots must request altitude or course changes ( for efficiency or weather reasons ) , and controllers may issue changes for traffic reasons . Controllers also handle pilot reports of conditions such as turbulence . If the flight is crossing <URL> , the flight may be handed over to an oceanic controller . These controllers do not always have radar coverage of the aircraft they are controlling . They rely on the aircraft following their published routes and altitudes , and providing regular position reports . The lack of radar means there are also more strict rules about deviations from flight plans . As the pilots get closer to their destination , they will start on their arrival procedure . This usually specifies altitudes and possibly speeds , so the pilots will need to plan when to start their descent in order to meet these restrictions . The center controller will know the procedure and instruct them to follow it , and possibly issue deviations as traffic requires . At some point before arriving , the pilots may also contact their company at the arrival airport . They may need to coordinate passenger needs such as wheelchairs or medical/security issues , or commu
In the specific situation of a pilot who is the subject of an FAA investigation , the Pilot 's Bill of Rights requires that air traffic data ( which includes audio recordings ) be provided to the pilot . They would be expected to make the request directly to the FAA . There is a <URL> : To ensure that relevant air traffic data you are seeking from a government contractor are obtained , you should provide the following information : a. Your name and your airman certificate number ; b. other relevant information ( aircraft heading , altitude , call sign , transponder code , etc. ) that will help the contractor locate relevant data ; c. the name/location of the contractor facility that you believe has air traffic data ; d. the date and local time of day when such data relevant to the your flight operation were generated ; e. the name of the FAA inspector , investigator or other FAA official ( e.g. , an air traffic controller who advises you about a possible pilot deviation ) who notified you that you are under investigation ; f. the airman 's phone number or email The individual should provide that information to the FAA by email to the following address : AirmenDataRequest@faa.gov . The instructions include a warning about timeliness : Depending on the type of data , they will normally be stored from 5 to 45 days and then they are destroyed or discarded in the normal course of business I do n't have any information about the general case , though I imagine it depends on the facility and their workload .
I 'm not aware of any rules , hopefully others can contribute , but you can usually predict the next frequency with a high rate of precision . For example ( exact stations will differ depending on airport and airspace type ) a typical IFR sequence of stations . Clearance delivery Ground Tower Departures Sector/area ... Sector/area Approach Tower Ground The initial tuning will put delivery in live and ground in standby . Then as you say , just press the toggle . When the next frequency gets dialled in is not , as far as I know , governed in anyway and is probably not even in SOPs since it is just about using the equipment more efficiently . Say delivery has given you a clearance . They will probably follow up with something like " call ground 129.7 " for push and start " . When you are ready for push and start , toggle to ground then put the tower into the standby frequency and so on . Frequency changes are certainly made in cruise , when passing from one ACC sector to the next . These frequencies are published in the national AIP 's and visible on en-route charts . For a sector handoff , I 'd probably dial the next frequency in when the current sector instructs me to contact xyz . It 's really not a big deal if you have to contact someone unexpected . Modern boxes with push button tuning are almost as quick to tune manually as to toggle .
The bypass ratio of a turbofan engine is the ratio of the mass flow rate of the air that bypasses the engine core ( i.e. it does n't undergo combustion ) , $ \ dot { m _ { f } } $ to the mass flow rate of the air that passes through the core $ \ dot { m _ { c } } $ and undergoes combustion . The bypass ratio is usually given as the mass flow of fan by the mass flow of core i.e. $ \ frac { \ dot { m { f } } } { \ dot { m _ { c } } } :1 $ . In some cases , it is given as the ratio of cold air to hot air , $ \ frac { \ dot { m { c } } } { \ dot { m _ { h } } } :1 $ . <URL> So , a bypass ratio of 9.6:1 means that 9.6 kg of air passes through the bypass fan for every 1 kg of air passing through the core .
Stations ( STA ) , generally Fuselage Stations ( FS ) , designate location along the length of the aircraft , increasing from nose to tail . Generally station 0 is somewhere in front of the airplane . One reason for this is that if the airplane grows longer , there still wo n't be any negative stations , and sections of the plane keep their station numbers . FS 100 can also be placed at an important location ( looks like the firewall below ) . Water lines ( WL ) designate location in the height of the aircraft , from ground up . You can probably guess by now that these are holdovers from the marine industry . Like the stations , water line 0 is generally a bit below the aircraft , possibly to have WL 100 at the center of the fuselage , or WL 0 could be at the bottom of the fuselage . Butt lines ( BL ) designate location left/right on the aircraft , generally centered in the middle . While the main system is based on the whole airplane , different parts ( like the wings ) have their own system of STA , WL , and BL . The stations are generally in whatever unit is being used for the aircraft . In the US , this is inches . See <URL> for an example and further explanation . For a picture similar to the one below but with more detail , see <URL> .
Sadly , there likely are no official recordings of this story . Unfortunately , there was no <URL> at the time , and unless there is an accident or incident , audio is not routinely archived by the FAA or NTSB . Even when you want to request recent data , the FAA warns , <URL> ( I 've seen elsewhere but could n't find an official source that it can be anywhere from 5-45 days ) , so even if you could find a date of this event , you would n't be able to file a FOI request .
end question
start question
What 's the typical cost ( and its breakdown ) for a long-haul commercial flight ?
Fuel The fuel consumption of the A380 is about 11 metric tonnes per hour . With a fuel price of <URL> , this results in \ $ 11000 per flight hour . Amortization An A380 will cost about \ $ 350M . The aircraft will be used for about 25 to 30 years , but let 's assume the amortization period is about 20 years with a residual value of \ $ 50M . With an interest rate of 5 % , you would pay about \ $ 24M per year . That is about \ $ 2740 per hour , or \ $ 0.76 per second , flying or not . Assuming a usage of 60 % , taking into account turn around times at the gate and maintenance downtime , it boils down to \ $ 3915 per flight hour . Crew Captain costs <URL> . Let 's assume they fly about 60 hours per month , the combined flight deck crew cost is about \ $ 350 per flight hour for the base salary . Another \ $ 80 needs to be added for allowances bringing the total to \ $ 430 per flight hour . Cabin crew rate would be around $ 40 per hour , so for 20 crew the cost will be \ $ 800 per flight hour . Also allowances for overnight stays and hotel costs need to be taken into account Airport charges These vary extremely between airports . You can basically break the costs down into costs related to the aircraft , the passengers and various taxes by the government . Aircraft cost usually are related to the Maximum Take-off Mass ( MTOM ) of the aircraft and the noise category . A Boeing 747-400 , while less heavy than an A380 , will in some cases be more expensive due to the higher noise level . Many airports differentiate between peak and off-peak hour landings . I ca n't find accurate data for the A380 but an old table that I have for the Boeing 747-400 suggest that total the cost vary between about \ $ 6000 to \ $ 25000 . Overflight charges Fees are levied by countries whose territory is flown over , mainly to cover ATC cost . The cost is typically based on the distance flown and the MTOW . For a 747-400ER over Europe , the fee is on average <URL> . Assuming an average speed of about 900km/h , the hourly cost is about 1300EUR/h . These costs are lower over the high seas and over the US . Rough total Based on the above , the total will be between \ $ 22,000 and \ $ 41,000 per hour .
The <URL> is a variant of the Gulfstream V. From <URL> ( November 16 , 2015 ) for the G550 , it costs $ 4,731.05 per hour , give or take . ( Assuming the plane is paid for already . ) Adjusted for <URL> that 's $ 4,825.11 . Note that the GV is older than the G550 , and would generally cost more to operate . This figure includes fuel , maintenance ( parts and labor ) , engine reserves , auxiliary power units if applicable , and miscellaneous expenses to include crew travel , catering and cabin supplies , landing and parking fees -- all boiled down to a single number .
As the message says , a TRA has <URL> as an RA , just that it is temporary so it wo n't appear on charts . There may be expected times when the RA is in use but the actual times will be posted in a NOTAM . It will be <URL> ahead of time Using agency notifies controlling agency when airspace will be " hot " NOTAMs describe when the airspace will be closed When the airspace is open , ATC can clear flights ( IFR or VFR ) through This is useful if the area is known ahead of time but times may be limited and variable . The using agency must also later submit a report detailing the actual usage of the area . A TFR defines special flight rules that are applicable in specific circumstances . They are governed by <URL> , and a NOTAM is published defining the airspace and times , as well as what restrictions are in effect . A TFR may be defined for the following reasons : Disaster/hazard areas Protecting the President , the Vice President , or other public figures Space flight operations High barometric pressure Aerial demonstrations and major sporting events <URL> Each of these categories has general rules for who is allowed to operate in the airspace , though each TFR may include more specific requirements . TFRs issued for disasters/hazards generally require aircraft that are not local flights or directly related to the event to be on an IFR flight plan . Other situations may just require permission from ATC , or effectively make the airspace Class C.
A slot time is issued for aircraft flying through busy airspaces or to busy airports where the demand ( number of flights ) exceeds the capacity . If 50 flights are planned to arrive at an airport in 1 hour , but the airport can only handle 40 flights per hour , then the flow of traffic needs to be regulated . Many years ago , everyone would simply depart , and then traffic would enter airborne holdings ( circling in the air ) along their route as they approached their destination , until there was room to land . Obviously , this is very inefficient , since planes would use a huge amount of fuel while waiting in the air . Air traffic flow management was introduced to reduce this . Computer systems now calculate how many flights are planned to arrive at a certain airport in a certain time span . This calculation is done many hours in advance - so early , in fact , that the majority of the affected flights have not left their departure airport yet . This has the advantage that aircraft can wait on the ground , at their departure airport , soaking up the delay they will inevitable face . They will simply not be allowed to takeoff until a time where it can be assured that there is room for them when they reach their destination . To achieve this , aircraft are issued a takeoff slot time ( CTOT - Calculated TakeOff Time ) , at which time the flight must depart . If the flight misses this slot time , for one reason or the other , they are not allowed to depart - instead , they must request a new slot time . If flying to a very busy airport , the new slot time could be far in the future - sometimes several hours . This means that the plane must hold on the departure airport for several hours before being able to depart . How these CTOT times are calculated is very complex , and deserves another question if you are interested . While there are no direct costs from missing a slot time , getting delayed will cause many indirect costs for an airline - passenger compensation for delayed and missed flights , extra pay for crew ( on the plane and at the airports ) and so on . So the " thousands " it may cost an airline to miss a slot time come from these indirect costs of being delayed . Obviously , the exact amount will vary greatly from flight to flight .
CFI candidates receive a spin training endorsement with no expiration date . According to <URL> , it should look like this : 46 . Spin training : section 61.183 ( i ) ( 1 ) . I certify that has received the required training of section 61.183 ( i ) . I have determined that is competent in instructional skills for training stall awareness , spin entry , spins , and spin recovery procedures . / s / [ date ] J. J. Jones 987654321CFI Exp . 12-31-05 The basis for this is that 61.183 does n't specify a time period in which the endorsement must be received : <URL> To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must : [ ... ] Accomplish the following for a flight instructor certificate with an airplane or a glider rating : Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor indicating that the applicant is competent and possesses instructional proficiency in stall awareness , spin entry , spins , and spin recovery procedures after providing the applicant with flight training in those training areas in an airplane or glider , as appropriate , that is certificated for spins ; and
There are such a thing as " Quick Change " aircraft , allowing entire ' pallets ' of chairs to be exchanged for cargo . <URL> Image courtesy of canalblog.com <URL> Image courtesy of airliner.net <URL> to show the process . Military transport aircraft can also be fitted out with stretchers or seats , or whatever other combo of stuff you want . To the best of my understanding these lock in like any other cargo pallet in the floor . They are less concerned with aesthetics and more with practicality : <URL> Image courtesy the DOD via Wikimedia <URL> Image courtesy of aarcorp.com
Yes there is a distinction , pitch , roll and heading are angles [ unit = radian ] and latitude , longitude and altitude are linear distances [ unit = meter ] . Together , these six parameters define the six Degrees of Freedom that define the momentary state of a rigid object with reference to the earth . All six are defined relative to earth axes . For the linear dimensions this is clear , we just need to define a suitable zero point . For the angles : Pitch is the nose up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Roll is the wingtip up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Heading is the angle relative to a suitable earth reference , usually magnetic north or geographical north . Conversion of aircraft axes into earth axes is a non-trivial matter and the cause of much confusion , for instance in questions comparing lift to weight : lift is always coupled to aircraft axes , weight to earth axes . The axes sets are defined as follows : Aircraft axes Origin : Centre of Gravity of aircraft X-axis : in the symmetry plane of the aircraft , + = forward to the aircraft nose Y-axis : in the span wise direction of the aircraft , + = to the right wingtip Z-axis : perpendicular to the XOY-plane , + = down into the floor . Earth axes Origin : Centre of Gravity at the start of the response X-axis : In the horizontal plane ( relative to gravity ) , + = pointing north . Y-axis : Perpendicular to XOZ-plane , + = pointing east . Z-axis : Pointing to the centre of the earth = + Edit Yes navigation lat/lon is given in [ degrees ] - the INS sensor ultimately converts displacement into proper navigational definitions of course . But for measuring 3-D aircraft inertial effects the SI system is used , and displacement is internally treated as a linear motion , units [ metres ] .
While many times an upgrade is not economical for older airplanes , sometimes the new features make it worth the cost . Two examples I found were <URL> , and <URL> . The second article also mentions American and Icelandair 757 and 767 upgrades . The Southwest and Delta upgrades involve over 100 aircraft in each case , which probably helped to make the upgrades more economical . In both cases , a major factor mentioned was the ability to perform required navigation performance ( <URL> ) procedures with GPS and other modern features . As the FAA works to implement the <URL> ATC system in the US , these upgrades will offer more benefits for the operators . Also , I 'd like to comment on the following statement : Concorde was not properly maintained as its analogue flight deck had never been upgraded . Proper maintenance and technology upgrades are not always the same thing . Aircraft with older systems can be maintained just as well as newer planes . We have airplanes that are 50 years old or older , like the DC-3 , which are still flying . While technology upgrades certainly have benefits , aircraft with analog cockpits are still operating just fine around the world . They may not be the most modern machines out there , but proper maintenance is what has kept them flying this long .
Either one is fine , though I 'd make sure you seek a good instructor for a part 61 and follow a part 141 syllabus ( available through ASA , Jeppesen , King Schools , etc. ) when you do yours to verify you covered all the bases . At that stage of your training , future employers really wo n't care that much whether you did your training as a 61 or 141 student . They are going to be much more concerned with your professional flying record and later certification and checkrides .
<URL> , is a broadcast of the aircraft 's position and other information . The position is determined by a GPS receiver . It is possible to use another qualified position source , but today it is <URL> . Other GNSS ( Galileo , GLONASS , Bei-Dou ) are other likely candidates in the future , but as far as I know , none have been certified for ADS-B yet . The broadcast is usually by the Mode S transponder but can also be done by a dedicated transmitter / transceiver in the Mode S format and frequency ( 1090 MHz ) . In the USA below 18 000 ft , in addition to the Mode S based ADS-B , a system based on Universal Access Transceiver ( UAT ) is used . This operates on 978 MHz A third broadcast system was VDL mode 4 , it was never rolled out on large scale . So ADS-B uses GPS to determine the position and it operates either on 1090 MHz ( a frequency also used by Mode S ) or 978 MHz to broadcast information .
I 'm sure that the cabin pressure difference prevents this at altitude when the cabin is pressurized , due that they often slide inwards and then to the side . That being said , Boeing <URL> showing that it 's no problem flying with an open window on the 737 if say it opens on takeoff . You can close it assuming it 's not damaged or you can land with it . They also showed that the side window can be opened in flight in case for instance visibility is impaired through the main window , and while it hardly looks comfortable , it can be done . This assumes that the cabin is unpressurized . The sort of thing you might be thinking about is a <URL> , but I do n't think any aircraft have those on the cockpit windows .
This call serves two main purposes . The first is to verify that both airspeed indicators are showing the same speed . Since airspeed = life , it 's best to find out that one of them is faulty on the ground rather than in the air . The second purpose is to distinguish a high-speed rejected takeoff from a low-speed one . Below 80kts ( or 100kts or another speed set by the manufacturer and/or airline ) , a takeoff would be rejected for almost anything out of the ordinary . But rejecting a takeoff at high speed carries a lot of risk - like brake fires , tyres exploding , directional control difficulty , etc. . So above 80 or so knots , a takeoff will only be rejected in the case of major failures . Some modern aircraft even inhibit minor warnings from appearing after 80kts until the aircraft is airborne , because rejecting the takeoff is not worth the risk , so do n't saturate the pilots with unnecessary information . <URL> goes into some detail about what you would reject a takeoff for at low speed vs high speed . The criteria may vary slightly amongst airlines but the general themes are the same .
The techniques vary slightly aircraft to aircraft , and also based on what landing configuration you have . However , the general gist is to hold off the malfunctioning side from the runway for as long as possible , slowing the aircraft in the process , until forced to put it down on the deck . This minimizes the contact between the wings and/or fuselage with the ground . The single greatest danger with these types of landings is the risk of fire . The friction between the runway surface and the aircraft is tremendous generating an enormous amount of heat . This is particularly problematic when you consider that the fuel is stored in the wings . Fuel may be pumped to the opposite wing to counter-balance weight and move the fuel away to the fuselage with the highest possibility to have contact with the ground . This technique will shift weight away from the missing wheels and consequently reduce the possibility of fire .
The scheduled time is the EOBT . Flights that depart within 15 minutes of it are considered on-time . Standard taxi times for each airport are included in the scheduled flight time .
Here is a plot of cabin pressure on one flight . You can see a small increase in pressure right before takeoff . The decrease and increase in pressure is fairly constant during climb and descent . The pressure will change based on the aircraft 's altitude , and will not reach a minimum limit until closer to the aircraft 's service ceiling . This keeps pressure changes as slow as possible while giving a lower cabin altitude when below the service ceiling . <URL>
I reread your question several times , and will attempt to answer . Hopefully I understand you correctly . First , for largest speed to smallest , I would order descent > cruise > climb . The way to think of it is that during a climb , you are building potential energy ( altitude ) . When that energy plateaus at your cruise altitude , you stop investing in potential energy , and maximize your kinetic energy ( cruise speed ) . During descent , there is energy to bleed , because you are lowering your potential energy ( altitude ) and converting it to kinetic energy ( descent speed ) . The gross assumption is that your UAV power setting remains about the same during all three phases of flight . In this example , the lift is greatest during the climb , when you are investing in potential energy , and not using as much kinetic energy . The descent would have the lowest lift , because you are willing to trade potential energy for kinetic energy , and the altitude decreases and the speed increases . Forget my original comment , I do n't think I understood your question at that time .
There are a lot of things that go into determining the most efficient way to operate a jet , and minimizing fuel does not always make it cheaper to operate . Some general " rules " that are used are : There is an optimum speed to fly the airplane , which depends on several factors : Altitude Fuel savings by flying slower - vs - increased maintenance costs because you are taking longer to get there ( and putting more time on the airframe/engines ) . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude There is also an optimum altitude to fly the airplane : Aircraft weight The higher that you can fly , the better - until you do n't have enough power to maintain your optimum speed at the optimum power setting for the engines . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude Altitudes that are available from ATC The amount of fuel and time that it takes to climb - vs - the amount of time that you will have at the high speed cruise Anything that makes the airplane heavier makes it unable to climb as high ( and lowers the optimum altitude for the current conditions ) , and makes it burn more fuel . This includes the fuel itself . Assuming a constant speed and constant weather conditions , you will always be more fuel efficient later in the flight . As fuel gets burned off , the amount of thrust required to maintain the optimum speed goes down and the optimum altitude goes up . Basically , we keep reducing the power to maintain speed until the optimum altitude increases to an altitude that ATC can let us climb to . This is known as a step climb . The speed will be controlled manually by the pilot , or can be controlled automatically by auto throttles . Today 's sophisticated flight planning software takes all of this into account and gives the pilot a very good plan on how to operate the airplane to be the most efficient !
I discovered the reasons for this : First , for Fleet F-18Fs , certain missions , such as flying as a Forward Air Controller require an additional flight officer to handle the workloads associated with the job and have a tactical control station specific to this work . Second a number of F models are fitted with dual identical workstations and dual flight controls for flight training new strike fighter pilots who will be moving on to a fleet Rhino squadron after their training in this jet is complete . I believe completion of advanced strike fighter training in the - F model Rhino qualifies you to fly both the - E and - F variants .
With respect to avionics and fault logs , flight legs is just one more data point . It 's not any more important than any other piece of data , but it does have value . Avionics are not structure and do n't care as much about pressurization cycles , but it can be a factor - the pressure change between sea level and 8000 cabin altitude does have some effect . It 's just that avionics can easily count flight legs and it makes for an easy way to organize the fault logs along with flight phase . It is useful data when trying to find the root cause of an intermittent fault in a piece of avionics . Fault logs typically log at least 20 legs before they " roll over " and overwrite old data . With some aircraft flying 6 or more legs a day , that ensures the plane can get to a base with maintenance before the fault gets overwritten . The value is the ability to help detect patterns . I 've seen faults that only occur on the first leg of the day after the plane was parked overnight at a very humid airport . Re-creating the conditions allowed us to duplicate the fault . The problem was a flaw in the conformal coating ( sealant ) on a circuit card that allowed moisture to cause a short . Once the unit had operated for an hour or so , the heat had dried it out and it worked fine .
TL ; DR You 're confusing concepts , planes come in high/low capacity and range , routes come in high/low demand and long/short haul distances . A high capacity long range aircraft can operate very profitably on a short haul , high demand route ... a full 747 would actually be more profitable on a 1000km route than a full 737 , because although the 747 uses more fuel , it also carries a lot more passengers . You 're assuming that putting a big plane on a short route wastes money . Airlines do n't work in miles per gallon like you or I do with their car ... they work on income/expense . I could fly 747s on 100 mile hops all day , but if they 're full of 400 + passengers each paying more than 0.25 % of the running costs of that flight , I 'll still make money . If they could have used a smaller aircraft , it might waste a little money carrying the extra weight , but you seem to be over-simplifying things I 'm guessing this question is actually more along the lines of " How often do airliners run an aircraft that is n't completely full , and how much of that time could they have actually run a smaller aircraft ? " To which the answer is " Usually , and not very often " The economics are about running the whole system as a profit . If I have enough flights in summer that fill the aircraft , then over 12 months that bigger aircraft ( highly profitable all summer , breaking even all winter ) may make all money than a smaller aircraft making a small profit all winter , and a small profit all summer , but not being big enough in summer to take the entire potential demand . Essentially , though , airlines are in the business of getting the " best fit " for their fleet . They are n't trying to get a plane in every size to have the perfect profit ratio for each flight , they are trying to get a suitable plane on each flight . This involves moving planes around as routes change etc. . In an ideal world you 'd run each plane exactly full of every passenger who wanted to fly on that route . In reality , we probably want a plane which is just slightly bigger than that , to cope with the small amounts of extra demand Again you 're seeing " Long haul " and " Short haul " aircraft as different concepts . They are n't . There are only high/low capacity aircraft and high/low capacity routes . Long haul routes tend to have less frequent service with larger , higher capacity aircraft ( if you 're travelling for 18 hours , you do n't need a service with departures every 3 hours ) . They also tend to involve people travelling from " The UK " to " Australia " for example , so one big plane can cover all of that , and split to smaller aircraft to disperse them Short haul routes tend to have more regular service and smaller demand levels , partially because people are less likely to want to depart at the same time every day , and partially because they can be more fine grained - you can go from an area of one country to an area of another . What you seem to miss is that these things are not mutually exclusive ... with enough demand , larger aircraft can run short haul routes very profitably . The fact a 747 is usually profitable on long haul flights , and the fact the demand on short haul routes do not usually have enough demand for such a large aircraft , do n't mean that one could never be profitable if enough people wanted to fly on it . There are airlines using 777s for example for fairly short haul journeys , very profitably , all over the world .
end question
start question
How to determine aircraft altitude and speed , as a passenger ?
I always track my flights , so here is my experience : App using offline maps As it has been said , you will need an app which can download maps prior to the flight . I never had a flight with onboard wifi , but I guess , there 's usually a data volume constraint , which could make it expensive . I use <URL> ( Android ) , which is an offline navigation system for cars etc. . The maps can be obtained from within the app , the user has the choice between free maps from the <URL> project and TomTom maps , which you have to pay . The maps can be downloaded per country , and big maps are subdivided into smaller pieces . For example , the very detailed map for Germany is divided into four parts , together about 0.8 GB of data . The entire USA can be downloaded per state , all together 1.7 GB . It 's possible to configure several fields at the bottom of the screen to display speed , altitude , GPS coordinates , distance to destination and so on . I mainly use this app to explore a country ( e.g. by car ) on vacation , but it 's also fun to use it on board to see what 's that location below us . You may switch off speed camera warning . I once got a warning over Switzerland . The 840km/h were well above the max speed limit of 120km/h , and the fine should have been in the order of seizing all property of the airline . For some reason , the pilot did n't care ... OK , lots of advantages , but there 's also a drawback : The app can not just record your flight , though a menu for tracking exists . Nor can it display your currently covered track . It can only record a track when it 's navigating you , but you do n't want to hear " turn around ! turn around ! " all the time ... Tracking app Again , there should be thousands of apps out there . I 'm using <URL> , which can also display your position / track on an online map . So , you just see a point moving on a gray screen while flying . However , this app allows to record your track , with up to one point per second , and at the end , you can export it as GPX file , which is the standard . It can be opened by many map tools , also by googles MyMaps or what it 's called . The file contains coordinates , precision , time , altitude , speed , number of satellites and course . One hint : This app makes a sanity check between speed reported by the GPS module and speed calculated from recorded points . If this fails , it does n't display/record any speed . This often happens onboard , so switch this check off . Here is a flight from Düsseldorf ( DUS ) to Las Palmas , Gran Canaria ( LPA ) , including altitude profile , drawn with Marble ( Linux KDE program ) : <URL> Precision An airliner is usually made of aluminum , which makes it a huge faraday 's cage . The reception of any radio waves is very limited ( through the windows ) , and so is GPS . And as GPS needs a line of sight to several satellites spread as much as possible over the entire sky , the only chance is to have a window seat . There , I usually get a very good GPS signal , while it 's already very bad to unusable on the next seat , and do n't even think about it on the aisle seat . Having a window seat , I usually get a good signal . While taxiing , the precision is quite good , as on this flight from Frankfurt ( FRA ) : <URL> Of course , the strength and accuracy of the GPS signal relies on the quality of the GPS module of your phone . My last phone was n't so good , I often had jumps of several 100m sidewards , or from 7000m to 10000m altitude . This is just because accuracy comes with the number of satellites , which usually increases with altitude . And : The first aim of GPS is to locate your position , the altitude usually is less important . With my current phone , I do n't see such problems . No sudden steps aside , and altitude and speed were quite the same as displayed on the entertainment system . Well , not entirely . I noticed my phone showing an altitude about 50m too high when landing on my last flight . The 20m shown by the entertainment system were plausible , as the airport was nearly on sea level / in the sea . But the too high altitude was still there , even at the beach . Keep in mind the earth is n't a sphere , it 's an ellipsoid , though even that 's not correct , it 's more like a potato . So , sea level is n't the same everywhere . High quality/price GPS receivers know this and contain data to compensate it , but cheap ones just use the ellipsoid model . ( However , 50m is nothing during flight , and what do you expect from a phone inside the cabin ... ) More hints For a working GPS , the receiver needs a list of all GPS satellites and their precise orbits ( " almanach " ) , current time and its rough position . If it does not have its rough position , it takes much more time to get a fix ( first GPS position ) . And if it does n't have a recent almanach , it has to listen to the satellites for a while , as they slowly broadcast it . As reception of radio signals is quite difficult inside the cabin , it may be very hard to get a fix , and even impossible to get the almanach . So , it 's good practice to prepare your phone before the flight , as
Depends on what you build . It is possible to build a helicopter that qualifies as an ultralight , and thus no license needed . If it exceeds the weight and power restrictions for an ultralight , then it is an experimental aircraft , that requires at least a solo ticket . I would strongly suggest that rather than scratch build your own , an experience you might not survive , you take a look at what I 'm currently lusting after : <URL> In kit form ( which technically makes you the builder ) , it can be had in ultralight form , with limited range . Or in experimental form with a more powerful 2 stroke engine and larger fuel capacity . And finally , the ( sigh ) gas turbine powered version . One advantage of building the experimental kit is : as the builder , you can perform all maintenance and the annual inspection yourself . Another advantage of going the more capable experimental route is : you can log the hours .
The answer to your question is actually really simple : do not exceed the limitations specified in the POH . Really , that 's it ! Note that LIMITATIONS are not the same as RECOMMENDED PROCEDURES . Recommended procedures are just that : recommendations . Limitations ( exclusively from the " limitations " section of the POH ) are the hard and fast rules you must adhere to . Full RPM in Cruise As long as your POH does not impose a limitation on takeoff RPM ( the Seneca II has such a limitation , for example ) , then there is nothing wrong with using max RPM from takeoff to shutdown . You wo n't damage the engine . If the POH provides a limitation on engine RPM ( specifically in Section II of the POH ) , you must adhere to that limitation . It 's common to see a 5 minute " max RPM " limitation on some turbocharged engines . Great , takeoff at max RPM then pull the engines back to the top of the green arc until you land . Easy ! Manifold Pressure &amp; RPM Mike Sowsun said : " You should always follow the manufacturer 's procedures but a general rule for direct drive normally aspirated engines is to keep the manifold pressure less than the RPM for cruise power . ( eg . 24 inches of MP at 2400 RPM ) . " If you decide to apply " rules of thumb " to all phases of flight you will be voluntarily handicapping your airplane 's full potential . Some definitions : Oversquare - manifold pressure > RPM ( 23 " @ 2100 RPM ) Undersquare - manifold pressure < RPM ( 23 " @ 2500 RPM ) Square - manifold pressure = RPM ( 23 " @ 2300 RPM ) Do not embrace the idea that manifold pressure should never , ever exceed the value of the first two digits of the engine RPM ( sounds pretty arbitrary when I put it that way , right ? ) . It actually may be beneficial to run an engine " oversquare " in some cases ! This is another example of why knowing your aircraft 's " Section II " limitations is important . If 23 " @ 2100 RPM falls within the limitations , go for it !! You wo n't hurt the engine . Same with 25 " @ 2300 RPM or 26.756431 " @ 2196.454634 RPM . I think you get my drift . As long as your manifold/RPM combination falls within the limitations set out in Section II of the POH , you 're golden !! Now , climbing out on a hot day with a garden variety Lycoming or Continental ( like in 170 ) ? 29 " @ 2100 RPM probably is n't wise . 30 " @ 2700 RPM ? Yeah , that 's better ! 25 " @ 2500 RPM is n't bad but it 's no better or worse that 26 " @ 2700 RPM or 30 " @ 2650 RPM . Remember , there 's nothing special about " square " manifold/RPM values . I 'd routinely run the IO-520 in my Bonanza at max manifold pressure and max RPM from takeoff to cruise and simply leaning to an EGT target as I climbed ( and watching CHTs , of course ) . Only when leveling off in cruise did I pull it back to an economical setting ( sometimes oversquare , sometimes undersquare ; always lean of peak ) . The engine ran beautifully with good CHTs and incurred no unusual wear . In fact , the engine 's health improved . Exhaust and plugs became noticeably cleaner and compressions improved . In cruise , set the power to any combination of manifold/RPM you desire provided that setting falls within the limitations in your POH . You wo n't hurt the engine with a valid manifold/RPM setting . It 's possible to put undue stress on a motor with a bad mixture setting , though . POHs are notorious for giving poor guidance with regard to mixture settings . Mixture settings require a little more attention above ~ 65 % power but that 's another topic entirely . I recommend that everyone with engine questions read John Deakin 's " Pelican Perch " articles . He 's THE source for fact based , accurate engine operation information . He happens to have touched on this " oversquare " myth here . See <URL> . Edit : I credited John Deakin with my linked article . I was mistaken . The author of the linked article is Linda Pendelton . She links to a Deakin article , though . Mike Busch also addresses the oversquare myth <URL> .
By definition , the transition level is the lowest usable flight level above the transition altitude . So if there is a transition altitude , there is a transition level . In the USA , the transition altitude is 18 000ft . If the QNH ( altimeter setting ) is higher than 1013.25 mbar then the transition level is FL180 . This provides at least 1000 ft separation from aircraft flying at 17 000 ft ( or 500 ft from the VFR at 17 500 ft ) . If the QNH is lower than 1013.25 mbar then the transition level is FL190 or even FL200 to ensure there is at least 1000 ft separation from 17 000 ft. The transition level in other countries is based on similar logic .
To enter the climb , it 's power , attitude , trim . That is , start by setting climb power , as you already know . Remember to compensate for adverse yaw with the rudder . Immediately raise the nose to the climb attitude . Your instructor will teach you to recognise what this looks like in your aircraft : e.g. there might be a part of the dash that lines up with the horizon . Your airspeed will drop away to the desired airspeed for the climb : usually the best-climb speed . Once you 're stable and balanced , at the correct airspeed , use the elevator trim to remove the need for pressure on the stick ( or yoke ) . To level off from the climb , it 's attitude , power , trim . Start by lowering the nose to a level attitude . You need to start doing this before you reach the desired height , as it takes a few seconds to level off . Once you 're level , the airplane will speed up . When you reach cruise speed , reduce the power to cruise power , and compensate for adverse yaw . Again , once you 're stable at the correct speed , trim away any constant pressure on the stick . A gliding or powered descent is similar . Power , attitude , trim to enter the descent . First set the reduced or idle power , and wait for your airspeed to decay to the correct airspeed for your descent . When you reach this airspeed , lower the nose to the glide attitude . Once the attitude and speed are stable , trim the aircraft . To level off from the descent , it 's power , attitude , trim again . Anticipate reaching the height you want , just like when climbing . Raise the throttle to cruise power . Adding power will naturally cause a pitch-up tendency in most airplanes , so let the nose come up to the level attitude , and then you 'll need forward pressure on the stick to keep it there . Once you 're stable and level , trim away that forward pressure . So for most of these attitude changes , the sequence of events is power , attitude , trim ( PAT as a mnemonic ) . Leaving a climb is different : there it 's APT , because lowering the nose first lets the speed increase to the cruising speed before you need to touch the throttle . Whenever you change power , you 'll need to use rudder to compensate for adverse yaw . Generally , you maintain the correct rate of climb or descent by keeping the correct airspeed , not by looking at the vertical speed indicator . Usually you just want the best rate of climb or descent , and you 'll already know what airspeed achieves this , so it 's easy to just check the airspeed indicator every so often and pitch up if you 're too fast , or down if you 're too slow . There are circumstances where you need to keep a particular rate of climb or descent , but that 's not the norm so it 's not what 's taught first to student pilots . The Pilots ' Operating Handbook for the aircraft you 're flying will tell you when carb heat is needed . In general , you should have it hot when you 're at idle or low power ( i.e. in the descent ) , and cold the rest of the time .
Most modern jets use an Air Data Computer ( ADC ) to calculate ( among other things ) Mach Number . <URL> Air Data Computer An ADC is simply a computer which accepts measurements of atmospheric data to calculate various flight related data . A typical ADC may be connected to $ ^ 1 $ : Inputs Static System Pressure Pitot Pressure Total Air Temperature ( TAT ) Outputs ( Calculated ) Pressure Altitude Baro-Corrected Altitude Vertical Speed Mach Number Total Air Temperature Calibrated Airspeed True Airspeed Digitized Pressure Altitude ( Gillham ) Altitude Hold Airspeed Hold Mach Hold Flight Control Gain Scheduling . Each of the inputs and outputs may be analog or digital depending on the design of the system , and are used for many purposes throughout the airplane . Each output is a purely calculated value based on the various input measurements and data stored within the unit . To answer your question about the pitot source for the Mach Meter : Yes , they use the same pitot and static sources as the airspeed indicator . In the case of mechanical instruments , they are both connected directly to the pitot static system . In the case of an ADC , the pitot static system is connected directly to the ADC and then electrical signals communicate the airspeed and mach number to the electric airspeed indicator and mach meter ( or EFIS ) , which no longer require actual pitot static connections . The Math A simplified example for the Mach Number calculation $ ^ 2 $ would be based on the pressure inputs : $ $ Mach ~ number = 5 ( ( PT/PS +1 ) ^ { 0.2857 } -- 1 ) ^ \ frac12 $ $ Where : $ PT$ = Total Pressure $ PS$ = Static Pressure The actual calculation makes corrections to the pressure data to compensate for installation errors and nonlinear sensor readings . Note that it does n't actually calculate the ( local ) speed of sound ( LSS ) in order to determine the current mach number , but with the TAT input and the calculated mach number , it could calculate it by calculating the outside air temperature ( OAT/SAT ) first : $ $ SAT = \ frac { TAT } { 1 +0.2 \ times { Mach } ^ 2 } $ $ $ $ LSS = 38.945 \ sqrt { SAT } $ $ For example , let 's say that the TAT is -36 C ( 237.16 K ) and we are flying Mach 0.80 : $ $ SAT = \ frac { 237.16 } { 1 +0.2 \ times0 .8 ^ 2 } = \ frac { 237.16 } { 1.128 } = 210.25 ° K = -63 ° C$ $ $ $ LSS = 38.945 \ sqrt { 210.25 } = 38.945 \ times14 .5 = 564.70 knots $ $ Again , these are simplified formulas because the actual ones would consider sensor error , etc. . $ ^ 1 $ List of inputs and outputs obtained from <URL> . $ ^ 2 $ Formula from <URL> .
The only ' realistic ' way of carrying out a full scale evacuation of an aircraft would be to put people in it and set it on fire . That said , FAA takes some efforts to keep the evacuation tests as realistic as possible without seriously endangering the safety of the ' passengers ' . The FAA Advisory Circular <URL> lays out some rules regarding this . Only half the exits are used for evacuation by a representative mix of passengers , with some debris ( luggage , pillows etc ) strewn in the path . The aircraft is to have the maximum number of passengers and flight crew , with a representative mix of age and genders with dolls for children . Not training any of the participants in the test , i.e. both the flight crew and the participants are not trained to evacuate the ( that particular ) aircraft . According to the Advisory Circular , The flight attendants should not be trained for specific demonstration conditions , except that specific training should be given which relates to the safety of the participants prior to and during the demonstration . The participants are clearly told what they are going to do . The prospective participants should be informed of the purpose of the demonstration and the expected duration of their participation . Though the participants know ' why ' they are there , they are not supposed to know ' when ' demonstration is going to start . Neither the crew nor passengers should hear or otherwise receive any indication that the demonstration is about to begin . The first indication to participants should be the extinguishing of the normal cabin lighting . The participants should not know about the evacuation plan beforehand . If safety devices or any other equipment external to the airplane could indicate to the test participants which exits are to be used in the demonstration , passengers and crew should enter the airplane through a tunnel or other means that will prevent them from seeing that indication . The participants are more than likely paid ( employees with previous knowledge of the system are not allowed ) , though there is no mention of any ' prize ' for first getting out . The regulations simply state , Prospective participants should be informed of any direct benefits to them ( e.g. , pay , meals , etc. ) and of benefits to society The participants are prevented from interacting with outside and to recieve any information from outside the aircraft . ... exterior windows should be obscured from the outside to prevent both viewing of the outside conditions and any ground lighting from shining into the airplane . There is intense debate over how ' realistic ' the evacuation tests are . For example , the evacuation of <URL> , a Boeing 737 took more than 5 minutes ( resulting in the deaths of more than 50 people ) , though the aircraft had passed the test . According to <URL> , there are multiple problems with this type of testing : There is only one data point ( Full scale evacuation tests are costly ; each one costs nearly $ 1m ) The conditions do not reflect the actual ones experienced ( for example , fire , smoke etc. ) The participants know why they are there ( Employees of the manufacturer are not barred , though they may not sit near the exits ) . The participants do not reflect the actual demographics of the flying public , and if considered , increased the evacuation time significantly ( obviously , disabled people and kids are not there in demonstration ) . The participants do not experience any trauma . Of course adding smoke or fire is not an option as already around 4-5 percent people are getting hurt . <URL> Image from Aircraft Evacuation Testing : Research and Technology Issues September 1993 OTA-BP-SET-121 NTIS order #PB 94-107620 As a result of the aforementioned BA28M accident , UK 's , Cranfield Institute of Technology ( CIT ) carried out a number of tests which included a case where financial incentives were offered to foster competitive behavior among test participants . The study determined that , the presence of a competitive element had a significant impact on egress rates for evacuations through the bulkheads , but did not affect the rate of evacuation through the Type III exit Note : According to FAA , This type is a rectangular opening of not less than 20 inches wide by 36 inches high , with corner radii not greater than one-third the width of the exit , and with a step-up inside the airplane of not more than 20 inches . If the exit is located over the wing , the step-down outside the airplane may not exceed 27 inches . The US Department of Transportation also carried out studies , which resulted in similar conclusions . <URL> Image from Aircraft Evacuations Onto Escape Slides and Platforms I : Effects of Passenger Motivation , DOT/FAAAM -96 / 18 The study found that the introduction of smoke did not have much effect , but noted , Although this research design biased against revealing any deleterious effects of smoke on egress , previous studies using smoke had shown robust reductions in egres
An aircraft Kitchen is known as the Galley and the picture is from a Lufthansa A380 . Some equipment you will see here are : Food Oven , the door with a black knob in the middle of the picture . Coffee Machine , with the pot , in the right side of the picture . Large Trolleys , filled with food and/or drinks , on the floor . Weight about 25kg empty . Trash Bin , the darker grey unit on the right on the floor . Wheeled off like everything else . Some have proper trash electric trash compactors as well in trolley format . Fuse Panel , located in the middle along the top row . There is in general a fair bit of power going into this area . Smaller Storage Containers , that can handle drinks or bottles for instance . General Storage Space : The galley also provides a bit of space for anything from the children 's toys and newspapers to emergency equipment . You can see some compartments for this in the upper-left corner and a symbol that a smoke hood is stored in one of them . Quick design comment : Aircraft galleys are hotspots for corrosion due to the liquid in the area and is the cause for particular attention during maintenance . Most aircraft galleys are generally very similar in design . Galley equipment comes in 2 basic universal standards - namely ATLAS and KSSU . These have their origins in legacy maintenance resource pools ( ATLAS = Alitalia , TAP , Lufthansa , Air France , Sabena and KSSU = KLM , Swissair , SAS , UTA ) and have subsequently developed into industry standards to enable modular equipment interchange . These standards for instance specify the height , width and depth of trolleys . I gather that ATLAS standard is more prevalent ( 80 % of galleys by one source ) but both exist . Other ideas and concepts have popped up but since changing the stuff is very expensive there 's not been a real push for it . I think I 've also read that the original standard was pretty well thought through . Naturally , this is a long-distance galley that will serve usually two meals . Equipment and size are scaled to the needs of the airline and can vary greatly between operators .
This stopped after the World Trade Center attacks . You might be able to get a kid in briefly before the plane takes off .
As Ralgha stated , this kind of callout would be included in the SOP . A couple I found in searching were the <URL> ( same in their helicopter procedures by the way ) and <URL> , as well as some generic CRM guides . The <URL> also mentions altitude callouts , suggesting something like " two to go " and " one to go " ( in thousands ) . The NBAA includes this specific phrasing : The callout is to include the altitude vacating and the assigned altitude i.e. " Six thousand for seven thousand " or " Flight level three-zero-zero for two-niner-zero " . After the PF makes this call , the PNF will verify and validate the call by stating " check " . This <URL> mentions that USAir used to use the " two to go " and " one to go " phrasing , but opted to change this for the same that the NBAA uses . The new policy has the pilot flying make this call , since they are in control of the climb , and makes it more clear what the final altitude will be . The Flight Safety Foundation went in to <URL> about the " why " behind the callout . They mentioned that in their observations , the callout was sometimes not done due to workload of other more important things going on in approach/descent . They explain the benefit : This is not to suggest that the 1,000-ft callout is trivial . On the contrary , it ensures that both pilots concur about the altitude target , directs the attention of a flying pilot who might be distracted back to the impending level-off and draws both pilots ' attention to what the autopilot is supposed to be doing . Another resource that suggests the important is a report of an aircraft overshooting its altitude by 600 feet because the callout was missed . This report is in the <URL> , report number 317750 . I also found it referenced in <URL> about communication . They did n't really comment on it specifically , but used it as an example of how communication is critical . Specifically , the more exactly the terminology is defined , the more clear the communication will be .
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
In areas where the ATC provides the altitude in meter ( China ( PRC ) , North Korea , and Russia ) , depending on the equipment ( altimeter ) , the pilot can determine what to do : In case of older aircraft , where the altimeter is calibrated in feet , the pilots use a conversion card for determining the altitude in feet , before dialing in the altitude to the autopilot . <URL> Source : aerosavvy.com Note : The conversion charts are standardized for the airspace and the pilots have to use it . For Chinese airspace refer <URL> In case of modern aircraft displays , the altimeter can be made to display altitude in imperial ( feet ) or metric ( meter ) units .
Almost always a plane going to a boneyeard is flown to the general area . Typically they are taxied , towed or dragged away from the airport itself . CHEAP is the key word in any recycling / 2nd-hand operation . Planes at the end of their economic lives , that can not be flown because of damage or lack of maintenance , tend to be moved out of sight , valuable bits and hazardous materials removed , and the hulk reduced to scrap using normal construction/demolition equipment . The scrappers near Mojave airport work the same way , in a bare dirt lot down the street from the storage adjacent to the airport . I 've been to AMARG * , at Davis-Monthan , to Mojave Airport/Spaceport and a facility for smaller , general aviation , aircraft , Cessna 150s through commuter and business turboprops/jets . The later had a large , grass , field , for last landings . Other planes arrived by truck , in pieces . Most airplane museums are near an airport , but exhibits are less likely to fly in . A plane headed for a museum or restoration shop , even as a donor , is often disassembled and sent by truck , train or ship . But restoration is n't scrapping , the economics are different . * AMARG , or the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group ( previously known as AMARC , the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center )
No , you should not * . In my opinion , you should limit your logbook to records of your own flight experience . This would include any time spent training , as PIC , or as required crew . The time you can log as PIC is that which you spend as the sole manipulator of the controls , the sole occupant , or as the pilot in command when the required crew is > 1 . <URL> . <URL> has some good coverage of this as well . If you 're just hanging out in the airplane , it does n't matter if you 're in the front seat or the back seat . If you 're receiving instruction , you should get an entry and a logbook endorsement from the instructor you 're flying with . Most General Aviation aircraft do n't require a type rating , so I 'm unsure what the context of your final question is . * It 's worth noting that you can technically put whatever you want in your logbook , though it 's not a great idea ; when it comes time to fill out an FAA 8710 form for later ratings , it can get confusing . In my opinion , you still should n't log any time , but if you 're just wanting to record flights that you took with friends , that 's fine . As an instructor who 's had to slog through some weird logbooks , I 'd really , really encourage you to track that elsewhere , though . Your logbook is exactly that - it 's your logbook , for the logging of your flight time , and a record of your flight experience and training .
The <URL> you are referring to explains how radar is used to fly through a <URL> whilst avoiding the most turbulent areas . Conventional weather radar can not detect wind speed or turbulence directly , it only detects solid and liquid objects above a threshold size . The most turbulent areas of thunderstorms are also those areas that contain the most water and ice . This precipitation reflects radar waves very well so the most turbulent areas have the strongest reflections and shows up as red / purple on the scope . The area downwind of the core is usually very turbulent as well . So the weather radar is merely detecting the presence of water . It is the pilot interpreting the picture who is really detecting the turbulence . <URL> ( CAT ) does not have condensated water in it and is therefore undetectable by conventional radar . There are systems such as LIDAR that can detect CAT but they generally not installed on aircraft . As @reirab noted in a comment , a Doppler radar can be used to detect the relative speed of the particles from an aircraft . This is not used to reliably detect wind speed , but when there are large variations in wind speed ( a.k.a. turbulence ) the Doppler shift in the reflections from the particles causes a spectrum spread . This is an indication for turbulence . The traditional S-band airborne weather radars do not have this capability but the newer X-band radar ( e.g. this <URL> ) can detect wet turbulence to distance of up to 40-60 nautical miles using this technique . LIDAR ( a portmanteau of Light and RADAR ) is a technology that uses light instead of radio waves . LIDAR can measure position and relative velocity of aerosols and therefore it can be used to detect turbulence . It has been used successfully to detect wind shears and map wake vortices on final approach from the ground ( <URL> ) . <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) is going on into airborne use of LIDAR to detect CAT . One of the difficulty is to detect vertical components of the turbulence . This causes very little Doppler shift but at the same time have the most effect on the aircraft ( since the vertical component of turbulence causes changes in angle of attack ) . As far as I know there are currently no commercial applications of LIDAR for airborne turbulence detection .
Why do you need a kite ? A glider is much better suited to the task . Again , nature has invented this long ago . Albatrosses use a technique called <URL> to cover wide distances over water , using the windshear close to the surface . <URL> have tried to imitate this with gliders , albeit with limited success . The few who tried it could indeed stay in the air by harvesting energy from windshear , but the dynamic loads ( up to 4 g ) were too much to do this over an extended time .
It all depends ... There will be some minimum power required to maintain level flight at any given altitude . If you 're applying more power than that then you can trim for level flight at any power setting . More power means faster flight , higher fuel consumption and less range , while less power will save fuel and take longer . It 's really your call , but I 'm sure your flying school will opt for economy every time ! You may also find that some light aircraft have prohibited ranges for RPM . Some Robin aircraft , for example , prohibit continuous operation in a band just above 2000rpm ( do n't remember the exact details ) so you 'd have to trim at a power setting below or above that band .
As Ron Beyer pointed out in a comment , your instructor was showing you a <URL> - a pretty standard maneuver for light aircraft . A spin would involve full rudder and a stalled wing , which usually means pulling the yoke or stick back a lot . That 's why overshooting the base-to-final turn can be dangerous - you likely already have a lot of rudder in and it 's tempting to pull back on the yoke to try to tighten up the turn . An unexpected spin at low altitude is not recommended as recovery tends to be both abrupt and fatal . As long as you 're keeping the yoke more or less centered forward and back and your airspeed up , there should be nothing to worry about .
IRS will drift over time . Decision altitude is 200ft for ILS CAT I approach . 0.5 nm drift is not to much for navigation but it will be huge difference in altitude and you can hit obstacles if your altitude has drifted just couple of feet . Probably it could be used if backed by GPS as EGPWS does or non baro RNAV approaches do . But even GPS precision alone is not enough in this case and you need WAAS . Radio altimeter can give much better precision .
Every country handles aircraft registration differently ( but generally similar ) . Im sure Boeing could tell you who they originally delivered the airframe to but if it was sold from there it could legally go anywhere and would only be subject to local registration legislation . Here in the <URL> but not all countries may keep a record like that and as far as I know there is no global aircraft registry . it is still impossible to find actual aircraft 's owner in a matter of minutes Knowing who the owner is and finding the owner are two very different things . <URL> Several aviation databases list the Boeings -- identified by their call signs TF-ARN , TF-ARH , TF-ARM -- as belonging to leasing firm Air Atlanta Icelandic , but that company says it sold them in 2008 . Since then , the aircraft appear to have changed hands several times . Malaysia Airports says it 's entitled to sell the Boeings under the country 's civil aviation regulations if no owner comes forward . So it seems they do know who owned them at some point ( most likely the last people to put readable registration numbers on them ) .
end question
start question
How many 747-200 are still in service ?
Running the numbers from <URL> , there appear to be 36 active 747-200s out of 393 built ( according to Wikipedia ) . Of the 36 , 9 are passenger planes , 22 freight ( including 6 converted from passenger planes , marked * ) , 3 combi ( passenger and freight ) , and the two VC-25As ( " Air Force One " ) . The active aircraft are as follows , with tail numbers included so you can look for photos . Aerospace One : 1 freight ( SX-ASO ) , 1 combi ( SX-ASC ) AHS Air International : 1 freight ( AP-BIO ) Cargo Air Lines : 1 combi ( 4X-ICM ) Caspian Airlines : 1 freight ( EP-CQA ) Iran Air : 3 passenger ( EP-IAG , EP-IAH , EP-IAI ) , 1 combi ( EP-ICD ) Jet Star : 1 freight ( ER-BBS ) Kabo Air : 3 passenger ( 5N-DKB , 5N-JRM , 5N-MAD ) Kalitta Air : 2 passenger ( N715CK , N793CK ) , 4 freight ( N704CK , N746CK , N794CK , * N795CK * ) Kam Air : 1 freight ( 4L-TZS ) Midex Airlines : 3 freight ( A6-MDG , A6-MDH , A6-MDI ) Orient Thai Airlines : 1 passenger ( HS-UTC ) Rayyan Air ** : 2 freight ( AP-BKI , AP-BKS * ) Saha Airlines : 2 freight ( EP-SHB , EP-SHH ) Saudi Arabian Airlines : 1 freight ( HZ-AIU ) United States Air Force : 2 VC-25A ( 82-8000 , 92-9000 ) Uni-Top Airlines : 3 freight ( B-2448 , * B-2450 , * B-2462 ) Veteran Avia : 1 freight ( EK74799 * ) Vision Air International : 1 freight ( AP-BIV ) * Built as passenger and converted to freight . ** Not to be confused with Ryanair ! :-) There are also several stored aircraft , including the Rolls-Royce test plane you mention in the question . Thanks to <URL> for explaining that BSF denotes " <URL> " , a passenger plane <URL> .
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
while I do n't think such a regulatory minimum would make sense , I 'm still curious about whether it exists . No , there is no such regulatory minimum . On average , it 's between 10 and 20 minutes from pushback to takeoff , although there are a couple of places I can think of ( very short taxi from gate to runway ) that I 've seen it done in under five minutes . That 's moving pretty fast , though -- almost nonstop checklists , other than during the time the engines are starting . But whatever you can do safely , is fine as far as regulations are concerned . If you 're ready to go , no regulation makes you wait . Depending on the aircraft , there may be an engine warmup requirement or recommendation . That 's typically much more restrictive for the first flight of the day , and that would be a limiting factor in the very short taxi cases .
When I went through USAF pilot training ... Useful ? Absolutely invaluable . Many of our instructors had experience before " real " simulators were used in training . All of them commented on how obviously better we were on our very first actual flight . We had " cockpit familiarization " trainers . This looked like a cockpit , sat still on the floor , had all the switches but all they did was switch . They did nothing . We practiced " switchology " , checklists , and so forth . Beyond required time and tasks in this thing we could spend free time playing around with these . Not unlike checking out a book from the library . The above are very useful because it kept the " real " simulators available for actual flight training . We had quite a few hours in this simulator before we got in a real airplane . And simulator training continued throughout the year in flight school . But this does not give them the physical feel of controlling the airplane Yes it does . But as we got more expert in the aircraft , flying every day , sometimes twice a day , we could tell the difference . But the simulator feel was quite good and in no way did it hinder acquiring the touch for precision , when in formation for example .
From the title of your question ( taking off / landing planes ) , I assume you are asking about a tower controller . As you may know , most air traffic do n't work in a control tower , but are en-route controllers working in an ACC ( area control center ) . The number of planes a tower controller handles each day is of course highly dependent on the airport traffic conditions ( november , for example , is a quiet month ) . I work in an European single-runway airport , where the runway capacity is 40 flights / hour ( landings and departures included ) in optimal conditions . Controllers usually work around 5 effective hours per day , so the theoretical maximum number of planes would be 200 planes . In practice , it is very unlikely that a controller will actually control that number of aircraft , because the runway is used at maximum capacity only during peak hours ( early morning , late afternoon and beginning of the evening ) . Also , a tower controller does n't only work at the tower position , she will also be typically work a clearance delivery and an approach position .
On a light aircraft , the answer is somewhat similar to the mechanism you might be used to in a RC aircraft . The image below shows the important parts - a hinged flap and a " control rod " which is attached to an electric actuator . <URL> This is controlled internally by a simple switch <URL> ( Both images source : <URL> ) By looking at the actuator of a Cessna 172 , it clearly only has one linkage , which implies there is one per flap - and it is situated within the wing . <URL> ( Image source : <URL> )
Yes . One ' official ' example is from the FAA 's <URL> for land and seaplanes , which includes these tasks for seaplanes : Task H : Glassy Water Approach and Landing [ ... ] Task J : Rough Water Approach and Landing The FAA 's <URL> also uses it ; Chapter 6 is called " Seaplane Operations - Landings " . Interestingly , the word " landing " itself is n't defined in the FAA 's <URL> or in <URL> ( the US air regulations general definitions ) . Presumably it 's considered to be too ' obvious ' to require a definition .
APUs are like small jet engines , small enough to be started electrically . So you would use the power of the battery or an electric ground power cart to spin up the APU by its electric starter motor , and then introduce fuel into it once its spinning fast enough , just like a jet engine is started . Depending on the design , the electric motor will then either act as a generator to supply electrical power back to the aircraft or decouple when a separate generator is used . The APU will spin up , and besides spinning the electric generator , some pressurized air will be ' stolen ' from its compressor to supply " bleed air " for engine starting , the air conditioning packs , etc. . . Big APUs like on the Boeing 777 have actually two methods of starting : They have both an air-driven and an electric driven starter motor . The method of operation is as follows : When the APU is started with the engines off , electrical power from battery or ground connection is used . After the flight , the APU will be restarted before the main engines are turned off . In that case , the APU will be started by the air-driven motor rather than the electric motor , with pressurized air supplied by the still-running main engines . EDIT to answer question in comment : Depending on size , the APU will take something between 30seconds and 2 minutes to start . The big APU of the 777 will deliver electrical power after 2 minutes or so , small units you are likely to find on regional jets can do that after perhaps 45 seconds . Then , it takes an additional 2-4 minutes until you can extract bleed air from it . That is because taking air from the compressor increases the exhaust gas temperature of the APU , and you want the APU to warm up evenly . The same is true for the shutdown process : You close the bleed-air valve and then let the APU continue to run for another two minutes or so to cool down , then shut it off completely . This lowers the thermal stress on the unit . On modern planes like the 777 this process is automated : You turn the APU selector switch to OFF and that will close the bleed air valve , initiate a 2 minute cooldown period , and eventually turn off the APU completely . The only way to shut it down immediately is in fact the APU FIRE handle . So , you will turn the APU on typically while you are taxiing in after landing . Because of course you want it to be up and running and ready to take over the air conditioning by the time you are at the gate . Some APUs like those found on the MD-80s have two settings for bleed air extraction : NORM and ECON . ECON takes less bleed air , thus not increasing the exhaust gas temperature of the APU too much . On particularly hot days , using the APU bleed in ECON might help not overheating the APU if it is to be used for an extended period of time .
There is one frequency per sector and there can be two controllers per sector , one working the scope / talking to aircraft and one assisting with flight strips and coordination with adjacent sectors . If the sector does not require a second controller to coordinate and assist with flight strips , there will only be one controller doing all tasks single-handedly . In some cases , two sectors are combined and both frequencies are manned by the same controller , but this is only done in low-traffic times , where overlapping transmissions have a low probability . A good and well-written source to understand how ATC sectors and split workload works is the AVWeb Series of <URL> . See this related question for more information : <URL>
I do not know the exact numbers for oleo stroke and so on , but this is how you would calculate this . A 747-400 weighs 400 tons on take-off and 296 tons on landing , maximum . See <URL> for the source of those figures . Next is the landing speed , this is approx . 160 knots = 82 m/s . Now let 's assume the pilot has misjudged the height and does not flare , but slams the aircraft with the 3 ° approach angle into the runway . It is supposed to survive this , so let 's just continue . This gives you a vertical speed of 4.3 m/s , and at 296 tons this is an energy of 2,750 kWs = 0.76 kWh , which needs to be dissipated by the landing gear . Now I make the assumption that the gear stroke is 0.5 m ( those who know please put it in the comments , and I will correct the calculation ) . We have 0.5 m to decelerate a mass of 296 tons from 4.3 m/s to zero . If we assume a constant deceleration , the force will also be constant and the sink speed will decrease linearly . The average sink speed during this process is 2.15 m/s , so it will take 0.23 s and an acceleration of 18.5 m/s $ ^ 2 $ . Force is mass times acceleration , so the force is 5,473 kN or 1.23 million pounds . This is just the inertial force to stop the descent . While taxiing to the take-off position , the aircraft will press with 400 tons = 878,000 lbs on the runway , since the wings do not yet produce any lift . This shows that even a hard landing does not stress the landing gear so much - after all , the acceleration is just shy of 2 g , acting on a much lighter plane . In reality , the landing gear of a 747 is staggered , so the inner main gears will touch the ground first . Also , I expect that the force will not be constant along the whole gear stroke . This will change the details of this approximation , but the general magnitude should not be different . <URL> goes into more details on how to calculate the damage an airplane will do to a given runway or apron . Now for the braking stresses . The landing field length of a 747-400 is 2175 m , and let 's just assume that the pilot forgot to use thrust reversers , aerodynamic drag was switched off that day , and all the braking power had to be supplied by the 16 main wheels . Let 's also assume that the pilot uses 1200 m of that field length for braking ( I 'm just making this up to get to an upper limit of what force will act on the tarmac ) . Now we need to decelerate from 82 m/s to zero within 1200 m. Linear deceleration means an average speed of 41 m/s , so the whole process takes 29.27 s. Dividing speed by time yields a deceleration of 2.8 m/s $ ^ 2 $ . To bring the aircraft to a full stop , we have an energy of 995,152 kWs = 276.4 kWh to dissipate along a distance of 1200 m. Using again Newton 's second law , we see that this requires a horizontal force of 829 kN = 186,322 lbs , which translates into 51,8 kN = 11,645 lbs per wheel . This is certainly more than what happens in reality , but to put it into proportion : The static load per main wheel at the maximum landing mass is 174 kN = 39,150 lbs ( assuming that 4 % of the mass is carried by the nose gear ) . This extreme ( horizontal ) braking force is still less than 30 % of the ( vertical ) static load , which is well below of the maximum braking coefficient of an aircraft wheel on a dry runway . EDIT : CGCampell correctly remarked that emergency procedures at take-off weight will produce the biggest braking loads . Now I will calculate the highest possible braking loads , and for this I need this plot of a polynominal for the braking coefficient , which is the ratio between vertical and horizontal forces before the tire skids . I do not know the source ; I collected it somewhere in the past and never found a reason to doubt its validity . Shortly before the aircraft comes to a stop , the highest friction coefficient is reached , and then little lift is produced by the wings , so the vertical tire loads are those of the static case . At 96 % of 400 tons acting on 16 wheels , this is 24 tons = 235,344 N = 52,907 lbs of downward force per wheel . Since the friction coefficient is 1 at low speed , the same load is transferred horizontally from each wheel to the ground , almost five times more than what I approximated for the landing above . Clearly , going to the limits produces much higher loads . Formulas used in the calculation : How to calculate the deceleration of a mass $ m $ from a speed $ v_0 $ to $ v_1 $ Energy has no absolute value , we just add or subtract energy . The amount of energy change $ ∆ E$ between the aircraft at a speed $ v_0 $ and at a speed $ v_1 $ is : $ $ ∆ E = \ frac { m } { 2 } \ cdot ( v_0 ^ 2 - v_1 ^ 2 ) $ $ The unit of energy is the Joule , which equals the Watt-second or the Newton-meter . Thus 1 J = 1 Ws = 1 Nm = 1 $ \ frac { \ text { kg } \ cdot \ text { m } ^ 2 } { \ text { s } ^ 2 } $ . Metric units are neat , right ? In physics , energy $ E$ equals work $ W$ , and work is performed when a force $ F$ travels along a distance $ s $ . As does the braking force , acting on the moving aircraft : $ $ E = W = F _ { brake } \ cdot s $ $ How do we g
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
Airline food is usually <URL> and loaded on the aircraft , where it is reheated and served . In some cases , the food is half-prepared on ground and completed in air ( in onboard ovens ) . However , in some cases ( Emirate Airlines , for example ) business class customers can have ( some type of ) food prepared in-flight .
For the complete electrical failure in the aircraft , the following systems have to fail : The onboard power generation system , usually a synchronous generator has to fail in all the engines . The APU ( Auxiliary Power Unit ) has to fail . The RAT ( Ram Air Turbine ) should fail to deploy . The batteries and static inverters should fail ( this wo n't help in controlling the aircraft , just added for sake of completeness ) . The probability of this happening is very very low , and can be discounted . It is more probable that some other system ( for e.g , hydraulics ) fail before this happening . So far , to the best of my knowledge , no complete power loss has been reported in any fly by wire aircraft . The reason the Airbus aircrafts are controllable in case of electrical failure is due to the fact that the fly-by-wire system has multiple redundancies that offer layered protection : Normal Law offers all the protections ( like stall , load factor etc ) . This is the system in operation during normal flights . Alternate Law offers limited protection including stability , load factor and stall protections Abnormal Alternate Law limits the load factors and offers yaw damping only Direct Law is the lowest level of fly-by-wire system and directly transmits the pilot inputs to control surfaces , while still giving stall and load factor warnings In case all these fail , the system reverts to mechanical backup , where pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer and lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . In case of mechanical backup , the system will operate as long as hydraulic power is available . In case of electrical failure , as long as hydraulics are OK , the pilot should be able to control the aircraft . However , usually , if there is no power , there is no hydraulic pressure ( except reservoir , maybe ) and the control is lost . In case of the <URL> , only hydraulics was lost and power was available . There are some more points to consider in case of total electrical failure . In case the control surfaces are moved by electric power ( like 787 ) , power loss means loss of control . Power loss implies that the engine thrust can not be controlled ( of course , the engines wo n't be operational in that case anyway ) . Some fly-by-wire aircrafts are unstable by design . In these cases , any power loss will lead to loss of control and crash . I 'm not sure there is any direct mechanical linkage in civil airliners . The amount of force required to operate such a system would be enormous . Bottom-line is , in case of complete power failure , the aircraft is as good as dead . One example is a Fairchild Swearingen Metroliner ( which was not fly-by-wire ) , that <URL> due to a lightening strike . The aircraft entered into a uncontrolled flight , which loaded the aircraft beyond limit , resulting in its disintegration .
Like everything in aviation its a trade off of a few factors . Efficiency : A non-running engine is pretty quiet but that 's of little use to a pilot who needs thrust to actually go anywhere . Now you can have lots of sound suppression in an engine and alter the airflow and what not but in the end of the day jets work on Newton 's third law so you still need to throw a hot mass out the back . Any attempt to baffle this will take a toll on efficiency . ( Side note , car exhausts have a similar effect on car engines these days ) . Weight : The generally accepted way to reduce noise is to insulate against it . What you are really doing is adding material to absorb the mechanical energy that is the sound wave and dissipate it . Generally this is <URL> of some kind ( there is a variety of styles ) . But like anything this takes a toll on weight and will reduce what you can carry . Cost : Insulation does wear out and break down over time ( its usually some kind of foam ) , so the more you have the more you need to replace . Also of importance is the fact that most of it gets removed during check to inspect the airframe so having a lot of insulation will add to your down time during checks ( this costs the airline money in terms of hours ) . If you take a look at some custom-built private planes you will see some of the things they can do in terms of added noise reduction and what those implementations look like . On the other hand <URL> is becoming a cheaper and more efficient technology in headphones which makes a case for not needing to improve insulation ( it will eventually be cheaper to have a pair of ANR headphones for everyone than maintain a lot of insulation ) . A lot of the GA community has moved to ANR headsets which are much nicer than their traditional counterparts .
If the aircraft can be economically repaired ( there is no major structural damage , and we 're not talking about an aircraft already scheduled to be retired ) then it 's likely the aircraft will be repaired and returned to service . When you spend several million on an aircraft you are n't going to throw it away for a few tens or hundred thousand dollars worth of damage , particularly as it 's probably insured . If the aircraft is structurally compromised to the point where repairs would not be economical ( or if we 're talking about an older aircraft which has given many years of service and is due for retirement ) it would probably be written off and scrapped for any salvageable parts ( either repairing it to a condition where it could be ferried to a " <URL> " or dismantled and cut up at the accident site - whichever option is less expensive for the airline ) . As one particularly famous datapoint , the <URL> had an off-airport landing with a nose gear collapse in 1983 . The aircraft was repaired , returned to service , and flew until 2008 ( a little under 25 years of additional service after its incident ) .
If you also count drones , the General Atomics <URL> is a pusher propeller aircraft in active service . Here are some others : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> You may notice that a lot of these aircraft are very old designs . The problem is in 1914 the US Army ( there was no US Air Force yet ) banned pusher type aircraft after a number of pilots died in them . This mentality carried over on the other side " of the pond " and very few pusher type aircraft entered service after 1916 . The <URL> was responsible for the development of ejection seats because a major problem with bailing out was hitting the propeller . Because the prop was behind the pilot , bailing out meant getting pushed through the wood chipper ... The B-36 is a good example of this configuration in its limits . It is a massive aircraft with a 19 foot propeller ( second largest propellers in use ) . Engine fires were common due to mounting the engines backwards and not getting sufficient heat over the carburetors . The aircraft was later modified as the XB-60 with swept wings and 8 jet engines but was inferior to the Boeing XB-52 ( later becoming the B-52 ) and was abandoned . The other problem is that a pusher type design contributes a lot to the drag of the aircraft and is relatively inefficient compared to tractor designs . By the time swept wings were in fashion ( mostly because jet engines pushed speeds higher and higher ) , the need for propeller driven military aircraft dropped dramatically in the jet age .
The idea that missiles will be all a fighter aircraft needs was prevalent in the late Fifties . The <URL> Phantom II carried initially only missiles , but at the start of the Vietnam war this turned out to be inadequate . The long-range missiles back then were rather unreliable , and in a real conflict things turn out always different than anticipated . As <URL> said , the plan is the first casualty of war . F-4s frequently found themselves in close-combat situations for which they were inadequately prepared . Even today , a gun gives the pilot a lot more options , and if the situation is unclear , close-up visual inspection before shooting is still vital to avoid <URL> . From the F-4C on , F-4s were equipped with a gun .
They did , in the <URL> : Wikipedia : Similar in nature to the 747X , the stretched 747 Advanced used technology from the Boeing 787 Dreamliner to modernize the design and its systems . On November 14 , 2005 , Boeing announced that it was launching the 747 Advanced as the " Boeing 747-8 " ( Emphasis mine ) The 747-8 includes technology in the cockpit , cabin , wings , and engines borrowed or learned from the 787 and 777 aircraft programs . Obviously you ca n't just pull the wings off of a 787 and stick them on a 747 , but the wings were redesigned with aerodynamic information learned in the 777/787 program .
The 747-300/400 has a longer hump than the original 100/200 . Surprisingly , this longer hump had lower aerodynamic drag than the 200 hump : at higher mach numbers compressibility starts to cause serious drag increase . The speed at which this " drag divergence " occurs depends on the variance of cross section area of the plane . If the cross section of the plane would be a constant value , drag divergence speed would be closest to mach 1 . The longer bump on the 747-300 resulted in a more constant cross section and therefore higher drag divergence number = > higher cruise speed . Could it be made more efficient aerodynamically ? Yes , by trying to match the <URL> as closely as possible . <URL>
Yes ! You can charter large aircraft like the 747 . A lot of airlines offer this service for large groups ( sports teams come to mind ) , and there are also operators of the Boeing Business Jet that were created just for private and charter uses . The TSA requires aircraft like this to adopt a security program called the Twelve-Five Standard Security Program ( or TFSSP for short ) . <URL> contains the regulations which cover this . Most of the security program falls under non-disclosure rules that prevent anyone with knowledge of the program from talking about it to people that do n't have an operational need to know ( and have also signed a non-disclosure ) . This helps to prevent people that would try to bypass the security measures in place from even knowing what to look for . The regulations do specify the following though : Each operator of an aircraft that weighs more than 12,500 lbs . that is used for scheduled or charter operations must adopt the program . The program must be approved by the TSA . The program must contain the procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used regarding : the acceptance and screening of individuals and their accessible property , including , if applicable , the carriage weapons as part of State-required emergency equipment , the acceptance and screening of checked baggage , the acceptance and screening of cargo , the screening of individuals and property , the use of metal detection devices , regarding the use of x-ray systems , the use of explosives detection systems , the responsibilities of security coordinators , the requirements for law enforcement personnel , carriage of accessible weapons , carriage of prisoners under the control of armed law enforcement officers , transportation of Federal Air Marshals , aircraft and facilities control function , the specific locations where the air carrier has entered into an exclusive area agreement , fingerprint-based criminal history records checks , personnel identification systems , training , an aviation security contingency plan , bomb and air piracy threats , flight deck privileges , and the Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan ( AOIP ) . As you can see , there is quite a bit that goes into the TFSSP . Two of the biggest things though are the requirement for all flight crew members to undergo a fingerprint based criminal background check and that access to the flight deck must be restricted . For more details , refer to the actual regulations which cover this in more depth . <URL> also has a page about the TFSSP .
end question
start question
How to command autopilot to start a fixed rate descent ?
Here is what typical autopilot controls look like Image source : <URL> The pilot can set the required altitude , as well as the required vertical speed to get to that altitude . A cruise decent will typically use a shallower descent than an approach descent .
Yes . <URL> ( n ) Limitations on student pilots operating an aircraft in solo flight . A student pilot may not operate an aircraft in solo flight unless that student pilot has received : ( 1 ) An endorsement from an authorized instructor on his or her student pilot certificate for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown ; and ( 2 ) An endorsement in the student 's logbook for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown by an authorized instructor , who gave the training within the 90 days preceding the date of the flight . <URL> ( a ) Operations requiring a medical certificate . Except as provided in paragraphs ( b ) and ( c ) of this section , a person -- ... ( 3 ) Must hold at least a third-class medical certificate -- ( i ) When exercising the privileges of a private pilot certificate ; ( ii ) When exercising the privileges of a recreational pilot certificate ; ( iii ) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate ; The student pilot only needs a student pilot certificate and medical when operating in solo flight . With that said , if there is any doubt that a medical certificate wo n't be granted it is a good idea to get that out of the way before spending money on flight training you will never be able to use .
GPS speed is already available to the crew , although not in an easy to see place . It is n't designed to cross-check other instruments because it is showing entirely different information . The winds are changing the actual speed of the airplane across the ground ( which GPS shows ) and altitude affects the air density ( which changes the airspeed shown on the airspeed indicator ) . The difference between the two can be vast , with no easy correlation . Altitude has similar issues , although not as severe . Even if they could be " synced up " , the problem comes in when there is a difference between the two . Which do you trust ? GPS receivers can ( and do ) fail , and could show an incorrect speed as well . When the computer gets conflicting information like it did between the different systems in the AF447 accident , it gives control to the pilot to sort out . From the time that the autopilot disconnected until the ice blocking the pitot system melted away , only 12 seconds passed . During that time the crew stalled the airplane and then a chain of events ultimately resulted in the crash of a perfectly functioning airplane . The exact same thing had happened numerous times before then without resulting in a crash . After the fact , the NTSB identified numerous factors and made recommendations to improve crew training ( which has been implemented ) and hardware/software modifications to the airplane . Aviation very much takes a " continuous improvement " view of things , trying to learn from every accident and to try to prevent the same thing from happening again . Based on what I 've seen , I doubt that this exact same scenario will play out again .
This is the Quick Reference Handbook procedure from an old A320 training manual . ( The EGPWS procedure is a memory item , pilot 's are not expected to look this page up when they encounter a EGPWS warning ) The first two sub items answer your questions . The autopilot needs to be switched off manually and the instruction is to . The Alpha protection will prevent the aircraft from stalling , that is why the stick can be maintained at full back deflection . Airbus ' safety magazine <URL> giving guidance on flying protected aircraft , specifically advices pilots to apply full backward stick deflection in GPWS situations since the alpha protection will prevent the aircraft from stalling and the resulting flight path is the most effective way away from danger . To illustrate a possible the effects of Alpha protection in an ( E ) GPWS situations , let 's go to Bilbao again , but now in <URL> . An A320 on final approach encountered a wind shear causing the aircraft to descent fast . This caused the GPWS to trigger a warning . The pilot applied TOGA power and back stick deflection , but the Alpha protection predicted the aircraft to stall and prevented a higher nose attitude . As a result the aircraft did n't stall but crash landed on runway threshold . This accident demonstrates that the GPWS does not affect the flight envelope protection system .
Using e.g. <URL> , one can essentially show that with each new aircraft generation , the accident rate reduces . This answers your question about statistic involvement , but does n't really confirm a causal relationship , since it 's not only automation but e.g. also human machine interface ( flight deck ) design and system architecture that improves . However , I would assume there are quite probably at least some safety improvements due to automation in there . One would need to go about analysing the accident factors to prove this . As an interesting aside touching on this topic , a former colleague of mine flying commercial jets recently offered his first-hand view on different aircraft automation levels in <URL> . While not a comprehensive answer as such , I hope the links allow you to pursue this a bit further .
This excellent explanation is taken from <URL> in 2006 : FDRs are equipped with an Underwater Locator Beacon ( ULB ) . If you look at a picture of an FDR , you will almost always see a small , cylindrical object attached to one end of the device . If a plane crashes into the water , this beacon sends out an ultrasonic pulse that can not be heard by human ears but is readily detectable by sonar and acoustical locating equipment . There is a submergence sensor on the side of the beacon that looks like a bull 's - eye . When water touches this sensor , it activates the beacon . The beacon sends out pulses at 37.5 kilohertz ( kHz ) and can transmit sound as deep as 14,000 feet ( 4,267 m ) . Once the beacon begins " pinging " , it pings once per second for 30 days . <URL> can now transmit as deep as 20,000 ft. The following table is taken from <URL> on Hydro International about the retrieval of black boxes . It shows the radius you can pick up the signal of a pinger from : Notice that if pingers were replaced with more powerful transponders , the range could be drastically improved ! The article also points out , that in very deep water : under normal conditions , the existing pinger would not be detectable from the surface in depths exceeding 2km
You want to check the Activities box . The phrasing is a little weird , and it certainly does n't line up with the regs ( see <URL> ) , but that 's what you want : ( 2 ) Submitting a completed and signed application with the FAA and satisfactorily completing one of the following renewal requirements -- ( i ) A record of training students showing that , during the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has endorsed at least 5 students for a practical test for a certificate or rating and at least 80 percent of those students passed that test on the first attempt . ( ii ) A record showing that , within the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has served as a company check pilot , chief flight instructor , company check airman , or flight instructor in a part 121 or part 135 operation , or in a position involving the regular evaluation of pilots . [ ... ] So , best as I can tell , that means : § 61.197 ( 2 ) ( i ) is activity - 80 % pass rate on 5 + students in the preceding 24 calendar months . § 61.197 ( 2 ) ( ii ) is duties and responsibilities - serving in a position that involves standardization flights or stage checks . Disclaimer : unfortunately , all of the AOPA material on CFI renewal is designed to get you to buy their FIRC ( eyeroll ) , and the unhelpful <URL> says squat as well . I 'm having a hard time finding a reference that proves my interpretation , but I know it 's correct !
No , nothing addresses that case . Let 's say you 're 20 minutes out from your destination , and because it 's a clear VFR day you have minimum normal reserves -- roughly an hour of flying ( on 2 engines , at medium-to-low altitude ) . Those reserves are already prescribed for you by FAR 's . Now you lose the engine . How long can you fly ? Until you run out of fuel or the other engine quits -- so in all probability , about that same hour , plus or minus . Different case , you 're over at Atlantic heading to Bermuda or the Azores or Iceland or NYC to the Caribbean , or over the Gulf of Mexico -- not ETOPS but a long ways from anywhere . The fuel on board will be lots more , because you were planning for a much longer flight . ( And again , those fuel requirements are defined elsewhere . ) You now have the added twist of drifting down on one engine to a single-engine ceiling -- you set max continuous thrust on the good motor , and descend at a speed that gives you max range , which probably comes out to a few hundred feet per minute of descent . Back in the flight planning , the check had to be performed that at the worst case , you could lose the motor , drift down , and continue to reach a suitable airfield without needing more gas than you 'd have . But in something like a 737 , the gas you 'll have on-board anyway is almost certainly more than sufficient . But in this latter case , the time you can stay aloft is going to be hours -- way beyond what you had in the first case . So no , the regulations do n't prescribe a time that you have to be able to keep flying after losing one engine . You DO have to be able to keep flying -- that 's important -- and you have to have enough fuel to get to a destination with the one motor shut down . But in terms of a prescribed time , that is n't given in the FAR 's .
Say you are flying on a route that requires an even level , but you would like an odd level such as FL350 . The phraseology to use would be Request FL350 The rest is up to ATC . Depending on local agreements and the current situation , we may be able to grant you the level right away , maybe we need to pick up the phone and talk to downstream sectors or maybe we ca n't offer the level at all . In any case , there is no harm in asking . Regarding the part of your question that mentions weather , if you are requesting a level change because of extreme weather ( such as moderate/severe turbulence or icing ) , state so in your request . We will then handle your request with higher priority , and you are more likely to get the different level . Request FL350 due to moderate icing
Is n't it supposed that an airway has always the same magnetic course between navaids ? No . The course depends on where you plot it from . <URL> That 's a random RNAV airway I picked , it has two headings , 114 ° and 298 ° , and the difference is not 180 ° , it 's 184 ° , so over the course of 112 nm there is a 4 ° shift . That 's due to the curvature of the Earth . Consider the following image carefully , notice the North-South needles , how they look on a 2D projection and on the actual globe . <URL> Source : <URL> That 's the shortest path connecting those two points in South Africa and Australia . If I 'm in South Africa , looking at Australia , I 'll look toward 141 ° ( not 90 ° ) , as I get closer , this converges on 42 ° . If I look back from Australia , I 'll face 222 ° . The difference between 222 ° and 141 ° is n't 180 ° . If your airway exceeds 150 nm , this becomes noticeable . It becomes even more noticeable if you are flying between distant RNAV waypoints ( e.g. <URL> ) , your heading ( track to be more precise ) will keep changing . If you chase a true heading , and keep it constant over a long distance , this happens : <URL> Source : <URL> That 's a very long turn , not straight-and-level flying . Flying a great circle route , or staying on an airway between two navaids , requires flying a course , not a heading/track . The course 's heading is only valid from where you plot it / start it . Along that course ( i.e. route ) , the track keeps changing as the first image illustrates , and you 're not turning . An advanced autopilot follows the route computationally ; a pilot hand flying would intercept the course , keep the selected course unchanged , and fly the deviation . If no factors ( e.g. wind ) push the plane off course , no turn inputs will be needed and the actual course will shift as the plane flies straight-and-level . The Course Deviation Indicator wo n't show any deviation because there is n't any . Where It Starts To further clarify why the course depends on where it starts , it 's the fact that a VOR station -- for example -- transmits the radials in straight lines , those straight lines translate to a curved line on a 2D projection . They do n't appear curved on a chart because the distances are n't big , even for the most powerful high altitude VOR station . Hypothetically , if VHF had a huge range and was n't limited by line-of-sight , VOR navigation would have become a bit confusing the farther out you are from a station . Speaking of VOR Just for the sake of completion , you 'll notice I focused on RNAV waypoints . There 's another factor affecting VOR stations . Two nearby VOR stations may have different alignments to the magnetic north . It depends on when they were built . One could be 20 years older than the other . Once they 're built and aligned , they are in most cases never re-aligned when the magnetic declination changes . It has to do with the cost and the redrawing of airways . That can amplify the shift further . So , think of a radial 's heading as a highway marker .
Wing sweep , incidence , and airfoil geometry will all have to be adjusted to achieve the best performance at a certain air speed , density , and Reynolds number . The software that <URL> is a good place to start . While studying aerospace in college , XFOIL was used for basic airfoil analysis in our classes . Another program used was <URL> . This analyzes the aircraft as a whole and can model other things such as dynamic stability . I 'm glad that XPlane was also mentioned , even though I would n't consider it the most scientific tool for testing wing geometry . It is an interesting way to test configurations since it does use the airplane geometry to simulate the performance characteristics . In order to consider more variables such as sweep , dihedral , and different airfoils over the wingspan , computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) software is used . ANSYS Fluent is one example . There are many other packages out there , and anyone doing serious commercial airfoil design will have proprietary software and methods for this . Of course , even in the days of supercomputers and CFD , wind tunnel testing is still very important . Scale models can be tested to validate the computer models and demonstrate performance . As far as requirements , they can get very complicated . For aircraft , of course , the primary goal is to provide the lowest drag at cruise conditions . However , many other factors include : Preventing <URL> Provide room for sufficient supporting structure Provide room for fuel Methods to manufacture the shape Good stall characteristics No bad aerodynamics with fuselage and engines Enough lift with flaps for low landing speed Able to accommodate flaps , slats , spoilers , and ailerons Tip treatment like winglets/raked tips Wingspan must fit into available space ( airport , hangar , aircraft carrier , etc. ) And probably many more . Of course , the air speed and conditions will also affect the fuselage , empennage ( tail ) and its control surfaces , and engines , so this will also be taken into account .
When inverted , cut power . As speed bleeds off , gradually move stick forward keep your flight level , the nose will come up quite a bit over the horizon . It is important not to start sinking here as that will prevent the speed coming down low enough . When the stick hits the forward stop , kick in full rudder either way . Enjoy !
Maximum rate climbs and descents are achieved by using a speed climb/descent mode . Where the pitch controls the speed . Above picture shows part of the autopilot control panel on a Boeing 737 . The button LVL CHG ( level change ) activates such mode . Each manufacturer has their own name for it , but it 's the same functionality . In an Airbus you 'd pull the altitude knob to activate such mode , they call it " open climb/descent . " In level change climb , the throttles are engaged at the maximum power for a climb , the autopilot then controls the plane 's nose up/down to hold the selected speed . For maximum climb rate , you want the speed to be low ( ideally Vy ) , using all the available thrust to climb . For descents , the reverse is true , so you set the highest speed possible , the requested altitude , and activate the LVL CHG mode . The throttles are then idled , and the pilots would deploy the spoilers . The plane will nose-down to achieve that speed . Rate of descent will be very steep initially , then it will ease off to hold the speed . Spoilers add drag , so to achieve the same speed the aircraft will nose down more , resulting in higher vertical speed . As you descend into thicker atmosphere , the descent rate will again start to decrease , as the plane will be producing more lift and drag . So we ca n't pin point an exact value , but 6,000-7 ,000 feet per minutes is not uncommon . Once a rate of descent is achieved , whether it 's 1,000 fpm or 8,000 fpm , the G-forces on the passengers will be 1 g , as there will be no acceleration in the vertical . 737 pilots are trained to rotate ( anticlockwise ) the altitude knob twice in a quick manner , followed by activating LVL CHG mode , followed by one full clockwise rotation of the heading knob ( to deviate away from any traffic below ) , to commence an emergency descent . They are hard wired for it -- they can fine tune the numbers later . ( Methods vary from airline to airline . ) <URL> shows a Boeing 777 crew training/demonstrating such procedure . The above applies for a rapid decompression , other scenarios would likely require a descent , but not that steeply .
The fuel consumption or fuel burn rate is dependent on the aircraft type , size , engine configuration , cruise altitude , temperature , thrust setting and other factors . In general : The larger the aircraft , the less economic do short flights become due to weight/size and fuel burn on takeoff/climb . Here are some values I found for the CRJ2 , the source may not be entire citable : Approximate total burn pounds / hour Taxi : 700 ( Both engines and APU ) Takeoff : 6000-7000 ( depending on temperature , elevation , reduced/full thrust , etc ) Climb : 6000-3500 ( reducing as as altitude increases ) Cruise : 2500-3000 ( depending on altitude/weight/etc ... subtract 500 for long range , add 500 for high speed ) Holding : 1800-2400 ( depending on altitude/speed ) Normal descent : 1500 Idle descent : 600 Approach : 2000 ( fully configured ) ( Source : <URL> - Author : Flyf15 ) You can also read the following related questions to understand how altitude affects fuel efficiency : <URL> <URL>
Here is what typical autopilot controls look like Image source : <URL> The pilot can set the required altitude , as well as the required vertical speed to get to that altitude . A cruise decent will typically use a shallower descent than an approach descent .
The first figure , 1 litre per mile , is very wrong . The second , 39 to start , is most probably the fuel required for a warm up from a cold start . The Abrams tank weighs <URL> tonnes , so you wo n't get 1 mile on a litre . Its fuel consumption is quoted as <URL> , or 1.66 gallons per mile , which is 6.3 litres per mile . Quite a difference . The engine is the Honeywell ( previously Lycoming ) <URL> . It has a two spool gas generator , with a two stage power turbine . It features a heat exchanger through which the HPC exit air flows , to preheat it from the exhaust gas , prior to combustion , to improve engine efficiency . The engine has a <URL> that keeps it running at <URL> so that it can rapidly accelerate from a stationary position if needed to avoid or engage a hostile force . In tactical idle it consumes 30 + gallons per hour , instead of 10 at the non tactical idle setting . It 's <URL> that " in 1990 , Project on Government Oversight in a report criticized the M1 's high costs and low fuel efficiency in comparison with other tanks of similar power and effectiveness such as the Leopard 2 . The report was based on data from U.S. Army sources and the Congressional record . " Some critics say the tank fuel consumption is so poor , that in combat , it has to often wait for the fuel supply logistics to catch up . Other reports <URL> ( See paragraph at the very top of the page ) . The M1 Abrams was <URL> after a competition in June 1973 , between the Chrysler Corporation and the Detroit Diesel Allison Division of the General Motors Corporation to build prototypes of a new tank designated M1 , and later named the Abrams tank . In November 1976 , it was announced Chrysler won the competition . The M1 was faster and more maneuverable than its predecessors in the M60 series , while offering a lower , smaller silhouette . Besides the substantial gains in performance , the Textron Lycoming AGT-1500 turbine engine was far more reliable than the diesel tank engines then in use with the Army . There was still another benefit . The engine change , despite a penalty in fuel consumption , also resulted in much quieter operation , so much so that soldiers encountering the tank in early maneuvers started calling it " Whispering Death " . The Abrams <URL> also states a figure of 6.3 liters per mile , and also states the value of 38 liters to start . As suggested by user3528438 ( thank you ) , the 39 litres ( 10 US gallons ) is quite probably the fuel required to complete a warm up from a cold start . At the tactical idle setting , this would be the fuel consumed in about 15 to 20 minutes .
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
From <URL> $ $ DescentRate = 0.0524 \ cdot GroundSpeed $ $ But the Ground speed is in [ nm/h ] , and the descent rate is in ft/min . So we have $ $ DescentRate \ left [ \ frac { ft } { min } \ right ] = 0.0524 \ cdot GroundSpeed \ left [ \ frac { NM } { h } \ right ] $ $ With $ 6076.12 ~ ft ~ per ~ NM$ ( yay for imperial units ) and $ 60 ~ minutes ~ per ~ h $ we get a conversion factor : $ $ \ left [ \ frac { NM } { h } \ right ] = \ left [ \ frac { 6076.12 ~ ft } { 60 ~ min } \ right ] = \ frac { 6076.12 } { 60 } \ left [ \ frac { ft } { min } \ right ] \ approx 100 \ left [ \ frac { ft } { min } \ right ] $ $ This leaves : $ $ DescentRate \ left [ \ frac { ft } { min } \ right ] \ approx 0.0524 \ cdot 100 _ { ( NM/h ~ to ~ ft/min ) } \ cdot GroundSpeed \ left [ \ frac { NM } { h } \ right ] $ $ Further approximating it to : $ $ DescentRate \ left [ \ frac { ft } { min } \ right ] \ approx 5 \ cdot GroundSpeed \ left [ \ frac { NM } { h } \ right ] $ $
As you pointed out in your question , no book is a substitute for actual instruction in an aircraft with a flight instructor . That being said , doing your homework and knowing what your instructor is going to expect goes a long way toward completing your training in a timely manner . The books here are all great reference texts to be combined with a flight instruction curriculum . FAA Publications / Books for initial training A surprising number of new student pilots are not aware of the wealth of information the FAA has compiled and published to help people learn to fly . There is a whole series of <URL> that you can take advantage of which are available from the FAA as well as from a variety of publishers like <URL> . While all of the regulatory information is geared toward US/FAA regulations much of the technique information , signs &amp; markings , etc. will be universal , in conformance with ICAO rules . I list a whole bunch of them here , but you can find a wealth of information by googling what you want to do and the words " FAA Handbook " . Books on Flying the aircraft - maneuvers , etc. . Quite simply if it flies the FAA probably has a book about how you should fly it . These books cover basic flying technique and the maneuvers the FAA expects pilots to be able to demonstrate . The popular ones include : <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-3A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-21A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-13A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-11A ) Books on " essential aviation knowledge " - Airport signs &amp; markings , " rules of the air " , etc. . <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-25A ) is the starting point here . <URL> is another key resource ( you will often find this as a combined " FAR/AIM " printed publication ) . Books for the more advanced stuff - Instrument ratings and beyond <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-15B ) and <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-16 ) are excellent references for pilots pursuing an instrument rating .
The key thing is that not every flight is the same . Sometimes the landing gear is left up for longer for noise abatement , sometimes it goes out earlier if more drag is required . On a non-straight in approach it 's sometimes a good idea to extend the gear earlier . If the brakes heat up too much on the taxi before takeoff , the gear may need to be left down for a bit for extra cooling . Flaps are a bit different as they are typically set for a certain speed , but the principle still applies . For example if turbulence is encountered which effects the airspeed , having the autopilot moving the flaps the second the flap movement speed is triggered is unhelpful . Basically , these are things that require the active judgement of the pilots considering the individual factors of that specific flight . It 's impossible to automate all of this satisfactorily even with pre-planning . Even if you could it would further introduce an overreliance on automation for very little gain .
end question
start question
Does a request for passengers to open vents indicate pressurization issues or equipment failure ?
I have occasionally asked passengers to do the same thing . I have also asked for window shades to be lowered . The reason is usually because the APU was not working and the ground air conditioning was not doing a good job or was unavailable . Without the APU the aircraft 's airconditioning can not work and engine starting relies on a ground air source to provide air pressure to spin the engines for start up . When using ground air for starting , the ground air conditioning is disconnected first and it takes very little time for the cabin to become uncomfortably warm .
No , there are no safety features . Only safety procedures on the flight deck and on the ground . Basically it all boils down to that nobody may go near any aircraft ( jet or prop ; they are both similarly dangerous ) that may have engines running . When starting the engines , the pilots first turn on the beacon ( the red flashing lights on the belly and tail ) , then check the ground crew has left and only then start the engine ( s ) . And similarly upon landing , the pilots shut the engines down , wait a bit to let them spool down and turn off the beacons ; then the ground crew should ask ( via radio or the wired intercom connected to a socket at the nose ) whether the engines are indeed off and only then they may start working . Since start-up normally only happens after push-back , so away from the terminal , there is usually no risk then . Upon arrival however the ground crew needs to come to the aircraft relatively quickly and insert chocks to the wheels , so the correct procedures are important . <URL> where ground worker was injured because the procedures were not followed ( he was coming from the rear , so he was only blown away , not sucked in ) . In that incident , the engines were at idle . They are still very dangerous in that case . I found an Airbus document which shows danger areas , for A320 with CFM56 engines , at idle as : suction danger 2.2 m ( 7.2 ft ) from engines ( semicircle forward and to the sides of the engine and back to 1.5 m behind the inlet ) and exhaust danger to 55m ( 180ft ) behind the nozzles with 30 ° spread with exhaust velocity exceeding 105km/h ( 65mi/h ) for 17m ( 55ft ) aft of the nozzles . At full power the suction area grows to 5.9 m ( 19.5 ft ) radius and the exhaust danger to 275m ( 900ft ) with velocity over 105km/h down to 150m ( 500ft ) aft .
The directional gyro ( DG ) does not know about heading . Its gyroscope will hold its position ( e.g. the heading you set from the magnetic compass ) in space . The plane is turning " around it " , but DG is holding its position , so you can read the heading from the scale fixed to the airplane while the gyroscope holds its position in space . Only friction and other forces ( acceleration forced upon the aircraft ) force the gyroscope to wander from its position . E.g. the gyro shows a magnetic heading if set using a magnetic compass and it shows a true heading if set using a GPS ( or some map feature like a road with a heading visible on a map ) .
While I 'm not a pilot , I think it goes along these lines : Airlines typically assume a value for passengers depending on gender and age . This distribution in the cabin will typically be quite random and a little variation does not do any damage . Baggage however is weighed on the scales at check in . Each bag is normally scanned as it is passed onto the plane , so that they know where is bag is located . The values are then passed onto the pilots who are able to work out that the numbers are ok . Sometimes there are preferences to load up bags in a certain way for fuel issues , so this is very important to make sure this is still resonable . These values are then plugged into computers or worked out manually on a paper loadsheet to make sure they are good and within limits . In fact the weight systems you are referring to are quite unusual I think , see <URL> .
Height is not the barrier . People have flown off Mount Everest - see <URL> as one example - though not when the jet stream is blowing over/around the mountain . The problem is at the boundary layer between jet stream and none jet stream air when the aircraft only have air speeds of 20-50mph . The mixing of air , and the sudden hit of jet stream air speed will be well in excess of the gliders max air speed . It has however been done in a hot air balloon . <URL>
The control problems are caused by a shift of the aerodynamic forces . In subsonic flight , they are mostly created in the forward part of the wing ( the lift increase with angle of attack works at the quarter chord point of a wing , regardless of sweep ) , while in supersonic flow they work equally over the full chord . The center of lift in pure supersonic flow is at mid chord , and in reality the aerodynamic center shifts slowly back when the aircraft accelerates through Mach 1 and more of the surface is exposed to supersonic flow . Since the c.g. position is mostly fixed ( Concorde pumped fuel between tanks to shift the c.g. ) , this shift must be compensated with elevator deflection . The elevator must move trailing edge up , which creates a break in the airfoil contour , which in turn creates a heavy shockwave at high subsonic and supersonic flight speed . This shock causes flow separation and can lead to elevator reversal . Only when the fixed part of the horizontal tail can be moved , too , or you have a full-flying tail ( the whole stabilizer is moved , not only the rear part of it ) to create the needed lift change without a contour break , the aircraft can be trimmed for both subsonic and supersonic speed . The benefit of the X-1 was a stabilizer with variable incidence , which the P-51 lacked . Sweep would have helped , too , but was not really necessary .
As far as I can tell ( and from my own experience ) , you do n't need any TSA approval for a checkride . Looking at the regulations , <URL> defines flight training as " instruction received from a flight school " ( including from individual instructors ) . A checkride is n't instruction , as you said , although I ca n't find a regulation that explicitly says that ( probably because there 's no real need for one ) . And looking at the FAA 's requirements for checkrides : The FAA 's <URL> for an instrument checkride do n't mention security or say that they have to check anything related to the TSA or AFSP as part of the preliminaries ( see section 5-434 , Establishing Eligibility and 5-446 , Procedures ) There 's no mention of the TSA either in <URL> ( apart from some notes on verifying identity ) There 's also nothing in the <URL> about the TSA or security either , which makes sense because that should match the checkride eligibility instructions . My own experience is also that it is n't relevant to the checkride . I 've done two instrument checkrides after getting the TSA 's approval for training and neither DE asked me for any information about the TSA or AFSP , they were only interested in my logbook ( and medical etc. ) . I suppose there could have been some extra check behind the scenes or in IACRA that I was n't aware of ( and my TSA approvals were still valid ) but I doubt that was the case . Finally , I realize that all this still does n't give a positive confirmation that it 's allowed , so if you want to have that I suggest you call the AFSP hotline and/or your local FSDO to get a definite statement .
Engine failure is not that common . For a gas turbine engine , a press release by <URL> gives some data as a reference point . In 1995 they quoted various engines as having a dispatch rate of between 99.99 % and 99.89 % . That is only 0.01 to 0.11 % of flights could not depart due to an engine issue . However , that does n't identify in flight failures , best captured by the inflight shut down ( IFSD ) rate . Data on this is difficult to get for specific engines , as the OEMs consider it competitive information , so the best guide is probably as mentioned the ETOPS rating . The ETOPs fleet is <URL> as achieving a shut down rate of less than 0.01 per 1000 engine hours . Another way of defining reliability is the ( repair ) shop visit rate ( SVR ) . Figures given for this ( by GE in the same link as above ) were between 0.085 and 0.231 visits per 1000 flight hours . However , this covers both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance ( i.e. failures ) , so perhaps does n't identify what you want . For piston engines , the answer to this <URL> probably has some useful data . In addition , Continental <URL> in 2014 that they had an IFSD rate of 0.0061 per 1000 flight hours , which they claim is the most reliable piston engine in general aviation . This compares with " less than " 0.01 for gas turbines , so , it seems very similar . It maybe possible to find a better value for the IFSD rate for gas turbines . Given the rate is so low , it really needs to be quoted to more than 2 decimal places , or given per 100,000 flight hours . Ultimately , I would expect the IFSD rate for gas turbines to be lower than for piston engines , due to the huge economic incentive gas turbine manufacturers and the commercial airline industry has increasing reliability for turbofan engines , that does not exist to the same extent , for general aviation piston engines .
There are basically two effects here : One is the ducted fan effect . Ducted fans are more efficient than open fans , specifically creating smaller vortices at the blade tips . The other is the fact that the tail rotor of a helicopter is not situated in an area with almost linear airflow along the rotor axis . It is also submitted to : A steady flow due to helicopter forward motion . This is coming from the side of the rotor , so affects opposite rotor blades differently . A buffeting flow from the h/c main rotor . This is an unsteady flow , also coming laterally from the point of view of the tail rotor ( actually , the top ) . Fenestron tail-rotor ducts can be considered a fairing that reduces airflow across the rotor . The end result is that the rotor blades are in a much smoother flow that helps reduce unwanted turbulence . This is one of the reasons such rotors are quieter than regular open tail-rotors ( the other being the fairing material absorbing some of the noise ) .
An overview of ATC related avionics can be found on the <URL> . There are a couple of things changing in 2015 . The list below includes change to ATC related avionics requirements in 2015 . In addition other avionic requirements not related to ATC are imposed , but that is outside my field of expertise . Surveillance <URL> <URL> ADS-B ADS-B ( 1090ES ) will be mandated from 7 January 2017 for aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts with an individual certificate of airworthiness first issued on or after 8 June 2016 . For aircraft certified before 8 June 2016 with the same MTOM and max cruise speed class ADS-B will be mandated after 7 June 2020 . Applies to all IFR flights in the European Civil Aviation Conference ( ECAC ) airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Elementary Surveillance ( ELS ) Mode S ELS will be mandated for all aircraft operating according to Instrument Flight Rules from 8 January 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Enhanced Surveillance ( EHS ) Mode S EHS will be mandated for new aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts from 8 January 2015 . For existing aircraft in the same MTOM and max cruise speed class Mode S EHS will be mandated after 7 December 2017 . Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Communication <URL> Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications ( CPDLC ) CPDLC ( VDL Mode 2 ) is mandated above FL285 from 5 February 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Safety Enhancements <URL> TCAS From 1 December 2015 TCAS II version 7.1 will be mandated for all aircraft build before March 2012 with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts operating in EU airspace . Aircraft first certified after 1 March 2012 already need to operate with TCAS II version 7.1 . Outside EU airspace , but within ECAC airspace , TCAS version 7.0 is still allowed .
In training , flight attendants are given lots of emergency training , but always with the caveat that they are under no obligation to put themselves in danger . Emergency procedures should proceed up until the time a flight attendant feels they are in danger , then they are to evacuate the airplane themselves as quickly as possible . There was a long standing joke among flight attendants when I was working , which was the most important emergency instruction you can give : Follow me ! Funny , but not really . It keeps things in perspective . Not commonly known is that any emergency responder today operates under the same conditions . You are not being paid to put yourself in danger beyond what your training will accommodate .
Qualification : I worked at a sport parachute center as an instructor for 10 years and I hold an FAA Master Parachute Rigger certificate . I believe that qualifies me as an expert on the subject . The majority of the above other statements here are correct . In summary : The door of a pressurized passenger plane can not be opened in flight for the stated reasons . the door of most larger passenger planes can not be opened in flight after you depressurize the cabin because they swing forward . Push a sheet of plywood against a thunderstorm-grade wind and see how well you do . Now multiply the wind speed by 5 . even if you blow the door out with explosives , the chances of an orderly exit are slim . At airliner speeds an orderly exit is critical if you expect to survive the jump . Street clothes will be torn to shreds . Oh , and it 's COLD up there . you can not depressurize an aircraft over 12,000 feet altitude without the passengers passing out rather quickly . If you can control the plane down to this altitude , you do n't need the parachutes . it is extremely difficult to exit an unstable aircraft that is built for sport parachuting ( in-flight door , suitable handles , door already open ) . If the plane is spinning and you are beside the door you might get tossed out and then struck by other parts of the airframe . If it 's a larger plane and the door ( or you ) are away from the current axis of rotation , good luck . Yes , jumpers have successfully exited a crippled jump plane . None of them want to try it again . modern sport parachutes use steerable ram-air canopies . Jump one of these without any training and you will hurt yourself landing . Most emergency parachutes are round . Jump one of those without any training and you will break something when you land . 200 untrained people jumping ram-air canopies all at once will result in a number of collisions and entanglements , which are typically fatal for all involved . exiting an airplane below 1000 feet is really not practical . I would do it IF a ) the plane is currently under control ; b ) landing is not practical ; c ) It 's really 1000 feet , not less ; d ) I 'm sitting beside the door . Possible scenario is the engine goes boom and I know there 's nothing but rocky land ahead of us . Of course my gear is already on my back ready to go , and I know how to use it . There have been many cases of a jump plane experiencing engine problems on the way up . By the time the pilot turns around , the cabin is usually empty . There have also been cases where jump planes have crashed on takeoff . None of the ( very experienced ) jumpers on board thought about anything other than tightening the seatbelt . Points I disagree with : ( although they do not change the outcome ) Emergency parachutes ( seat-pack types ) are available for far less than sport rigs . Maybe $ 1,500 each . Weight around 8-10kg . Putting a purpose-built one on would be not much more complicated than a 4-point harness . This was seriously considered back in the 1950 's - aircraft seats were designed with parachutes built in . Planes were neither pressurized nor fast back then . Think DC-3 era - the DC-3 makes a great jump plane , I have used one a few times . maintenance costs would be no more than the escape slides , flotation gear or other similar equipment .
Normal autopilots do n't . They expect all systems to work correctly , and in case of failure of a single control surface they will stubbornly command actions which are no longer possible . For them , thrust is only for controlling the vertical speed , and the application of asymmetric thrust for yaw control is not possible . There are experimental autopilots which compare the result of their actions with a number of pre-programmed scenarios and select for their next commands the scenario which agrees best with reality . These really do what you assumed , but the specific scenario must have been considered before so the specific control laws are part of the code . Computers small enough to be carried on airplanes became powerful enough to do this in real time maybe 20 to 25 years ago , but I am not aware that regular autopilots of airliners have this capability even today . It is , however , used for unmanned vehicles .
<URL> , is a broadcast of the aircraft 's position and other information . The position is determined by a GPS receiver . It is possible to use another qualified position source , but today it is <URL> . Other GNSS ( Galileo , GLONASS , Bei-Dou ) are other likely candidates in the future , but as far as I know , none have been certified for ADS-B yet . The broadcast is usually by the Mode S transponder but can also be done by a dedicated transmitter / transceiver in the Mode S format and frequency ( 1090 MHz ) . In the USA below 18 000 ft , in addition to the Mode S based ADS-B , a system based on Universal Access Transceiver ( UAT ) is used . This operates on 978 MHz A third broadcast system was VDL mode 4 , it was never rolled out on large scale . So ADS-B uses GPS to determine the position and it operates either on 1090 MHz ( a frequency also used by Mode S ) or 978 MHz to broadcast information .
There would not be much point in having two engines if a single engine failure would be unrecoverable . In fact , that would make the plane twice as likely to have an unrecoverable event ! If one engine has a 1/1million chance of failure , then the chance of failure of at least one of 2 engines is 2-in-a-million . ( technically , slightly less than 2-in-a-million ... but close enough ) And if either engine failure is catastrophic , then you 've doubled your chances of losing the plane.I do n't know about the HondaJet in particular , but by logic and statistics , I can say that a single engine failure must be recoverable .
There is no general answer , but the closest one would be bad luck . In the DC-10-10 , the aircraft of <URL> , all three hydraulic lines went through one hole in the tail bulkhead which was damaged when the engine failed . This is no real redundancy , and it was bad luck that this particular spot had been hit . In the <URL> , the same accident would had damaged probably just one line . There , the three hydraulic lines are separated as much as possible in the tail section ( one on top , one on the left side and one of the right side of the fuselage ) . Lockheed has more experience with military design than Douglas , so the Lockheed engineers were more aware of redundancy issues . In the A300 involved in the <URL> , the same bad luck happened . Normally , each aileron is powered by two out of three hydraulic circuits , so one would remain if the other two are hit . Note that the green and yellow circuits were lost immediately , while the blue circuit failed only <URL> . But in this case the damage extended to the spoilers , so all three circuits were affected in the end . There is only so much damage you can protect against . Also for <URL> the damage was just too extensive to not involve all four hydraulic circuits . The rear pressure bulkhead burst and blew most of the vertical tail surface away . It can be argued that the real culprit , however , was the chief pilot 's refusal to don his oxygen mask . But the aircraft was only marginally stable and <URL> . Hydraulic fluid needs to be pumped continuously to heat it so its viscosity stays low . If you add shutoff valves , this pumping could be impeded . Note that the spoilers of the Bagdad A300 were not sucked open because non-return valves blocked the lines to the spoilers , helping in keeping the aircraft flyable . If you put shutoff valves along the hydraulic lines , you open up a new avenue for failures . The idea of hydraulics is that you use just one pump and can create the maximum force at any point , since rarely would you need to move several actuators at maximum load in parallel . Splitting up the circuitry to enable the pilot to isolate parts of the airplane will take away this advantage , resulting in a more complex , heavier hydraulic system . And who knows if those added parts would not malfunction or be mishandled , resulting in a new class of entirely avoidable accidents .
Yes , I think you 're correct although the phrasing is unusual . The usual phrase is " clearance on request " , which is used for IFR departures as explained nicely in <URL> : Experienced instrument pilots know that when they call to request their clearance , the controller may not yet have received it . " Clearance on request " is ATC 's way of politely saying " I do n't have it - I 've requested it - you 'll be the first to know when I get it ! " The only FAA reference for the phrase that I could find is buried in the glossary of the <URL> : Clearance on request . An IFR clearance not yet received after filing a flight plan . But as RalphJ <URL> , if this is a VFR scenario and you needed a class B clearance and transponder code then I assume that the controller said " code on request " to let you know that he was waiting for a transponder code for you , as you assumed . It was n't an instruction as such so you could just acknowledge it with " Roger " or whatever . See <URL> for more information on that .
It is a turbo charged piston aircraft ( much like turbo charged car , the engine is somewhat similar to that <URL> ( think <URL> ) ) . <URL> is generally short for Turbine-Propeller which is a propeller aircraft powered by a turbine engine . Turbo charged piston aircraft are piston driven engines with a turbo charger , many often may carry the T or TC designation after the model number . Such as the <URL> or <URL> In this case we can reference the <URL> Airframe &amp; Powerplant <URL> 315 HP Turbocharged Engine
Static stability is the tendency of a system to return to its initial state after a disturbance . Typical disturbances in case of airplanes are : Flying into a vertical or horizontal gust A jerk on the stick The classic explanation is with a ball sitting in a pit . Whenever its position is changed by a disturbance , it will roll back towards the center . This does not mean that it will stop there - in an ideal world free of friction it will keep moving back and forth like a pendulum . This is static stability . Broadly speaking , static stability is achieved by placing the center of gravity ahead of the neutral point , the point in which all additional forces due to a change in angle of attack can be summarized . There are two neutral points , one for longitudinal stability and one for directional stability . In both cases the change in angle of attack or sideslip will create a correcting moment around the center of gravity , pulling the aircraft back on its old path . Even altitude stability can be achieved , but here we take advantage of the fact that air becomes less dense the higher you climb . If the aircraft is trimmed for horizontal flight at a certain altitude , an altitude change will mean that the power setting does no longer match drag at this new altitude . The aircraft will either climb or sink , depending on the altitude change , until the old altitude has been reached again . In all cases you will experience overshoots and oscillations around the trim point . It can even happen that these overshoots become worse the longer the oscillation lasts ( the <URL> in a glider is a good example ) . To stop the oscillations , you need to add Dynamic stability which describes the behavior of the aircraft over time . In most cases , friction will ensure that motions die down , and sometimes aircraft need little helpers like <URL> to get those under control . You mention stalls and dives : They can indeed occur in a statically stable airplane . Low drag means low damping , therefore many high performance gliders have a dynamically unstable <URL> motion . I know , Wikipedia spells this wrongly , but the explanation is OK , so I linked it nonetheless . If you wait long enough after an initial upset , the oscillations will become so severe that the aircraft stalls at the upmost point of the cycle . If you keep enough altitude and have no traffic nearby , this is fun to try . Spiral dive Note that I omitted to say something about roll stability so far . The glider ( and your Cessna 172 ) will also start to roll , and in many cases the roll motion will increase more quickly than the phygoid , so you might need to try several times before you get a phygoid-induced stall . Most aircraft have a weak tendency to increase roll angle and to eventually fall into a <URL> . There is no aerodynamic mechanism to right the aircraft up after a roll disturbance . Sorry , @kevin , but dihedral wo n't help - it only works in case of sideslip .
Special VFR is used to leave or enter a control zone coming from or continuing the flight in airspace G ( Golf ) , when the weather minima for VFR flight are not met within the control zone , but would be met in airspace G. Example : Airspace G ( Golf ) requires a visibility of 1.5 km and aircraft need to remain clear of clouds . Airspace D ( Delta ) requires a visibility of 5km and 1000ft vertical and 1.5 km horizontal separation to clouds . If the weather report would show a visibility of 4km/4000m and a cloud base of 1400ft , the flight would be allowed in airspace G but not in airspace D. Requesting Special VFR within a control zone will drop the VFR weather requirements to the values required for airspace G , so flight may enter or leave the controlzone . The lower visibility requirements are compensated for in the control zone by stricter separation requirements between aircraft . SVFR is separated to SVFR and IFR traffic .
end question
start question
Is wheel well overheat detection ( not brake temperature sensor ) necessary for commercial jet aircraft ?
What 's the main purpose of this detection system even there are brake temperature sensors . Far more often than not , the need for brake temperature sensors is after landing to tell you how hot the brakes are . If you had to use heavy braking upon landing , they 're going to be hot . How hot they are tells the captain in part how he needs to taxi and whether he should advise ground personnel to stay away from the sides of the tires where the thermal plgus are and possibly to use cooling equipment ( typically a huffer ) to cool them down . Wheel well temperature sensors are needed after takeoff . The potential problem here is that you need to keep an eye on how warm the wheel well is getting from the hot tires you have retracted and enclosed in the wheel well . As an example , let 's say you have a 747 freighter loaded to a max takeoff weight of 825,000 lbs or more at Honolulu and taking off on RWY 8R . That 's 20,000 feet of taxiing and another 10,000 feet plus of takeoff roll . The flexing of the tires during that taxi and takeoff generates a lot of heat . Once the wheels are in the wells , that heat transfers into the wells and eventually leaves the airplane . However , if for whatever reason , the tires already had a lot of extra heat before the taxi started or a lot of braking was done during the taxi , or the airplane was stuck down low in warmer air after takeoff , whatever , the wheel well temperature might exceed the safe limit . The solution is usually simple , drop the gear and cool the tires . If you do n't you risk a wheel well fire . Some aircraft do have this detection system ( many Boeing aircraft ) , some do not . Why ? The short answer is that they have been designed so that they do n't need it , which begs the question : why are n't all aircraft designed such that they do n't need it . Essentially every aircraft design includes compromises . It 's all part of tailoring the design to best accomplish what the aircraft 's primary task is to be . Using the 747 example , you could , for example , install a cooling system in the wheel wells to take care of the heat , or you could use heavier tires that did n't flex as much and thus did n't heat up as much , or you could have additional structure able to resist the heat or dissipate it quicker . But whatever means you used , it would mean hauling around more weight and the attendant costs in fuel and loss of payload capability when you did n't need it most of the time . Far better to avoid those high costs , but in the interests of safety install a much lighter system that will alert you to the need to cool off the wheel well by dropping the gear . Insofar as potential 747 wheel well overheats are concerned , baring mechanical failure , it 's generally a problem only when the aircraft is used in a manner that it was n't designed for . For example , the 747 was designed as a long-haul transport . As such , there would be plenty of time for the wheels to cool down in the wheel wells . As I remember we were told in ground school that 5.5 hours was the cool down time . So , if you have a short leg and then a quick turn with high weights , you might be taking off with tires that have more heat in them than the system was designed to handle . When JAL decided to use the 747 for high-density , short hauls within Japan , Boeing came up with the 747SR ( Short Range ) which included a redesign of the undercarriage as well as several other things . The design goal was that that any commuter airliner needs : short legs , frequent takeoffs and landings , and it made sense to optimize the design for that criteria , and that optimization required a decrease in range and payload as I remember .
Over Central Europe in the winter time , air becomes tremendously cold . Since warm bleed air from the compressor stage of a jet engine is used for cabin heating , the pilots might have set temperatures to maximum in order to warm the cabin . But being in a climb , almost all power of the engines is required for lifting the aircraft , thus leaving only little excess bleed air to be used for heating . During normal days and outside air temperatures this should be enough , though . By levelling out the aircraft , the engines are spooled back ( less power required than in climb - > hence more excess bleed air available - > higher ability to warm the cabin in cruise than in climb ) . If the pilots/cabin attendants just did n't realize this circumstance rapidly enough , the cabin is being flooded with maximum heating air from the engines .
Your certificate level determines the type of operations you can conduct * , not the type of airplanes you can fly . The types of airplanes you can fly are determined by your category , class and type ratings . If you have a Private Pilot certificate with an instrument rating ( not sure if this is required , but you 'll want it either way ) and an airplane multi-engine land category and class and a B777 type rating , then yes , that person can operate the aircraft privately . He will also need an SIC and he will only be able to collect the pro-rata share of operating expenses from people he carries . He will also want to be careful in who he lets on his plane to avoid operations that are regulated under 14 CFR 119 . An example of such a pilot is John Travolta , who has a private pilot certificate with the following ratings : * Private pilots may only collect pro-rata operating expenses , Commercial pilots may be paid to act as PIC and ATPs may act as PIC in 14 CFR 121 operations .
After reading that article carefully , here 's what appeared to have happened : Pilot collapses Passenger-with-pilots-license comes to flight deck ( with both elitist and sexist chip on his shoulder ) First officer moves to left seat , PwPL takes right seat , runs the radios and checklists , maybe drops the gear . First Officer is a right-seat qualification , on 737s ( and many others ) the steering handle is on the left side . So it 's quite possible that the FO has never steered a 737 on the ground . It 's quite IMpossible that the FO has never taxied an aircraft of any kind before . And there 's a huge difference between driving a Gulfstream around and driving a 130-passenger jet around . If you do n't take a corner just right , the main gear ends up in the ditch , the wing hits the ground , the engine inhales grass , gravel and maybe the taxiway sign and a couple of gophers . Trashing a Ferrari is cheaper . The FO moving to the left seat and flying the plane was the correct action - the B-1 pilot was no more qualified to fly a 737 than I am . But radios are radios , and even the greenest flight attendant can read a checklist .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
I assume you 're talking about a light GA airplane ( Cessna/Piper singles or twins ) . The short answer is " Maybe , but you probably should n't . " : The parking brake should only be used for as long as necessary to get wheel chocks in , and should then be released . Aside from making it inconvenient for the local ramp personnel if they need to move/tow your plane , setting the parking brake has a few other downsides which are related to the way the parking brakes work on your typical light aircraft . When you set the parking brake you 're doing two things : You are pressurizing the hydraulic lines that run to the plane 's brakes . You are doing something to prevent that pressure from bleeding back out . ( Exactly how you accomplish this varies depending on the plane - the " parking brake " on a Piper Cherokee is a tab that prevents the brake handle from returning to the " released " position , maintaining pressure in the cylinder . I think the Cessna 150 pressurizes and then turns a valve . ) Because of how the parking brake works it has two common failure modes when it 's set : Pressure can bleed out or it can blow out . Bleeding Out happens because fittings , seals , hoses , etc. in the brake system are n't perfect . Hydraulic fluid will escape past whatever little opening it can find , and eventually there will be insufficient pressure in the system to keep the aircraft from moving . If you happened to be parked on an incline steep enough to get the plane rolling it will then go off on its own down the hill just as if you had n't set the brake ( and you will be very confused when you get back to where you left it ) . Blowing Out typically happens on hot summer days when there are n't many little openings for pressure to leak out through : 5606 Hydraulic Oil ( the stuff in the brake lines ) expands as it gets warm , and with the parking brake set it does n't have anywhere to go ( it ca n't get back to the main brake reservoir ) . If you land at 11:00 ( local time ) , set the parking brake , and go have a nice leisurely lunch there is a good chance that when you return to the plane at 13:00 or 14:00 you will find that the hydraulic fluid in your brake system has blown out of whatever the weakest point in the system is ( often the seals on the toe brake cylinders , sometimes around the calipers , occasionally a hose fitting fails ) . This means you 're going to have a mess of hydraulic fluid to clean up at best , and at worst if you 're on a hill you 're in the same situation as above ( the plane has gone rolling away ) , only now there 's hydraulic fluid all over as well ( sometimes in a little red trail to wherever the plane has wound up ) . So bottom line : Try to avoid leaving the parking brake set for extended periods of time , especially if there might be a temperature increase while it 's set . Instead bring your chocks with you ( if you own your own plane , or even if you 're a renter , pick up a set of " travel chocks " - they 're right at or just under 1 pound , you wo n't even notice them ) and chock your wheels when you leave the plane . Ramp personnel will be able to spot the chock easily , and they 're unlikely to fail . Ideally you would also tie the aircraft down if possible , but some ramps do n't have tiedowns ( and others are bring-your-own-rope ) .
1 . The combustion chamber Temperature here is usually controlled via design of the chamber shape , in particular of the location where combustion occurs vs the airflow . Image <URL> In the image above you can see that the fuel line ( 2 ) terminates in a nozzle . The nozzle will turn the fuel into tiny droplets to increase the surface area and hasten the combustion process . Indicated with ( 6 ) are instead the main air holes : the cool air coming from the compressor ( on the left side ) enters the chamber with high pressure from these holes . Note that the holes are distributed in an annular pattern : high pressure air will be entering from all sides of the chamber . The result is that the flame will not directly touch the walls of the chamber , we then got rid of conductive heat transmission . Convective is a non-issue : cool air keeps coming and hot air goes into the turbine . Radiative heat transmission might be an issue , but the new air incoming will cool the walls via conduction . The engine can thus run without the combustion chamber melting . Note that the use of specific materials does greatly improve the conditions , as higher temperatures can be tolerated , and thus better efficiencies achieved . 2 . The turbine cooling air The air is usually bled from a stage of the compressor , usually a high pressure stage , in a similar manner as done for the air used for the passenger compartment . 3 . Thermal stresses a. Short term Over the duration of a flight the blades will warm up when the engine is turned on and cool down at the end of the flight . Intermediate load variation do not have a significant impact . Even the initial warming and the final cooling do not pose a significant problem . The only effect to be taken into account is that the rotating hot blades will become slightly longer : a special material is placed on the opposing stationary side so that the gap is minimal during operation and the losses due to the air going around the blades ( instead of between them ) are reduced . b. Prolonged The most problematic aspect here is the so called " creep " : the blades , after prolonged use , will tend to change shape , because they tend to be more malleable at high temperatures , exactly when they are under high tensile load . This becomes a problem over the lifetime of an engine , not during a single flight . To mitigate this problem the blades are nowadays manufactured as single crystals : each blade is a single solid block of metal and not made up af many tiny crystals as the metal tools we use everyday . This is because under tensile load each of the crystals can slide over its neighbors ( and high temperatures facilitate this ) changing the shape of the blade . To visualize it , think of a rubber band that does not go back to its original form . Having a single crystal prevents this sliding , giving more strength to the blade .
I think it 's because the last 747-400 was built in 2009 . <URL> Except for a passenger-carrying airplane with more than two engines manufactured prior to February 17 , 2015 and except for a two-engine airplane that , when used in ETOPS , is only used for ETOPS of 75 minutes or less , no certificate holder may conduct ETOPS unless the airplane has been type design approved for ETOPS and each airplane used in ETOPS complies with its CMP document as follows : ( a ) For a two-engine airplane , that is of the same model airplane-engine combination that received FAA approval for ETOPS up to 180 minutes prior to February 15 , 2007 , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination in effect on February 14 , 2007 . ( b ) For a two-engine airplane , that is not of the same model airplane-engine combination that received FAA approval for ETOPS up to 180 minutes before February 15 , 2007 , the CMP document for that new model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( b ) ( 1 ) of this chapter . ( c ) For a two-engine airplane approved for ETOPS beyond 180 minutes , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( b ) ( 2 ) of this chapter . ( d ) For an airplane with more than 2 engines manufactured on or after February 17 , 2015 , the CMP document for that model airplane-engine combination issued in accordance with § 25.3 ( c ) of this chapter . § 25.3 Special provisions for ETOPS type design approvals . ( a ) Applicability . This section applies to an applicant for ETOPS type design approval of an airplane : ( 1 ) That has an existing type certificate on February 15 , 2007 ; or ( 2 ) For which an application for an original type certificate was submitted before February 15 , 2007 . ( b ) Airplanes with two engines . ( 1 ) For ETOPS type design approval of an airplane up to and including 180 minutes , an applicant must comply with § 25.1535 , except that it need not comply with the following provisions of Appendix K , K25 .1.4 , of this part : ( i ) K25 .1.4 ( a ) , fuel system pressure and flow requirements ; ( ii ) K25 .1.4 ( a ) ( 3 ) , low fuel alerting ; and ( iii ) K25 .1.4 ( c ) , engine oil tank design . ( 2 ) For ETOPS type design approval of an airplane beyond 180 minutes an applicant must comply with § 25.1535 . ( c ) Airplanes with more than two engines . An applicant for ETOPS type design approval must comply with § 25.1535 for an airplane manufactured on or after February 17 , 2015 , except that , for an airplane configured for a three person flight crew , the applicant need not comply with Appendix K , K25 .1.4 ( a ) ( 3 ) , of this part , low fuel alerting .
An airliner experiencing an engine fire might dump fuel , but not to starve the engine . That is much more easily accomplished by simply shutting down the fuel pumps to that engine , which would be a first-line firefighting technique as it 's the most economical and the most likely to allow for a restart ( less maintenance is required on an engine that 's simply shut down versus one that 's been doused with chemical suppressors , and those same chemical suppressors might extinguish the fire but would also inhibit relighting it ) . There are several redundant fuel shutoff systems in most airliners , from the fuel pumps themselves to actual shutoff valves in the fuel lines in case the pumps themselves are the failure point . Any failure that would completely prevent the crew shutting off the fuel supply to a damaged engine would likely create much more immediate problems , like severe structural damage to the wing or fuselage of the aircraft . All of these shutoffs in addition to active fire suppression systems such as chemical extinguishers are under the flight crew 's manual control ; an engine on fire is usually still producing at least some thrust , which may be more important than extinguishing the fire in certain critical phases of flight . The plane is more likely to dump fuel if it 's close to its departure airport when the emergency occurs . In such a scenario , the aircraft is likely above its maximum landing weight ( which is less than the max takeoff weight as the forces on the landing gear and the runway are less on takeoff than for landing and the plane is expected to burn most of its fuel weight by the time it gets where it 's going ) , and therefore the fuel dump is simply to reduce the aircraft 's weight for an emergency landing , so the landing gear does n't collapse on touchdown . Additionally , if anything else goes wrong during the landing , dumping fuel would leave the plane with as little fuel as possible to minimize the spread or intensity of a fire on the ground , which can impede or prevent escape from the plane . However , fuel dumps from commercial aircraft are rare , used in situations where the necessity of dumping fuel to land safely and spare the passengers outweighs the financial costs of losing the fuel and the environmental costs of cleaning up the spill .
The vortex generators are used in commercial aircraft ( Boeing especially ) , for a number of reasons , which are usually not applicable to GA aircraft . For example , vortex generators are used for anything from stall alleviation to <URL> to noise reduction , some of which are not applicable for GA aircraft . Also , they are <URL> , which is much more expansive compared to the GA aircraft . That said , vortex generators are found in some aircraft , like the Piper Malibu Meridian , as shown below , <URL> . <URL> Image from www.nasa.gov Another point is the a <URL> for GA aircraft . A number of GA aircraft have been retrofitted with them . <URL> By Ahunt at English Wikipedia - I took this photo and release it to the public domain , Public Domain However , they are quite costly and require extensive tests for certification , with the result that they are not used much compared to commercial aircraft .
First and foremost you should always be looking at the turn coordinator to see what is going on and applying rudder as necessary . In your specific case ( if we want to discuss the physics ) , basically what your instructor is saying is that you are using the ailerons to bank ( turn ) the plane and the rudder to counteract the propeller 's yawing moment . The rudder is simply counteracting the P-Factor : the inputs will change depending on how steeply you are banking . If opposite rudder is called for on your ball , then step on it . Perhaps more importantly , what your instructor is actually stressing is during your crosswind , base and final turns you should really be paying attention to staying coordinated . A great deal of Stall - > Spin - > Crashes happen in the pattern as planes slow down and dirty up , thus it 's extremely important in the pattern to watch your speed and your turn coordination .
According to the Airbus website , Brake to Vacate is a feature installed on newer A-380s and also on the new A-350XWB that allows the pilot to select which runway exit s/he needs to use , and the system will brake hard enough , but just hard enough , to slow the plane to taxi speed by that turnoff . This minimizes time on the runway . The following quote is from the Airbus website . Brake to Vacate allows pilots to select the appropriate runway exit during the approach to landing , and regulates the aircraft 's deceleration after touchdown -- enabling it to reach any chosen exit at the correct speed under optimum conditions , no matter the weather and visibility . To my knowledge , Airbus is the only aircraft manufacturer to incorporate this feature - to date . This feature does not reduce the amount of runway the aircraft uses . Maximum Braking is still maximum braking . It does however , optimize the braking so that the aircraft gets to the taxiway intersection sooner ( does n't brake too hard too soon , keeping speed up ) and also prevents overshooting the intersection requiring a relatively slow taxi to the next turn off .
Thrust vectoring is for flying outside the " normal " envelope ( which is characterized by attached flow ) . Airliners should really never leave this envelope , so they are perfectly fine with regular control surfaces . If you want to add thrust vectoring , it would make most sense if the engines are at the back of the airplane . On most airliners , it is really better to put them on and ahead of the wings , because in this location they help both with flutter damping ( mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) and bending relief . Putting the engine mass right where lift is created is better than carrying stresses all around the airframe , which would be the case with rear-mounted engines . The redundancy point is valid , but it would be more helpful to have redundant control surfaces , and this is exactly what airliners have . At some point , every airplane has to come down for a landing , which requires to throttle the engines . No thrust , no control ! Most extreme case : If one tail surface breaks off , I wonder if thrust vectoring would be up to the job of trimming the aircraft even with cruise thrust . Not only have the raw forces to be sufficient , the reaction time to control setting changes has to be quick enough to suppress oscillations . I am sure , however , that thrust vectoring will certainly not suffice in all flight phases . Thrust vectoring is perfect for situations at high angle of attack where you quickly want to point the nose of your aircraft at your adversary , so you get lock-on first . This is quite different from what an airliner has to do .
In the modern day and age , it is very difficult to put a numerical value to this type of question , simply because the chance of something happening is so incredibly remote . This is not a clear-cut equation and is dependant on several factors . A few thoughts : The impact of loosing one engine will be less significant on a four-engined aircraft than a two-engined aircraft . You only loose 25 % of thrust as compared to 50 % . However , two engined jets are built with greater safety margin and are able to handle an engine failure at any phase in the flight . Four engined jets are certified to be able to fly on two engines on one side of the wing . In theory , you are twice as likely to suffer an engine failure with four engines , since you have twice as many engines . While the lost thrust would be less significant , very rarely damage can propagate to cause damage to other parts ( See <URL> and <URL> ) . In general , it is easier , cheaper and faster to maintain two engines than four . Should a complete engine swap be necessary for instance , you only need to do it twice instead of four times . Every extra step is an step where something could theoretically could go wrong . The <URL> ( Boeing 777 ) is certified to handle ' large ' birds ( 4kg ) as compared to the <URL> ( Airbus A340 ) only being able to handle ' medium ' birds . Hence , the Boeing 777 engines are likely to be a bit more robust . From a human perspective , pilot workload will be lower with two engines rather than four . Should something happen in a time-critical emergency , there will be more systems you need to keep an overview of . See <URL> . Furthermore , not every engine-related incident is spared simply cause you have four engines . <URL> lost all four engines due to volcanic ash . On <URL> , the engines failed in unison due to ice in the heat exchanger on the engines that were operating in identical conditions . Despite ETOPS being around for several decades and applying to thousands of aircraft I have not heard about a single accident involving commercial jets operating in that domain .
This question is difficult to answer comprehensively as the continuing education requirements are complex and varied . The complexity is because the continuing education requirements are mandated by multiple parties ( the FAA , insurance companies , clients , and employers ) and depend on the regulations the flight is conducted under ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) , the type of aircraft operated ( single engine , multi-engine , turboprop , jet ) , and the pilot 's role in the operation ( PIC , SIC ) . Note that both the Commercial and Airline Transport Pilot ( ATP ) license are good for life , unless revoked or surrendered . Any continuing education requirements are to retain the employment or the privileges of exercising the license , unlike CE requirements for licenses in some industries . In very broad brush strokes , most professional pilots will be required to complete a flight proficiency check , either in an actual aircraft , or in a simulator , every 6 to 12 months . The amount of time will vary for such checks , but 3 hours might be typical . This proficiency check will be accompanied , in some cases , with a written or oral examination . In addition to this , insurance may require an aircraft systems class and simulator brush up session every 12-24 months . Such training is usually accomplished in 3-6 days , including roughly 12-24 hours of lecture/bookwork , and 6-10 hours of simulator time . In addition to the flight and systems training , pilots employed by air carriers will generally be required to receive instruction on operational aspects of their operation , including such topics as <URL> , hazardous materials , weather , physiology , as well as many others . Such training is often self-paced , computer based training ( CBT ) . I would estimate the time commitment for this training to be 20-40 hours annually . In addition to the required training and testing , many pilots choose to spend additional time studying aviation related topics . Such topics may include all those alluded to above , as well as other topics . Examples of such study would be changes to company operational procedures , brushing up on checklist memorization , FAA advisory publications , and areas of interest outside of normal operations , such as international operations . Speaking personally , I probably spend roughly 10 hours a week in what could be considered aviation related study or learning . I also often see other pilots at my company studying various aircraft or operational manuals , and our company keeps a collection of articles , FAA advisories , and other publications related to our operation with the intent that pilots voluntarily study these materials as they have time . Bear in mind that a pilot 's life often involves a great deal of waiting , a task which often lends itself to reading and study .
The fire sensor 's time to give the alarm is customizable depending upon the fire safety alarm being used . Two widely used types of continuous-loop systems are the thermistor type detectors , such as the Kidde and the Fenwal systems , and the pneumatic pressure detector , such as the Lingberg system . ( Lindberg system is also known as Systron-Donner and , more recently , Meggitt Safety Systems . ) . A typical delay of 10 Seconds is quite common . Here is the <URL> for your further reading
The fuel used by civilian airlines , fueled in the USA , is <URL> . To acquire some , go to a nearby airport which can handle operations by Turboprop or Turbofan aircraft . Some of the smaller airports , only supporting piston aircraft operations , may not be able to help you , but anything which can handle a Lear Jet should be able to supply you with examples of it . There 's no specific chemical formula for this . It is a mixture of a variety of compounds . And no , you ca n't isolate just one particular compound and use it as a representative sample . There are reasons for the various additives , and all of them will have SOME effect on the burn characteristics . Try not to breathe the fumes , before or after combustion . Do not operate any kind of radio transmitter ( including a cellphone ) within 50 feet of the vapors of it ( when the fuel is exposed to air , before or during combustion ) . Make sure that whatever vessel you 're going to burn it in is metal ( plastic does n't respond well to burning petrochemicals :-) and make sure there is good electrical conductivity between the vessel and the ground . Have a large , CO2 - or Halon-based ( NOT water or dry chemical ) fire extinguisher nearby . When I was refueling F-16s in the Air Force : no radio transmitters ( walkie talkies , at the time ) were allowed with 50 feet of refueling operation the aircraft and the refueling vehicle BOTH had to be grounded and connected to each other BEFORE connecting the refueling line no refueling ops were permitted if there was lightning within 5 miles no refuelings ops were permitted without a 50-pound halon-based fire extinguisher and a dedicated person ( fire guard ) to man it This should give you some idea of proper safety around this stuff .
Retrofitting is ( as the comments to your post have already stated ) rather difficult and unusual . In addition , the quality of service from such an aircraft you could expect to get would most probably not be great . Analogy : Try changing your minibus for 9 people into minivan for freight and industrial work . It is also worth mentioning that the difference in operation is substantial between bombers and commercial jets . You would be better off using something that is not that complicated , like a Cessna Caravan for instance . I think that energy , time and money would be better spent on building more dedicated aircraft . Changing the commercial ones is also not trivial and will require engineered changes . It is however fully possible to design a military derivative of a commercial jet . The <URL> is an example of this , being based off the Boeing 737 with the necessary modifications . The armament is also fairly extensive : 5 internal and 6 external stations for AGM-84H / K SLAM-ER , AGM-84 Harpoon , Mark 54 torpedo , missiles , mines , torpedoes , bombs , and a High Altitude Anti-Submarine Warfare Weapon system [
The door the passengers are loading through is obviously one route , back down the jetway or stairs . The door being " armed " does not affect whether it can be opened or not . When the door is armed , opening it will also automatically inflate the escape slide . When the door is disarmed , the slide will not inflate . Additionally , each door has a manual inflation handle for the escape slide which the crew can use to deploy the slide if needed . I could not find a non-copyrighted picture to include . <URL>
To be most effective chocks should be placed on both of the main gear of light aircraft . This prevents the aircraft from rotating or pivoting about the chocked wheel . <URL> which talks about this . The FAA , in an overabundance of caution , advises you to chock ALL the wheels ( see <URL> ) . Practically speaking , on a flat ramp and a calm day chocking any single wheel is usually enough to keep the airplane where you put it for a short while ( say long enough refuel the aircraft , or to get lunch ) . When using a single chock my preference in these cases is to chock the nose wheel as it 's the most visible ( I fly a low-wing airplane , and an inattentive line person who needs to tow the plane could miss a chock on the main gear ) . With two chocks the main gear should be secured on each side of the aircraft to keep it from pivoting . For anything longer than that a brief food and fuel stop , or when high winds are anticipated , aircraft should be properly secured ( by tying them down and chocking at least one wheel ) . In these cases the tiedowns serve as the primary securing mechanism , and the chocks as a secondary mechanism ( keeping the plane from rocking fore and aft in high winds and breaking the tiedown ropes ) . Note that there is an exception to the " high winds " bit here : If winds strong enough to blow chocks around on the ramp are anticipated , such as a hurricane , the chocks should be removed unless they can be adequately secured to ensure they do n't get blown into an aircraft . Of course if winds that strong are anticipated you should really have flown away before they got to you , or you should be looking for a hangar to weather the storm in .
end question
start question
Is a smartphone required to control a DJI Phantom 2 Vision + ?
I 'm pretty sure it works without the smart phone . If I understand correctly , the smart phone app simply relays the imagery from the camera , which can be useful for navigating especially if you do not have a clear line of sight . <URL> ran <URL> on this very model , which might interest you .
I 'm not exactly sure what you are asking , but no , we do not notify pilots that we are vectoring in accordance with the minimum vectoring altitudes - because that is what we always do . ATC is responsible for terrain clearance during radar vectors , and pilots know this , so it is implied and understood that we use safe levels . MVA 's simply define the lower level for radar vectoring in an area - the lower level of our designated " box " . Just like there is an upper limit and lateral limits as well , that we can not cross during vectoring . MVA 's are based on terrain and other obstacles , to ensure that terrrain clearance is always provided . You make it sound like MVA 's are only used in special circumstances , which is not true . Vectoring at and above the MVA is completely routine and happens every day . As for cross checking by pilots , MVA 's are supposed to be published on a separate chart which pilots can use to cross check their assigned levels . The MEA is not used during approach , and pilots know this . In case of a radio failure during approach , if the flight is being vectored below minimum sector altitude ( MSA ) , the pilot will climb to the MSA , even if the MVA is lower . Further reading on <URL> .
Please let me assume that you wonder about control surface effectiveness rather than their efficiency . Both are closely related , but I prefer to address their effectiveness - doing what the pilot demands them to do . The aerodynamic forces are proportional to the dynamic pressure $ q $ of the flow , which is density times velocity squared , as in $ $ q = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v ^ 2 $ $ To create the same amount of lift at a higher altitude , the airplane has to fly faster , so in effect the forces can stay the same . Only the true air speed will be different , which helps to get where you want faster . The control surface effectivity remains unchanged . If we dig a little deeper , the atmosphere cools down with increasing altitude until you reach the <URL> . This cooling makes the engines <URL> but also <URL> of the flow around the aircraft . A lower Reynolds number translates into a thicker boundary layer , which will reduce the effectiveness of control surfaces a tiny bit and will reduce the range of their best effectivity . But this effect is so small that it has no practical consequence . Airliners fly at transsonic speeds at altitude , so now sonic effects become more pronounced . For the control surfaces this means that they will <URL> . For small corrections all is very similar to low level , slow flight , but if you need full deflections the control surfaces are indeed less effective at altitude . Another effect will be rather more pronounced , and this is aerodynamic damping . Damping is the tendency of a system to create additional forces from movements which run against this movement . Take a wing : If the aircraft rolls , the wingtips will move up on one side and down on the other . Both movements will add a small angle of attack , lowering the total angle of attack on the up moving tip and increasing it on the down moving tip . Both tips will see a change in lift which will counteract the rolling motion . If the rolling speed is $ \ omega_x $ , the resulting change in angle of attack $ \ alpha $ at a wing station $ y $ is $ $ \ Delta \ alpha = arctan \ left ( \ frac { \ omega_x \ cdot y } { v } \ right ) $ $ As you can see , the flight speed is in the denominator , so a higher flight speed will create a smaller angle change for the same roll rate . The same holds true for the other axes of movement , and in consequence the <URL> or an artificial damper . I guess it is the lower damping which made you think that the control surfaces are less effective . They are n't .
Two wheels side-by-side would only be needed if the craft is in danger of tipping over sideways . Airships should stay upright because the lifting gas will still provide most of the lift , and the wheel is only for carrying the remaining load . It can swivel for ground maneuvering when the airship needs to swing into the wind while mooring at the mast , but will neither absorb big <URL> nor carry the craft at high speed , so it can be kept small . On the lower tailfin you should only provide a bumper for unintended ground contact ; adding a second wheel would only make sense when the ship touches the ground with both wheels when level . This would be a bad design , however , because maneuvering will be much easier when the lower tail fin provides enough ground clearance to allow pitch angles of approx . 3 ° - 5 ° . Note that the lower fin on most Zeppelins was smaller than the upper fin ; only the last , less slender ones could afford equally sized fins . In that case , however , you need sufficient propulsion power to keep the cruise speed well above the <URL> .
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
There is no fix maximum a controller is allowed to have under control , as <URL> already pointed out . The airspace under control of ATC is divided up into sectors containing the airways to and from airports within that sector or in upper sectors , airways just for en-route traffic . ( see also : <URL> ) . Sectors can be merged during off-peak hours , split back into separate sectors during peak hours and in the case of TMA or approach sectors , the controller owning the sector can receive additional help by splitting the approach sector further and using different controllers for different tasks within that sector : Feeder/Pickup - Director - Departure Controller . The thresholds of when a sector is split is dependent on many factors , like weather , runway in use , outside influences like adjacent sectors having more traffic that usual , special occurances within that sector like parachute jumper drops . Sectors also vary in size and capacity based on their intended use . While TMA/Approach sectors are rather small and need to accomodate arriving traffic into an airfield , an enroute or upper sector can be significantly larger in size , lateral and vertical . Again , this is individual to each sector , because some factors which hold true for TMA sectors do not apply to enroute upper sectors and vice versa . It also really depends on the controller working the sector and his personal limits , favorite procedures and work practice . A few examples : A TMA controller using vectors to the approach instead of standard arrival routes or transitions will have more workload to monitor and sequence aircraft . The minimum radar separation in TMA sectors and upper sectors can be either 3NM or 5NM . While upper sectors are larger in size , they have to maintain a greater separation , so in some cases , an upper sector twice or multiple times the size of a TMA sector will only be able to accomodate the same number of aircraft ( ceteris paribus ) before reaching saturation . A controller having to work with special situations such as aircraft in distress or student pilots requiring more attention than experienced pilots , will reduce the controllers personal capacity . In summary , to answer your question : There is a situation and controller based threshold , at which saturation will be reached . Controllers are trained to anticipate this threshold and make their supervisor aware of the situation beforehand , so that measures can be taken . There is however no fixed numerical maximum , unless specified in the ARTCC/ACC 's operating procedures .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
I believe the answer , at least in the US is 20 hours of flight time , plus however long a checkride takes . A sport pilot can carry a single passenger and the minimum requirements are outlined in <URL> : If you are applying for a sport pilot certificate with [ ... ] Airplane category and single-engine land or sea class privileges , Then you must log at least [ ... ] 20 hours of flight time , including at least 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a single-engine airplane and at least 5 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311 , If a sport pilot applicant logged exactly 20 hours , got signed off , and then passed their checkride on the first attempt ... they would be able to fly passengers as soon as they completed the checkride . That means , realistically , probably 21 to 21.5 hours .
A student pilot certificate is just a medical certificate printed on yellow paper instead of white paper and with endorsement templates for soloing printed on the back . Other than that presentation difference it is no different than the medical exam a certificated pilot takes for whatever class medical you apply for . The fee for this varies by examiner and may set you back $ 75 or so , but that ( and being able to pass a medical ) is the only barrier to entry . There is no flight training or knowledge requirement to get this certificate . Once you have a student pilot certificate / medical you have one of the requirements to solo and can train directly for any of the sport , recreational or private pilot certificates . You 'll want to focus on sport or private training , as pretty much no one pursues recreational certificates .
No it is not required to contact approach . Unless you have to go through a larger D , C or B airspace to get there . I do n't know of any larger Ds in the US , but there are plenty of D-airfields underneath C and B airspace . In Germany ( and I think around Europe , not sure though ) , there 's a distinction between the tower-D and the approach-D ( the former being called D-CTR , and the other just D ) , to enter the approach-D you 'd have to talk to approach , but if you can sneak under/around it , go ahead and call the tower directly , let them know where you are , and they 'll tell you how to enter their airspace . In the US , they 'll probably just tell you to enter the pattern ( like " N12345 , enter and report the right base for runway 5 " ) . In Europe you need an explicit clearance and they 'll usually tell you how to enter ( like " DEFGH , enter control zone via Echo , report Echo " , Echo being a reporting point on the chart , Echo usually being to the east , with November , Whiskey and Sierra being north , west and south respectively ( usually , that is , there may be more , and they may be placed differently , but they 're always on the sectional or the terminal area chart )
Multiple VLJ kitplanes have been on the market for several decades now ; probably the most famous of which was the Bede BD-5J which gained fame in the 007 film Octopussy . BD-5Js flew in airshows with the Coors Light Silver Bullet aerobatic team . A supersonic VLJ kit called the Bede BD-10 was planned and flyable prototypes were produced . And multiple companies have come and gone , offering everything from VLJ kits to wishful thoughts such as the ViperJet to MaverickJets to Stratos . But near as I know the Cirrus SF-50 is the only certified single engine civilian aircraft for sale today . Eclipse came close with its E-400 , but it only remained a technology demonstrator . The only other certified single engine jet airplanes on the market are military . Aero Vodochody 's L-29 and L-39 jet trainers are popular with civilians and air race teams as are MiG-15s -17 s , -21 s and even a few MiG-23s . Western fighters like the F-86 Saber , the Folland Gnat , the DeHavellin Vampire , and the BAe Hawk are also popular .
Generally you do not notify the FAA , you notify the NTSB ( the relevant regulations are in 49CFR , specifically <URL> ) . If you notify the FAA they will contact the NTSB , because the NTSB is the agency charged with investigating aircraft accidents . If you crash in a cornfield somewhere and notify the NTSB they will probably ask the nearest FSDO to send an investigation team ( unless you 're a major airline or a fairly high-profile incident ) . So ultimately it does n't much matter which agency you call , but you should be calling the NTSB . With the administrative stuff out of the way , the reporting requirements are also in that same section of 49CFR . Basically they say : You are required to notify the NTSB " immediately , and by the most expeditious means available " of any aircraft accident , which is defined as : ... an occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight and all such persons have disembarked , and in which any person suffers death or serious injury , or in which the aircraft receives substantial damage . You are also required to notify the NTSB ( again , " immediately , and by the most expeditious means available " of any incident ( something that 's not an accident as defined above ) which meets the following criteria : Flight control system malfunction or failure ; Inability of any required flight crewmember to perform normal flight duties as a result of injury or illness ; Failure of any internal turbine engine component that results in the escape of debris other than out the exhaust path ; In-flight fire ; Aircraft collision in flight ; Damage to property , other than the aircraft , estimated to exceed $ 25,000 for repair ( including materials and labor ) or fair market value in the event of total loss , whichever is less . Specific requirements for aircraft with a takeoff weight above 12,500 pounds Release of all or a portion of a propeller blade from an aircraft , excluding release caused solely by ground contact ; Specific requirements for " glass cockpit " displays . Specific requirements for TCAS advisories . Damage to helicopter tail or main rotor blades , including ground damage , that requires major repair or replacement of the blade ( s ) ; Specific requirements for air carrier blunders like landing on the wrong runway . " Immediately and by the most expeditious means available " basically means pick up the telephone and call them : They do n't want you dispatching a letter via Pony Express that 's going to take a week to get to the NTSB 's headquarters while the aircraft is sitting in a field exposed to the elements with evidence literally washing away in the rain .
I like to answer your question with a short example . A few days ago I flew to Venice ( untowered ) and decided for a teardrop entry to set up for the 45 . My calls were 10 and 5 miles out , both ending with " any traffic please advise " guess what I saw overtaking me on my 4 o'clock position only a few hundred feet away at same altitude ( 500 feet above pattern ) . It is legal to make a straight in , but before you think about the time or fuel you waste please think about your own and even the guys who 's not on CTAF and obviously heads down safety . If you fly the 45 and the continue the pattern ( it 's not allways left , check your sectional and the A/FD ) everybody knows what the other one is doing and if necessary can act accordingly .
I 'm assuming you 're more interested in the base-or-downwind question rather than the where-is-the-2-mile-base question . Theoretically you 're supposed to fly the published procedure unless told otherwise . In this case the procedure would probably be a standard traffic pattern . Being told to ' report ' means only that , you should report it when you 're there . This is not to be confused with the ( in my experience ) more common instruction " Enter and report a 2 mile base for runway 16 " , in which case you head for the base and not the downwind , and you report it when you get there . To argue ad absurdum , the clearance " Cleared touch and go , after the touch and go , make left traffic , report mid-field downwind " does n't mean you should head straight for the downwind . As always , when in doubt , ask .
An assumed temperature takeoff ( also known as " flex " on Airbus/Fokker aircraft ) is where the engine thrust is reduced to match the performance on a higher-temperature day , up to either the maximum thrust reduction allowed or the maximum assumed temperature that meets takeoff distance requirements . Unlike a derate , assumed temperature takeoffs do not reduce the minimum control speed used for calculating takeoff speeds ( $ V _ { MCG } $ for $ V_1 $ , $ V _ { MCA } $ for $ V_2 $ ) . The minimum selectable temperature is the lowest temperature beyond the flat rating temperature range ( the range of temperatures where maximum thrust is achievable , limited by an engine control unit ) , and the highest temperature is the temperature at which the maximum thrust reduction allowed will be met . Except with specific certification and approval ( such as 40 % flex on the A340 ) , such a procedure must not reduce the thrust beyond 25 % of the nominal takeoff thrust ( either full rate or a takeoff derate ) . For example , the range of assumed temperatures permitted is 30-75 ° C ( flat rated to $ ISA +15 $ , thrust at 75 ° C is 75 % of normal rating ) . The main reason for performing an assumed temperature takeoff is to conserve engine life , therefore reducing maintenance costs . According to Boeing , engine wear exponentially increases with the takeoff thrust used -- with engines costing about 10 million USD each , this has the potential to save a lot of money for airlines . If you are taking off using assumed temperature , you may ( but are not required to ) add thrust to TOGA in the case of an emergency , however if you are using a takeoff derate , you must not increase the thrust beyond the derated N1 , as this could cause a loss of control ( higher thrust = higher actual $ V _ { MCG } $ ) . Not all aircraft allow assumed temperature in conjunction with derates . For example , you can only select a derate or a flex temperature on all Airbus aircraft ( if a derate option is offered ) . NOTE : do not attempt to " copy the jet jocks " in a piston aircraft and attempt a reduced throttle takeoff : only at takeoff throttle levels is extra fuel injected for cooling and reduction beyond this point could result in CHT levels rising to unacceptable levels , increasing the risk of engine damage .
There are a few ways that yaw control is achieved . The easiest and the first to be successfully used would be to have cables from rudder pedals on each side of the rudder to deflect the control surface and control yaw . <URL> Airplane Flying Handbook pg 2-1 The first application to control yaw unsuccessfully was the development of gears and linkages that will control both roll and yaw with the pilot stick . It was quickly discovered that there are cases where you may need to use the controls separately . Yaw damper is an electronic device that sense yaw rate and will provide inputs to the rudder to keep the airplane coordinated . <URL> <URL>
I heard of a A320 landing , no lights , both generators out , RAT deployed ... , made a successful landing . Is this possible ? Yes A United Airlines Airbus A320-200 , registration N409UA performing flight UA-497 from New Orleans , LA to San Francisco , CA ( USA ) with 109 people on board , was in the initial climb when the crew reported smoke in the cockpit , levelled off at 5000 feet and returned to New Orleans . The crew reported before joining downwind that they had lost all instruments and requested to be talked down by ATC via Precision Approach Radar ( PAR ) . The crew descended to 600 feet where they got visual contact with the water of Lake Pontchartrain and continued visually for a landing on runway 19 about 10 minutes after departure . During landing the aircraft blew both right hand main gear tyres , went left off the runway , stopped with all gear just off the paved surface north of the intersection with runway 10/28 , and was evacuated via slides . A number of passengers needed medical attention due to smoke inhalation . Post landing photos showed the RAM Air Turbine ( RAT ) deployed . Runway 01/19 was closed for about 10 hours . The crew told passengers that they had lost all electronics and were flying on minimal backup systems , landing would occur overweight with minimal braking and minimal steering ability . From <URL> Early on , NTSB investigators suspected a faulty fire-warning sensor in the cargo hold . And they tentatively concluded that the cockpit crew had skipped a portion of the pre-flight checklist then failed to restore power to some equipment , making it more difficult to carry out the emergency landing From <URL> Basically it seems there was nothing wrong with the aircraft apart from a faulty smoke sensor . The crew missed this in their preflight checks , noticed it after take-off and then turned off all the electric generators ( they were supposed to turn one back on according to the checklist - they did n't ) . Anyway , they landed the plane OK on emergency power from batteries and RAT . with only 28VDC ( battery power ) * On the A320 the RAT supplies the ESS bus , not main buses 1 and 2 . It powers both the AC ESS bus and the DC ESS bus through the ESS TR ( transformer rectifier ) . So that 's not just 28V DC but AC too . In the interval after both main generators failing and APU being unavailable , I believe the DC batteries power the DC ESS bus until the RAT is deployed and providing power ( which should happen automatically and quickly ) . So in this short interval there is only DC power on the DC ESS bus .
Yes , the " competent observer " is a required crewmember in that situation , by definition . According to <URL> : Crewmember means a person assigned to perform duty in an aircraft during flight time . Clearly , a " competent observer " operating as such under § 91.109 ( c ) ( 2 ) is a person assigned to perform a duty in an aircraft during flight time ; such an observer is therefore a crewmember . The operator is required to operate the aircraft with that observer performing their observation duties , and that person is therefore a required crewmember . There are no other requirements as to who this person may or may not be other than the qualifying term " competent " . The aircraft operator bears the burden of determining the observer 's competency . One might argue that a certified pilot would be a competent observer . An implied question here might be , is this competent observer a required crewmember that is able to log time for the performance of their duties ? To this I would say , no , there is no provision in 14 CFR 61 for the logging of flight time for a person designated as an " observer " , competent or otherwise . EDIT to further explain the above paragraph in consideration of discussion in the comments : <URL> allows pilots to log PIC and SIC time for flight in , among other conditions , " aircraft for which more than one pilot is required under the [ ... ] regulations under which the flight is conducted " . The " qualified observer " is indeed required in the situation in question , but need not be a pilot , and -- unless otherwise qualified -- is not acting as one of the required pilots in an " aircraft for which more than one pilot is required under the [ ... ] regulations under which the flight is conducted " . Obviously , if the person fulfilling the duties of a " competent observer " is otherwise also a required pilot , then the pilot may log the flight time as the required pilot .
<URL> lists the demonstrated crosswind component as 12KIAS . The 150 had a few variants so finding a published number is a bit more tricky . The Aerobat 's are sometimes listed as 13KIAS , sometimes 15KIAS - but in general its the same sort of range as the 152 ( ish ! ) . You will only ever see " demonstrated " next to these numbers , it is not the maximum possible - I regularly hear of people landing 152 's over that 12KIAS . The number does not change due to your license privileges , it changes based on what the pilot is comfortable with / able to handle safely . Personally I would be wary of any crosswind over about 9/10KIAS . In an emergency almost everything is an exception . Except aviate .
The answer is yes . One example was on April 2 , 2012 . Helen Collins , an 80-year old Grandmother was forced to take the controls of her husband 's CE-414 and land it at Door Country Cherryland Airport ( KSUE ) after her husband had a massive heart attack at the controls and died . She managed to circle the airfield and call 911 on a cell phone . The emergency dispatcher contacted the FAA who got in touch with ATC . A KSUE based private pilot named Robert Yuksonavich took off and joined her in formation , talking her through what was about to happen and flew her wing on several practice approaches prior to the landing attempt . On landing the Cessna 414 skidded off the runway and came to a stop in the grass , breaking the nose gear off . Helen survived with only minor injuries ; her husband was pronounced dead on the scene . A brief piece by the CBS morning news featuring commentary by Capt Chesly Sullenberger about the incident . This is the full ATC of the accident
end question
start question
Is it legal to begin pilot training on a jet ?
In theory , it is perfectly legal to do your primary training in a jet . It is becoming common in militaries to do initial training in turboprops . <URL> Managing such a turboprop aircraft is actually simpler than managing your typical piston aircraft . One button start . One lever engine control . Maybe some day that will become a single engine jet .
Assuming that you 're in category 3 ( aircraft under 12,500 lbs ) then an approval is only valid for 365 days , so if you want to continue flight training after that then you need to request a new one : Once you have permission to train , you have 180 days to begin training and 365 days to complete the approved training . Both of these time periods start from the day you receive approval . For example , if you begin flight training 30 days after you have been approved , you now have 335 days to finish . If you do not finish , a new training request must be submitted . That 's from the <URL> ; the TSA 's <URL> is a bit more difficult to use .
As Lnafziger says , a conventional landing is impossible for anything more than a tiny aircraft STOL aircraft ( Carrier ' runway ' length : 200m ) . As you state however , if it was an emergency , the aircraft carrier has a special net which it can fold up to stop planes , and since it can stop an F18 Hornet , it could probably take your Cessna as well :)
I have never heard of a specific " International Procedures " program/rating . However , this was taken from one of the websites offering this training : " it will satisfy the training requirements needed for MNPS , RVSM , RNP-4 , RNP-10 , B-RNAV and P-RNAV Special Use Airspace approvals " My guess is this course is offered as a bundle of MNPS/RVSM/RNAV training programs to the operators . For the operator to be certified to fly in MNPS airspace , they need to have a specific authorization from the regulating authority ( in FAA they specifically need OpSpecB039 ) which in turn , requires specific training programs for the pilots . The same is valid about operation in RVSM , RNAV , etc. . There is no specific recurency training period ; however , each approval certificate , for each specific operator , must include an approved ' initial and recurrent training program ' which will specify the training frequency . At most , these periods must abide by the operator 's program for proficiency check and line checks . 8900.1 4.1.4 98 ( d ) NAT/MINIMUM NAVIGATION PERFORMANCE SPECIFICATIONS ( MNPS ) AIRSPACE . Each aircraft is suitably equipped and capable of meeting the MNPS standards . The operator has established operating procedures that ensure that MNPS standards are met . The flightcrews are trained and capable of operating to MNPS requirements . [ ... ] All NAT/MNPS approvals are granted by issuing OpSpec paragraph B039 , ICAO NAT Doc 007 § 1.2.1 ( I 'm really not an FAA guy , somebody might find the Part 135 / 91 equivalent ) All flights within NAT MNPS Airspace must have the approval of either the State of Registry of the aircraft , or the State of the Operator [ ... ] These aspects include : the navigation equipment used , together with its installation and maintenance procedures ; plus the crew navigation procedures employed and the crew training requirements . The ICAO doc goes on to further detail what that training should include ( 1.3.8 - > 1.3.12 ) , but does not specify a training frequency or the need for recurrent training . Appendix G to Part 91 : Operations in Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum ( RVSM ) Airspace Section 3 Operator Authorization ( b ) An applicant for authorization to operate within RVSM airspace shall apply in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator . The application must include the following : ( 2 ) For an applicant who operates under part 121 or 135 of this chapter or under subpart K of this part , initial and recurring pilot training requirements . AMC1 SPA.RVSM .105 RVSM operational approval ( c ) Training programmes , operating practices and procedures : The operator should submit training syllabi for initial and recurrent training programmes together with other relevant material .
After reading that article carefully , here 's what appeared to have happened : Pilot collapses Passenger-with-pilots-license comes to flight deck ( with both elitist and sexist chip on his shoulder ) First officer moves to left seat , PwPL takes right seat , runs the radios and checklists , maybe drops the gear . First Officer is a right-seat qualification , on 737s ( and many others ) the steering handle is on the left side . So it 's quite possible that the FO has never steered a 737 on the ground . It 's quite IMpossible that the FO has never taxied an aircraft of any kind before . And there 's a huge difference between driving a Gulfstream around and driving a 130-passenger jet around . If you do n't take a corner just right , the main gear ends up in the ditch , the wing hits the ground , the engine inhales grass , gravel and maybe the taxiway sign and a couple of gophers . Trashing a Ferrari is cheaper . The FO moving to the left seat and flying the plane was the correct action - the B-1 pilot was no more qualified to fly a 737 than I am . But radios are radios , and even the greenest flight attendant can read a checklist .
It 's it possible ? Yes , you would do it the same way as in any other airplane . Is it effective ? Yes , just look at all of the fuselage area that is exposed to the relative wind . Is it useful ? Not really . With all of the other drag devices , you should n't really need it . Is it recommended ? You would have to check the AFM . I looked in the <URL> and there is no limitation against it , but if you need to slip then that 's a strong indication of poor planning and an unstabilized approach which would require a go around . Even at higher altitudes , it is n't very comfortable for the passengers !
<URL> are only a small part of smart materials . Once deformed , they will change back to their old shape when heated or subjected to strong magnetic fields . Of the many alloys with this characteristic , only a few like <URL> would be suitable for primary structures . They are extremely expensive to make and to process , so they have never been an economical alternative . Also , heating and cooling would be required to switch between shapes , which is very energy intensive when the outer structure of an aircraft is involved . Airflow will ensure intense convective heat transfer , and to maintain the needed temperature will be very uneconomical . Please consider that an aircraft with shape-memory alloys would need to carry extra fuel for heating or cooling over much of the flight time . Hinges and electric or hydraulic actuators will have a clear mass advantage when you consider the system mass , including energy sources . I guess you agree that creating strong magentical fields in parts of an aircraft is an exceedingly bad idea , so I will rule out <URL> . Shape-memory alloys will only switch between two shapes , and intermediate shapes are easier to realize with hinges and actuators . Sure , a smooth shape is aerodynamically better than one with a contour break at the hinge line , but the small aerodynamic advantage of shape-memory structures is quickly lost when you look at the whole picture . Another disadvantage is the accumulation of small cracks with every shape change . The low number of cycles will either require frequent replacement of the shape-memory parts or a very limited structural life of the aircraft . In the end , much of what can be said about <URL> also applies to shape-memory alloys . Their main function is to justify research grants and to keep the press occupied .
I 'll take a stab at this one , though I ca n't guarantee the correctness of my interpretation ( the regs do n't seem exactly clear on the subject - at least not to me , so there 's a lot more " inference " here than I 'd normally be comfortable with ) . In most cases under Part 91 the only requirement to be a " crewmember " is that the pilot in command says you 're a crewmember -- i.e. the PIC determines that a person is qualified to perform a specific duty and designates them to perform it . In the absence of anything more specific this is the only requirement I can turn up ( and it 's an inferred requirement - I did n't find anything specifically stating this , but <URL> strongly implies that it 's the correct interpretation . There 's also a <URL> which talks a little about who is a " crewmember " for purposes of riding in jumpseats that are placarded " For Crew Use Only " . That interpretation is based on Part 135 , but could be logically extended to Part 91 ( and possibly some 121 ) operations too ) . There are frequently more specific requirements though , particularly for positions that are important to flight operations . For example if you buy yourself a nice shiny <URL> to duplicate Amelia Earhart 's trip under Part 91 rules you still can not simply designate someone off the street to be the Flight Navigator : <URL> , and someone acting as the flight navigator would need to meet those requirements . There are also more stringent requirements that are imposed for Part 121 and 135 operators . For example they ca n't simply designate a person as a flight attendant based on the PIC 's determination that they are qualified : There are requirements for filling that crew position which must be met ( <URL> &amp; <URL> respectively , and possibly other regulations ) .
Yes you may , but you need to carry a <URL> while above 10,000 ft or in some types of <URL> and have it switched on . Which pretty much negates the stealth capabilities of your aircraft . To quote the linked AOPA page : According to 14 CFR 99.13 , no person may operate an aircraft into or out of the United States , or into , within , or across an ADIZ designated in subpart B unless operating a transponder with Mode C. Certain exemptions might apply to aircraft that were not originally certified with an engine-driven electrical system ; see 99.13 ( d ) .
A windmill is a turbine , so it 's better to build an optimized turbine . I 've studied your idea and this draft design has come out : <URL> The apparatus has these innovating characteristics : Configurable for 2 , 3 and 4 engine aircraft Can be positioned exactly for optimal efficiency Adjustable up or sideways for local constraints Bird/snake anti-roasting protection ( removable ) Simple and robust 50 or 60 Hz AC selection by adjusting engine thrust Optional gas water extractor For increased operation time , the apparatus can move with the airplane until a certain speed ( configurable ) is achieved ( cable not included ) .
There are contingency measures for PF incapacitation when PNF is absent from the cockpit . This includes measures for cockpit decompression ( e.g. window breaking ) These measures are balanced with measures to prevent unauthorised passengers forcing entry to the cockpit , including by using force on cabin crew ( or PNF ) to make them open the cockpit door . Some of these measures are at the airline 's discretion . Cockpit door locks According to <URL> A locked door is opened by a flight crew inside the cockpit but can also be unlocked by cabin crew entering a keycode from the outside . Crew inside the cockpit can manually override it to keep a door locked for up to five minutes . " In the case of an electrical supply failure the door is automatically unlocked , but remains closed , " reads the manual . It is equipped with a manual escape hatch but that is only accessible from the inside . According to <URL> safety protocols mandated by Congress in the U.S. after the Sept. 11 attacks ... eliminate the use of keys for entering the cockpit - assuring that no errant passenger can wrestle a key away from a crew member . ... If a member of the flight crew does n't open the locked cockpit door from the inside , according to a manual for the Airbus A320 <URL> , the door can also be unlocked by the cabin crew outside the cockpit by entering a two - to seven-digit code , pre-programmed by the airline , on a keypad . Cockpit occupancy Guardian : Protocols and standard procedures around what happens when a pilot leaves the cockpit mid-flight vary according to country and airline . A flight attendant taking the seat of an absent pilot to ensure there are always two people in the cockpit , and/or blocking access to the open door with a trolley , are often seen on US flights , but not necessarily on others , [ Aviation expert Neil Handsford ] said . For instance it is not a requirement on Australian flights . LA Times : American experts say the typical procedure is for a flight attendant to use a food cart to block access to the cockpit when the pilot opens the door to leave . A flight attendant is supposed to remain in the cockpit and open the door for the pilot upon his or her return . ... Airbus Manual The Airbus manual referred to above says The Cockpit Door Locking System ( CDLS ) provides a means of electrically locking and unlocking the cockpit door . This system is mainly composed of : A keypad , located in the forward cabin , near the cockpit door , A toggle switch , located in the center pedestal 's Cockpit Door panel , A control unit and its CKPT DOOR CONT normal panel , located on the overhead panel , A buzzer . The keypad enables the cabin crew to request access to the cockpit . There are two different access request types : " Routine " and " Emergency " access request ( Refer to PRO-SUP-25 Cockpit Door Operation - General ) . The toggle switch enables the flight crew to lock or unlock the cockpit door , following an access request , thereby allowing or denying the entry to the cockpit . The cockpit door control unit is the system controller , in charge of : Locking or unlocking the door latches , upon flight crew action . Unlocking the door , in case of cockpit decompression ( the door then opens towards the cockpit under differential pressure ) . Indicating system failures of electrical latches and pressure sensors . Activating the access request buzzer and turning on the keypad LEDs . The buzzer sounds in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s to indicate that a routine access request has been made , or sounds continuously if an emergency access procedure has been initiated . The keypad is used to sound the buzzer in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s ( 3 s by default ) , by entering a zero to seven-digit code , as programmed by the airline , followed by the ' # ' key . It is also used to enter the two to seven-digit emergency code , followed by the ' # ' key , when the flight crew does not respond . There is also an <URL> that shows how the cockpit door lock operates normally and in the case of pilot incapacitation Abbreviations PF = Pilot flying , PNF = Pilot not flying .
The main problem with most jet airliners is that the engines are placed close to the ground . If the field is not paved , this increases the risk of damage to the engines from ingesting FOD ( foreign object debris ) . There are , however , jets that can operate from un-paved fields . The 737-200 has an option called a " <URL> . " Despite having engines close to the ground , this kit helps to prevent the engine from sucking in FOD , which allows the aircraft to operate off of gravel runways . It also includes an addition to the nose gear to help prevent gravel from getting kicked up . For this reason , airlines like Canadian North still operate multiple 737-200 aircraft in order to provide service to airports with gravel runways . High-wing aircraft are better suited for this type of mission ( see <URL> ) . The <URL> is a military airlift designed to operate from remote airfields . Its wings are placed above the fuselage rather than below , which allows the engines to be mounted further above the ground . The IL-76 is a Russian aircraft of a similar configuration that also operates out of unpaved fields . Aircraft with engines mounted on the rear fuselage also protect the engines from ingesting FOD . The new <URL> jet advertises the ability to operate from unpaved strips . Older aircraft like the 727 or the Tu-154 have this engine placement as well , and both can operate from unpaved fields . 737-200 landing on a gravel runway . The gravel kit is visible as the small extension just below the front of the engine , and the addition to the rear of the nose gear .
Airbus fly-by-wire aircraft have what is called envelope protection which is to prevent pilot inputs from exceeding structural limits as well as keep them from getting the aircraft into an upset flight regime ( stall , overbank , etc. ) . The philosophy behind it is that , if the pilots need to perform an extreme maneuver they can be as aggressive with the controls as they want , confident that they wo n't break the plane . Boeing generally disagrees with this approach saying that , in an emergency , the pilot needs to have all possible force at his disposal , even if it breaks the plane . See the <URL> Federico linked to in comments for more on this . Of course , the Airbus system can only provide these protections when systems are all functioning properly . If part of the system is not working the protections are removed . Examples : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , As far as AA587 , the A-300 is not a fly-by-wire aircraft and does n't have envelope protections . It 's debatable , though , if envelope protection would have helped in that situation . None of the rudder inputs by itself was outside of the structural limitations of the aircraft so the computer would probably not have prevented them . The failure was due to the inputs being made in quick succession which quickly fatigued the composite material of the rudder . The computer can be programmed to know , for instance , how much g-force the structure can take . But it would be difficult to determine what complex combinations of inputs might exceed the strength of the design .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
According to the <URL> , section 15.3.1.2 , pilots do need to have specific training . Most of this training is regarding engine failures and emergency landings , in some situations in IMC . CASA requires that all ASETPA operators have a training and checking organisation . The CASA Inspector will verify that for ASETPA operator 's the following additional procedures are included within the training and checking organisation : Engine failure or malfunction which necessitates stopping the aircraft on the ground Engine failure or malfunction which necessitates an off-airport landing after take - off on the most suitable terrain in the vicinity of the aerodrome . These can be organised into a number of procedures , depending on the height of the aircraft at the time of the failure Engine failure or malfunction which necessitates turning to execute a glide landing upon a serviceable runway , including a ' turn-back ' manoeuvre . This procedure is to contain a minimum indicated airspeeds and altitudes Engine malfunction , during climb , cruise and descent and from the approach to land phase in VMC and IMC Additional procedures for the conduct of a forced landing in IMC to ground level The next section discusses route limitations , which I am assuming the pilots should at least be familiar with .
There is a training course on <URL> that all pilots operating VFR flight within 60nmi of Washington DC must take . Since I assume you are flying IFR , you would not be required to take it . From <URL> : All of the following operations are exempt from the training requirement : Pilots operating under instrument flight rules ( IFR ) ; Law enforcement , military , and aeromedical operations ; and A pilot who must deviate to the extent necessary to address an emergency situation .
Towing is quite feasible , and even landing while in tow is possible - I 've done it myself in gliders . The hard part is catching up with the stricken plane . To stay with Keegan 's Boeing 777 : It most likely will travel at Mach 0.8 and somewhere between 30.000 and 39.000 ft when disaster strikes . Let 's further assume that power fails instantly , so the aircraft , traveling at 240 m/s , will develop a sink rate of 15 m/s just to continue flying . When it sinks , the increasing density allows it to slow down , so at sea level it will fly at 130 m/s , sinking with 8.125 m/s . For simplicity , assume a linearly decreasing sink rate , and the remaining time aloft will be less than 1000 sec or around a quarter of an hour . Now the towplane has 15 min to scramble the crew , run up the engines , get take-off clearance and to actually fly an intercept to the stricken airliner . How realistic is that ? How many airports are needed to have 777-sized towplanes ready , and how many otherwise unproductive 777s would this scheme need ? A car can stop and wait a couple of hours for the tow to reach it . An aircraft can not .
Of course it is possible . But it does not improve the outcome . Swing wings were a fad of the Sixties . They never fulfilled their early promises , because the actuation mechanism is heavy . Variable sweep is only justifiable when the aircraft will fly both sub - and supersonically for extended periods . It turned out that the part of most missions which is spent at supersonic speeds is a lot smaller than anticipated in the Sixties . Just take the <URL> : Designed for supersonic penetration ( B-1A ) it became a subsonic low-lever terrain following strike aircraft ( B-1B ) . For stealth , <URL> is an important design principle . Making wing sweep variable is to throw this overboard , compromising the whole strategy of stealth . Also , the best stealthiness is only possible in subsonic flight - airframe heating at supersonic speed will broadcast the aircraft 's presence to everyone with a low-cost infrared sensor .
There is no accepted technical term called fast jet . However , this seems to be used in media and other uses , especially in the case of British jets . Most of them seem to refer high speed aircraft ( BAE hawk , for example ) . <URL> , for example repeatedly refers to fast jets : BAE Systems provides cutting-edge electronic avionics systems ... Its display systems offer fast-jet pilots a real-world view ... AMPA is used extensively across the RAF from fast jets and helicopters ... ( A ) pilot following the Fast Jet training system will use AMPA at every stage of their training involving Tucano , Hawk T1 and Hawk T2 aircraft before moving on ... The British seem to use it regularly , for example <URL> : BAE Systems ... said , " ... increase the Indian Air Force 's fast jet training capacity and establish a similar fast jet training solution for the Indian Navy . The Hawk AJT fast jet training solution enables an Air Force or Navy ... My guess is that the usage of term is mostly found in UK ( the book also appears to be from there ) . There does n't seem to be any consistency in usage . While the examples above include the Hawk among others , <URL> ( UK again ) refers to Dassault Rafale as a fast jet : French Navy Fast Jet Duo set to thrill Air Day Crowds ... To reiterate , I 'm not aware of any precise technical term called ' fast jet ' and this seems to be ( mostly ) a British thing .
It 's a small door leading to a compartment which contains a handle on a reeled lanyard . When fully extended , the handle and lanyard activate the pyrotechnic charges which jettison the canopy or other enclosure over the flight crew stations , facilitating rescue . The arrow may also just point towards the external canopy latch in order to expedite cockpit access and rescue .
end question
start question
What 's the use of so much torque on propellers ?
Even small 1 hp electrical motors can achieve that RPM Yes , but can it sustain that RPM when something tries to stop it , that is the question . 1 hp combustion engines can get to 2700 rpm as well , but you can not attach a propeller to it , stick it in the air , and expect it to maintain the RPM . It takes a lot of torque to create aerodynamic thrust . It is a fact that electric motors are way better at producing torque than combustion engines . An electric motor produces almost maximum torque at the get-go , with the rotor standing still . The combustion engine needs to make RPM in order to make torque . <URL> compares electric motors with combustion engines for powering a hydraulic pump : a 20 hp electric motor can do the job that a 50 hp combustion engine can do . Electric motor : <URL> Combustion engine : intermittent torque means torque pulse from combustion . <URL> But wait , is that even possible ? Power is power , kilowatt is kilowatt , and it should not matter which engine we use to generate the kilowatts , they should all equate to equal amounts says the first law of thermodynamics , the conservation of energy . But it does matter , since with a combustion engine torque is a function of RPM . So increase RPM , and power increases due to increased RPM and increased torque . At lower RPM the combustion engine may simply lack the torque to speed up , while the electric motor has an almost flat torque curve . This same happens with outboard motors , when comparing 2-stroke with 4-stroke . 2-stroke has way more torque at lower revs , the 4-stroke may have the same horsepower but may never get to the high revs because it lacks the ability to get the boat planing . But I digress . To get back to your questions : What 's the use of so much torque , and what happens if there is less torque at the same RPM To keep the output shaft at this RPM while the propeller is pushing all that air backwards . That requires a serious amount of torque . If there is less torque at the same RPM , there will be less thrust produced and the aeroplane wo n't fly as fast . Can an electric motor perform similar to the Lycoming IO-360 with the same max . RPM , but with just half the torque of the latter ? Well , the surprising thing is that a horsepower is not a horsepower . Part of the problem lies in the horsepower output functions , so maybe an electric motor with a lower hp rating can be used . But one thing is very clear : at the RPM of the propeller , a certain torque is required at a certain speed to keep the propeller turning . This amount of torque will always be the same , no matter what kind of engine produces it .
The masks are connected to a <URL> by a lanyard . Pulling the mask pulls the lanyard , which pulls a pin from the generator and starts the reaction . They typically last betweeen about 10 and 20 minutes , more than enough time to get down to 10,000 feet where additional oxygen is not required . There is no need for a % of flight time since the crew will descend to a safe altitude then divert to the nearest suitable field . Therefore , the only requirement is to last during the ( emergency ) descent . You can not " repressurise " since the cabin altitude will be the same as the external altitude . The only thing to do is to increase the partial pressure of oxygen by descending . It 's worth mentioning that the flight crew each have their own , isolated supply from a bottle which lasts significantly longer . This is so that they can continue to fly if there are fumes in the cockpit . Cabin crew often have their own , smaller , portable bottles so that they can freely move about the cabin to assist the " self loading freight " . Many 's a morning when I would arrive to work feeling , ahem , a little " under the weather " and nip into the cockpit for a couple of minutes on 100 % oxygen . Works wonders - and do n't worry , they are topped up to full as part of the pre-flight service .
Let 's have a look at documentation of <URL> . It says ( on page 6 ) that if GPS data is lost , it will maintain RNP0 .1 for 8 minutes , RNP0 .3 for 20 minutes and RNP1 for 2 hours . That means that in 8 minutes the error is no more than 0.1 nautical mile with 95 % confidence , in 20 minutes it is no more than 0.3 nm with 95 % confidence and in 2 hours the error is no more than 1 nm again with 95 % confidence . For general description how it works see <URL> and of course the appropriate <URL> . Basically it measures acceleration and rotation ( with gyroscopes ) and integrates it over time . Modern systems do the calculations digitally with sophisticated filters to smooth over some errors .
From a totally practical standpoint , let 's say you 're in a small tricycle gear aircraft with a freely castoring nose wheel ( or a tail dragger ) and you 're starting your takeoff roll in a calm wind . When you bring the power up , the aircraft is going to want to turn left ( <URL> ) , in other words to yaw about its vertical axis in a counter-clockwise direction , and head for the grass off the left side of the runway . You counteract that adverse yaw by using right rudder to keep the airplane straight . Initially you might have to use some right brake as well until there 's sufficient air moving past the rudder . If you had a steerable nose gear , you would n't need the right brake . You reach flying speed , apply up elevator , and lift off . As the airplane rotates about its lateral axis , there 'll be some additional adverse yaw as a result of that rotation ( again another question ) . Even if you had a steerable nose gear , that would now be useless as the nose gear is no longer on the ground . Your means of continuing to fly straight ahead is to counter the adverse yaw with rudder , and you would continue to use right rudder as you climb out . If you do n't , you 'll start turning left . You reach the altitude you want , level off , and trim for level flight straight ahead . Then you decide you want to turn left . You start the turn briskly with left aileron , but you forgot to use any rudder . If you were looking at the ball on the bottom of the turn and bank indicator , you would see it shoot left . If you had used left rudder while initiating the turn , that would n't have happened . You would have started a coordinated turn . Now you 're coming back to the airport , and there 's a crosswind from the left . You decide you want to counter that crosswind by slipping into it . In other words , you want the airplane to travel sideways at a speed that matches the crosswind while still having your nose pointing straight down the runway . So , you lower the left wing and to keep the airplane from turning , you use right rudder to keep the airplane aligned with the runway . You match the crosswind by adding or decreasing your bank . There are other uses of rudder , and especially in aerobatics . I once flew a few loads of skydivers . The jumpmaster sat behind me , and to help him in positioning for the drop zone , he wanted flat turns . In other words , he wanted the airplane turned while keeping the wings level . So , if he wanted a left turn , that meant left rudder and right aileron . Uncomfortable from a pilot 's standpoint . Finally , back in the 1960s when I was working on my instrument rating , I had an instructor who taught that the best way to track a localizer in close was to use rudder only for small corrections . Personally , I do n't like that method , but it 's one way of doing things . A useful thing , the rudder . You need to be able to directly control movement about all three aircraft axes .
it is not obvious if it could alter the wing shape for this to be a problem It may not be obvious but it is so . Plain old snow will just blow off as soon as the plane picks up speed , but if the wing was above freezing when the snow first fell on it , the snow will probably conceal a layer of rough ice , which will not blow away . Anything adhering to the wing surface will change the lift force . According to <URL> even a thin coating of ice can disrupt an airfoil 's boundary layer airflow , causing a premature aerodynamic stall and dramatically increased functional drag .
When related to a significant point , there is no difference between pass and cross . For altitude/FL only pass is used . The phraselogies used by ATC is described in ICAO <URL> ( Air Traffic Management / PANS-ATM ) , chapter 12 , phraseologies . The document explains the meaning for ATC , therefore to be understood and used by pilots . 12.3.1.2 LEVEL CHANGES , REPORTS AND RATES EXPEDITE CLIMB ( or DESCENT ) [ UNTIL PASSING ( level ) ] AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.1.4 TRANSFER OF CONTROL AND / OR FREQUENCY CHANGE AT ( or OVER ) ( time or place ) [ or WHEN ] [ PASSING/LEAVING/REACHING ( level ) ] CONTACT ( unit call sign ) ( frequency ) 12.3.1.10 ADDITIONAL REPORTS REPORT PASSING ( significant point ) REPORT PASSING ( three digits ) RADIAL ( name of VOR ) VOR 12.3.2.3 MAINTENANCE OF SPECIFIED LEVELS MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL PASSING ( significant point ) MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL ( minutes ) AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.2.4 SPECIFICATION OF CRUISING LEVELS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE , or BELOW ) CROSS ( distance ) MILES , ( GNSS or DME ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( name of DME station ) OR ( distance ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE or BELOW ) ( level ) 12.3.2.8 SEPARATION INSTRUCTIONS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time ) [ OR LATER ( or OR BEFORE ) ] ADVISE IF ABLE TO CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time or level ) 12.3.3.1 DEPARTURE INSTRUCTIONS AFTER REACHING ( or PASSING ) ( level or significant point ) ( instructions ) 12.3.4.12 TURN OR CLIMB INSTRUCTIONS AFTER TAKE-OFF AFTER PASSING ( level ) ( instructions ) 12.4.2.3 PARALLEL APPROACHES YOU HAVE CROSSED THE LOCALIZER ( or GBAS/SBAS/MLS FINAL APPROACH COURSE ) If another wording is used in some country , the differences must be explained in the country AIP , at section GEN 1.7 . For USA ( <URL> ) , Doc 4444 differences are found at GEN 1.7-23 . There are none related .
Definitions from <URL> . Metering : A method of time-regulating arrival traffic flow into a terminal area so as not to exceed a predetermined terminal acceptance rate . Metering airport : Airport adapted for metering and for which optimum flight paths are defined . Metering fix : A fix along an established route from over which aircraft will be metered prior to entering terminal airspace . Normally , this fix should be established at a distance from the airport which will facilitate a profile descent 10,000 feet above airport elevation [ AAE ] or above . But behind these definitions , that 's a whole domain under research and experimentation to shape the future of air traffic management . Metering methods are currently designed to respond to traffic increase , resulting airports congestion , and requirement for fuel saving and less nuisances from aviation . Solutions are known collectively under AMAN acronym for <URL> . As said , this fix is established on a route prior to the terminal airspace , 10,000 feet or more above the airport elevation . It can be the <URL> . The concept is to manage cruise speed to arrive at the metering fix in time , instead of holding/vectoring before ( or in ) the terminal area . ATC can determine in advance times aircraft will be allowed into the TMA , based on aircraft capabilities , traffic and weather ) . ATC is able to issue a " EXPECT descent in n minutes " to facilitate planning by crew using their FMS . This allows for limited vectoring and holding prior to the TMA . When holding/vectoring is still needed , it happens at higher altitude , which is better for noise/emissions management . <URL> Thales AMAN/DMAN concept in Europe , <URL> For example , there is such metering for arrival at Sydney . Sydney has a curfew at night , aircraft are descended in the order they arrive , which encourage crews of early flights to arrive before the end of the curfew and hold . But because many crews use this trick , waiting time increases . By using metered arrivals ( ALOFT in-house system and <URL> AMAN from Thales ) , crews are provided with a narrow time window for crossing metering fixes , one at 160 NM from the airport , the other at 40 NM . Once you have the window , there is not need to hurry and then wait . The time crossing the first metering fix can be provided up to 1,000 NM before arriving at this fix . What 's exactly a profile descent and how is it related to the metering fix ? The descent profile is the curve of altitudes followed for descent . The most efficient way to descent is the continuous descent without level segments . The aircraft just glides with idling engines and clean configuration ( less noise , less fuel , reduced wake ) . This profile is only possible if nothing prevents to descent at any point , e.g. a congestion in the terminal area . By ensuring a free descent after the metering fix , this portion of the descent can be optimized for fuel saving and noise reduction . So how does a metering fix work to absorbs arrival delays ? What merits does it have as compared to delay vectors and holds ? The idea behind AMAN is to regulate traffic the most upstream possible , start sequencing early , and prevent wait time in flight . There is a complementary solution which is currently investigated too : DMAN for Departure Management , with transition fixes ( also visible on the picture ) . AMAN and DMAN systems can be coupled . As pointed out by @Lnafziger , metering fixes can be used more upstream than terminal area , up to departure . Such upstream fixes are visible on the picture . If we add Surface Management ( SMAN ) , block-out times can be optimized effectively , minimizing taxi and airborne time , and at the same time minimizing delays and nuisances . These systems tend to switch from distance sequencing to time sequencing . This field is currently actively experimented , both in the US , Europe ( LFPG experimenting coupled AMAN/DMAN ) and Australia and a few other locations . <URL> <URL> For more , see also : <URL> I hope @DeltaLima will show and provide additional elements for Eurocontrol .
<URL> are only a small part of smart materials . Once deformed , they will change back to their old shape when heated or subjected to strong magnetic fields . Of the many alloys with this characteristic , only a few like <URL> would be suitable for primary structures . They are extremely expensive to make and to process , so they have never been an economical alternative . Also , heating and cooling would be required to switch between shapes , which is very energy intensive when the outer structure of an aircraft is involved . Airflow will ensure intense convective heat transfer , and to maintain the needed temperature will be very uneconomical . Please consider that an aircraft with shape-memory alloys would need to carry extra fuel for heating or cooling over much of the flight time . Hinges and electric or hydraulic actuators will have a clear mass advantage when you consider the system mass , including energy sources . I guess you agree that creating strong magentical fields in parts of an aircraft is an exceedingly bad idea , so I will rule out <URL> . Shape-memory alloys will only switch between two shapes , and intermediate shapes are easier to realize with hinges and actuators . Sure , a smooth shape is aerodynamically better than one with a contour break at the hinge line , but the small aerodynamic advantage of shape-memory structures is quickly lost when you look at the whole picture . Another disadvantage is the accumulation of small cracks with every shape change . The low number of cycles will either require frequent replacement of the shape-memory parts or a very limited structural life of the aircraft . In the end , much of what can be said about <URL> also applies to shape-memory alloys . Their main function is to justify research grants and to keep the press occupied .
Feathering The collective pitch control , or collective lever , is normally located on the left side of the pilot 's seat with an adjustable friction control to prevent inadvertent movement . The collective changes the pitch angle of all the main rotor blades collectively ( i.e. , all at the same time ) and independent of their position . That 's what you referred to as feathering , notice it says " independent of their position " . It 's for collectively increasing or decreasing of the lift on all blades -- the engine will keep the RPM constant . Using the collective in level flight would cause a climb or descent , while with the helicopter pitched forward an increase in total lift would produce an acceleration together with a given amount of ascent . -- <URL> Flapping Flapping is position dependent as <URL> . Flapping is not pilot controlled . It 's to counter the <URL> .
Every blade will create its own boundary layer and its own vortex sheet . It is more efficient to use fewer blades with deeper chord , because the forward part of a boundary layer contributes most to friction drag . To keep the lift coefficient on the propeller blade sections in a reasonable range ( 0.6 to 1.0 ) for efficiency means that blade chord will be reduced , which will make them less stiff . Again , it will be better to reduce blade count to arrive at a more viable design . All the thrust the propeller creates is pulling on those skinny blades , and they must be strong enough to withstand this force . Only when the propeller disc loading increases do more blades begin to make sense : When engine power increases , the propeller disc area should also grow , but this growth is limited by the resulting speed of the blade tips . Once the flow speed there becomes supersonic , the drag at this section of the blade increases without a corresponding increase in thrust . To avoid that the next best option is to increase the solidity ratio of the propeller , called also the <URL> . Make no mistake , this is bad for efficiency . But if there is enough power available , adding more blades is the best way out . You are right , a lower prop speed allows to increase its diameter , but while tip speed will drop by less than the reduction in prop speed ( after all , flight speed should not change ) , the available thrust from this propeller will drop by the square of the speed reduction , since thrust is proportional to the dynamic pressure on the blades . And thrust you get only from the circumferential fraction of the local speed at the blade ; flight speed does not count here and does not help to mitigate the reduction .
The answer to your question is actually really simple : do not exceed the limitations specified in the POH . Really , that 's it ! Note that LIMITATIONS are not the same as RECOMMENDED PROCEDURES . Recommended procedures are just that : recommendations . Limitations ( exclusively from the " limitations " section of the POH ) are the hard and fast rules you must adhere to . Full RPM in Cruise As long as your POH does not impose a limitation on takeoff RPM ( the Seneca II has such a limitation , for example ) , then there is nothing wrong with using max RPM from takeoff to shutdown . You wo n't damage the engine . If the POH provides a limitation on engine RPM ( specifically in Section II of the POH ) , you must adhere to that limitation . It 's common to see a 5 minute " max RPM " limitation on some turbocharged engines . Great , takeoff at max RPM then pull the engines back to the top of the green arc until you land . Easy ! Manifold Pressure &amp; RPM Mike Sowsun said : " You should always follow the manufacturer 's procedures but a general rule for direct drive normally aspirated engines is to keep the manifold pressure less than the RPM for cruise power . ( eg . 24 inches of MP at 2400 RPM ) . " If you decide to apply " rules of thumb " to all phases of flight you will be voluntarily handicapping your airplane 's full potential . Some definitions : Oversquare - manifold pressure > RPM ( 23 " @ 2100 RPM ) Undersquare - manifold pressure < RPM ( 23 " @ 2500 RPM ) Square - manifold pressure = RPM ( 23 " @ 2300 RPM ) Do not embrace the idea that manifold pressure should never , ever exceed the value of the first two digits of the engine RPM ( sounds pretty arbitrary when I put it that way , right ? ) . It actually may be beneficial to run an engine " oversquare " in some cases ! This is another example of why knowing your aircraft 's " Section II " limitations is important . If 23 " @ 2100 RPM falls within the limitations , go for it !! You wo n't hurt the engine . Same with 25 " @ 2300 RPM or 26.756431 " @ 2196.454634 RPM . I think you get my drift . As long as your manifold/RPM combination falls within the limitations set out in Section II of the POH , you 're golden !! Now , climbing out on a hot day with a garden variety Lycoming or Continental ( like in 170 ) ? 29 " @ 2100 RPM probably is n't wise . 30 " @ 2700 RPM ? Yeah , that 's better ! 25 " @ 2500 RPM is n't bad but it 's no better or worse that 26 " @ 2700 RPM or 30 " @ 2650 RPM . Remember , there 's nothing special about " square " manifold/RPM values . I 'd routinely run the IO-520 in my Bonanza at max manifold pressure and max RPM from takeoff to cruise and simply leaning to an EGT target as I climbed ( and watching CHTs , of course ) . Only when leveling off in cruise did I pull it back to an economical setting ( sometimes oversquare , sometimes undersquare ; always lean of peak ) . The engine ran beautifully with good CHTs and incurred no unusual wear . In fact , the engine 's health improved . Exhaust and plugs became noticeably cleaner and compressions improved . In cruise , set the power to any combination of manifold/RPM you desire provided that setting falls within the limitations in your POH . You wo n't hurt the engine with a valid manifold/RPM setting . It 's possible to put undue stress on a motor with a bad mixture setting , though . POHs are notorious for giving poor guidance with regard to mixture settings . Mixture settings require a little more attention above ~ 65 % power but that 's another topic entirely . I recommend that everyone with engine questions read John Deakin 's " Pelican Perch " articles . He 's THE source for fact based , accurate engine operation information . He happens to have touched on this " oversquare " myth here . See <URL> . Edit : I credited John Deakin with my linked article . I was mistaken . The author of the linked article is Linda Pendelton . She links to a Deakin article , though . Mike Busch also addresses the oversquare myth <URL> .
<URL> In short The longer time required to align an inertial unit is the price to pay for its independency on any external equipment or signal , but Earth itself . A GPS receiver is faster , but is only one small piece in a huge system . The GPS ground segment ( control and monitoring stations ) and space segment ( satellites ) are necessary for the GPS receivers ( user segment in the jargon ) to work . They have multiple possibilities to fail , this critical dependency can not be afforded by an aviation navigation system , GPS must be backed up , and this is done using inertial ( can be INS , IRS , IMU or combined with air data units like ADIRU ) . During inertial alignment the unit accurately senses local vertical and true north ( actually Earth polar axis ) . The problem is that sensing true north requires knowing latitude , and determining latitude requires knowing true north . This is solved using successive approximations of both data -- fortunately this iteration is convergent -- until the desired precision has been achieved . It 's slow because Earth rotation produces tiny effects at small time scale , and we have n't found more practical sensors yet . The effects depends on the distance from the rotation axis , larger at the equator than at the poles . While GPS relies also on very <URL> , they can be easily retrieved by digital signal processing as soon as the random generator algorithm and seed are known . An IRS provides the position like a GPS receiver . IRS also provides the horizontal plane ( attitude reference ) and the north direction which are inaccessible to the GPS alone . This is another reason inertial systems are still used . <URL> Details Gimballed vs strapdown Gimballed inertial systems principle is simple : Accelerometers are maintained oriented with Earth using a gimballed platform , and all measurements are done in the Earth reference system . In strapdown inertial systems , accelerometers and ( laser/optical ) rate gyros are aligned in the aircraft reference system , and measurements are done related to this system . Except this difference , the principles for alignment are quite the same . <URL> Overall principle of a strapdown inertial system , <URL> Old gimballed inertial are longer to align because gimballed gyroscopes are less precise than fixed laser gyros . For the explanations , let 's assume a gimballed stable platform . The alignment consists of getting the Earth orientation and speed , and inertial unit initial position . After alignment , current speed , attitude and heading will be determined by integrating accelerations and rotation rates and adding the result to the initial values . Alignment time vs accuracy obtained Alignment aims to determine two axis : Vertical of the location ( direction of gravity ) and true north azimuth ( parallel to Earth rotation axis ) . For this phase , both accelerometers and gyroscopes are used . While vertical is relatively easy to determine with accelerometers , true north direction direct determination is not possible : True north direction can not be sensed without knowing local latitude , and latitude can not be determined without knowing the direction of true north . The practical way to proceed is : Set an initial value for latitude ( it can be assumed ) , determine approximate north direction . Knowing approximate north , determine approximate latitude . From approximate latitude , refine north direction , etc. . See detailed inertial principle and alignment process in : <URL> . Accuracy of true north bearing increases with alignment time : <URL> Source : <URL> Alignment requires the unit to be motionless , hence any erratic motion decreases inertial signal/noise ratio which slows this process ( passengers boarding , wind acting on the tail surfaces , etc ) . Inertial does n't need external equipment or signal Inertial is a stand alone device , completely independent of any external equipment or man-made signal . It relies only on Earth rotation speed and gravity . That 's why it 's still used for navigation in spite of existing radio aids and GPS ( GPS is actually another radio aid ) . <URL> Today , inertial is mostly used to backup GNSS One may wonder why inertial systems are still used at the GPS era , in spite of their limited accuracy and long alignment procedure . The main reason is that you can not blindly rely on GPS constellation availability . Let 's list some of the possible failures . GPS is the US solution for satellite positioning or <URL> . While defense organizations can obtain credits for different reasons , the difficulty to set up a civilian GNSS has been striking with the numerous delays encountered building <URL> , the European GNSS . It needs to design , launch and maintain the satellite constellation ( more than 20 satellites are required for accuracy and availability ) . The constellation must be permanently monitored and controlled from ground stations all over the World . GNSS signal can be perturbed by natural phenomena : <URL> , weather and volcanic ashes may partially or totally
If they are being operated by the military , not much . Military operations can exempt themselves from the FARs ( as a matter of practice they do n't : When operating in the US National Airspace System they follow the same operational regulations we do , but as a matter of regulation they 're subject to the military 's rules for airworthiness , maintenance , etc. ) . Military pilots have a military pilot 's license ( which can be converted to an FAA license with a little paperwork ) , and the airworthiness and maintenance standards for active military aircraft are defined and managed by the branch of the service responsible for the aircraft . ( This is similar to , but legislatively distinct from , <URL> . ) This does n't mean the FAA is completely silent about military operations/aircraft : There is <URL> ( also available in an easier-to-read <URL> ) , which would be applicable to aircraft like the VC-25 ( " Air Force One " ) .
Yes there is a distinction , pitch , roll and heading are angles [ unit = radian ] and latitude , longitude and altitude are linear distances [ unit = meter ] . Together , these six parameters define the six Degrees of Freedom that define the momentary state of a rigid object with reference to the earth . All six are defined relative to earth axes . For the linear dimensions this is clear , we just need to define a suitable zero point . For the angles : Pitch is the nose up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Roll is the wingtip up/down angle relative to the gravity field of the earth . Heading is the angle relative to a suitable earth reference , usually magnetic north or geographical north . Conversion of aircraft axes into earth axes is a non-trivial matter and the cause of much confusion , for instance in questions comparing lift to weight : lift is always coupled to aircraft axes , weight to earth axes . The axes sets are defined as follows : Aircraft axes Origin : Centre of Gravity of aircraft X-axis : in the symmetry plane of the aircraft , + = forward to the aircraft nose Y-axis : in the span wise direction of the aircraft , + = to the right wingtip Z-axis : perpendicular to the XOY-plane , + = down into the floor . Earth axes Origin : Centre of Gravity at the start of the response X-axis : In the horizontal plane ( relative to gravity ) , + = pointing north . Y-axis : Perpendicular to XOZ-plane , + = pointing east . Z-axis : Pointing to the centre of the earth = + Edit Yes navigation lat/lon is given in [ degrees ] - the INS sensor ultimately converts displacement into proper navigational definitions of course . But for measuring 3-D aircraft inertial effects the SI system is used , and displacement is internally treated as a linear motion , units [ metres ] .
Is this use of " straight and level " correct ? What is the definition of straight and level , if any , regarding heading , attitude , speed , altitude ? In the <URL> the FAA defines straight and level flight as Straight-and-level flight is flight in which heading and altitude are constantly maintained . My understanding and the instruction I have received has always lead me to understand that Straight-and-Level is independent of Attitude and Speed . However to maintain straight and level flight at a given speed you will have to put the aircraft in a <URL> . Generally speaking at lower speeds aircrafts have a higher nose up attitude to maintain level flight and a more nose down attitude at high speeds to maintain level flight but this can vary by design and wing mounting . In this case I would say it was used a bit improperly . The statement should have been more along the lines of " the pilot should have maintained his heading and conducted a straight ahead emergency landing . You can <URL> . You can refer to the <URL>
An altitude engine is a type of engine that uses a <URL> ( and less often , a <URL> ) to generate sea-level pressure in its intake manifold , up to its critical altitude , at which point power will start to fall off . It is also sometimes called a turbo-normalizer . Non-altitude engines will lose power as they climb because the ambient air pressure drops off at a rate of about 1 " Hg per 1,000 ft of altitude ( up to 10,000 ft ) . The altitude engine allows aircraft to fly at higher altitudes at full power , and increases the aircraft 's speed and efficiency , because true airspeed increases with altitude . It also allows an aircraft under IFR to fly at higher MEAs or under VFR over higher terrain , and allows the pilot to choose a favorable altitude for weather . There are also what are called turbocharged engines , which are a type of altitude engine that can generate more intake manifold pressure than at sea level . For example , a Mooney Bravo M20M can generate 36 " of manifold pressure , and can generate at least 30 " of manifold pressure up to its critical altitude of 22,000 ft. An altitude engine is considered less taxing on the engine than a turbocharged engine because the former does n't develop above sea-level pressure or high turbine-inlet temperatures . The altitude engine is also easier to fly than a turbocharged engine , since it never develops more power than would be developed at sea level . Altitude engines also typically have a controllable-pitch prop , and develop more than 200 horsepower , so they require both a <URL> and a <URL> . See <URL> .
Yes , the yaw string on the canopy of a glider is there to show you whether or not you are coordinated , especially during turns . It indicates the relative wind , so will be straight unless the glider is slipping or skidding , in which case it will swing to the left or right . For those not familiar with them , here is an image that shows one : According to <URL> , they are also used on other aircraft ( even jet fighters and the U-2 ! ) although they are used in almost every glider . Now , the advantages that it has over an actual instrument installed in the panel are numerous : It is directly in your line of sight while looking outside , so you do n't have to look at the instrument panel to see if you are yawing . It is more sensitive It reacts faster to changes It is cheaper It is lighter It does n't require electricity ( or even an electrical system on the glider ) It costs far less to maintain It is easy to recognize when it fails ( it 's either there or not )
The primary reason is probably that it ensures there is no confusion between passengers , crew , or infants . Technically , " passengers " is the number of seats occupied , " crew " is both the pilots and flight attendants on duty . So any small children brought on as " lap children " will not be included in the " passengers " count , but should be included in the total number of people on board . I found another interesting point <URL> , which is that dead bodies are sometimes transported as well . In this case , some might consider these " people " as well . Also , in an incident , the bodies should not be confused with the regular passengers . So , " souls " effectively communicates the number of living humans on board . There may certainly be holdovers from the maritime influences on aviation as well .
In short : acclimatization , both chronic and acute . During your Tibet-trip , you had probably spent days at high altitudes , allowing your body to acclimatize to the lower oxygen partial pressure ( similar to how some elite endurance athletes prepare themselves for competition ) , by increasing your hemoglobin count ( and other mechanisms ) , making you better prepared for the walk at 18,500 ft. This is an example of chronic acclimatization . A normal sea-level dweller will not have had the benefit of the same acclimatization phase in a depressurization situation ( albeit a pilot could probably have some degree of acclimatization from continuously being exposed to higher than sea-level cabin altitudes ) , and will hence have a shorter TUC . The onset of the depressurization will also play a big part in determining your TUC . A slow depressurization will allow for some acute acclimatization , whilst a rapid depressurization will allow for none . The shock of a rapid depressurization will also decrease your TUC . The table on the Wikipedia page you quoted is the same ( or very similar ) to what you 'll find in most Human Performance literature for airmen , and is , according the same Wikipedia page " average TUC for healthy , young military pilots " .
You 'll find this info in helicopter performance design literature . The power to drive the rotor ( and a propellor ) can be sub-divided into three parts : useful power , induced power , and profile power . The solidity ratio shows up in the profile power part . Like in aerodynamics , the power/thrust equations are often made dimensionless and evaluated in coefficients . From Helicopter Test and Evaluation by Cooke and Fitzpatrick , section 2.4 : $ C_P = C_T \ left ( \ frac { V_C + v_i } { V_T } \ right ) + \ frac { s \ cdot C_D } { 8 } $ with $ s $ being solidity ratio . So solidity ratio shows up in the profile drag power portion , which makes sense .
end question
start question
Is there always turbulence over China ?
China is well known for having very strict air traffic control , who often are reluctant to give pilots the flexibility to deviate around bad weather or try a different - smoother - flight level ( as I 've experienced first-hand ) . That can lead to aircraft in Chinese airspace encountering more turbulence than in other parts of the world . Secondary to that , China can get some nasty weather : Particularly in the South . Compared to Europe they 'll have more thunderstorms , for example , and that can lead to increased turbulence . This image <URL> gives an overview of the number of lightning strikes around the globe . Aside from a few patches in Italy , China has more lightning - and hence more turbulence due to thunderstorms - than anywhere in Europe . As you mention , the mountainous terrain in some parts of the country also has an effect , although you get that in Europe too .
I am sure every airline has such a model , which will include actual wind and temperature information , but it will contain proprietary data which is not publicly available , unless you have a proven interest and signed an NDA with the airframe and the engine companies . Boeing is actively marketing <URL> to it 's customers . For first-order estimates , Federico 's comment is a good start , but you will still need fuel flow and L/D values . A range of similar software exists , but here the quality of the output depends mainly on the quality of the aircraft and engine models . While Boeing should know their aircraft well , the authors of independent software like <URL> or <URL> have to guess the right values , but still sometimes such tools will be precise within one percent . Piano even offers a free version called Piano X , but you will need to burden yourself with a Windows installation to run it . If you need even more precision , there are commercial packages which do this , first of all <URL> . But this does much more ; fuel flow is only a tiny aspect of the full package . Eurocontrol is supporting <URL> , which is a tool for computing aircraft trajectories , but it can also compute the full flight and contains an extensive set of detailed aircraft datasets . Access to BADA is restricted , however , and you will need to acquire a license . If you want to assemble your own tool , <URL> would be a good start . Write a wrapper which calls JBSim repeatedly and keeps track of the aircraft trajectory , and integrates the flight parameters along the way . But you will still need to get the aerodynamics and engine data from somewhere .
Forward flight is much more efficient than hovering . As airspeed builds , lift increases from " translational " lift as the air moves more horizontally over the disc . Since the relative airflow is more horizontal , the angle of attack for a given pitch angle is increased . The vortices and turbulence move behind and down from the helicopter so undisturbed air is drawn over the disc to be accelerated downwards to produce lift . Lift is more efficiently produced by accelerating a large mass by a small amount rather than a small mass by a large amount . It is more efficient to remain in ground effect and slowly increase speed to gain translational lift than to increase power to HOGE ( Hover Out of Ground Effect ) and attempt to translate . The problems you refer to are where an unwary pilot attempts to transition from HOGE whilst allowing the aircraft to climb or attempting to maintain height . Without enough power , the loss of ground effect before the benefits of translational lift are gained will result in a rapid descent back to earth ( as vortex ring state or settling with power is pretty much impossible to avoid ) or you overpitch and drag the RRPM ( rotor RPM ) down so low that you can not produce lift or even worse , stall the blades . Bottom line , it takes more power to establish positive climb out of ground effect than to gain translational lift in ground effect .
Takeoff power is almost never maximum engine power . Maximum power affects engine life as it brings significant wear to the engine . IIRC , if max power is used on takeoff , the crew must log an entry in the logbook to notify maintenance . Turbo-fans produce a lot of power . If you require max power to takeoff , you better double-check your numbers , or you 're operating with a pretty narrow margin . The reality is the reverse : airlines love to do low power takeoffs , and they avoid a high power takeoff as much as practical . Occasionally , a condition such as high ambient temperature ( resulting in high pressure altitude ) , heavy load , obstacle on departure path may demand a max power takeoff . Possible wind shear may also prompt the crew to select a higher takeoff power .
What is turbulence ? Turbulence is random and stochastic Each realization of a turbulent flow is unique and fluctuations in velocity are very irregular in space and time . dissipative Turbulence can not maintain itself and will decay into laminar flow without energy input from the environment ( e.g. mean shear in the velocity field or buoyancy ) . Reducing viscosity in a flow does not remove dissipation , it just moves dissipation to ever decreasing scales . diffusive A time-averaged scalar transported in a turbulent flow will have larger plume than that of a laminar flow . For example , if you injected a dye into a smooth flowing river and one into a turbulent flowing river , the dye plume would cover a larger area in the turbulent flow . three dimensional 3D vortex dynamics play a very important role in turbulence and for most cases you can not represent a turbulent flow as a 2D problem . occuring on a wide range of scales This is perhaps the most important distinction . When I say scale , I am referring to a characteristic length and velocity of an eddy , or swirl . Turbulence is produced at larger scales and the transfers its energy to smaller and smaller scales . At some ( very small ) scale , dissipation starts happening and the turbulence decays . A feature of a turbulent flow is energy at all scales , which basically means there are whirls of all sizes and it is the interaction between all of these swirls that gives turbulence . How does it happen ? The main production of turbulence is through mechanical production and buoyant production . Turbulence happens because energy is being put into it via these production methods . Turbulence will decay on its own but will not stop until production ceases . Mechanical production can be envisioned as a shear flow , or air of two different speeds interfacing . This can also be wind against a wall , or around some object . The velocity gradient at the periphery of the jetstream is a shear flow , and the boundary layer that we live in is a sheared environment on most days . Buoyant production is through buoyancy . Relatively warm parcels rise and this is balanced by subsidence and if you follow these thermals and the descent between them and squint hard enough , you can envision eddies on the largest scales . Both of these methods put energy into turbulence at large scales . For boundary layer flows , this can be on the order of a kilometer or more , typically the height of the boundary layer . These big eddies will have perturbations of their own and these smaller perturbations are the next smaller scale . Energy is cascaded downward until the sizes of the eddies are small enough that viscosity dominates over inertial forces and the energy is then lost from the turbulence as heating . The superpositioning of these eddies at all scales resembles a jumbled bumpy mess , and this is precisely how we experience turbulence .
There 's no legal limit of how high you 're allowed to fly by law : there 's no law that says It is illegal to fly above X ,000 ft In some juristictions there are more specific laws , eg It is illegal to operate an unpressurised aircraft above 25,000 ft However , each aircraft has a service ceiling when it is certified , and it would be generally illegal to operate the aircraft above this altitude ( because it 's unsafe ) . I 'm fairly confident that you were n't at 55,000 ft. No commercial airliner I know of has a service ceiling higher than 45,000 ft ( the newer version of the 747 ) and they almost never operate above 41,000 ft. A few private jets can go a little higher , up to around 50,000 ft , but I know of no non-military/experimental aircraft which is currently capable of going much above 50,000 ft , even if you were daft enough to try .
Smelling exhaust in the cockpit is not normal . Tell your instructor and squawk the problem . Bonus - turn it into a learning experience by arranging to be with the A&amp;P when he decowls and inspects . You can learn a lot about the engine that way . If you are getting a headache from this you may have mild CO poisoning . This does need to be checked out .
The correct answer is , habit patterns . If your habit , as a pilot , is to ALWAYS select reverse thrust , you 'll do so reliably even when the weather is bad , you 're fighting gusty crosswinds , and there is whatever else going on . On the other hand , if you sometimes do &amp; sometimes do n't select reverse thrust , that habit pattern is n't there to back you up when you have the proverbial " dark &amp; stormy night " and getting into reverse thrust right away may be the difference between staying on the runway or running off the end . For example , if I 'm landing a fairly light aircraft on a 12,000 ' dry runway in DEN with a little headwind , it is entirely possible to leave the thrust reversers stowed , roll out with the speed brakes deployed , tap the brakes slightly , and exit on the last high speed taxiway at a normal taxi speed . And I 'd burn less fuel and make less noise doing that . But at my carrier , I 'm not allowed to , because it 's considered that the habit pattern of always deploying the T/R is so important that it 's worth it to burn that extra gas even when it is n't strictly necessary , so that on the day when it 's vital , the habit pattern to grab the T/R 's right after touchdown is strong . I do n't think that this is an OpSpec ( i.e. FAA ) requirement , at least for the aircraft that I fly , but I 'm quite certain that it is a requirement in our books , so my supposition is that it 's a company requirement . If that assumption is correct , then other companies might choose to do differently ( and I recall one early morning arrival into Frankfort on a Lufthansa A-320 that used NO reverse thrust , but some heavy braking instead -- presumably to reduce noise at that hour of the morning ) . The fact that safety is so important , though , probably drives plenty of operators to make the same choice that our carrier does : build the habit of ALWAYS using reverse thrust -- even though that means sometimes using it when it is n't necessary .
Airway data is published in each country by their respective regulatory authority . This is published as a part of AIP ( Aeronautical Information Publication ) . This <URL> contains links to some of the sites having electronic AIPs . The relevant data can be found in Part 2 - Enroute ( ENR ) . For example , <URL> gives the details for UK airways . I do n't think there is a worldwide list as the airways of each country is controlled by the respective government through regulatory body and this information is updated periodically ( in cycles of 28 or 56 days ) .
2025 Sometime in 2012 CAAC are alleged to have suggested 100 % of Chinese airlines should have adopted HUDs by 2025 . It seems the Rockwell Collins Heads-Up Guidance System ( HGS ) has been trialled and that HGS equipped aircraft are permitted to land at certain airports in low visibility conditions - lower landing minima for HGS equipped aircraft . Reports mention enhanced vision systems ( EFV ) and enhanced flight vision systems ( AFVS ) where the HUD is used to project data , including runway outlines , over the pilot 's view of the runway ahead . The CAAC seem to be actively encouraging this , but I do n't find the word mandatory used in this context . November 14 , 2012 , 5:07 PM Rockwell Collins China managing director Ron Ho believes business for aircraft head-up displays ( HUD ) in China will soon be looking up . " We have been working with the Civil Aviation Administration of China ( CAAC ) for the past 10 years on the HUD project , and now it has reached the stage where CAAC will require the Chinese airlines to implement the HUDs into their operations , " he explained . " This will be done in three phases , I understand , " Ho noted . " During the first phase , 10 percent of all the airlines will be equipped and operating with HUDs . In the [ s ] econd phase , this will be 50 percent . The third phase will be complete fleet equipage by the year 2025 . " From <URL> FAA has also been coordinating with CAAC . In Aug 2012 FAA hosted a Pacific Rim conference in Long Beach CA identifying key technologies , operations and regulations that could be improved with HUD , advanced PFDs and vision systems . Soon after the conference , the CAAC HUD application roadmap appeared . China has without hesitation laid forth a plan to move the country 's civil aviation into a 100 % HUD compliant operation by 2025 . From <URL> Start HGS from 2005 End of 2010 , 52 B727-NGs ... Primary reference for maneuvering ... is natural vision Promote airlines using HUD From <URL>
There is no way to really decrease turbulence per-se since its a factor of the air around you . There are ways to mitigate its effects and some are . Climb : In some cases the air higher up is less turbulent or you can climb over the weather system causing the turbulent air . In this case climbing to a higher altitude may help Divert : Similar to the climb situation you can divert around the turbulent air if you know where its occurring . Timing : This is the one you may have the least control over if you are talking about commercial flying and its not always true but generally speaking the winds and thermal activity tend to be calmer in the early morning and evening . Flying around these times may allow you to find smoother air . Size : Again this one is hard to control but there is some truth to the fact that big planes will be less effected by turbulent air than small planes . By this I mean that a 777 is going to bump around less than a Piper Cherokee . But it holds more or less true across the board .
No . <URL> is pretty clear : No persons may dispense , or cause to be dispensed , from an aircraft , any material or substance in a manner that creates a hazard to persons or property on the surface . Flying directly over you or your house while spraying is illegal . There are factors like altitude etc , but spraying pesticides over people is rarely legal .
Turbulence affects aircraft in the same way whether it is banked or not . The difference however would be the end result of the turbulence . For example , if an aircraft were to encounter turbulence strong enough to roll the aircraft 20 degrees to the right , the end results would be a 20 degree bank if starting from level , but 45 degrees of bank if they were already in a 25 degree banked turn . If this were to happen it puts them closer to their stall speed because of the higher bank angle , and if they were already going slow and the airplane is at a low altitude , it could be a problem . Fortunately , most turbulence strong enough to cause this while at low altitude is caused by the wake turbulence of other aircraft or microbursts , and we have pretty good procedures in place to keep it from being a problem these days . If they are n't at a low altitude it matters even less because there is altitude for the aircraft to recover even if it does get into an unusual attitude .
Acrobatic is being incorrectly used , although it is slightly more complicated than that . " Aerobatic " refers specifically to flight , and " acrobatic " refers specifically to feats of the human body , so referring to an aircraft as performing acrobatics is wrong . That said , <URL> and sounds nearly identical , so it 's an understandable and relatively common error .
For a transport category airplane with 20 more more seats the minimum aisle width is 15 inches from the floor to a height of 25 inches , and 20 inches width above a height of 25 inches . § 25.815 Width of aisle . The passenger aisle width at any point between seats must equal or exceed the values in the following table : 1A narrower width not less than 9 inches may be approved when substantiated by tests found necessary by the Administrator .
While there is not a specific physical system dedicated to instrument departures per se , there are procedures that rely upon instrument flight rules ( IFR ) navigation equipment that ensure obstacle clearance when departing from an airport in instrument meteorological conditions ( IMC ) . From the <URL> 5-2-8 . Instrument departure procedures are preplanned instrument flight rule ( IFR ) procedures which provide obstruction clearance from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . There are two types of DPs , Obstacle Departure Procedures ( ODPs ) , printed either textually or graphically , and Standard Instrument Departures ( SIDs ) , always printed graphically . All DPs , either textual or graphic may be designed using either conventional or RNAV criteria . RNAV procedures will have RNAV printed in the title , e.g. , SHEAD TWO DEPARTURE ( RNAV ) . ODPs provide obstruction clearance via the least onerous route from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . ODPs are recommended for obstruction clearance and may be flown without ATC clearance unless an alternate departure procedure ( SID or radar vector ) has been specifically assigned by ATC . Graphic ODPs will have ( OBSTACLE ) printed in the procedure title , e.g. , GEYSR THREE DEPARTURE ( OBSTACLE ) , or , CROWN ONE DEPARTURE ( RNAV ) ( OBSTACLE ) . Standard Instrument Departures are air traffic control ( ATC ) procedures printed for pilot/controller use in graphic form to provide obstruction clearance and a transition from the terminal area to the appropriate en route structure . SIDs are primarily designed for system enhancement and to reduce pilot/controller workload . ATC clearance must be received prior to flying a SID . All DPs provide the pilot with a way to depart the airport and transition to the en route structure safely . Pilots operating under 14 CFR Part 91 are strongly encouraged to file and fly a DP at night , during marginal Visual Meteorological Conditions ( VMC ) and Instrument Meteorological Conditions ( IMC ) , when one is available . The following paragraphs will provide an overview of the DP program , why DPs are developed , what criteria are used , where to find them , how they are to be flown , and finally pilot and ATC responsibilities . There are many details involved in actually using these procedures to make safe departures in IMC . The <URL> is an excellent resource for pilots who want to review these procedures , what they provide and how to use them correctly . Here is an example of an ODP from my home airport , KCRG . There are some very tall towers less than 10 nautical miles from the airport . They are enormous and easy to avoid under visual conditions , but when IMC prevails these procedures are absolutely life-saving with such large obstructions nearby . They are taken from this <URL> . Here is an example of a SID . These are always graphically depicted and will usually be found at larger airports . Here are pages <URL> and <URL> of the full SID .
As a simple anwer , no , it is not always required . ICAO Annex 6 4.3.4.3 Destination alternate aerodromes For a flight to be conducted in accordance with the instrument flight rules , at least one destination alternate aerodrome shall be selected and specified in the operational and ATS flight plans , unless : a ) the duration of the flight and the meteorological conditions prevailing are such that there is reasonable certainty that , at the estimated time of arrival at the aerodrome of intended landing , and for a reasonable period before and after such time , the approach and landing may be made under visual meteorological conditions ; or b ) the aerodrome of intended landing is isolated and there is no suitable destination alternate aerodrome . Also , there are similar descriptions for the requirements for take-off and en-route alternates . EASA adds aditional requirements in OPS 1.295 in the form of maximum flight time of 6 hours and at least two runways at the airport , but it is still allowed . I can only assume FAA does a similar thing
Airbus aircraft have 3 hydraulic systems ( Green , Blue , Yellow ) . Green is pressurized by left engine , Yellow by right engine , and each one can be pressurized by the other using the PTU . In addition the Yellow circuit has an electric pump . The Blue circuit is a backup pressurized on demand by several means ( electric pump and RAT ) . Each circuit powers different aircraft components : <URL> Source : <URL> The choice of which engine ( s ) to use is based on the need to have pressure : For brakes For nose wheel steering system . Normal brakes and nose wheel steering are pressurized by the Green system . The brake accumulator must be pressurized , this can be done by running the an electric pump without starting an engine . . Engines are numbered 1 for left , 2 for right on twin-engined aircraft and from left to right ( 1/2 and then 3/4 ) for four-engined aircraft . From <URL> : Which Engine to Use ? A320 Family : ENG 1 A330 : ENG 1 A340 : Outer engines ( ENG 1 + 4 ) Why ? A320 Family : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) YELLOW HYD pressurized via ELEC PUMP PTU is not needed A330 : ENG 1 pressurizes GREEN + BLUE HYD HYD BLUE ensures ACCU PRESS ELEC PUMP are not needed A340 ( outer engines when possible -- exception would be a narrow taxiway and FOD risk ) : ENG 1 + 4 pressurize GREEN HYD ( NWS + NORM BRAKE ) Check ACCU PRESS normal before ENG start ELEC PUMP are not needed
It 's very difficult to answer this question as it depends upon so many different things : - Location - Time of day - Season - Flight level - Terrain below - Current weather ( of course ) - Type of aircraft - The crew and their knowledge / weather radar use . What also makes it hard is that what ' feels uncomfortable ' for one person might not for another . In the tropics it 's quite common for flights to be affected by turbulence . Most will see at least some light chop . In my experience of a few hundred long-haul flights through the tropics I 've only had a couple with no moderate turbulence ( what you might call uncomfortable ) . In a similar number of short-haul flights in Europe I 'd say that around 50 % had no significant turbulence at all and only around 5 % had moderate turbulence . You 're more likely to experience turbulence in the tropics as there 's a lot more convective activity there ( air rising and falling ) . Away from the tropics the USA tends to generate turbulence whilst Europe does not ( relatively speaking ) . SE Asia is particularly well known for turbulence encounters .
No , simulators can not realistically simulate turbulence . Turbulence is characterized by significant changes in altitude that happen very quickly , and even full motion simulators are n't going to be able to re-create that . They can bump you around a bit , but not really prepare you for the real thing .
end question
start question
Why is carburetor heat use discouraged on the ground ?
If you feel that you would need carb heat sitting on the ground , I 'd recommend taxing back and waiting for conditions to improve . If you are set on going , usually doing a run-up at the runway before take-off will tell you if you have carb ice or not . The other answer gave good reasons , sucking in some FOD ( foreign object debris ) , but there are some other things you would want to consider ... Forgetting to push the carb heat back in before takeoff - Especially important when taking off from short fields , you want all the power your engine has to offer , as carb heat robs your engine of some power . If you have carb ice , applying carb heat will cause your engine to make even less power ( hot air is less dense than cold air ) . 3/4 of the way down a 1200 foot runway is a bad time to realize the carb heat is still on , because it probably is n't on your takeoff checklist . Carb heat is not very effective on a cold engine - This is a real problem when you are at idle or especially gliding , the airflow over the engine components and the exhaust just does n't create enough heat to melt the ice in the carb ( at least not very quickly ) . This is why you may be instructed to " clear " the engine periodically during low power operations . This involves adding power and then carb heat to help melt any ice . That all being said , its not so much a rule as a recommendation . You 'll probably find that during your flight training you 'll end up leaving the carb heat on while on the ground for short periods . This happens a lot during landing operations when you are instructed to have carb heat on ( my instructor taught me mid-field downwind , " Seat Belts , Gear , Fuel Selector , Carb Heat , Mixture , Prop , Power " ) . You 'll end up leaving it on until you 've cleared the runway ( or set up for a touch-and-go ) and are running your " after landing " checklists .
Even small 1 hp electrical motors can achieve that RPM Yes , but can it sustain that RPM when something tries to stop it , that is the question . 1 hp combustion engines can get to 2700 rpm as well , but you can not attach a propeller to it , stick it in the air , and expect it to maintain the RPM . It takes a lot of torque to create aerodynamic thrust . It is a fact that electric motors are way better at producing torque than combustion engines . An electric motor produces almost maximum torque at the get-go , with the rotor standing still . The combustion engine needs to make RPM in order to make torque . <URL> compares electric motors with combustion engines for powering a hydraulic pump : a 20 hp electric motor can do the job that a 50 hp combustion engine can do . Electric motor : <URL> Combustion engine : intermittent torque means torque pulse from combustion . <URL> But wait , is that even possible ? Power is power , kilowatt is kilowatt , and it should not matter which engine we use to generate the kilowatts , they should all equate to equal amounts says the first law of thermodynamics , the conservation of energy . But it does matter , since with a combustion engine torque is a function of RPM . So increase RPM , and power increases due to increased RPM and increased torque . At lower RPM the combustion engine may simply lack the torque to speed up , while the electric motor has an almost flat torque curve . This same happens with outboard motors , when comparing 2-stroke with 4-stroke . 2-stroke has way more torque at lower revs , the 4-stroke may have the same horsepower but may never get to the high revs because it lacks the ability to get the boat planing . But I digress . To get back to your questions : What 's the use of so much torque , and what happens if there is less torque at the same RPM To keep the output shaft at this RPM while the propeller is pushing all that air backwards . That requires a serious amount of torque . If there is less torque at the same RPM , there will be less thrust produced and the aeroplane wo n't fly as fast . Can an electric motor perform similar to the Lycoming IO-360 with the same max . RPM , but with just half the torque of the latter ? Well , the surprising thing is that a horsepower is not a horsepower . Part of the problem lies in the horsepower output functions , so maybe an electric motor with a lower hp rating can be used . But one thing is very clear : at the RPM of the propeller , a certain torque is required at a certain speed to keep the propeller turning . This amount of torque will always be the same , no matter what kind of engine produces it .
Besides the main points you mentioned , I can think of a couple things , the first is sort of related to your point # 1 . Airplanes are designed to be easy to service . Cars are less so . Cars only have a few very expensive parts , mainly the drivetrain ( engine and transmission ) . If either of those needs to be replaced in an older car , it can easily cost more than the car is worth . Airplanes are much more complex , and have a larger number of expensive components . The engines of most airliners are designed to be removed relatively quickly . Although the engines tend to be the most expensive part , replacing an engine is nowhere near the total cost of the airplane , and there is generally a good pool of engines out there for parts and replacement ( just look at how many JT8D engines are still in service ) . In GA aircraft , it is easier for a repair to cost more than the airplane is worth . However , the more comprehensive maintenance required on aircraft means that this kind of repair is less likely to be needed . Also , while its usually easy to go out and replace a broken car with a comparable new or used one , the aircraft market is n't as large . New aircraft tend to be much more expensive , and the used market is more limited . Another reason is that airplanes can have more unique qualities than cars . For example , there are original 737s flying in Canada because they are able to operate from gravel runways . There are just more combinations of sizes and capabilities in airplanes than with cars . Many times , it is only economical to replace those aircraft ( both for the builder and the buyer ) in very long cycles .
The value will obviously vary for different aircraft models ( and also with the loading , c.g. location etc ) , but the usual range can be found in the airport planning document for the particular airliner , where the values for ground clearance for the aircraft at the OEW ( max . value ) and MTW ( min . value ) would be given . The difference should give you the compression . For example , for Boeing 737-800 , the quoted value is around 15 cm ( plus or minus 7cm ) . <URL> Image from <URL> document Note that the different parts of the aircraft ' sink ' different amounts - the fuselage sinks around 15cm , while the engines ( mounted on the wings ) sink more - by 16cm due to the fuel in the wings . Another ' typical ' aircraft , the A320neo sinks by about 10cm . <URL> Image from <URL> document Note that the values are given here for max . ramp weight .
Thrust vectoring is for flying outside the " normal " envelope ( which is characterized by attached flow ) . Airliners should really never leave this envelope , so they are perfectly fine with regular control surfaces . If you want to add thrust vectoring , it would make most sense if the engines are at the back of the airplane . On most airliners , it is really better to put them on and ahead of the wings , because in this location they help both with flutter damping ( mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) and bending relief . Putting the engine mass right where lift is created is better than carrying stresses all around the airframe , which would be the case with rear-mounted engines . The redundancy point is valid , but it would be more helpful to have redundant control surfaces , and this is exactly what airliners have . At some point , every airplane has to come down for a landing , which requires to throttle the engines . No thrust , no control ! Most extreme case : If one tail surface breaks off , I wonder if thrust vectoring would be up to the job of trimming the aircraft even with cruise thrust . Not only have the raw forces to be sufficient , the reaction time to control setting changes has to be quick enough to suppress oscillations . I am sure , however , that thrust vectoring will certainly not suffice in all flight phases . Thrust vectoring is perfect for situations at high angle of attack where you quickly want to point the nose of your aircraft at your adversary , so you get lock-on first . This is quite different from what an airliner has to do .
The correct answer may differ for each pair ( airline , airport ) and can be found in the contract that they mutually agreed upon . Such contracts are mostly seen as a business secret , and most of their contents are not known to the general public . As far as I know , both parties agree to do their best to keep everything working during every weather . Which means that there has to be enough equipment to clear a runway really quick , such that these " penalties " are " background noise " in the overall bill , even compared to the penalties caused by other reasons . The airport may decide not to bill the airline most of these penalties , as long as the airline wo n't try to bill every loss caused by the airport 's fault . As a rule of thumb , you do n't upset your business partners like that over peanuts , more so if claims go both ways . They may even have agreed on how many minutes delay wo n't be billed . Yet , this partnership may be put to the test when one of the partners is seen as cutting cost at the expense of the other , or when one really unexpected condition occurs ( like that volcano on Iceland , which disrupted air traffic in central Europe for two weeks or more ) .
All of these methods are used . Nosewheel steering is common on most commercial aircraft using a tiller . Rudder , differential braking , differential thrust and even motors in the wheels ( experimental only as far as I know ) are also used , <URL> . Engine thrust is used to move forward but differential thrust might also be used when negotiating tight turns . <URL>
In many cases , there are controllers dedicated to providing ATC services to the aircraft that are USING the SUA . Callsigns such as " Nellis Range " or " Eglin Mission " are used for the controllers working with aircraft within the SUA , be it MOA or Restricted or Warning areas or whatever . What looks like one big chunk of airspace on the chart may likely be divided into separate areas for training or testing purposes that the aircraft flying into it will know about , and it 's useful ( sometimes , vital ) to have a controller monitoring the various missions and keeping the various aircraft apart . These controllers may work in a dedicated facility that only deals with military aircraft , or they may work within a larger facility that includes " regular " ATC functions as well . For instance , the controllers who work the off-shore warning areas south of Eglin AFB as well as the on-shore restricted areas east and west of Eglin are physically located in the same RAPCON that is Eglin approach . So civilian aircraft inbound to Crestview or Destin or Eglin/Ft Walton Beach are talking to controllers working one set of scopes , but across the room are the controllers for Eglin Mission who are watching the various SUA . An aircraft that departs Eglin ( or Hurlburt , or Duke Field ) would probably be talking to one of the former initially , then when they head into one of the restricted or warning areas , they 'd be handed off from " Eglin Approach " to " Eglin Mission . " Essentially it 's like being handed off from one Approach sector to another , just that the Mission controllers have slightly different roles in keeping the airspace safe . It 's far better to clear an aircraft transiting a particular sector of SUA to fly through it ABOVE the aircraft in it that is employing air-to-ground ordinance , for instance , than clearing him through the airspace BELOW the bomb-dropper ! Or , if necessary -- maybe it 's a helo with an emergency that needs a straight line return to base and is n't going to climb up very high -- at least you have the bomb-dropper go cold and hold up high until the transiting aircraft is out of the way ! That 's the sort of ATC that Eglin Mission does that Eglin Approach does n't ... along with confirming that this callsign is in fact scheduled for this range at this time , and the last aircraft has departed , so " you 're cleared in to Range XYZ to work surface to 15,000 ' , advise 5 minutes prior to departing . " Fun times !
In Canada , you are required to have 40 hours of ground school instruction . See <URL> : completed a minimum of 40 hours private pilot aeroplane ground school instruction on the following subjects ... Ground school instruction is defined as ( <URL> ) : classroom-type instruction generally given to one or more persons and covering an organized program of lectures , homework or self-paced study that adheres to an approved training program . So , you can learn by self-study , but it needs to be an approved training program . This would mean that a flight instructor would need to sign off on the self-study program . <URL> : If you are unable to attend a ground school , the self-study method can be satisfactory , provided you obtain the proper study materials and devote a reasonable amount of time to study . The regulation is at <URL> : Received an endorsement , if required by this part , from an authorized instructor certifying that the applicant accomplished the appropriate ground-training or a home-study course required by this part for the certificate or rating sought and is prepared for the knowledge test ... Because in both cases an instructor must sign off on your preparedness for the examination , and passing the examination demonstrates that you meet the standard , in my opinion , the only thing that would make self-study a bad idea is if self-study is not an effective learning method for you , which could delay your training .
The answer to the specific question of " why PFD 's ( glass cockpits ) use this standard " is because their old style gauge cockpits used it before them . The glass cockpits of today are made to be similar to the older gauges so as to avoid confusion in their operation when moving from one type of aircraft to the other . This has been shown to be an issue in the past in the difference between American and Russian attitude indicators as such instrument operation strives to be at least somewhat uniform . Now as for the more general question " why are attitude indicators Blue/Brown ? " there are a few reasons . First off <URL> making it a combination to avoid ( <URL> ) . Second , and perhaps as important is that blue and brown sit basically on opposite sides of the color wheel making them very contrasty while blue and green sit right next to each other on the wheel . This ensures accurate viewing in most lighting situations . There are also other attitude indicators like those commonly used in military aircraft which have had different colors <URL> ( <URL> ) The oldest examples are completely void of any color ( you can see why they introduced color ) <URL> ( <URL> ) For what its worth some modern flight displays now include terrain data and are capable of showing many other colors to outline it as can be seen here on this Garmin unit <URL> ( <URL> )
Yes , it is commonly used , especially in large complex airspaces . If two VHF direction finders are installed at sufficient distance from each other , they allow the ATC system to triangulate the position of a VHF transmission . This position is then indicated on the air taffic situation display , which helps the air traffic controller to quickly correlate the transmission to the transmitting aircraft , often before the callsign has been transmitted . The controller still has to crosscheck the callsigns , but it helps to reduces workload . <URL>
You can persuade a turbine engine to run on just about anything that can burn . So the decision of which fuel to actually use depends on the side factors including , but not limited to : availability cost emissions hot section temperature chemical reactions with engine parts Specific examples : Coal dust is rather difficult to pump around , and the rampies do n't like shovelling liquid hydrogen ( used in the Space Shuttle ) requires a lot of storage and has the nasty habit of freezing anything it touches , like rampies . ethylacetylenedecaborane is unpleasantly toxic ( rampies union again ) and the combustion byproducts were rather abrasive to the engine 's innards trimethylaluminum would reduce the engine complexity ( no igniters needed ) because it has the nasty habit of igniting instantly upon contact with air , so leaks are rather dangerous . natural gas is commonly used as a turbine fuel in pumping stations : it 's already there and thus is " free " . The required pressure vessels make it impractical to use as an aircraft fuel . So kerosene basically became the standard turbine fuel because it 's : cheap : kerosene makes up a rather large fraction of crude oil . When you measure your fuel load in tons a few cents per litre makes a difference . safe to handle : relatively non-toxic , does n't ignite all that easily storable and transportable in common structural metals does n't clog up the engine
I can think of a few : Any delay in the flight is a waste of valuable resources - the flight , cabin and ground crew who have to be paid and the aircraft itself , which is not generating any revenue but costing money for the airline . Also , the airline may have to pay for the time the aircraft spends in the airport . There is an economic cost associated with on-time performance - for example , passengers are more likely to take airlines which have better on-time performance over others . Another case is that of customers taking connecting flights - again , on-time performance could be the difference here . This means loss of business for the lower performing airline . For airlines operating multiple trips per day , the delay and the associated costs are cumulative ; for example , if the first flight of the day is delayed , it snowballs into the day - requires replanning for the rest of the day in other airports and causes further delays . For the airline industry , the delays cost billions of dollars every year ( <URL> and <URL> ) and can reduce the operating revenues by a few percentage points ( <URL> ) . The table below , taken from the NEXTOR report on <URL> shows the cost to US airlines due to delays . <URL> As can be seen , the the costs due to delay to airlines are quite high .
Because it was something of a <URL> trademark since his early days . His first designs , the VariViggen and VariEze , had such a wing already , and apparently he saw no reason to optimize the wing of the Starship . <URL> Rutan VariEze in flight ( picture <URL> ) The only true innovation was a variable geometry canard , which he even <URL> . Being only 85 % scale , the performance of the Starship prototype was formidable , but once the real production aircraft had been designed with full compliance to airworthiness regulations , the Beech Starship turned out to be less impressive . The additional wetted surface produced more friction drag . Piaggio 's design is clearly superior . By the way , the idea behind the variable geometry canard was sound : In the landing configuration it would balance the additional lift from the fowler flaps on the wing . But the whole mechanism cost more in weight than the reduction in drag during cruise could save . <URL> Drawing from US Patent 4641800 .
Usually , no . There are two main methods used to deice an airplane in the air . One is letting warm air that is bleed from the jet engine to heat the wing leading edge . The other is to have have rubber air bladders ( called deice boots ) on the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces that are pumped up and the ice falls off . Both of those methods are only useful to deice the leading edge of the wing and tail surfaces which is pretty much the only dangerous place where an airplane can gather ice while it is flying . Airplanes on the ground are a different story . Ice can be built up pretty much anywhere as there is no airflow to prevent it . Excessive ice on control surfaces can make them behave " unevenly " or in extreme cases even unresponsive . Bigger chunks of ice breaking off the fuselage can get ingested by the engine and cause problems . It is therefore important that the airplane takes off ice-free . In fact , as little as frost on the surface of the wings can cause a significant loss of lift and can even cause a plane to crash .
There are a number of reasons why pilot do n't use autoland all the time , even if the airport and aircraft are equipped with the right equipment . To name the two most important ones : Pilots need to practise their flying technique . If they would always fly autopilot , they would lose the skills to fly . Skills that they need when the autopilot does fail . There are phases of flight where it is better or even required to let the autopilot do its job , but landing is one the things pilot are allowed to and need to be capable of doing themselves . Of course autoland needs to be practised as well . Auto land requires very accurate ILS guidance . Even if the airport is equipped with calibrated ILS Cat IIIb equipment ( required for autoland ) , the signals will be degraded by traffic that is operating near the ILS antennas . Under low visibility circumstances , when pilots can not land visually , traffic spacing is increased and ground vehicles are not allowed anywhere near the ILS antennas to ensure the best possible signal quality . This is a standard part of the Low Visibility Procedures ( LVP ) of all airports . The downside of this is that the capacity of the airport is reduced . If autoland would be performed while there is no ILS signal protection , the effects can be <URL> at best or fatal at worst . Photo by BFU , incident report <URL>
I 'll assume you 're referring to astronaut helmets only because of their sunglasses-like reflective properties against visual light , not other wavelengths . There are some small efforts by manufacturers to add some reflective coatings to their windshields . The 787 has <URL> that had a gold-based heating film that also reflected infrared light - useful because a cockpit can heat up quickly . Military jets like the F-16 can have golden-tinted " Have Glass " cockpit windows but <URL> , not to filter visual light . There are several reasons visible-light reflective windshields are never seen . The first is that optically it 's very difficult to have reflection only go one way . Reflective coatings work well for sunglasses and some car windows because the light coming in can be assumed to be much brighter than the light going out , so glare from inside is not a huge problem . In an aircraft , where that tiny light on the horizon could be a several-ton aircraft closing in fast , the requirements for night vision are a bit higher . It should be noted that , for cars , reflective or tinted windshields are illegal in the USA for a number of reasons , including visibility . The second reason is that bright outside light is a solved problem , so we do n't have to resort to desperate measures like permanent reflective tinting . Sunglasses use by pilots , even though <URL> , is so widespread there 's literally a style of sunglasses named " aviators " and the FAA has a safety brochure on selecting sunglasses ( <URL> ) . If the pilot does n't like sunglasses , they can <URL> .
Pitch is measured with respect to a plane orthogonal to the local weight ¹ force , which is properly called the horizontal . That is used because : It is equipotential plane of the gravitational field . Moving around it wo n't change your potential energy . Is always well defined . Is smooth and locally flat ( it is still a spherical surface globally , of course ) . Can be measured by averaging inertial forces on board without external reference . It is called simply horizon , presumably because looking at the horizon is the easiest way to find that plane by human senses . Using ground , which is not flat , as reference would n't work . Aircraft need to fly mostly along the equipotential plane , because climbing to a higher one requires adding more energy by the engines and descending below means the aircraft accelerates and needs to dissipate ( = waste ) the energy . So following terrain would require quite a bit more energy than flying horizontal . Plus it would be very complicated . ¹ By weight I mean the sum of gravity and centrifugal force in the reference frame rotating with Earth .
<URL> are only a small part of smart materials . Once deformed , they will change back to their old shape when heated or subjected to strong magnetic fields . Of the many alloys with this characteristic , only a few like <URL> would be suitable for primary structures . They are extremely expensive to make and to process , so they have never been an economical alternative . Also , heating and cooling would be required to switch between shapes , which is very energy intensive when the outer structure of an aircraft is involved . Airflow will ensure intense convective heat transfer , and to maintain the needed temperature will be very uneconomical . Please consider that an aircraft with shape-memory alloys would need to carry extra fuel for heating or cooling over much of the flight time . Hinges and electric or hydraulic actuators will have a clear mass advantage when you consider the system mass , including energy sources . I guess you agree that creating strong magentical fields in parts of an aircraft is an exceedingly bad idea , so I will rule out <URL> . Shape-memory alloys will only switch between two shapes , and intermediate shapes are easier to realize with hinges and actuators . Sure , a smooth shape is aerodynamically better than one with a contour break at the hinge line , but the small aerodynamic advantage of shape-memory structures is quickly lost when you look at the whole picture . Another disadvantage is the accumulation of small cracks with every shape change . The low number of cycles will either require frequent replacement of the shape-memory parts or a very limited structural life of the aircraft . In the end , much of what can be said about <URL> also applies to shape-memory alloys . Their main function is to justify research grants and to keep the press occupied .
Bugs simply make instruments easier to read with a very quick glance . If I need to steer exactly 162 degrees , which is easier ? To read where the needle is pointing or just see if the needle is pointing to the bug which I manually set to 162 degrees ? The bugs are set by rotating knobs on the gauges . Here , the heading bug knob is in the lower right corner . <URL> The way I often use it is to turn onto the next heading required according to my plan , then set the bug to that heading so that I can simply glance at the needle ( still pointing to the bug , good ) to keep me on course . Other uses : If ATC gives you a " next heading " , you will read back the instruction , then you can set the bug to that next heading so that a ) , you do n't forget it and need to call back and b ) can simply turn onto the bug when it 's time to turn . Set it to the departure runway heading on take off . To " fly runway heading " , just keep the bug at the top of the gauge . On arrival , set it to the landing runway heading . As a " gross error " check . You would not believe how many inexperienced pilots set off in entirely the wrong direction . As well as setting the heading bug to " first leg of the plan " , you check this along with " and the road should be on my left with the river on my right " . On some simple autopilot systems , the autopilot follows the altitude and heading bugs rather than having controls for these settings on the autopilot itself .
end question
start question
Is the " Bay Tour " flight path documented , or is it a more informal route ? Are there similar flight paths for other cities ?
There certainly are similar routes - the Niagara Scenic Falls route , given in FAR <URL> comes to mind . ( <URL> . ) Comply with the following procedures when conducting flight over the area described in paragraph ( a ) of this section : ( 1 ) Fly a clockwise pattern ; ( 2 ) Do not proceed north of the Rainbow Bridge ; ( 3 ) Prior to joining the pattern , broadcast flight intentions on frequency 122.05 Mhz , giving altitude and position , and monitor the frequency while in the pattern ; ( 4 ) Use the Niagara Falls airport altimeter setting . Contact Niagara Falls Airport Traffic Control Tower to obtain the current altimeter setting , to facilitate the exchange of traffic advisories/restrictions , and to reduce the risk of midair collisions between aircraft operating in the vicinity of the Falls . If the Control Tower is closed , use the appropriate Automatic Terminal Information Service ( ATIS ) Frequency ; ( 5 ) Do not exceed 130 knots ; ( 6 ) Anticipate heavy congestion of VFR traffic at or above 3,500 feet MSL ; and ( 7 ) Use caution to avoid high-speed civil and military aircraft transiting the area to or from Niagara Falls Airport .
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
Yes they do , and so do some independent training organisations . For instance EPST markets an aptitude test called <URL> , developed to test the suitability of candidates before they engage in pilot training . Some airlines only hire self funded students ( who have paid for their own CPL , type rating etc ) and they can be flight tested in the simulator .
1 ) The software from various airline companies seems to be more or less of a standard . So they should work in a similar fashion . Which input is needed in order to make it work ( i.e. , altitude , lat/lon coordinates , temperature ) ? " Inputs " from the aircraft devices , like pitot , anemometer , gyro , etc. ? I do n't know . DeltaLima answered that for you . What you see on the screen is definately a software rendering , that means an operating system is running , and displays a frame on that screen device . The graphic is software-generated ( the map , the plane , its orientation , the text , the sun , the clouds , zooming , etc. ) So , at some point , the inputs signals ( altitude , cruise , heading ... ) has to be converted in computer bytes that will be handled by hardware devices of a computer , buffered in memory , then used by " some software " in the way they have been designed for . Option 1 : There 's a central Operating System ( OS ) that holds all the computable datas and feeds all onboard software on demand including FMS , IFE , etc. . Option 2 : There 's no central OS , but multiples ones , and a direct star-type ( tree ) data pipeline . Option 3 : IFE Software is a included in one OS that also run other softwares There are other Options , each one could be better called " onboard System " By the way , if , by " inputs " , you meant " how to make that tiny plane move along the map " , there are thousands of ways doing it , but the schemas is the same : draw a map ( use some gree/blue/brown color to make it look good enough ) draw a path using points locations on a X-Y ( invisible ) grid and line segments slam a top view of a plane on all of that at a precise X-Y location ( and do n't forget to rotate the plane icon in the correct heading or your passengers will start to panick ) No matter how beautiful the flightpath could be rendered , remember it 's a computer generated graphic , and does n't need to be accurate at all . For example , refreshing could be set at an interval of 5 seconds instead of real time ( 5 seconds is good enough even for steep turns on final ) The map resolution does n't require a milimetric precision . 1000ft or 500ft lateral precision could suffice , and even if the displayed ( text ) altitude is in feet , the 3D rendering does n't care about that at all : it uses a fraction of that altitude , then accordinly shifts the position of the aircraft model on the screen to give you the impression the aircraft is at an higher altitude ... That the logical way the flightpath software requires . Accuracy and physics computations are not required , unless you want to create a game or even better , a simulator ( in terms of reproducing nearly-real behaviour in a virtual world ) GoogleEart 's Flight game for example is n't as precise as many other games out there ( Lock On , X-Plane ... ) But for all of those , the " inputs " are all binary datas stored in memory and used as variables by the software . Turning a plane is n't dependent on a heading value . It 's one block of the software code that reads the heading variable , then rotate the object ( the plane ) by the corresponding angular value , then another block of the software code draws ( renders ) the object on a screen buffer . Finally , the screen buffer is passed to the displaying device ( your IFE screen ) and each pixel of that screen shows what has been calculated by the software for the human eyes . In the end , what you see on a screen - ANY screen wether it 's your TV , the IFE , your computer screen when you read this answer , your phone screen - is a series of slideshows pictures rendered by the screen device one image after another . But it 's done so fast that the human eyes ( or brain actually ) think what is shown is really moving . It 's not , but looks like . 2 ) Is it possible to acquire one version of this software and run it offline as a simulation , giving as input the needed information ? I tend to say yes ! but wait ! Good luck finding that software though . You should ask someone working for an IFE system provider for aircraft manufacturer . And note one thing : Such softwares could be packed in some hardware components having an inbuilt memory card , this preventing anyone from copying that very software while it is successfully loaded in the IFE OS just like any other software loaded from disk/CDs/USBs ... Of course you ca n't unplug the hardware device from the IFE hardware motherboard , and plug it on your computer motherbord , that wont make it . . Just like your phone ( wether android or iphone or whatever ) the firmware is burried deep in one hardware component . You ca n't easily copy a firmware from an iphone to a nexus . . :P But at one point , those softwares has to be created on a computer , then , have their " saved as files " state in the computers of the enterprises creating them . As you could have guessed , chances to get a copy of such software is pretty . . non existent , not because it 's nearly impossible , but because such software are copyrighted , and/or the ( hardware ) system supposed
No . Definitely try more than one CFI and ideally , more than one school . This is the smart choice and one I recommended regularly when I was an active flight school CFI . You 're about to spend a ton of money - do the due diligence and spend more up front to make sure you do n't waste time and money with someone whose teaching style or personality clashes with you as a student .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
You do n't need the standby altimeter for VFR ( day or night ) but you do need it for IFR . The Comprehensive Equipment List ( section 6 in the POH ) lists all the equipment required by the type certificate : Required items or equipment for FAA certification ( 14 CFR Part 23 or Part 91 ) But , even if a piece of equipment is required by the type certificate that does n't mean it 's required for a specific flight . The Kinds of Operations Equipment List ( section 2 in the POH ) lists the equipment that 's required for airworthiness in day and night VFR and IFR : identifies the equipment required to be operational for airplane airworthiness in the listed kind of operations . <URL> says that the aircraft must be " in an airworthy condition " to fly , and that 's what the KOEL defines . The reason that the standby altimeter is marked as required in the Comprehensive Equipment List is that the C172S was type certified under the old part 23 rules . <URL> required IFR-certified aircraft that use electronic displays - like the G1000 in the NAV III - to have a standby altimeter , either mechanical or electrically isolated from the main one ( emphasis mine ) : For certification for Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) operations , have an independent magnetic direction indicator and either an independent secondary mechanical altimeter , airspeed indicator , and attitude instrument or an electronic display parameters for the altitude , airspeed , and attitude that are independent from the airplane 's primary electrical power system In summary : The standby altimeter is marked as required in the Comprehensive Equipment List because it 's an IFR certification requirement Operationally , the standby altimeter is only required for IFR flight , per the KOEL
In the US you need to file a flight plan for the following flights : IFR flights Defense VFR Flights , which are required to fly in the ADIZ that is off the coast of the US ( an IFR flight plan may also be used ) . Some TFR 's only allow air traffic to fly within their boundaries if they are on an IFR or VFR flight plan . A DC FRZ flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC FRZ . A DC SFRA flight plan is required to fly VFR in the DC SFRA . When entering or leaving the U.S. , an ICAO international flight plan ( IFR or VFR ) . Other than that , no flight plans are required , but are strongly recommended so that search and rescue gets called if you do n't show up at your destination on time !
Has boeing changed their alarm systems post that incident ? The story of <URL> is complicated . It is not clear that a misidentified alarm was the cause of the crash . Update : If you are talking about the cabin altitude warning horn , that was allegedly misidentified as a take-off configuration , then nothing has been changed , at least up to May 2015 ( see : <URL> , bottom of the page 50 ) . " As the aircraft climbed , the pressure inside the cabin gradually decreased . As it passed through an altitude of 12,040 feet ( 3,670 m ) , the cabin altitude warning horn sounded . The warning should have prompted the crew to stop climbing , but it was misidentified by the crew as a take-off configuration warning , which signals that the aircraft is not ready for take-off , and can only sound on the ground . In the next few minutes , several warning lights on the overhead panel in the cockpit illuminated . One or both of the equipment cooling warning lights came on to indicate low airflow through the cooling fans ( a result of the decreased air density ) , accompanied by the master caution light . The passenger oxygen light illuminated when , at an altitude of approximately 18,000 feet ( 5,500 m ) , the oxygen masks in the passenger cabin automatically deployed . " m , Source : <URL> .
Read that other question again . He was approaching from the SSW and made an assumption based on the approach segment from AUGIE . He was n't actually on the AUGIE-BEJCY leg as it would be impossible to be there if he were approaching from the SSW . His clearance was " Direct BEJCY cleared for the GPS 01 approach " . That clearance , in lieu of any specific instructions about the procedure turn , requires that the procedure turn be flown . He assumed that because he was roughly on the extended centerline of the runway SSW of the airport that he was exempt . However , there is no charted course there labelled " NoPT " , so his assumption was incorrect . Back to your question of why someone flying from that location would have to fly the PT , and the answer generally boils down to " <URL> " . The leg from AUGIE can be flown at 3000 ft while the area minimum safe altitude is 3100 ft. It is very likely the minimum enroute altitude over that area is higher than 3100 feet . This means a pilot that is using BEJCY as the IAF may be considerably higher altitude than 3000 ft. On this approach you ideally want to be at 2500 ft by the FAF at CUCTO . If you are approaching BEJCY from any direction other than AUGIE this means you can not start your descent from whatever altitude you are at down to 2500 ' until passing BEJCY . The procedure turn is not only for course alignment but also to descend to the procedure altitude from the enroute environment .
You do n't want an aircraft that just ' works ' - rather , you want an aircraft that satisfies your needs . The first flight is usually made by a prototype and does just that - it flies and pretty much nothing else . Only once you start the flight tests do you understand the airframe limitations and whether the aircraft meets the requirements ; usually , a number of modifications are needed . Also , the first flights are rarely , if ever in production configuration . In most of the cases , the required systems are fitted later . In general , most of the combat aircraft bring about substantial improvement over its predecessors - in fact it is a requirement , as the old ones can be used with small improvements at a much lesser cost . Me 262 was really a revolutionary product and the use of jet engines caused a number of delays ; in fact the prototypes were flight tested with piston engines in 1941 . The first test flight happened with piston engine - just as well because both the jets flamed out soon after takeoff . By the time the second and third prototypes , the engines had been changed . However , these engines ( Jumo 004 ) were larger , requiring larger nacelles , which in turn required a bigger vertical stabilizer ( the landing gear was changed later ) . Pre-production of Me 262 had started in 1943 ( and went nowhere due to engine troubles ) when it was decided to change it into a bomber , further increasing the development period . By the time it took the field , it was in too few numbers to do anything . Another example is the Mirage III . There were significant differences between the aircraft in first flight and the production one . The prototype never reached the required Mach 2 in level flight.The first one to do was the pre-produciotn Mirage IIIA with an engine with more than 30 % extra thrust , lengthened fuselage for radar etc. . Even this version was not combat capable - that was the Mirage IIIC . The design is not frozen till the flight testing is over and the production plans can only be finalized after that - you never know what 'll change ( for example the hugely successful Su-27 underwent a change in wing design midway through testing ) . The delays due to setting up of production comes later and is normally quite less for countries/companies having experience . It is the design freeze that takes up more time during test flights .
Acrobatic is being incorrectly used , although it is slightly more complicated than that . " Aerobatic " refers specifically to flight , and " acrobatic " refers specifically to feats of the human body , so referring to an aircraft as performing acrobatics is wrong . That said , <URL> and sounds nearly identical , so it 's an understandable and relatively common error .
Since the pilot wo n't check-in their flight bag , the booking will be cancelled ( no-show ) . They wo n't board with the passengers , so they wo n't be counted , same end result . Answer is no . Many airlines now prohibit active duty ( including relief ) flight-crew from mingling with the passengers . Long gone are the days of the pilot walking up and down the plane . That would be the most expensive shower in the history of showers . A first-class Emirates long haul flight is easily $ 24,000 ( SFO-DXB ) . <URL> are beds for a reason , a shower goes against the idea of sleeping ( may not be a universal thing though ) . But I would n't want to see my flight-crew in a robe going to bed after a nice warm shower . Unless the robe comes with epaulets .
For the aircrew , at least in the aircraft that I 've flown , there is no defined checklist . You scan and then deal with anything that occurs ( inoperative equipment , pressurization issues , whatever you get ) with whatever checklists apply : if the lightning knocked out a hydraulic pump , run the checklist for the inop pump , etc. . Once you 're on the ground , maintenance has a HUGE checklist to work through , essentially checking every surface of the aircraft for damage and verifying that every piece of equipment still works . The more that the crew can tell them ( i.e. radios &amp; instruments unaffected , no equipment stopped working , pressurization normal , etc ) , the more of it they can sign off from the crew observation . But even then , it 's still pretty lengthy .
It 's apparently loosely based on <URL> and like in the actual incident , I do n't think he deliberately inverts the plane . In the actual event , the horizontal stabilizer gets jammed in an extreme position thus forcing the plane to invert . Now if it were possible to fly a commercial airplane that big inverted , Alaska Airlines too would 've landed safely eventually ( which did n't happen , despite the pilots trying to fly it upside down according to the CVR transcripts ) .
With respect to avionics and fault logs , flight legs is just one more data point . It 's not any more important than any other piece of data , but it does have value . Avionics are not structure and do n't care as much about pressurization cycles , but it can be a factor - the pressure change between sea level and 8000 cabin altitude does have some effect . It 's just that avionics can easily count flight legs and it makes for an easy way to organize the fault logs along with flight phase . It is useful data when trying to find the root cause of an intermittent fault in a piece of avionics . Fault logs typically log at least 20 legs before they " roll over " and overwrite old data . With some aircraft flying 6 or more legs a day , that ensures the plane can get to a base with maintenance before the fault gets overwritten . The value is the ability to help detect patterns . I 've seen faults that only occur on the first leg of the day after the plane was parked overnight at a very humid airport . Re-creating the conditions allowed us to duplicate the fault . The problem was a flaw in the conformal coating ( sealant ) on a circuit card that allowed moisture to cause a short . Once the unit had operated for an hour or so , the heat had dried it out and it worked fine .
You have this tagged both FAA and ICAO but for the FAA thats governed under <URL> ( c ) Hand fire extinguishers for crew , passenger , cargo , and galley compartments . Hand fire extinguishers of an approved type must be provided for use in crew , passenger , cargo , and galley compartments in accordance with the following : ( 1 ) The type and quantity of extinguishing agent must be suitable for the kinds of fires likely to occur in the compartment where the extinguisher is intended to be used and , for passenger compartments , must be designed to minimize the hazard of toxic gas concentrations . ( 2 ) Cargo compartments . At least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located for use in each class E cargo compartment that is accessible to crewmembers during flight . ( 3 ) Galley compartments . At least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located for use in each galley located in a compartment other than a passenger , cargo , or crew compartment . ( 4 ) Flightcrew compartment . At least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located on the flight deck for use by the flightcrew . ( 5 ) Passenger compartments . Hand fire extinguishers for use in passenger compartments must be conveniently located and , when two or more are required , uniformly distributed throughout each compartment . Hand fire extinguishers shall be provided in passenger compartments as follows : ( i ) For airplanes having passenger se ats accommodating more than 6 but fewer than 31 passengers , at least one . ( ii ) For airplanes having passenger se ats accommodating more than 30 but fewer than 61 passengers , at least two . ( iii ) For airplanes having passenger se ats accommodating more than 60 passengers , there must be at least the following number of hand fire extinguishers : Minimum Number of Hand Fire Extinguishers Passenger seating accommodations : 61 through 200 : 3 201 through 300 : 4 301 through 400 : 5 401 through 500 : 6 501 through 600 : 7 601 or more : 8 ( 6 ) Notwithstanding the requirement for uniform distribution of hand fire extinguishers as prescribed in paragraph ( c ) ( 5 ) of this section , for those cases where a galley is located in a passenger compartment , at least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located and easily accessible for use in the galley . ( 7 ) At least two of the required hand fire extinguisher installed in passenger-carrying airplanes must contain Halon 1211 ( bromochlorofluoromethane ) or equivalent as the extinguishing agent . At least one hand fire extinguisher in the passenger compartment must contain Halon 1211 or equivalent . You may also find some <URL> .
Typically , the checklists in normal operations are : External walk around and preflight Before start Before taxi Before take-off After take-off Cruise Descent Approach Landing Shutdown Secure This list is pretty much the same for all aircraft . Normally , each checklist is only used once at the appropriate time but a wise pilot would re-run a checklist if interrrupted . For example , you are cleared to start and complete the before start checklist but there is then an unexpected delay before you actually start . You wait for 30 minutes . No need to redo the before start checklist because you did it earlier ? No , do it again . Something might have changed .
Control means to be able to vary the forces which act on an airplane , both longitudinally and vertically . Ideally , any variation will create an immediate feedback , so the pilot can " feel " how much more action is needed for the desired change . If , however , the variation of forces builds up slowly , the dynamic answer of the airplane will make the closing of the feedback loop harder to achieve . The pilot might either overcontrol and get into an oscillation , or he/she will be too careful , and the desired change never happens or happens too slowly . Regular control surfaces are small , so they can move quickly , and their forces act on a long lever arm , so the control effect is large . Also , control surfaces change lift proportional to their deflection , so predicting the consequence of an input is easy and the feedback can be felt immediately . Even if the primary control surfaces are ineffective , several ways of control still exist . I will list them in order of reaction speed : The elevator can be replaced by : Pitch trim , Wing flaps , Thrust variation , if the engines sit above or below the longitudinal axis of inertia , Weight shifting , if fuel can be moved between tanks or payload can be shifted longitudinally . The last two options work very slowly , and while they can be used to limit sink speed , it will be extremely hard to avoid overcontrol and oscillations . Situations which need precise pitch control like landings are impossible to master for an unprepared human pilot when only such crude means of control remain . The rudder can be replaced by : Rudder trim , Ailerons plus pitch control in case of agile aircraft with low aspect ratio , Asymmetric spoiler ( if available ) , Asymmentric thrust . Again , the last option is rather slow and can not be used for precise directional control . The ailerons can be replaced by : Rudder plus dihedral effect , Asymmetric spoiler ( if available ) , Sideways fuel pumping . Here again the last option is too crude and too slow for maneuvering . If the aircraft is otherwise undamaged , and the flight dynamics are well known , a specially programmed autopilot could fly an aircraft even when using the last listed options , because it can much better predict than a human pilot how much effect its actions will have . Humans rely on a feedback loop for control , and this is not working anymore if the reaction time of the system is far above its eigenfrequencies of motion . Note the " if " : How likely will it be that only all control surface actuators have failed , but the aircraft is intact otherwise ? In most cases , the control failure is a consequence of another failure which will alter the dynamic response such that an autopilot would be unprepared . There are experimental autopilots which can adapt , but they are only used by the military so far . With the loss of most of its tail section , JAL123 would have been hard to control even if the equivalent of full rudder authority would have been given to the pilots . With thrust only , fighting the inevitable dutch roll motion by hand is impossible .
Yes , it is called <URL> . FIS is defined by ICAO , and the term is used in most of the world . " Flight following " is a local term used only in certain countries . A flight information service ( FIS ) is a form of air traffic service which is available to any aircraft within a flight information region ( FIR ) , as agreed internationally by ICAO . It is defined as information pertinent to the safe and efficient conduct of flight , and includes information on other potentially conflicting traffic , possibly derived from radar , but stopping short of providing positive separation from that traffic . Flight Information also includes : FIS shall be provided to all aircraft which are provided with any air traffic controller ( ATC ) service or are otherwise known to air traffic service units . All air traffic service units will provide an FIS to any aircraft , in addition to their other tasks .
end question
start question
What are the regulations for lighting fixtures around an airport ?
To start you off there 's these two : <URL> - Certification of Airports and <URL> - Notice of Construction , Alteration , Activation and Deactivation of Airports . Part 139.311 covers all the lighting related requirements . Part 157 is there just so you can inform the FAA about the changes you 're going to make in the airport . for specifics about LED lights , I would suggest looking for Advisory Circulars with LED lighting for airports in particular .
No , that 's all it means . Aviation regulations tend to be put in place in response to accident reports , where a plane crashed or almost crashed for lack of the regulations . So , if you 're confused why a stupid-seeming regulation exists , there 's a good chance that people died because of the thing the regulation changed . Obviously , not all regulations are like that ; for instance , noise limits are based on quality of life for those near airports , not crashes . However , a good number of aviation rules came into effect as recommendations following a crash report .
For the landing is quite easy . Airliners usually approach an airport descending along $ 3 ^ \ circ $ slopes . This means that they will be 300m AGL approximately 5.7 km before the runway threshold , and they will be at 550m AGL about 10.5 km before the same point . For the take-off the situation is a bit more complicated , as each aircraft will have a different performance . Taking a value of about 1000ft/min for the vertical velocity and 200Kts for the forward velocity ( in aviation we use the imperial system , for a bit of background see <URL> ) we get similar distances to the above ( it is a $ 2.8 ^ \ circ $ slope ) Note that these paths are more or less a straight continuation of the runway , particularly on the landing side ( less so on the take off side ) . Each airport has approach and departure procedures , you could try to have a look at those . They are usually published by Jeppesen .
The short answer is no , beyond the need for an aircraft to satisfy the <URL> set by the FAA and other regulators . There must also be room for an approved seat cushion and seatbelts . So there is a point where a lack of legroom would impede evacuation to the extent that an aircraft could n't pass the <URL> , but there 's generally no specific minimum legroom requirement . The main exception is in the UK , which does have a form of <URL> ( according to that link , the UK is the only country with one ) . The requirement is given as a different form of measurement from how airline seat pitch is normally defined , but the above link indicates that it basically translates to a 28-inch seat pitch . That 's about as <URL> , namely Spirit in the US . Most airlines draw the line at 30 " , with a few low cost carriers doing 29 "
Yes , it 's true . Usually called approach or arrival briefing Details will vary according to aircraft and operator but a typical list is NATS : NOTAMs1 ATIS2 notes , chart briefing point by point , date , frequencies , courses , minimums and missed approach procedures . Terrain , minimum safety altitude , which route Special notes for arrival , taxiing , likely gate for arrival ? I noticed that you specifically asked about something going wrong . The following assumes a serviceable aircraft . According to operator , if the aircraft is not on a stabilised approach by 1,000 feet , a go around will be performed and the missed approach procedure ( MAP ) followed . The MAP is printed on the approach chart . The initial action is : to get the aircraft safely climbing away ( aviate ) to the altitude and heading defined in the MAP ( navigate ) then call ATC to let them know ( communicate ) . Aviate , navigate , communicate , always in that order . A stabilised approach might differ between operators but is essentially . The flight path is correct with only minor changes in pitch and heading needed to stay on it . No more than 20 kts above the approach reference speed briefed as above . Correctly configured for landing ( flaps , slats , gear , spoilers armed , autobrake set etc ) Checklists completed Rate of descent < = 1,000 fpm Power setting is appropriate There may be other special checks for some types of approaches which must have been briefed as above ) . The MAP might be something like : The MAP is unique for each approach so must be briefed in advance . 1 <URL> : Warn of recent changes , temporary restrictions , equipment malfunctions etc. . 2 <URL> : A continuous broadcast of airfield information such as weather , special precautions , runways in use etc. .
Not likely . Pilots wear headphones , so we can not hear the idle prattle of the pax in the hold . In any case , we do n't take orders from passengers . Think about that for a second : would you like it if aircraft pilots followed the instructions of a crazy screaming passenger ? What if there were TWO crazy screaming passengers giving contradictory commands ? Which one should we obey ? In any case , nowadays cockpit doors are closed during flight anyway . <URL>
The different airspeeds : IAS is indicated airpseed CAS is calibrated airspeed EAS is equivalent airspeed TAS is true airspeed CAS is IAS corrected for instrumentation and position errors . The errors are most pronounced in slow and high angle-of-attack flight . IAS figures in aircraft manuals are actually converted from CAS . For ease of use . <URL> ( Wikipedia link ) . <URL> However , a modern plane with an <URL> ( ADC ) actually displays CAS , despite being labelled as IAS . Below 200 knots and 10,000 feet , for all purposes , CAS equals EAS . As the plane goes faster and higher and compresses the air , the air changes density , an effect known as compressibility that affects the CAS reading . <URL> EAS is computed by the ADC on a modern fast plane , and together with the density altitude , the TAS is then known . Ground speed and track ( from GPS , navaids , and/or INS ) together with the TAS allows the <URL> to calculate and display the wind speed/direction . Before ADC 's , pilots used charts like those in the answer . Summary : In a modern plane , what the pilot actually uses is CAS , despite being labelled IAS . And EAS is used in computing the TAS by the ADC . For engineers , TAS ( actual velocity through the air ) is used in lift equations , EAS is used in calculating dynamic pressures on the plane ( TAS corrected for air density ) . Source used and a must read : <URL>
A great site to download airport diagrams and other charts is <URL> . As of April 2015 , however , the site seems gone . Airport diagrams show all the taxiways and ramps , which is what you are looking for . Keep in mind that this is an unofficial website . The charts should not be used for actual navigation .
There are actually quite a few reasons to fly an instrument approach , especially one with vertical guidance ( like an ILS ) , even if the weather does n't require it : It serves as a backup to the visual approach . There are various visual illusions that can cause a pilot to fly an approach too high or too low and monitoring the vertical guidance can help to mitigate those . It helps to ensure that you land on the correct runway , and even at the correct airport . ( Unlike <URL> . ) ATC uses it when pilots do not have the airport or runway in sight . This happens quite frequently at large airports where they have to line many aircraft up on final . The last guy is a long distance from the airport so may not be able to see it but can fly the approach . It can be useful if it is hazy or the sun is making it hard for the pilots to find the airport . Some parallel runways are approved for simultaneous approaches ( as is the case at Narita for runways 34L &amp; 34R ) so ATC will clear two airplanes for the respective ILS 's . This keeps them tracking the centerline of the approach instead of maneuvering visually where they might drift over into the way of the other airplane . Flying the approach on the autopilot leaves more time for the pilot to focus on other things and possibly catch something that might have been missed while hand flying a visual approach . Sometimes instrument approaches are used for noise abatement reasons . If I had to guess about the particular approach that you mention , I would say that it is probably company SOP ( Standard Operating Procedures ) to fly the ILS whenever possible for the safety benefits , and that Narita allows simultaneous parallel landings to the two runways so ATC would require it as well .
Simple answer ... No . You could rule out the types of planes that could land at an airport by an <URL> but there is nothing specific .
There are <URL> approved by the FAA that have built-in Bluetooth . Based on that , I 'm going to say that this has been tested and will not interfere with the aircraft avionics . Radio/EMI testing is part of the testing that any device approved by the FAA for use in an airplane must go through .
A good way to answer questions like this is to look at the <URL> As newmanth answered , these are gate numbers . <URL> Using Google Maps , you can also see these numbers painted on the taxiway as a guide to taxiing pilots If you want to understand airport air-side signage , one document I found useful is <URL> . It is a UK CAA document but I expect most of it applies in other parts of the world . The CAA refer to stand numbers , as far as I know these are the same as gate numbers . They indicate parking positions for aircraft at airport terminals , these are places that allow for the loading and unloading of passengers . Airliners arriving at airports will know what gate they have to taxi to , and ATC will provide them with taxiway routes . Airports provide signs so that pilots basically know where to find their allocated gate .
The tanks are generally sealed with some kind of putty/resin/epoxy like material . Keep in mind that only the joints between exterior panels need to be sealed . On many aircraft this is done through inspection panels . The material is , in a manner of speaking painted/applied . Here is an example from a <URL> , which are <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) Tanks on larger aircraft are not all that different , much like this one off a 747 <URL> ( <URL> ) its worth noting that tanks do n't need to be continuously open , they can have structures with in them as long as the fuel is free to flow around . Large and small tanks alike may very well have structural elements inside with flow holes drilled to allow fuel to move around . These elements also help reduce the effects of large quantities of fuel sloshing around as the aircraft changes attitude .
For any <URL> , the event must have a probability of 50 % at least ( that is more than playing playing heads or tails ) . Related US <URL> for AIRMET Z : AIRMETs are issued every 6 hours , where there is a 50 % probability that any of the following en-route weather phenomena will cover an area of 3000 square miles or greater . Phenomena for AIRMET Z are : Icing : Areas of moderate airframe icing , other than convectively induced , including the areal extent . Freezing Level information is included after AIRMETs for moderate icing or statements indicating that no significant icing is expected . Freezing level is defined as : The lowest freezing level above the ground or at the SFC as appropriate . Freezing levels are delineated using high altitude VOR locations describing the location of the lowest freezing level above the ground or SFC as appropriate . Freezing levels above the ground are delineated at 4000 feet intervals above mean sea level ( AMSL ) . Multiple freezing levels above the ground are delineated using " BOUNDED BY " followed by high altitude VOR locations . The range of freezing levels across the forecast area is also included . G-AIRMETs , the graphical version , are issued every 3 hours ( but still describe the next 6 hours ) .
There is actually a simple answer , but it probably is n't exactly what you are looking for : Refer all questions about what is allowed to your specific airline . Each airline has to come up with their own list of allowable electronic devices , and submit that list to the FAA with appropriate documentation in order to gain approval to allow passengers to use them during flight . Some airlines allow almost everything as long as it can be put into a non transmitting mode ( airplane mode ) , while some still require ALL electronic devices to be completely powered down at all points during the flight . Because of this , every airline is a little different and you are required to follow their rules while on their flights . The GPS receiver would not cause problems , but this does n't mean that you are necessarily allowed to use it , and there are other things in your phone that could cause a problem though . In general , no electronic device that has a transmit function may be used because of possible interference though , unless specifically approved .
A good engineer will first check existing designs : How much power is installed in comparable designs ? Use airplanes of similar speed and built quality , such as the <URL> which needs 50 to 60 hp . Cruise speed is 90 knots and the MTOW is 450 kg . Next , try to estimate the minimum wing area . Starting from the <URL> ( = 18 m/s ) , and assuming a maximum lift coefficient with flaps down of 1.6 , the area to support 340 kg at sea level is $ $ S = \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { \ rho \ cdot c_L \ cdot v ^ 2 } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot 340 \ cdot 9.81 } { 1.225 \ cdot 1.6 \ cdot 18 ^ 2 } = 10.5 m ^ 2 $ $ Now calculate the drag coefficient in cruise , using the <URL> . First , establish the <URL> : $ $ c _ { L _ { opt } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } $ $ The total drag coefficient at this point is simply twice the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ , so a low drag design is important . Still , with a fixed gear your zero-lift drag coefficient will hardly be lower than 0.035 , so your cruise lift coefficient is 0.938 ( assuming an aspect ratio $ AR$ of 10 and an Oswald factor $ \ epsilon $ of 0.8 ) , resulting in a flight speed of just 23.51 m/s = 45.7 kts . Total drag at this point is $ $ D _ { min } = 2 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = 249 N$ $ To sustain flight at this point only requires $ P = v \ cdot D$ = 5.85 kW , and assuming a prop efficiency of 0.75 , the installed power should be 7.8 kW . But you want to fly faster , so we need the drag at 100 kts ( = 51.4 m/s ) : $ $ D = \ left ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } \ right ) \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } $ $ There , your lift coefficient is only 0.196 but the dynamic pressure rises to 1,621 N/mm ² . Since the Reynolds number is higher , your zero-lift drag could drop to 0.031 , resulting in a drag force of 550 N . At that speed , the required power is 28.3 kW . Under the heroic assumption that your prop will still be 75 % efficient at that speed , the installed power needs to be 37.8 kW or 50.65 hp . If you " only " want to achieve a TAS of 100 kt at altitude , here is what you need to do in the case of cruise at 10,000 ft ( = 3048 m ) . First you need the density at that altitude , which is <URL> . This means that the dynamic pressure is 1,191 N/mm ² and the lift coefficient 0.267 , resulting in a drag force of 419 N . This needs a continuous power of 21.56 kW to overcome . Now I assume the 75 % efficient propeller again and that you run the engine at 75 % of max . power , so the installed power in 10,000 ft should be at least 38.3 kW or 51.4 hp . Assuming a normally aspirated engine , this would translate to a rated power of 70 hp at sea level . Considering that similar designs require similar power , this looks about right . Normally , you now need to compute the climb speed with the excess power of 35.15 kW to check how usable this design is , but at 10.5 m/s I doubt this will be not enough . If you manage to include a retractable gear with your limited mass budget , the zero-lift drag might be as low as 0.024 . Now the drag force in cruise at 10,000 ft will be only 324.4 N and the installed rated power at sea level only 40.4 kw or 54 hp . With piston aircraft , your power needs increase with the cube of airspeed . I leave it as an exercise to you to calculate how much more power the last 10 knots require : Repeat the calculation with only 90 kt cruise and your rated engine power can be as low as 51 hp with a fixed gear .
There is a descent requirement , but it 's perhaps not in the way you imagine as it has to do with oxygen supply . <URL> subpart K states : ( b ) Crewmembers . When operating at flight altitudes above 10,000 feet , the certificate holder shall supply enough oxygen to comply with § 121.329 , but not less than a two-hour supply for each flight crewmember on flight deck duty . The required two hours supply is that quantity of oxygen necessary for a constant rate of descent from the airplane 's maximum certificated operating altitude to 10,000 feet in ten minutes and followed by 110 minutes at 10,000 feet . The oxygen required in the event of cabin pressurization failure by § 121.337 may be included in determining the supply required for flight crewmembers on flight deck duty . This specifies that a turbine aircraft must be able to descend from it 's maximum certificated altitude to 10,000 ft in 10 minutes or less . This means the maximum descent speed is variable to maximum certificated altitude , so if an aircraft 's ceiling is 42000ft it must be able to descend at least 3200fpm , it it 's 25000ft then 1500fpm . As for how that 's done I do n't think the regulations say , it 's up to the manufacturers to develop aircraft that can meet the requirement .
As you say , the FAA certifies an aircraft for certain " kinds of operation " . For a normal category airplane certified under 14 CFR 23 , it basically says that it must be " established appropriate to the installed equipment " : § 23.1525 Kinds of operation . The kinds of operation authorized ( e.g. VFR , IFR , day or night ) and the meteorological conditions ( e.g. icing ) to which the operation of the airplane is limited or from which it is prohibited , must be established appropriate to the installed equipment . The installed equipment required for IFR flight ( beyond that required for VFR flight ) is listed in <URL> ( d ) and is mostly equipment used to communicate with ATC and to maintain control of the airplane when flying without visual reference to the ground ( so no navigation equipment is specified ) : § 91.205 Powered civil aircraft with standard category U.S. airworthiness certificates : Instrument and equipment requirements . ... ( d ) Instrument flight rules . For IFR flight , the following instruments and equipment are required : ( 1 ) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , and , for night flight , instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( c ) of this section . ( 2 ) Two-way radio communication and navigation equipment suitable for the route to be flown . ( 3 ) Gyroscopic rate-of-turn indicator , except on the following aircraft : ( i ) Airplanes with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of 360 degrees of pitch and roll and installed in accordance with the instrument requirements prescribed in § 121.305 ( j ) of this chapter ; and ( ii ) Rotorcraft with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of ± 80 degrees of pitch and ± 120 degrees of roll and installed in accordance with § 29.1303 ( g ) of this chapter . ( 4 ) Slip-skid indicator . ( 5 ) Sensitive altimeter adjustable for barometric pressure . ( 6 ) A clock displaying hours , minutes , and seconds with a sweep-second pointer or digital presentation . ( 7 ) Generator or alternator of adequate capacity . ( 8 ) Gyroscopic pitch and bank indicator ( artificial horizon ) . ( 9 ) Gyroscopic direction indicator ( directional gyro or equivalent ) . As far as converting an airplane from VFR to IFR , the Type Certificate Data Sheet ( TCDS ) must specify that the airplane is designed for IFR flight , and then you could add the missing equipment to make it qualify .
This depends on what you mean by a " jetpack " . If you mean the classic James Bond-style rocket pack , then according to an FAA spokesman <URL> in the Wall Street Journal they just do n't fly long enough for the FAA to be interested : Once aloft , a jetpack pilot is preoccupied with getting down quickly : A typical pack holds about 10 gallons of fuel , only enough to fly for about half a minute . The Federal Aviation Administration does n't regulate jetpacks . " Thirty seconds is not sufficient to be considered a flight , " says FAA spokesman Les Dorr . He adds that it 's up to the individual to assess the risks . On the other hand if you 're referring to the <URL> , which uses fans instead of rockets , then several sources ( e.g. <URL> ) say that it 's considered an ultralight by the FAA , in which case all the usual ultralight regulations would apply . But I could n't find any direct confirmation of that on Martin 's site .
Bridges over taxiways are not a common airport feature . The FAA does have standards for wingspan clearance on taxiways , but not heights . Airport information will tell pilots if there are wingspan or height limits on certain taxiways , and ATC will know which aircraft are or are not able to take certain routes . For example , <URL> has a bridge over one taxiway . This provides 42 feet of tail clearance , which leaves 3.5 feet of clearance for the A320 family ( except the A318 ) . These are the typical aircraft that use this taxiway . A 737 classic would have 5.5 feet of clearance but the 737 NG and A318 would only have 1 foot of clearance . Since the 42 foot number is only in the center of the taxiway , and accounting for other conditions , 1 foot of clearance does not leave much margin for error . So for regular operations , the A320 and 737 classic are the largest planes that will pass under the bridge . The bridge at <URL> provides <URL> , enough for a 747 ( 19.4 m high ) but not an A380 ( 24m high ) . This suggests that about 10 % margin is enough clearance for taxiway bridges . The FAA requires that taxiways have <URL> to objects . While wingtip clearance has many variables that require larger margins , tail height will not change much .
end question
start question
Why ETOPS 207 minutes ?
ETOPS 138 and 207 are 15 % extensions of ETOPS 120 and 180 . The reason for that is that with the ETOPS 120 rule , most of the Atlantic could be covered when using Kangerlussuaq ( Greenland ) , Gander ( Newfoundland ) , Lajes Field ( Azores ) and Keflavik ( Iceland ) as alternatives . Only some small triangles of the Atlantic were outside the 120 minutes flight time limit from these airports . To cover the whole Atlantic , the next step up in ETOPS ( 180 ) would be necessary . But since that is such a big difference , a 15 % extension of 120 minutes , ETOPS 138 , was approved which allows for covering all of the Atlantic with few extra requirements . For ETOPS 180 it is similar , but then for the Pacific . Normally ETOPS 180 is sufficient to cross the Pacific , but ETOPS 207 allows the 777-200ER / -200 LR / -300 ER to cross the Pacific ocean even when Eareckson Air Station is closed .
There is an aircraft with a single engine in the middle of fuselage - the <URL> - and it has the wingspan of a 737 . <URL> Global Hawk and B737 ; image from reddit . For the engine to power an airliner the size of 737 , it would have to be more powerful and huge . This leads to a few issues : It is going to eat up cabin space . In an age where airlines are finding creative ways to squeeze more people into the available space , this is a no-go . The large engine means that there should be sufficient clearance between the engine and the fuselage - else , it would result in more drag and reduced thrust , thereby reducing efficiency . Increasing clearance is quite difficult for fuselage mounted high bypass engine due to weight implications . Passengers in rear seats may not have a pleasant journey due to engine noise . Mounting the engine in rear incurs weight penalty through various ways - you have to strengthen the rear fuselage and at the same time , you lose wing bending relief , requiring strengthening and you have cg issues . Mounting engines above the fuselage is a not maintenance friendly either . Just to note , redundancy and safety are significant issues , especially in a commercial airliner .
Just off the top of my head , It would take up space that could be used for three or four paying passengers . This would result in increased ticket prices for everybody and the non-smoking majority have no incentive to subsidise a smoking cubicle . It would require a ventilation system that would prevent smoky air from getting into the rest of the cabin , which would add weight and complexity . It 's a fire risk and a small fire from some idiot disposing of paper in the ashtray could spread ; it would be hard to detect such a fire early because you could n't just put a smoke detector in the smoking cubicle . ( I guess an infra-red detector would work . ) Almost nobody tries to smoke in the lavatory so reducing the occurrence of an event that hardly ever happens is n't worth much . Rates of smoking are decreasing in most Western countries , so demand for such a cubicle is already falling . Anti-smoking legislation is often aimed at worker protection : who 's going to clean the smoking cubicle and what equipment will they need ? I doubt there 's significant pressure , even from smokers , for such a service to be provided .
Ratchet freak gives already most of the reasons . I might add that on a grass field the taildragger is easier to handle . The relatively high drag and long lever arm of the tailwheel or skid will help to pull the aircraft straight at low speeds when rudder control power is low . On a hard surface , however , the tricycle gear is easier to handle . Also , not only the weight , but also the drag of two wheels is less than that of three . If you look at modern airplane designs , those where weight must be kept low ( like aerobatic planes ) still have a taildragger gear . It is also used in gliders and motor gliders , because they will operate mostly from grass strips and do not want to include internal space to accommodate three retractable wheels . Big taildragger designs from the early days vanished with the emergence of concrete runways from the 1930s on and the need to brake more during rollout when wing loadings and landing speeds went up . On concrete runways , the tricycle gear handles better and <URL> . Without the ability to brake hard , the rollout lengths of taildraggers would prohibit todays wing loadings . With retractable gears the drag disadvantage is no more , and the increased weight can be tolerated .
This is because what you are looking at is the IAS indicator ( Indicated Air Speed ) . This represents the amount of relative air which flows over and under the wings of the plane . This is what creates lift and enables the plane to fly . This is why this instrument is so important and belongs to the primary flight instruments . This is not to be confused with GS ( Ground Speed ) , which can be sensed by IRS ( Intertial Reference System ) , or by the GPS . Ground Speed is not relevant to pilot an aircraft , but it 's still useful for example to determine the ETA ( Estimated Time of Arrival ) , and for fuel estimation during flight . The IAS indicator indicates a lower speed because the more you climb , the less air there is . So even the air flows faster , the global pressure feeling is lower . So , actually planes are not slower at higher altitudes . They are faster ( at least most planes whose flight envelope force them to fly faster when they are higher , otherwise they would stall , because they would have to increase their Angle of Attack too much to counterbalance the lack of air flowing above and under the wings ) . But when they reach their target Mach speed , their speed will decrease slowly as the outside air temperature is decreasing until end of climb . Sorry for the picture being in French ... But as you can see , the flight envelope of an airliner forces him to actually fly faster as it is climbing . <URL> Different speeds There are different speeds on an aircraft , and it can be quite confusing . IAS ( Indicated Airspeed ) is what the instruments directly sense . It is computed by subtracting the static pressure ( static ports are placed on the fuselage , vertically to relative airflow ) from the total pressure ( pitot tubes are placed parallel to relative airflow . This gives a measured dynamic pressure which is then displayed in knots , km/h or mp/h . This speed is showed on most general aviation aircrafts as the main speed indication ( but it 's actually not a speed and more a ' pressure of air feeling ' ) . CAS ( Calibrated Airspeed ) is the same as IAS , but without instrument errors . It gives a speed related to the real dynamic pressure felt by the aircraft . This speed is showed on most airliners as the main speed indication ( for pilot and autopilot ) . TAS ( True Airspeed ) is the same as CAS when at 15 ° C , 0 % humidity , 1013,25 hPa ( 29.92 inHg ) ( ISA , International Standard Atmosphere ) . This time it is literally the air speed ( speed of the air ) : it is the real speed at which the relative air flows around the aircraft . It takes into account the fact that air density is not always the same . This speed is used when measuring or referring to an aircraft performance during cruise for example . It is also used during flight planning before the wind has been taken into account . GS ( Ground Speed ) is the speed of the aircraft relative to the surface of the Earth ( the equivalent of the speed showed in a car ) . In an airplane , we can not use wheel speed to measure it because we are in the air , so we need GPS or IRS to do this . If there is no wind outside , TAS and GS are the same . If there is 30kt tailwind , GS is 30kt higher than TAS . This speed is used to know when you will arrive at your destination airport , and to know if you will have enough fuel ( because the wind is taken into account ) . This speed is also used when the aircraft is on the ground ( when taxiing , or more generally at low speeds when wheels are on the ground ) . Airlines or airports fix speed limitations when taxiing . The only way to know if you respect the limits is to look at the Ground Speed . Also , the airspeed indicator usually wo n't be active below a certain speed ( 45KIAS for the B737 ) . So , why is the primary airspeed indication ( IAS or CAS ) the wrong speed ( not actual speed ) of the air flowing around the aircraft ? This is because this wrong airspeed represents actually the real pressure feeling around the wings that is responsible for the lift . It is this parameter that we need as pilot and it is used in aircraft manuals to describe the V-speeds . It 's perfect that IAS and CAS are not corrected with altitude and temperature , because if we know that our airplane stalls at 120kts for example , we wo n't need to care about altitude or temperature . Our airplane will stall at that same speed regardless of altitude and temperature . If we would use TAS , stall speed would be constantly changing and it would be more difficult to keep the aircraft in good and safe flying conditions . <URL> Here is where you can find these speeds in the Boeing 737 NG cockpit : <URL>
You 're confusing the airspace height with airspace altitude . The <URL> ( in the US ) is 3-2-4 ( a ) Generally , that airspace from the surface to 4,000 feet above the airport elevation ( charted in MSL ) If you look at chart for the Class C for Colorado Springs ( elevation 6,187 ) , the surface area of the airspace goes up to 10,200 ft MSL , approximately 4,000 ft above the airport elevation of 6187 .
There are no two ( aerodynamic ) forces . Force is not caused by the up - or downwash itself , but by the change from up - to downwash . The air is only accelerated downward and this change in it 's momentum causes an upward force on the wing everywhere , there is no aerodynamic down force . Due to the pressure distribution however the centre of lift is about quarter-chord for subsonic airfoils and changes somewhat with changes in attitude . There however obviously is a down force , gravity . If the centre of gravity and centre of pressure are offset relative to each other , there is a moment that rotates the aircraft . That 's why a plane needs horizontal stabilizer with elevators that allow shifting the centre of lift by adding a bit of controllable lift far from the centre of lift of the main wing .
Which means , roughly 5 times more passengers can be accommodated by compromising half of the top speed . So , why does speed loses out so much to capacity that it ultimately becomes unfeasible to operate a supersonic airliner ? I think you are asking , " why do supersonic aircraft have such low capacity " ? To travel faster than the speed of sound you need to have a very sharp nose and minimal area exposed to the forward direction , to minimize the generation of shockwaves . Shockwaves are bad for people on the ground ( the ' sonic boom ' effect ) and they are terrible for fuel efficiency . Second you really do not want to trap air on flat surfaces facing forwards , because the air will get squashed in the supersonic flow and heat up a lot ( like when you blow up a bicycle tyre or a football it is warm afterwards , or when the space shuttle re-enters the atmosphere ) . Again this is an enormous drag and having hot air flowing around your aircraft causes problems with the structure ( Concorde used to grow by 300 mm during flight because of the heat ) . Since you can not be wide and you can not be tall ( without being aerodynamically inefficient ) , you need to be very long if you want lots of people . And then you have other problems . The design and construction of Concorde was never a commercial project , it was funded by two governments almost as a vanity project , as a prototype or as an experiment . Then it was given for free to two airlines to use as they wanted . So unlike the A380 and the B747 , no one has ever said " now we try to maximize the economics and the capacity of our design " : that never happened . All they ever asked was " How do we make this work !? " Whereas the subsonic aircraft get a lot of time , money and thought spent on how to make them more economical to use by filling them with more passengers . For more information I recommend this interview with a former Concorde pilot : <URL> Also , Concorde was developed 40 years ago . Are some more efficient supersonic Airliners possible today ? I am sure that these days a far more fuel efficient supersonic engine could be built for passenger operations . And I do believe there would be a market for it on say LON-NYC or even maybe LON-DXB . But designing supersonic aircraft is quite different to designing subsonic ones ; and then you have all the difficulty of modern safety regulations without being able to demonstrate you are relying on old , proven designs ; and then there are very few routes where it could work profitably so you have very high development and maintenance costs spread over a small number of airframes . Basically , it is n't worth the risk to anyone to make it .
Many airlines do , to a degree . That 's why airliners are often boarded in sections ( for example row 1-10 , then 11-15 , etc. ) . Problem is many of the passengers do n't listen to instructions , and rush the boarding agent the moment the lights go on indicating boarding has started , in part because they 're afraid there wo n't be space for their 4 bags in the cabin , each of them oversized , if they 're not the first on board . And THAT 's the real problem , many airlines not being rigorous about enforcing cabin luggage allowances and pushing people with excess to the back of the line and having them gate check ( at additional fees ) those bags consistently .
Turboprop engines typically have a core which includes a compressor and turbine that rotate as a unit ( although an engine might have more than one such " spool " ) . The gas generated by the core drives a " power " turbine which , via a gearbox , drives the propeller , which by the way has a non-trivial rotating mass . The core and power sections rotate independently of each other . So , upon a commanded power increase , the core will first spin up , throwing more gas at the power turbine which will then speed up . The delay is therefore due to the rotating mass of the propeller and the fact that it rotates independently of the engine core . For what it 's worth : turboprop engines are just a specific application of a turboshaft engine - where the energy of the gas produced by the core is captured through a power turbine to drive a shaft , which could be used to power anything - propeller , helicopter rotor , electric generator , etc. . I should add that there are exceptions to the above , like the <URL> which have only a single shaft .
If there is a formula currently used generate an ETOPS time , no regulatory agency has made it public that I can tell . ETOPS originally grew out of a " 60-minute rule " that was the result of earlier distance-based rules ( see <URL> for a thorough history ) . My guess is that 60 minutes was a case of " well , that sounds good " rather than the result of any rigorous analysis . From there , it 's mostly been manufacturers slowly pushing and getting approved for longer and longer extensions ( usually just a <URL> that results in round-ish numbers -- again , this is policymaking , not engineering ) . However , take a look at the formulas on pages 9 -- 11 of <URL> . I hesitate to declare them the way to generate an ETOPS number because the report is thirty years old and a lot of it is critical of the methodology , so the regulators may have changed their approach between then and now . In fact , the report does not explicitly state that the formulas within were in use at the time , either . Nevertheless , if there is a formula in modern use , it likely uses a similar approach of quantifying the probabilities of failure and using a factor to convert them into a do-not-exceed diversion time . The difference between certification at 330 minutes ( 777 ) and 370 minutes ( A350 ) may be due to FAA vs. EASA methodologies and/or decreases in inherent failure probabilities as technology matures . With that , I doubt there is much difference in maintenance of a 777 vs. an A350 ( at least as far as ETOPS goes -- obviously their construction necessitates very different maintenance programs ) , as that 40-minute increase for the A350 was approved without any in-service maintenance data . It may be different for the 787 , which was not initially certified at 330 minutes . Going forward , I have no doubt we 'll see ETOPS 430 and above . Airbus already <URL> for the A350 , and perhaps we 'll see that after some time in service . At 420 minutes , there are only a few non-compliant routes ; I expect that , eventually , any new twin will be able to fly unrestricted between any two points and that there will be a shift in focus to trying to certify single-engine designs for longer and longer operations .
Helicopters are very inefficient in forward flight , for several reasons . Consider Glauert 's high speed assumption , i.e. the helicopter can be represented as an aircraft with a circular wing during high speed flight . Now , if you know anything about basic fixed-wing performance , you 'll realize immediately that this implies an aspect ratio just over 1 , which is awfully small . You may recall that for a fixed-wing aircraft , induced drag is inversely proportional aspect ratio -- so a very low aspect ratio means very high induced drag ! Induced drag is normally not a big deal for fixed-wing aircraft at high speed because it 's proportional to the square of the lift coefficient ( which decreases with speed ) , but ... In reality , the situation for a helicopter is even worse ! Glauert 's assumption assumes we have an ideal rotor , i.e. one that has a uniform induced velocity throughout . In practice , the inflow distribution over the rotor is highly non-uniform , especially at high speeds where the advancing side of the rotor is in a very different aerodynamic environment than the retreating side . Even on a very simple level , the " working area " swept on the retreating side is much smaller than that on the advancing side . Since lift needs to be balanced , momentum theory implies a higher induced velocity over the smaller area " worked " by the retreating side , and therefore a much higher induced drag at high speeds than an equivalent fixed wing aircraft . <URL> <URL> As the helicopter goes faster , and as the rotor turns more slowly , more of the retreating side blade will stall , which leads to a dramatic increase in drag . This starts on the inboard section of the blades , and moves outwards as the advance ratio ( ratio between flight speed and tip speed ) increases . In fact , the most inboard sections of the blade will even be in reversed flow -- and airfoils do n't work too well backwards . On the advancing side , things are bad too , but for different reasons . The profile drag of the rotor increases rapidly with speed . Moreover , as the advance ratio increases , the advancing tip Mach number also increases -- and as the blades get into the high transonic regime , local shocks begin to form and lead to even larger increases in drag . This can be delayed by slowing the rotor down , but that makes the problems on the retreating side even worse ! In general , it 's hard to develop airfoils that work well in both regimes . Outside of the rotor itself , the rotor hub is very draggy , between the main rotor shaft , pitch links , swashplate , hinges and blade grips , etc. . Helicopters usually have pretty " utilitarian " fuselages , as well , which are not so well streamlined . Plus , you have the tail rotor , which has most of the same problems as the main rotor . Back to the specific question of range , the Bregruet range equation says that the range of an aircraft is proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio and the speed of the aircraft . We 've already established that the L/D of a helicopter is pretty bad , especially at speed . So , the cruise speed is going to be pretty low and the L/D is going to be pretty low , so to sum up , the range is going to be really low . The tradeoff is that the helicopter is very good at hovering -- even amongst VTOL platforms , the helicopter is the most efficient . Speed and range are the price you pay for that capability .
They do in fact exist , though they often use smaller helicopters . A Google search on the term " heli taxi " yields thousands of results , and while a lot are probably irrelevant , the first few pages give hundreds of operators around the world , ranging from companies ferrying passengers between airports and major cities to companies servicing oil platforms at sea , islands too small to have airfields , etc. .
pilots need to be able to do work during turbulence . passengers do n't really like to be fully restrained .
Some energy from the expansion is used to turn the turbine which powers the compressor And in some engines it turns the turbine which has a large fan attached to the other end . The engine produces more power than needed to run itself . Inside the engine , everything is a very careful balance of pressures . Basically the job done by valves in a piston engine is done by careful engineering in a turbine , which is one of the reasons they cost so much . The inflow to the combustion chamber balances the outflow to the power turbine to the point where it wants to go that way - get it a little bit out of balance and you have noisy stalls like you see in the referenced video .
The answer : High heels ! The <URL> would punch a hole in the aluminium or composite flooring , and a carpet is the lightest way to distribute the loads such that the local pressure from high heels can be tolerated . This is the real reason . From <URL> On the floor of the fuselage also very high localized loads can occur , especially from small-heeled shoes . Therefore floors need a strong upper surface to withstand high local stresses . Other reasons are improved noise absorption and damping of vibrations . Nobody likes it when the floor panels start to resonate when excited by some engine or pump frequency . With composite panels now in widespread use for cabin interiors , manufacturing flaws need to be covered , and carpets serve this purpose well . From <URL> : Because sandwich panel facesheets are very thin , core print-through is common . Further , pinholes can form as phenolic resins outgas during reaction and cure . Therefore , panels visible to passengers typically are surfaced with some type of decorative material to cover surface flaws . Floor panels can be painted or covered with flame-retardant carpet .
In subsonic flow the air can react to the approaching vehicle since the pressure field around it extends forward , too . This means that a suction area on one side of the fuselage or wing will already start to pull molecules in before they reach the vehicle itself which causes this suction . A round nose allows the flow to come from a range of angles without creating too much drag . Aerodynamically speaking , the <URL> can be moved without problems . In supersonic flow , the air has no indication of the approaching vehicle . The first contact will cause a sudden change in direction , called a shock . For drag reduction it is important to make the shock as weak as possible , which means that the change in direction should be as small as possible . This can best be achieved by a slender , pointy tip . Note the downward position of the intake cone of the SR-71 engine nacelle in the picture below : It is angled so that at Mach 3.2 the cone is symmetrical to the oncoming flow ( which gives you a pretty good indication of the angle of attack of the whole plane ) . <URL> SR-71 during take-off ( picture <URL> ) . Not only is the cone angled downward , but also canted in because the flow is pressed sideways by the aircraft 's forebody in supersonic flight . In hypersonic flow ( Mach > 5 ) a blunt nose might again be preferable if the nose 's materials put an upper limit on aerodynamic heating . A pointed tip will produce an attached shock which will heat the tip to something close to the <URL> of the flow . A blunt nose , however , will cause a separated shock . This creates more drag and higher heat loads overall , but allows to spread the heat over a larger area and produces lower peak loads . The Space Shuttle had such a blunt nose , since drag minimization is not a priority for a re-entry vehicle .
The reason is that bigger windows really are n't necessary . They are plenty big for the crew to see the runway just fine . Pilots have more than 180 degrees of visibility , and plenty of vertical visibility as well . Traffic routes and patterns are designed to make it easy for the pilots to see the runway as well . If the runway is behind you , then you need to turn around . If it 's below what you can see out the window , you are too high anyway . And if it 's above what you can see out the window , you probably have more important issues than finding the runway . Larger windows can help spot danger like other aircraft , but airliners are almost always flown under Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) where ATC is responsible for keeping them clear of conflicting traffic . In the past , <URL> did have larger window area . This was more important in an era where instrument navigation was more limited , and the pilots relied much more on their view outside . It was also more common on aircraft with military heritage , where it was more likely for pilots to find themselves relying on visual references instead of navigational aids . However , modern navigation systems have made larger windows even less useful . The instruments can tell pilots just about anything they need to know about anything they ca n't see out the windows . The 737 actually started with " <URL> " above the main row of windows . Modern systems have made those less useful , and the extra holes in the fuselage can cause cracks over time . Most 737 's delivered today do n't have them , and some of the old planes even get those windows plugged . Aside from the functional reasons for not increasing window size , <URL> will apply here as well .
Jet engines are only efficient at high altitudes and high speed ( 25,000 + feet or so and 300 + knots or so true airspeed ) . The cost of making and operating an airplane capable of flying there is very high , and most general aviation flights have no need of such performance ( or expense ) hence , propeller airplanes . Reciprocating engine propeller airplanes are relatively efficient at low altitudes and airspeeds , they are more economical for the average types of general aviation flights . They are also much cheaper to build and operate than a turbine powered airplane . Turboprops fill the efficiency gap between reciprocating and pure jet engines , being most efficient at mid altitudes and airspeeds . Still more expense and performance than most general aviation flights need though .
It is called guard because everybody is supposed to listen/guard the frequency just in case someone has a problem . Guard definitions : a state of caution , vigilance , or preparedness against adverse circumstances watch over in order to protect or control . The <URL> ( h ) ( 1 ) says ( emphasis mine ) : 121.5 MHz and 243.0 MHz . Both have a range generally limited to line of sight . 121.5 MHz is guarded by direction finding stations and some military and civil aircraft . 243.0 MHz is guarded by military aircraft . Both 121.5 MHz and 243.0 MHz are guarded by military towers , most civil towers , FSSs , and radar facilities . Normally ARTCC emergency frequency capability does not extend to radar coverage limits . If an ARTCC does not respond when called on 121.5 MHz or 243.0 MHz , call the nearest tower or FSS .
end question
start question
Why do we still use pilots to fly airplanes ?
That 's a good question , and brings up a joke that many pilots know well : " What 's going to be in the cockpit of the future ? " " A dog and a pilot . " " A dog ? Why a dog ? " " Well , the dog is there to keep the pilot from touching anything . " " Ummm , why have the pilot then ? " " Well , someone has to feed the dog ! " Technology has improved to the point where airplanes can pretty much fly and even land themselves . They are even getting pretty good at handling " normal " emergencies like engine failures and depressurizations . Where pilots really shine though are the type of abnormal and emergency situations that are n't " in the book " . <URL> , a computer will be out of options because it was never programmed to handle that ( because it was considered " virtually impossible " when it was designed ) . A pilot on the other hand can analyze and experiment until he finds enough of a solution to keep the airplane in the air as he works through other issues . During a total electrical failure , the computers wo n't be much good . Sure , you can design redundant systems and make it so that it " can never happen " , but what about when it does ? There are also all of the little things that a pilot is constantly making decisions on how to handle . Some examples could include : Can the airplane fly with a particular feature inoperative ? What about multiple features inoperative ? How do they interact with each other ? What do you do when the passengers take too long to board and you are going to miss your departure slot ? What do you do when the ground crew forgets to close a door ? What about when the tug driver does n't push you back quite far enough ? Or ATC wants to change you to a different runway ? Or you ask ATC to change you to a different runway because it might save a few minutes and that will keep you from having to deice again ? Or another airplane unexpectedly pulls out in front of you while taxiing ? A pilot can see " ugly " clouds off the end of the runway and decide that it would be better to wait a bit before taking off . What happens when a flock of birds suddenly appears during the takeoff roll ? What happens when a passenger gets sick or unruly ? When do you need to divert and when can you continue ? On a typical flight , a pilot will make hundreds of small decisions that can make a big difference in the flight . Any one of these ( or one of the tens or hundreds of thousands of other things that could happen ) could trip up a computer . The pilot is also there as the " final authority " . If a hacker were to somehow hack into the automated systems , a pilot can always disconnect them and fly the airplane manually . He can turn off systems , he can be ... Well , the pilot can be creative and a computer can only do what it was programmed to do . Right now when a drone crashes it is n't such a big deal because nobody was on board . If an airliner with a load full of paying passengers crashes it is a big deal . Even just one . Many of these problems can be overcome . Some of them already have been . Some of them may never be fully handled in an automatic way but maybe we could still do automated flights with an acceptable level of safety . Some automation is actually better than some pilots in certain areas . However , the biggest reason that we do n't have fully automated passenger airplanes is because the general public feels comforted by a person being up front who can take over and carry them to safety if needed . Even if the technology were 100 % ready for automated passenger flights , I think that the number of people willing to purchase a ticket would be so low that it would be financially unfeasible for an airline to deploy it .
Many helicopters have different flight characteristics , but for general information you can always look in the <URL> , this is from <URL> : This is from a section on the four fundamentals of flight ( straight-and-level , turns , climbs , and descents ) : Anticipate the following characteristics during aggressive maneuvering flight , and adjust or lead with collective as necessary to maintain trim and torque : Left turns , torque increases ( more antitorque ) . This applies to most helicopters , but not all . Right turns , torque decreases ( less antitorque ) . This applies to most helicopters , but not all . So some ( most ) helicopters do require some torque pedal movement for aggressive maneuvering , but the pilot may have anticipated this and added the correction prior to beginning the turn . You may not have noticed as much pedal movement as you would in a coordinated turn for an airplane , or the helicopter you were riding in had different flight characteristics and was not maneuvering aggressively enough to need it . Many helicopters " wind vane " pretty well , that is that they stay aligned with the relative wind at high speed . It could be that the helicopter you were in was travelling at a high enough rate of speed that a large ( or any ) correction was not needed to maintain proper alignment . For an example of how speed cancels out the need for anti-torque control , see <URL> about a helicopter pilot that lost the tail rotor and continued to fly for half an hour to a proper landing site .
The FAA specifies the airplanes that require a type rating in <URL> : Sec . 61.31 - Type rating requirements , additional training , and authorization requirements . ( a ) Type ratings required . A person who acts as a pilot in command of any of the following aircraft must hold a type rating for that aircraft : ( 1 ) Large aircraft ( except lighter-than-air ) . ( 2 ) Turbojet-powered airplanes . ( 3 ) Other aircraft specified by the Administrator through aircraft type certificate procedures . So in short , large aircraft ( meaning that they weigh more than 12,500 lbs . ) , aircraft having turbojet engines , or any airplane deemed suitable complex that it needs it by the FAA need a type rating in order to fly it as PIC .
Rivets need to press the two parts together AND to transmit shear . The pressure results in friction which is responsible for a considerable part of the load transmitted between two riveted panels . In order to hold up to the maximum possible amount of shear , the rivet needs a smooth surface . A thread would make it much more vulnerable due to the notch effect of the thread . Since skin panels and flanges vary in thickness , a LOT of different screw sizes would need to be kept on stock so that every combination of panel thicknesses is covered with a fitting screw which has just the right amount of smooth shank length . Rivets , on the other hand , will be hammered to the right length during manufacture , so only a few sizes are needed to cover all those panel thicknesses . Historically , metalworking tools were much less precise than today . For optimum shear transmission , the bolt must sit tightly in its hole . In the past , this could not be done with screws , but only with rivets which grow thicker when set in place . And since aviation regulation authorities are VERY conservative , the easiest to certify joints are those proven rivet joints . Also , repairability is not so bad with rivets , especially if you can reach only one side . The rivets get drilled out ( with a slightly larger diameter drill ) and after inspection the parts are riveted together again . And if you need the lowest mass for a given strength , again rivets win over screws . The difference might be small for the individual rivet , but it adds up for the whole airframe .
Aircraft have fixed gears ( when they have gears at all ) ! However in a sense a variable-pitch propeller can be considered analogous to transmission in a car and it was manual in some aircraft . The power transmitted by propeller is , within some reasonable range , proportional to its rotation rate . And so is , again within some reasonable range , the power produced by the engine . So for slow planes a fixed pitch propeller with connected by fixed gear does a decent job . As you open the throttle , the engine speed increases , so does the propeller and that 's exactly what it needs to do to transmit the power . Simpler aircraft have no gears at all and propeller is mounted directly on the engine shaft , higher power engines often have 2:1 reduction gear as the engine rpm would be too high for a propeller . Now at higher speed , the apparent propeller pitch is reduced as the air is already moving , so it would spin faster and faster and eventually too fast for the engine . To counter this , faster propeller-driven aircraft have variable pitch propeller . As speed increases , it is set to higher angle of attack ( coarser ) so it keeps delivering power without increasing rpm . Early variable pitch propellers had manually controlled pitch , but quite quickly constant speed propellers were developed ( many WWII aircraft had them already ) where a weight-on-spring controls the propeller pitch so that constant rpm is maintained . The manually controlled units required a lot of attention and the constant-speed system is rather simple , so manual pitch control was quickly abandoned . And that is kind of equivalent to perfect variable gear transmission . The pilot still has a throttle lever and a propeller pitch lever and selects power and rpm independently . Higher rpm allow higher power , but do n't require it , so landing is usually done with low power , but max rpm so the engine reacts quickly if power is added ( does not need to spin up ) . During cruise some more moderate value is selected ( according to manufacturer recommendation ) to reduce wear of the engine . Turboprop engines always have constant-speed propellers , because in a turbine engine the difference between turbine speed at idle and at full power is not actually that big . Again the rpm limits maximum power , so landing is done with low power , but high rpm and the engine reacts quickly when power is added . Last the turbojet/turbofan engines just turn the turbines and compressors as they need . It 's not much different from the fixed propeller really , though the jet engines now usually have variable guide vanes in the stator ( that are just linked to rpm ) .
Turbulence can be quantitatively expressed as Eddy Dissipation Rate ( EDR ) . EDR can be calculated from available onboard measurements , however it is not yet common for aircraft to have software to calculate the EDR . Originally it was thought to have <URL> , but it did not become a part of the current specifications . It might be in the next ADS-B version . <URL> <URL>
On the first flight of the day , after every refueling , and if you have flown through precipitation or the plane is left in the rain , you check the fuel for water and to make sure you have the right kind of fuel . Since water is heavier than fuel , if there is just a little bit of water in the fuel it could cause the engine to stop . You ca n't pull over to the side of the road like you can in a car , so you need to immediately deal with the problem . The most likely place for this to occur is on takeoff . If you think fast and switch tanks , you might get lucky and only have water in one tank so you can continue your takeoff . If not , you may need to find a place to land . In 17 years of flying , I have only found water in the fuel once , and it was n't even my airplane . But since it was on Catalina Island , a stopped engine would not have been pretty . The other reason to check the fuel is that airplanes designed for 100LL do not burn Jet Fuel . Jet fuel is denser than 100LL so it will sink to the bottom of the tank . It is straw colored and somewhat greasy so you can tell if you plane has accidentally been filled with it , but you really have to be paying attention . It would be easy to miss if you just topped off . There have been incidents when twin-engine planes have mistakenly been filled with Jet A and have either crashed or had expensive fuel system cleaning required . In this article , <URL> describes his experiences . After the <URL> of a Cessna 421s someone did a <URL> to see how easy it is to identify a combination of Jet A and Avgas . It 's fairly hard using standard pre-flight practices . That 's why many people recommend watching the fuel truck if you have a twin-engine plane or one that prominently says " Turbo " on the side . Many aircraft have rubber bladders to hold the fuel . Most older Cessnas have them . Water can get trapped in the folds of the bladder and get into the engine later when the fuel is sloshed around . Even if the fuel source is free of water , a tank that is not full can have water condense in it . Most autogas has some ethanol in it . Water will dissolve in a gas-ethanol mixture and so a slug of water wo n't get into the engine like it will in an aircraft engine . Contamination is less of an issue and is one that is really hard for a GA pilot to determine . You really ca n't tell if the fuel is contaminated with other petroleum products just by looking at it .
It depends . Some instructions are really simple and with a little practice , are very easy to remember . Other ones will be so common , they are just remembered : But this is where the danger creeps in . It is possible , and has happened , that the crew think they heard something but actually , the instruction was different today . The prudent crew will write it down . <URL> , or boards clipped to the control column on which to write taxi clearances , complex airways clearances and so on . In some large aircraft , many light aircraft and in helicopters , pilots might wear a kneeboard to write instructions on . It is a minor advantage to me that I am left handed and as a helicopter pilot , this means that my kneeboard is on my left leg where I can easily write without taking my hand off the cyclic and having it right next to the collective . <URL> Most instructions come in the same order , every flight . For example , here is a simplified list . This happens every time so the crew know what 's coming next , what it will likely contain , and how to respond : Clearance for the flight plan . Permission to start and push back . Taxi instructions . Departure instructions . Take off clearance . Hand-off from departure controller to area controller . etc etc. . Note that any instruction which will cause the aircraft to change it 's configuration or location must be repeated . The controller then also gets to check they 've got it right . This includes things like speed , direction or altitude changes , taxi and departure instructions , frequency and squawk changes etc. . There are also some words which are only ever used at certain times , e.g. " takeoff " is only ever said when an aircraft is cleared to take off . For example , " ready for departure " tells the controller that the aircraft is prepared to take off immediately . The crew should not say " ready for takeoff " . You can sometimes hear a pilot receiving a long instruction , start to read it back , pause , then ask for a repeat . Very frustrating when you are sitting there waiting to get your request in . You just know they thought they could remember it , but did n't . Write it down if it 's anything except a simple instruction or clearance . Here 's an example of a complex one . SuperAir 123 , cleared to Barcelona via vector departure , fly runway track , climb altitude 5000ft , after passing 2000ft turn right direct Hamm VOR , route as filed , squawk 1234 , information Alpha current , startup approved The crew might write it down like this . Each pilot develops their own preferred shorthand : VD RWY TRK 5000 / 2000 + RT HMM / SQ1234 ALPHA / SU Very brief since they know what each part is and the order they come in . Since it contains instructions , the crew will then read it back . Cleared Barcelona via vector departure , runway track 5000ft , after passing 2000ft right direct Hamm , squawk 1234 , Alpha on-board , startup approved . SuperAir 123 . Finally , a good reason to write stuff down is because sometimes ( and we 've all been there ) , you think you remember , then turn round to your co-pilot 2 minutes later and ask " what was that altitude ? " . Here 's a great <URL> and an approach to writing down clearances .
The <URL> seems to be that no one knows for sure , but the most likely explanation is that before class A existed there was Positive Control Airspace ( PCA ) that started at FL240 , and DME was a requirement in PCA . The main reasons for requiring DME were : There 's a limited number of <URL> so it is n't easy to use cross-radials from other VORs for fixes or position reporting ; DME is a simple alternative If there 's no radar coverage then ATC can still manage lateral separation effectively using DME That all seems plausible enough , but some sources out there say that PCA started at FL180 , not FL240 , e.g. this <URL> : [ VFR on top ] was a principle [ sic ] factor in the <URL> and led to " Positive Control Airspace " ( PCA ) FL180 and above . Because of the speeds of the aircraft involved , non-radar procedures were unwieldy ( standards called for ten minutes between aircraft ; some 80 miles for a typical jet ) , even with the development of aircraft installed Distance Measuring Equipment ( DME ) and the reduced separation available between DME equipped aircraft ( 20 miles ) . FL240 is also where ATC starts using Mach numbers instead of knots ( ATC orders <URL> ) and the separation minima change ( section 8-4-4 ) . I do n't know if that 's for historical reasons or physical/operational reasons , but it looks to me like FL240 is considered the general starting point for high-altitude operations ( <URL> requires a high-altitude endorsement for aircraft that can operate above 25,000 ' MSL ) .
You can persuade a turbine engine to run on just about anything that can burn . So the decision of which fuel to actually use depends on the side factors including , but not limited to : availability cost emissions hot section temperature chemical reactions with engine parts Specific examples : Coal dust is rather difficult to pump around , and the rampies do n't like shovelling liquid hydrogen ( used in the Space Shuttle ) requires a lot of storage and has the nasty habit of freezing anything it touches , like rampies . ethylacetylenedecaborane is unpleasantly toxic ( rampies union again ) and the combustion byproducts were rather abrasive to the engine 's innards trimethylaluminum would reduce the engine complexity ( no igniters needed ) because it has the nasty habit of igniting instantly upon contact with air , so leaks are rather dangerous . natural gas is commonly used as a turbine fuel in pumping stations : it 's already there and thus is " free " . The required pressure vessels make it impractical to use as an aircraft fuel . So kerosene basically became the standard turbine fuel because it 's : cheap : kerosene makes up a rather large fraction of crude oil . When you measure your fuel load in tons a few cents per litre makes a difference . safe to handle : relatively non-toxic , does n't ignite all that easily storable and transportable in common structural metals does n't clog up the engine
Yes , they do . They are called Anti-Skid and they go from Mark I of 1948 , with simply an on-off switch triggered by wheel lock , till Mark V ( or at least that 's the last I 've seen ) , with quite complex control systems and sensors behind . The full details are a bit long to include them all here ( there are <URL> ) . For a brief overview , see <URL> from slide 12 till 18 .
I 'm not in the military , so you could say I 'm talking out my rear end here , but based on my experience as a pilot : yes , military pilots use the autopilot all the time . Here 's my reasoning , in order of most to least convincing evidence : Punching the autopilot off takes about a fifth of a second . The button is right there on the yoke , for crying out loud . The time it takes to turn it off is not a good reason not to have it on . The autopilot is a labor-saving device . When you 're in an aircraft ( and particularly when you 're solo in one ) there are times when you 'd rather be paying attention to your chart or setting up the FMS or stretching or eating a candy bar instead of actually flying the plane . Also , when Air Force pilots fly long repositoning flights , the autopilot reduces fatigue between in-flight refuelings ( the Navy uses carriers ) . Times when you might have to leave the designated path for a mission happen a lot less than you think . Again , not in the military , I 'm just basing this on the realities of fuel and the number of military aircraft out there . Maybe if you 're flying close air support for teams on the ground or something , but remember that the military is first and foremost a logistics organization - it 's a machine for moving people and things from one place to another . Most of the time , military aircraft are n't on a hair-trigger moment 's notice ready-to-engage posture , they 're going from one airfield to another for training or maintenance or something . In most aircraft , you can override the autopilot if you need to anyway . Again , never flown a military fighter aircraft , but based on what I know about flying in general , even if you 're chilling in your F-22 ( with the autopilot on ) if you grab the stick and yank , the airplane will move . ( I would be interested to know whether this is true of Airbus aircraft . )
Static wicks are mostly found on aircraft that fly in <URL> because static charges typically build up when flying in precipitation , not in clear air . So you wo n't find static wicks on helicopters that are certified only for visual conditions , like the R-22 , R-44 , Bell 206 , piston Enstroms , etc. , but you will find static wicks on helis that are certified for IFR . [ Static wicks ] are used on aircraft to allow the continuous satisfactory operation of onboard navigation and radio communication systems during precipitation ( p-static ) conditions . Precipitation static is an electrical charge on an airplane caused by flying through rain , snow , ice , or dust particles . When the aircraft charge is great enough , it discharges into the surrounding air . <URL>
No real reason other than it keeps people from bugging the flight attendants by asking " how high are we ?? " . It also lets the flight attendants know that the aircraft is at cruise so wo n't be climbing and making the carts harder for them to push around .
No , you still have to monitor the underlying NAVAID . You just have to read further in that same section of the AIM . Reference the most recent edition of the AIM , which has Change 3 dated April 27 , 2017 . In section 1-2-3-c-5 it says : Use of a suitable RNAV system as a means to navigate on the final approach segment of an instrument approach procedure based on a VOR , TACAN or NDB signal , is allowable . The underlying NAVAID must be operational and the NAVAID monitored for final segment course alignment . That last sentence in the quote above is the important part .
On multiple <URL> threads they incorrectly say : The APU bleed is much cooler than the engine bleed system , and would be ineffective for WAI . But <URL> : The APU bleed temperature is unregulated and thus could damage the wing slats if used for anti-ice . <URL> Highlight shows regulation of engine bleed temperature .
Do stealth airplanes need to limit contrail generation ? Not just stealth aircraft , most military aircraft are required to avoid contrails . Contrails form due to moisture in the aircraft 's exhaust . <URL> is NOT to fly in regions of air that support contrail formation . <URL> which is used by the B-2 stealth bomber uses LIDAR ( light detection and ranging ) to differentiate contrails from clouds and tells the pilot to change his altitude as/when necessary . That being said , it is essential to remember that though contrails are visible to the naked human eye they are NOT visible to Radars . Ergo , until the stealth aircraft is really close ( assuming it is on a SEAD/DEAD mission ) one can not see the contrails and by the time they do , it is too late . Moreover , stealth aircraft generally operate during night when contrails are less visible . Stealth aircraft have low visibility on radar . Not necessarily . VHF radar should be able to detect them at long range . Moreover , RCS of aircraft is a complex phenomenon , depending on many stuff ( frequency , aspect angle , polarization of signal etc ) . You will never find a " static " figure for this .
pilots need to be able to do work during turbulence . passengers do n't really like to be fully restrained .
Basically everything that consumes power on an aircraft can potentially cause interference , short-circuits , or otherwise jeopardize the safety of flight and therefore must be switchable . Sometimes the switch is in the form a button , otherwise by a fuse . There are several particular reasons that the transponder can be turned off . If the transponder malfunctions , it may cause interruptions to all ATC surveillance in an area . There have been occurrences in the past that due to a fault the transponder it was basically acting as a radar jammer . In one particular incident it took a while before the aircraft that caused it was identified and after requesting the pilot to switch of the transponder , secondary surveillance was restored . Another reason is that when the aircraft is at the gate , the transponder is switched of to reduce the amount of radio transmissions . 100 aircraft on the surface of a large airport can produce a massive Radio Frequency noise , which negatively affect radar systems . When taxiing , radar replies are useful for aircraft identification , hence the transponder is switched on at push-back or engine start . For an example to see how such requirements are worded in aircraft certification regulations , see rbp 's answer . The focus here and in the media1 on the transponder in relation to hijacks is a red herring . If an aircraft is hijacked , there are way more important things to worry about than an active radar transponder . If hijackers turn off the transponder it means that they have access to the cockpit already . 1This answer was written shortly after flight <URL> went missing while en-route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing . Initial speculation focussed on a possible hijack scenario .
From a private pilot 's perspective , there are two possible options : a foreign-based license or a ' full ' FAA pilot 's license . The first type is defined in <URL> , which starts like this : § 61.75 Private pilot certificate issued on the basis of a foreign pilot license . ( a ) General . A person who holds a foreign pilot license at the private pilot level or higher that was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may apply for and be issued a U.S. private pilot certificate with the appropriate ratings if the foreign pilot license meets the requirements of this section . You apply to the FAA and they check with Germany ( or wherever ) that your foreign license is valid . If it is , they 'll issue a foreign-based license " with the appropriate ratings " with no flight or theory test of any kind required . That 's for VFR only ; if you 're instrument rated then you also have to do a theory test as well if you want to fly IFR . That sounds great - and I suppose it is - but there are two big practical concerns . First , any limitations on the foreign license are applied , e.g. if your license is for daytime VFR only then you 're still restricted to that , even if a regular FAA license would allow night VFR . And if your foreign license expires or becomes invalid for any reason , the FAA one does too . Second , you wo n't have been required to learn anything about US regulations or flying practices . So you might not fly safely or legally because you simply do n't know the rules or even what services are available to you as a pilot ( FSS , Flight Following , TRSA etc. ) . One way to handle this is to get some general orientation or introductory training from a US instructor or school , but as a foreigner that will require TSA approval unless you can do it as ground school only ( which is <URL> as " flight training " ) . But you might find - as I did - that some instructors will not work with a foreign student at all until they have TSA approval , whether or not it 's just ground work . The other option is to get a normal , full FAA license . You have to pass the same FAA medical , written and flight tests as US pilots to the same <URL> . You can count your previous flight time towards the required hours but you do need to be able to pass the tests so you will certainly need some instruction . And as a foreigner you will need TSA approval before you can receive any flight training . The big advantage of getting a full license is that it never expires . If you really want to get one and you have the time and money then you could look into spending a month somewhere suitable in the US ( Florida ? Arizona ? ) at a flight school to get it as quickly and cheaply as possible .
end question
start question
Are pilots required to notify the tower when they are flying " under the hood " for IFR training ?
No , because the responsibilities are n't any different . And , with a safety pilot on board , the capabilities really should n't be either .
From the <URL> , page 4-41 ( as part of the Missed Approach section ) , there is a quote about what to do when you need to go around when operating beyond the missed approach point : In the event a balked ( rejected ) landing occurs at a position other than the published missed approach point , the pilot should contact ATC as soon as possible to obtain an amended clearance . I have seen several other references in FAA documents which say to " contact ATC as soon as practical " in similar situations , but nothing which specifically says to do it any time that a go around is initiated by the pilot ( i.e. under VFR ) . That being said , if you have received a specific clearance ( for a touch and go ) , and decide that you prefer to do something else ( low approach/go-around ) , you should always receive an amended clearance first . If you know ahead of time , your best option is probably to request the " option " , in which case you have a clearance to do either one . On the other hand , if the reason for the go-around is due to a safety issue then execute the go-around immediately when needed , and follow the above guidance to contact ATC as soon as practical if they do n't call you first . I was taught by my flight instructor to always report it , and the tower certainly needs to know about it in order to provide proper separation with other aircraft operating in the area . If nothing else , it is a " best practice " to ensure that the person in the tower does n't get distracted and not notice that you did n't land .
In the US , for VFR , the answer to both of your questions ( when and where ) is when you are established on downwind . You may not be able to see the light signal if you circle above . I do n't think it matters what size the aircraft is . In IFR operations , you may not even be able to see the tower , and as 757toga points out there are different rules . This actually happened to me years ago at a tower controlled airport in California ( although I was in a small aircraft ) . Radio stopped working . Not sure if it was transmitting so I continued to transmit my intentions just in case the transmitter was functional . I squawked 7600 . I observed the traffic pattern and entered downwind at a 45 . Sure enough , a few seconds later , solid green light from inside of the tower was seen . I rocked my wings to acknowledge the light signal , then controller put down the light gun . It was faint , but visible in the daylight , but if you were n't looking right at it , you would n't see it . ( Most glass at towers is pretty thick and at an angle so I suspect it absorbs , diffuses , and/or refracts some of the light guns intensity ) . I never talked to the tower about it , but its possible they were shooting the light at me before I entered the downwind , but its possible I could n't see it until I was at traffic pattern altitude and established on the downwind leg . Also , keep in mind that it is a light gun with a narrow beam , they have to hold it up and aim through a scope like a rifle at the cockpit , so you need to acknowledge you received the signal so they can put it down . Some small airports only have one controller , so s/he ca n't really look out for other traffic while holding the light gun up at you . <URL> Had uneventful landing , and got light signal on the ground to taxi to parking . It worked just like it was supposed to . See AIM section " <URL> " for additional information .
There have been , at various times , and with various carriers , incentive programs set up to encourage pilots to save fuel , improve on-time performance , or some combination of the two . An example of a fuel-saving incentives program existed at the former Continental Airlines in the early 90s , where pilots would be paid a bonus for using less fuel than planned . The problem was that it wreaked havoc with the schedule itself , as pilots would simply dial back to economy cruise thrust settings , saving fuel but taking noticeably longer to reach their destinations . An example of an actual-vs-scheduled block incentive program intended to help with on-time performance existed at Silver Airways in their Beech 1900D fleet , whereby pilots would be paid a bonus for each minute they were able to shave off a baseline target time . Ironically enough , it was called the " Green Incentive Program " ( do n't ask ) . And it was a can of worms . I vaguely remember other airlines experimenting with incentives programs relating to fuel consumption and on-time performance , but it 's been several years since I left the industry and ca n't recall any other examples . In short , yes they do get implemented fairly regularly , but they can be very problematic due to the difficulty in properly designing and managing them ( incentivization is a complex problem ) . Lastly , since another poster has brought this up , dispatchers do indeed perform most , if not all the flight planning , but the PIC ( i.e. Captain of the flight ) has the option of overriding most everything the dispatcher plans and arranges for ( subject to the carrier 's Operational Specifications ) , including amount of fuel to be carried . Basically , if the Captain decides that the plane is to be filled with as much fuel as it can carry up to MTOW , that 's what 's going to happen . Might not be the most business-savvy ( or even prudent ) decision , but it 's part of their prerogative as PIC ( i.e. the person ultimately responsible for the craft , crew , passengers , and goods onboard ) .
There are numerous options , and it depends highly on your route . But there are generally enough VORs scattered across the country such that you should be in range of a couple of them pretty much everywhere . As mentioned in another answer , there are NDBs , but in the continental US , generally , the ones not on an approach are getting fewer , as the FAA has followed a path of not repair them once they break . Other parts of the world , still use them and there are also NDB based airways ( AIM has examples for how they can be charted on US charts ) . If you had to plan a flight from a field that does n't have a navigational fix , and you do n't have GPS , you 'd start by looking for airways near where you are . Once you find some that go in the general direction you want to go , you start figuring out intersections near that or how you plan to intercept the airway . Then you end up most likely planning a zig-zag course following airways towards your destination .
According to the <URL> , section 15.3.1.2 , pilots do need to have specific training . Most of this training is regarding engine failures and emergency landings , in some situations in IMC . CASA requires that all ASETPA operators have a training and checking organisation . The CASA Inspector will verify that for ASETPA operator 's the following additional procedures are included within the training and checking organisation : Engine failure or malfunction which necessitates stopping the aircraft on the ground Engine failure or malfunction which necessitates an off-airport landing after take - off on the most suitable terrain in the vicinity of the aerodrome . These can be organised into a number of procedures , depending on the height of the aircraft at the time of the failure Engine failure or malfunction which necessitates turning to execute a glide landing upon a serviceable runway , including a ' turn-back ' manoeuvre . This procedure is to contain a minimum indicated airspeeds and altitudes Engine malfunction , during climb , cruise and descent and from the approach to land phase in VMC and IMC Additional procedures for the conduct of a forced landing in IMC to ground level The next section discusses route limitations , which I am assuming the pilots should at least be familiar with .
This question is difficult to answer comprehensively as the continuing education requirements are complex and varied . The complexity is because the continuing education requirements are mandated by multiple parties ( the FAA , insurance companies , clients , and employers ) and depend on the regulations the flight is conducted under ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) , the type of aircraft operated ( single engine , multi-engine , turboprop , jet ) , and the pilot 's role in the operation ( PIC , SIC ) . Note that both the Commercial and Airline Transport Pilot ( ATP ) license are good for life , unless revoked or surrendered . Any continuing education requirements are to retain the employment or the privileges of exercising the license , unlike CE requirements for licenses in some industries . In very broad brush strokes , most professional pilots will be required to complete a flight proficiency check , either in an actual aircraft , or in a simulator , every 6 to 12 months . The amount of time will vary for such checks , but 3 hours might be typical . This proficiency check will be accompanied , in some cases , with a written or oral examination . In addition to this , insurance may require an aircraft systems class and simulator brush up session every 12-24 months . Such training is usually accomplished in 3-6 days , including roughly 12-24 hours of lecture/bookwork , and 6-10 hours of simulator time . In addition to the flight and systems training , pilots employed by air carriers will generally be required to receive instruction on operational aspects of their operation , including such topics as <URL> , hazardous materials , weather , physiology , as well as many others . Such training is often self-paced , computer based training ( CBT ) . I would estimate the time commitment for this training to be 20-40 hours annually . In addition to the required training and testing , many pilots choose to spend additional time studying aviation related topics . Such topics may include all those alluded to above , as well as other topics . Examples of such study would be changes to company operational procedures , brushing up on checklist memorization , FAA advisory publications , and areas of interest outside of normal operations , such as international operations . Speaking personally , I probably spend roughly 10 hours a week in what could be considered aviation related study or learning . I also often see other pilots at my company studying various aircraft or operational manuals , and our company keeps a collection of articles , FAA advisories , and other publications related to our operation with the intent that pilots voluntarily study these materials as they have time . Bear in mind that a pilot 's life often involves a great deal of waiting , a task which often lends itself to reading and study .
For a non-commercial flight under Part 91 rules there are no issues I 'm aware of with letting a non-rated passenger handle the controls - and it 's done quite frequently ( I ca n't think of any pilots I know offhand who have n't had someone else take the controls for one reason or another ) . The rated pilot is still pilot-in-command of the flight and ultimately responsible for everything that happens , so they need to be relatively certain their friend will let go of the controls if told to do so , and they need to maintain situational awareness ( traffic scan , airspace , etc. -- if the friend blunders into Class B airspace it 's going to land in the pilot 's lap ) and be ready to take over if the friend starts doing something that could jeopardize the safety of the flight . There are some common-sense limits here : something insane like have two non-rated friends at the controls the rated pilot being PIC from the back seat giving them instructions over the intercom would be a no-go . Similarly while this sort of thing is a total non-event in an aircraft with typical dual controls you would probably want to have a higher level of trust in your friend if you 're flying something with a throw-over yoke .
From my research to date it seems that most general aviation and commercial fixed wing pilots are instead trained rigorously in crash avoidance rather than crash escape . Flight attendants and other cabin staff drill regularly in crash preparation and cabin evacuation in several situations ( gear-down landing , belly landing , water landing , fires blocking escape doors X , Y and Z , etc ) but in an emergency , the job of the people behind the yokes is to first make sure the plane gets back on the ground in as close to one piece as possible ; nobody 's walking away from a nose-down dive into a mountain .
When I went through USAF pilot training ... Useful ? Absolutely invaluable . Many of our instructors had experience before " real " simulators were used in training . All of them commented on how obviously better we were on our very first actual flight . We had " cockpit familiarization " trainers . This looked like a cockpit , sat still on the floor , had all the switches but all they did was switch . They did nothing . We practiced " switchology " , checklists , and so forth . Beyond required time and tasks in this thing we could spend free time playing around with these . Not unlike checking out a book from the library . The above are very useful because it kept the " real " simulators available for actual flight training . We had quite a few hours in this simulator before we got in a real airplane . And simulator training continued throughout the year in flight school . But this does not give them the physical feel of controlling the airplane Yes it does . But as we got more expert in the aircraft , flying every day , sometimes twice a day , we could tell the difference . But the simulator feel was quite good and in no way did it hinder acquiring the touch for precision , when in formation for example .
Ejection Seats are not a free ticket out . They are incredibly violent and rough on your body . This newspaper article has a more chilling quote from an interview : About one in three will get a spinal facture , due to the force when the seat is ejected - the gravitational force is 14 to 16 times normal gravity and it might be applied at 200G per second . Bruising and abrasions are typical from the shock of the chute opening or the air blast . In the early days , there were cases where pilots would eject into very-high-speed air and it would whip their arms behind and break them , pop their shoulders out ; same thing could happen to the legs . <URL> Hence , it is very possible to get back pains and a host of other problems as a result of ejecting . Since these type of things are not that easily reversible , you 'd rather take the safe path and remove then from the cockpit than put then back in a work environment that known is pretty hard on your body . Aircrew seem to agree : " It was the most violent thing I 've ever felt in my life , " says one of the B-1 crew members , whom the Air Force asked me to identify as " Captain IROC . " " I lost a full inch in height , " because his spine absorbed such tremendous G-forces . <URL> Modern ejection seats are however increasingly intelligent and will gauge the ejection force applied to the conditions , cutting down the number of serious cases . This <URL> discusses the symptoms of four individuals who crashed their jets in mid-air . The medical problems encountered with ejection can be classified as follows : Injuries from the emergency that causes ejection -- fire or collision . Canopy jettison : burns from " MDC splatter " and cuts from fragmented plastic . For these reasons , aircrew are always advised to wear their visors down , to protect the face . Firing of ejection gun : spinal injuries . Entering airflow : wind blast may cause lung damage ; seat tumbles at variable speed , which may be as high as 180 rpm . ( All seats have a drogue parachute or deployable aerodynamic panels to prevent tumbling ) ; flail injuries to extremities . Parachute deployment : snatch injuries . Landing : lower limb injuries .
My copy of " EW 101 : A First Course in Electronic Warfare " calls it " formation jamming " . <URL> Mind you , an operator of a radar with non-cooperative threat recognition capability will at least suspect something is wrong ( although not from all aspects and ranges ) .
Do civilian space ships count ? In the <URL> the captain survived . The plane broke up around him and he was able to unstrap his seat after which his parachute automatically deployed . The co-pilot died in the crash .
To put it short : no . Unfortunately it might even take a while for anyone to notice both pilots are out . Most likely the first would be an air traffic controller since he/she could n't reach the pilots on radio . If the cabin attendants find both pilots incapacitated , they would most likely try to find a doctor or nurse to help recover a pilot try to find if any of the passengers was a pilot
This varies from country to country but here in the US the Federal Aviation Regulations define the minimum safe altitudes : <URL> Except when necessary for takeoff or landing , no person may operate an aircraft below the following altitudes : ( a ) Anywhere . An altitude allowing , if a power unit fails , an emergency landing without undue hazard to persons or property on the surface . ( b ) Over congested areas . Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons , an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal radius of 2,000 feet of the aircraft . ( c ) Over other than congested areas . An altitude of 500 feet above the surface , except over open water or sparsely populated areas . In those cases , the aircraft may not be operated closer than 500 feet to any person , vessel , vehicle , or structure . ( d ) Helicopters , powered parachutes , and weight-shift-control aircraft . If the operation is conducted without hazard to persons or property on the surface -- ( 1 ) A helicopter may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) of this section , provided each person operating the helicopter complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for helicopters by the FAA ; and ( 2 ) A powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( c ) of this section . In your case , the sea-planes can fly closer than regulated since it falls under the " Except when necessary for takeoff and landing " clause . These minimums apply in all air spaces however different airspaces surrounding cities ( typically Class B and Class C ) may prevent you from ever getting within 1000ft ( or even a few miles ) of the city due to clearance . For example you ca n't get near a city under a bravo space without ATC clearance and even then you ca n't fly where you want like in other airspaces . but how is that and other private flying entities like news choppers News choppers and the like still must fly by these rules . They often compensate with bigger camera lenses . The somewhat exception to this rule is generally police , fire , and rescue/medical operation choppers/aircraft . This of course is taken on a case by case basis but ATC usually gives them precedent and clears them for whatever they ask within reason . I actually met a guy that was on the council that designed the Philadelphia Bravo Airspace . The airspace is specially designed so that the medical helicopters can take off and fly under the bravo shelf from any hospital in the city . They can do this and still be a safe distance from buildings as well . and ad-banner planes governed ? Banner towing planes , like helicopters must also fly by these rules . Although they are not seen in cities all too often I generally see them at the beach . Although beaches are generally not defined as a congested area and generally the planes are flying over " open water " thus they must be only 500ft from the people on the beach ( depending on how you interpret the law ) .
No polarizing glasses , they make reading anti-glare instruments difficult and sometimes even limit your outside view if the cockpit windows are polarized as well . Good fit , you do n't want to loose them in the slightest of turbulence . Consider fitting a strap so you can temporarily hang them around your neck . They also need to be comfortable if you wear a headset over them . Neutral colour ( grey , grey-green , brown ) of the lenses , which does not distort the natural colours too much as that would make distinguishing navigation lights more difficult . Actually the FAA have published a <URL> which covers many aspects .
To address the question about contact sunglass lenses ... Contact lenses are available with custom dyes , used for examples by actors to create eye colors not inherent to the actor . Similarly , contacts can be obtained with tint which would attenuate the visible light , in a manner similar to sunglasses . You should talk with a contact lens dispenser , as they will have access to the offerings of their suppliers .
Pilots are allowed to fly as close as they want to each other as long as all parties agree to it and feel safe doing so . Air Traffic Control can not guarantee separation for planes in formation flight , So this will only be done under VFR and in VMC , where pilots can maintain visual separation from each other . Many stunt fliers are civilian pilots and will routinely fly in close formation as well . Other notable example of civilian formation flight include <URL> and <URL>
<URL> ... be operated from its crossfeed position during the run-up . The engines should be checked individually and allowed to run at moderate power ( 1,500 rpm minimum ) for at least 1 minute to ensure that fuel flow can be established from the crossfeed source . Upon completion of the check , each engine should be operated for at least 1 minute at moderate power from the main ( takeoff ) fuel tanks to reconfirm fuel flow prior to takeoff . And also Some multiengine airplanes have a ramp weight , which is in excess of the maximum takeoff weight . The ramp weight is an allowance for fuel that would be burned during taxi and run-up , permitting a takeoff at full maximum takeoff weight . For what its worth a multi-engine piston plane is mechanically double what a single engine plane is , and often carries a similar if not the same engine as a single . The things you are checking in run-up , primarily the ignition system holds true for both single and multi-engine aircraft .
According to <URL> , Any temporary or permanent structure , including all appurtenances , that exceeds an overall height of 200 feet ( 61 m ) above ground level ( AGL ) or exceeds any obstruction standard contained in <URL> should be marked and/or lighted . But the FAA does have special cases and since you are close to a strip they may require/recommend it , The FAA may also recommend marking and/or lighting a structure that does not exceed 200 ( 61 m ) feet AGL or <URL> standards because of its particular location . Looks like you need some <URL> Your <URL> should be able to help out with what ever info you need . As far as I know these kinds of regulations do n't change between public and private airports . You can find the letter of the law for <URL> . The most applicable to your case is quite possibly , ( 3 ) A height within a terminal obstacle clearance area , including an initial approach segment , a departure area , and a circling approach area , which would result in the vertical distance between any point on the object and an established minimum instrument flight altitude within that area or segment to be less than the required obstacle clearance . Even though you are not directly in line with the runway you may be in conflict with a potential traffic pattern or approach segment .
end question
start question
Can a passenger request to visit the cockpit during a flight ?
This stopped after the World Trade Center attacks . You might be able to get a kid in briefly before the plane takes off .
Every country handles aircraft registration differently ( but generally similar ) . Im sure Boeing could tell you who they originally delivered the airframe to but if it was sold from there it could legally go anywhere and would only be subject to local registration legislation . Here in the <URL> but not all countries may keep a record like that and as far as I know there is no global aircraft registry . it is still impossible to find actual aircraft 's owner in a matter of minutes Knowing who the owner is and finding the owner are two very different things . <URL> Several aviation databases list the Boeings -- identified by their call signs TF-ARN , TF-ARH , TF-ARM -- as belonging to leasing firm Air Atlanta Icelandic , but that company says it sold them in 2008 . Since then , the aircraft appear to have changed hands several times . Malaysia Airports says it 's entitled to sell the Boeings under the country 's civil aviation regulations if no owner comes forward . So it seems they do know who owned them at some point ( most likely the last people to put readable registration numbers on them ) .
While many times an upgrade is not economical for older airplanes , sometimes the new features make it worth the cost . Two examples I found were <URL> , and <URL> . The second article also mentions American and Icelandair 757 and 767 upgrades . The Southwest and Delta upgrades involve over 100 aircraft in each case , which probably helped to make the upgrades more economical . In both cases , a major factor mentioned was the ability to perform required navigation performance ( <URL> ) procedures with GPS and other modern features . As the FAA works to implement the <URL> ATC system in the US , these upgrades will offer more benefits for the operators . Also , I 'd like to comment on the following statement : Concorde was not properly maintained as its analogue flight deck had never been upgraded . Proper maintenance and technology upgrades are not always the same thing . Aircraft with older systems can be maintained just as well as newer planes . We have airplanes that are 50 years old or older , like the DC-3 , which are still flying . While technology upgrades certainly have benefits , aircraft with analog cockpits are still operating just fine around the world . They may not be the most modern machines out there , but proper maintenance is what has kept them flying this long .
Spoofing GPS means broadcasting a false GPS signal - This is harder than jamming GPS which can be done relatively easily by broadcasting a strong random signal at the relevent carrier frequencies . GPS receivers use GPS ephemeris tables which tell them where exactly they should expect each satellite to be . So the false GPS signal has to look enough like a real GPS signal that the receiver will accept it and use it 's transmitted data in it 's calculations . Of course , if , for example , the expansionist president of a country with advanced avionics capability decided to supply sophisticated equipment and the associated personnel to a separatist group in a neighbouring country , it might be possible for them to bring about this kind of result . There have been <URL> of this kind of spoofing actually happening , so it appears to be possible . The U of Texas students built a GPS spoofing device for about $ 3,000 . A pair of students , the " attackers , " then sat aboard the upper deck of the White Rose , where their GPS spoofer emitted a counterfeit signal slightly stronger than the real GPS signal . This was a yacht at sea , presumably out of sight of land on a featureless ocean . It may be more difficult to achieve this with an airliner , which have a variety of navigational instruments , including radio navigation beacon receivers . Inconsistent indications may alert the pilot to a problem . Non-GPS navigational instruments/systems that may be found in an aircraft include : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Mostly you would n't need to ask . Most commercial flights use the airline 's standard call sign and the flight number printed on your ticket . Sometimes the call sign can be confusing - British Airways use ' Speedbird ' ; PAN AM used to use ' Clipper ' . There 's a list of common callsigns on <URL> The flight number should be enough - just listening for calls referring to ' two-two-zero ' will almost certainly identify United 220 . Code-sharing flights , however , will generally use the flight number of the operating airline . Your ticket might say ' United 220 ' , but if the flight is operated by , say , American Airlines so the call sign might be ' American 406 ' . All that said , if you 're using your phone when you have been explicitly asked to turn it off the airline is within its rights to confiscate your phone or remove you from the flight .
Well , as with many issues involving the FAA , the " why " is a bit of a mystery . Perhaps they thought that the pilot can " lead by example " if a bail-out is needed . I 'd imagine that a lot of passengers would be a little reluctant to jump out of an airplane , but once they see the pilot go I can see them becoming highly motivated ! As far as not needing the parachute if only crew members are on board , the FAA has long held the view that they are n't protecting pilots from doing stupid things to themselves since they are knowledgeable and informed , but their regulations are to protect the " general public " , or the passengers in this case , who do n't know any better .
Systems vary . Transport aircraft and larger biz aircraft have airpacks handling the AC and at flight idle power settings there is less bleed air , and pressurization is a priority . The packs simply do not have full power when in a flight idle descent on many aircraft . The aircraft I routinely fly have separate radial compressor driven refrigerant systems , and have large heat loads from onboard electronics and laser systems . They have to remain cool , and normally both AC systems are left on until just prior to engine shutoff after taxi . If it is a hot environment , we use the APU and keep the AC on after engine shutdown . Once again , the situation is different in different aircraft , and is dependent upon the cooling system , the power plants , the installations and the design and operational goals . Addendum # 1 : Some aircraft APUs can provide bleed air for cabin pressurization , but this is not universal . Also , some aircraft , such as the 787 do not use engine bleed air for pressurization , and rather use electrical compressors . The flow of pressurized air is rather constant in flight .
Airline flight crews generally consist of at least 2 pilots . One pilot is designated as pilot flying , the other is the pilot not flying , observing instruments and flight parameters . If required , pilots can use <URL> : Flight Crew in-Seat Rest This is the process whereby pilots may take short periods of sleep ( naps ) , while temporarily relieved of operational duties in accordance with carefully prescribed ' controlled rest ' procedures , when part of a two-man operating crew of an in-flight aeroplane . This is not communicated to ATC and only allowed with two pilots present on the flight-deck . It is prohibited to have both pilots participate in in-Seat Rest at the same time . See also these related questions : <URL> <URL>
If you want to look for the airplane that flew a certain flight ( U22604/EZY42EA for your case ) , you could go onto <URL> and search for that specific flight to find the list of aircraft which flew with the callsign and if you select any one of the planes , you can find out the flight history of that plane for the past few months . You could also search <URL> for flight history too .
<URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , each required flight crewmember on flight deck duty must remain at the assigned duty station with seat belt fastened while the aircraft is taking off or landing , and while it is en route . ( b ) A required flight crewmember may leave the assigned duty station - ( 1 ) If the crewmember 's absence is necessary for the performance of duties in connection with the operation of the aircraft ; ( 2 ) If the crewmember 's absence is in connection with physiological needs ; or ( 3 ) If the crewmember is taking a rest period , and relief is provided - ( i ) In the case of the assigned pilot in command during the en route cruise portion of the flight , by a pilot who holds an airline transport pilot certificate not subject to the limitations in § 61.167 of this chapter and an appropriate type rating , is currently qualified as pilot in command or second in command , and is qualified as pilot in command of that aircraft during the en route cruise portion of the flight . A second in command qualified to act as a pilot in command en route need not have completed the following pilot in command requirements : The 6-month recurrent flight training required by § 121.433 ( c ) ( 1 ) ( iii ) ; the operating experience required by § 121.434 ; the takeoffs and landings required by § 121.439 ; the line check required by § 121.440 ; and the 6-month proficiency check or simulator training required by § 121.441 ( a ) ( 1 ) ; and ( ii ) In the case of the assigned second in command , by a pilot qualified to act as second in command of that aircraft during en route operations . However , the relief pilot need not meet the recent experience requirements of § 121.439 ( b ) . tl ; dr : You need at least one pilot at the controls at all times , unless completely necessary to operate the aircraft , or take care of physiological needs .
Lockheed Martin Flight Services ( LMFS ) provides a history of filed flight plans on their web site under Flight Planning &amp; Briefing | History . The path to the particular page is : <URL> . Unfortunately , only the last 15 days are available . So if your flight plan is older , it wo n't be displayed . Additionally , if you 're filing your flight plans through a service provider that does n't provide full LMFS integration ( e.g. , ForeFlight ) it wo n't be displayed even if within 15 days . In this case , you 'll need to refer to your service provider 's interface .
The inlets of supersonic aircraft routinely control ( reduce ) the Mach number of the engine ( at compressor inlet ) during flight . This is done using either a 2D ramp type inlet ( like Concorde ) or a center body ( like Mig-21 ) . These inlets convert the incoming supersonic flow to subsonic flow by forming shock waves in the path of the airflow . <URL> Source : sturgeonshouse.ipbhost.com In subsonic conditions , the inlets perform two functions : At cruise condition , diffusion of the free-stream flow to the compressor inlet condition . At takeoff , acceleration of static air to the compressor inlet condition . So basically , the inlet design can be optimized such that the Mach number is constant ( within some variation ) over the engine operational range . In your case , however , I think that it is a simplifying assumption made for the problem .
GdD brings up some good points but that really depends on what you mean by " home simulator " and it depends on the airplane . There are some people that <URL> and built simulators that are fairly close to real and provide a solid learning platform not only for the flying but the actual physical operation of the controls . You can fairly easily build a <URL> that has all the controls and instruments you would see in a real plane and even in emergency situations you will see real warning lights in your sim and be able to mitigate it as you would in a real plane ( nothing is stopping you from wiring in a smoke machine either ) . As for the flight dynamics they get more real as time goes on and computers get better and better . <URL> and simulate the <URL> I fly in real life which I find to be pretty close to the real thing from a flight dynamics/response stand point . My simulator did a great deal for my cross wind proficiency when I was training . I cant say I learned to fly in the sim but I did a great deal of honing of my skills in my home sim . The sim is a tool not a replacement If you understand this you will better be able to realize that the sim can provide you a great deal of proficiency and can suffice for training in some ( not all ) cases . Even the <URL> . The FAA even considers <URL> Unless you have a full motion sim at home , the sim wont provide you with the feeling of flying which is very hard to replicate . It wont disorient you in IMC by having G-Forces cause your vestibular sense to distrust the instruments . It wont physically throw you around on a bad cross wind landing with wind sheer causing your knee to bump the yoke . It wont shake you to the point you drop your iPad while briefing an approach plate . It wont spin you until your lunch decides it wants to be elsewhere . These are the kinds of experiences you may only find in a real plane ... One last thing to consider as well is some what of the reverse case . Aircraft cockpits are actually getting closer to computer based units as time moves on . Its common to see keyboards in airbus cockpits and many of <URL> . As we move into a more automated era some switches have even been lost to digital control units . Even the flight controls them selves have moved into the modern age with <URL> .
It 's essentially a manual check for many airlines , performed as part of the pre-flight checks . However , the airline I have worked for recently upgraded from manual checks to RFID tags on each lifejacket ( a sticky tag kind of <URL> ) . The RFID tags can be read from the aisle by a handheld reader . So the person who does the checks simply walks down the aisle with the reader and is able to tell if a seat is missing a jacket and also if the jacket needs to be replaced due to the expiry date fast approaching . In addition to a tag on the actual life jacket there are also security RFID tags across the life jacket holster under the seat . So the scanner is able to tell if the life jacket has been tampered with as the security tag would have been broken . As for the frequency of checks , different regions have different requirements . Usually life jackets are only needed at all if flying over a large body of water . I believe the USA requires a check before any flight which passes over the USA ( as well as water ) . Europe requires less frequent checks .
The altimeter works by measurements of the pressure in undisturbed air , also called static pressure . A static port is placed , usually on the side of the hull , perpendicular to the airflow . During a spin , the airflow will not flow evenly past the static port , but will occasionally flow directly onto the static port . This will cause a rise in measured pressure , leading the altimeter to believe it is lower than it actually is . This cause fluctuations in the indicated altitude .
The FAA standards seem to anticipate the use of firearms by people attempting to gain unlawful access to the cockpit . Opening locks with firearms is probably not as successful as TV would have you believe . Cockpit Door Standards Press Release -- FAA Sets New Standards for Cockpit Doors Release No . APA 01-02 January 11 , 2002 Contact : Alison Duquette Phone : 202-267-3462 WASHINGTON , DC In response to President Bush 's call to strengthen aircraft security , the U.S. Department of Transportation 's Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) today published new standards to protect cockpits from intrusion and small arms fire or fragmentation devices , such as grenades . The Aviation and Transportation Security Act authorizes the FAA to issue today 's final rule that requires operators of more than 6,000 airplanes to install reinforced doors by April 9 , 2003 . From <URL> This press release does n't actually say that the locks on the doors must resist being fired on using handguns but it is apparent that the scenarios envisaged included those where handguns were present . There are obviously other measures to prevent passengers carrying combat shotguns into the cabin surreptitiously . Guns and Locks In movies and television , a locked door , or a padlock on a cage is never an impediment so long as the Hero has bullets to spare . One or two shots is generally enough to destroy the lock , allowing the door to open . Unfortunately , in real life -- as shown by the MythBusters -- this requires a high powered gun at close range , which causes lots of very dangerous shrapnel . Lesser firearms , especially handguns may harmlessly bury rounds in even standard padlocks to little effect . Only SWAT teams and soldiers ever do this in real life , and it involves a shotgun , Kevlar body armor , specialized ammunition ( a powdered metal breaching round , often jokingly referred to as " Avon Calling " ) , and full face protection . Even then , the goal is not specifically to destroy the lock , but to destroy the surrounding door or the hinges . From <URL> Other references <URL>
Special VFR is used to leave or enter a control zone coming from or continuing the flight in airspace G ( Golf ) , when the weather minima for VFR flight are not met within the control zone , but would be met in airspace G. Example : Airspace G ( Golf ) requires a visibility of 1.5 km and aircraft need to remain clear of clouds . Airspace D ( Delta ) requires a visibility of 5km and 1000ft vertical and 1.5 km horizontal separation to clouds . If the weather report would show a visibility of 4km/4000m and a cloud base of 1400ft , the flight would be allowed in airspace G but not in airspace D. Requesting Special VFR within a control zone will drop the VFR weather requirements to the values required for airspace G , so flight may enter or leave the controlzone . The lower visibility requirements are compensated for in the control zone by stricter separation requirements between aircraft . SVFR is separated to SVFR and IFR traffic .
The only passenger needs that would result in a non-scheduled landing would be a medical emergency or acts/threats of violence of the level that prompt removal of the passenger is needed ( with law enforcement coordination ) . A passenger forgetting his wallet would not result in a diversion . An aircraft deviation to enplane more passengers and proceeding to the scheduled destination would be a highly unusual situation and would not be for passenger needs , it would be for operational needs .
Unfortunately , having been on board in this situation I can tell you what happened on board my flight : The deceased was covered and secured in the seat . The passenger sitting next to the deceased were relocated . Needless to say , it was a very somber flight . No announcements were made to the effect , but for the people sitting around the rows , it was very sobering . The aircraft landed and everyone was told to remain in their seats . ER staff along with a bunch of other personnel came onboard . The body was removed . Passengers were deplaned . Years later , I was watching an episode of <URL> where an Emirates flight suffers a similar tragedy where a business class passenger is found unconcious . In addition to the normal scenario on board that I faced , the documentary revealed that : The crew was changed The person was pronounced dead by the local authorities
The code would also be shared among the purser and / or the other flight attendants , so the answer is no . I believe however that they tend to keep the same code for a few days within the same crew to make remembering it easier .
end question
start question
What is the ferry range of an A380 ?
Q : Could it fly between any two suitable airports on Earth , i.e. further than 20038km ? A : Not likely <URL>
If the controlling software allows it then yes . There 's at least one drone available where autonomous flight <URL> ; the <URL> says that the drone will continue its " mission " even if you lose the signal to it , although the overall length of the flight path is limited to 5km and the drone will not fly close to airports . Other drones stop and hover or land if they lose the connection to the controller . Whether doing this is actually a good idea ( or legal in whichever jurisdiction you want to operate in ) or not is a whole other question .
Briefly , " overhaul " is n't a strictly defined term but it 's generally used to refer to the intensive inspection , maintenance and repair of an aircraft component , frequently - but not exclusively - the engines . The word overhaul by itself is a general term that 's used in all sorts of places but it 's not defined in <URL> , for example . The most specific definition I could find is in <URL> between the FAA and EASA : " Overhaul " means a process that ensures the aeronautical article is in complete conformity with the applicable service tolerances specified in the type certificate holder 's , or equipment manufacturer 's instructions for continued airworthiness , or in the data which is approved or accepted by the Authority . No person may describe an article as being overhauled unless it has been at least disassembled , cleaned , inspected , repaired as necessary , reassembled and tested in accordance with the above-specified data . Note that that definition only mentions " aeronautical articles " , which is very broad indeed and not limited to just engines , airframes or anything else . In the general aviation world , a very common usage of " overhaul " is in the context of piston engines , which have a <URL> ( TBO or TBOH ) set by the manufacturer . Once an engine reaches that number of hours , it needs to be overhauled . But even there , the term is n't precise and the FAA has a circular called Reciprocating Engine Overhaul Terminology and Standards that explains what it usually means : c. Overhaul . In the general aviation industry , the term engine overhaul has two identifications that make a distinction between the degrees of work on an engine : ( 1 ) Major Overhaul . A major overhaul consists of the complete disassembly of an engine . The overhaul facility inspects the engine , repairs it as necessary , reassembles , tests , and approves it for return to service within the fits and limits specified by the manufacturer 's overhaul data . This could be to new fits and limits or serviceable limits . The engine owner should clearly understand what fits and limits should be used when the engine is presented for overhaul . The owner should also be aware of any replaced parts , regardless of condition , as a result of a manufacturer 's overhaul data , SB , or an Airworthiness Directive ( AD ) . ( 2 ) Top Overhaul . Top overhaul consists of repair to parts outside of the crankcase , and can be accomplished without completely disassembling the entire engine . It can include the removal of cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinder walls , pistons , valve-operation mechanisms , valve guides , valve seats , and the replacement of piston and piston rings . All manufacturers do not recommend a top overhaul . Some manufacturers indicate that a powerplant requiring work to this extent should receive a complete overhaul . Apart from that usage , the term <URL> seems to be <URL> in the airline industry to describe maintenance facilities , but there is n't any specific definition that I could find . So there 's no single definition of " overhaul " . It just means that you 've very thoroughly inspected and tested something on an aircraft , whether it 's an engine or a wheel , and you 've verified that it 's fit to be used in flight , i.e. it 's airworthy . The reasons why it 's important are probably obvious ; they 're the same reasons that your car needs regular servicing to run safely , efficiently and reliably .
<URL> : Airworthiness Directives ( ADs ) are legally enforceable rules issued by the FAA in accordance with 14 CFR part 39 to correct an unsafe condition in a product . 14 CFR part 39 defines a product as an aircraft , aircraft engine , propeller , or appliance . When an aircraft or other component is found to have flaws or other issues , the FAA will issue an AD specifying a solution to be applied to the item . The AD must be complied with , often by a date or total time on the airframe . The action required could simply be an inspection ( often recurring after , say , 100 hours of time in service ) , while in other cases requires modification , strengthening , or replacement of parts . One of the more prominent cases requiring ADs to be issued was the <URL> , which had issues with the tail 's structural integrity under high loads . The cost of complying with an AD falls on the owner/operator of the aircraft . Failing to comply with an AD renders the aircraft unairworthy . It also could incur FAA penalties , but more importantly , it could result in structural damage or failure , and in some cases ultimately cause a fatal accident .
Check the units . Using $ $ W = 50000N $ $ instead of $ W = 5099kg $ you get $ $ V = 83m/s $ $ ( vs. $ V = 26.5 \ sqrt { m } $ ) .
I think Saftey guy asks about features like the escape hatch from the <URL> . Probably there is something similiar on the A380 : <URL> I think that I can read the label Escape Rope on the cover of at the top right . You can look around inside the cockpit <URL> .
Simple answer ... No . You could rule out the types of planes that could land at an airport by an <URL> but there is nothing specific .
In all cases the answer is yes , those aircraft were all outfitted with seats , and at least very close to being ready for delivery to the customer . Installing interiors and seats is a regular part of the production process , and it 's unlikely that the plane would be pulled from the line before seats are installed , and worked back in later . From looking at <URL> , these aircraft all had about 7 months between rollout and delivery , with the air show appearance happening within a month of delivery . Also , the aircraft are used as static displays while not flying , allowing people to walk through and see the interior . In 2011 , the Korean Air A380 <URL> . It was delivered in the middle of July . In 2012 , the Malaysian A380 <URL> . It was delivered at the end of July . In 2013 , the British Airways A380 probably had seats installed . I ca n't find any pictures of the inside , but it was delivered shortly after <URL> . Airbus also tends to bring a flight test A380 like MSN001 ( first to fly , registered F-WWOW ) for display , and has a <URL> . The Korean Air A380 was used for the display in 2011 after the flight test plane MSN004 had a <URL> .
Short answer If a single range should be stated for ACAS II , it would be the reliable range of 14 NM , even if targets can displayed by current TCAS II up to 30/40 NM . Reliable means here : a track can be established with a probability of at least 90 per cent for aircraft within the surveillance range . The reliable range of 14 NM is achievable with a ground plane antenna a power of 250 W and a Mode S sensitivity of -- 74 dBm . Diversity of ranges There are different range values that can be considered : Overall pulse detection range is 30 NM . Reliable surveillance range is 14 NM . Recommended RA range is 12 NM . Guaranteed range is 4.5 NM . The range must be limited because it impacts the number of transponder addresses to be stored for a given transponder density as well as the number of interrogations within a volume , hence radio spectrum use and reliability . ACAS II recommendations by ICAO ACAS II ICAO recommendations are found in <URL> , Airborne Collision Avoidance System ( ACAS ) Manual : Interrogation pulse detection range is 14 NM for Mode A/C and 30 NM for Mode S . The equipment should have the capacity for surveillance of any mix of Mode A/C or Mode S targets up to at least 30 aircraft . Surveillance must be reliable within 14 NM , with an aircraft density of 0.3 aircraft per square NM within 5 NM ( and up to 142 aircraft within 30 NM ) . The equipment should assess as possible collision threats only those targets within a maximum range of 12 NM . No target outside this range should be eligible to generate an RA . As density increases , reliability decreases . If the overall target count ever exceeds the surveillance capacity at any range up to 14 NM , the long-range targets may be dropped . The system reliability is guaranteed within the minimum range of 4.5 NM . This radius is deemed adequate for providing protection for up to 500 kt encounter . TCAS version 7.1 TCAS II is the sole implementation of ACAS II which fully comply with ACAS II . The reference ( paying ) documents are : <URL> ( RTCA ) and <URL> ( EUROCAE ) . From the EASA document <URL> TCAS II can simultaneously track up to 30 aircraft , within a nominal range of 14 NM for Mode A/C targets and 30 NM for Mode S targets . In implementations that allow for the use of the Mode S extended squitter , the normal surveillance range may be increased beyond the nominal 14 NM . However , this information is not used for collision avoidance purposes . This is confirmed in FAA document <URL> TCAS has a requirement to provide reliable surveillance out to a range of 14 nmi and in traffic densities of up to 0.3 aircraft per square nautical mile . [ ... ] TCAS can simultaneously track up to 30 transponder-equipped aircraft within a nominal range of 30 nmi .
Each vessel , whether land , sea , or air , should ( might ) have a defined afterbody . The afterbody is <URL> as : The afterpart of a vehicle ; The part of a vessel abaft midships ; A companion body that trails a satellite or spacecraft ; A section or piece of a launch vehicle , rocket , or spacecraft that enters the atmosphere unprotected behind the nose cone or other body that is protected for entry and Merriam-Webster Online <URL> it as : : the after part of a body : such as a : the part of a ship abaft midships b : the bottom portion of a seaplane hull or float aft of the main step To show you , visually , an easy to see set of examples , consider the following pictures of floatplanes ( seaplanes ) : In the first and second images , the afterbody is that part of the aircraft behind the step , which is the little ' notch ' or , well , ' step ' just behind the main wheels . In the third picture , the afterbody is everything after the step , which is the more steeply angled section under the wings . The step is generally just aft of the center of gravity of the plane . Generally speaking , if one were to discuss the afterbody of a large airliners , such as the Airbus A380 , the afterbody would be the fuselage from the wings back , but not including the tail ( where the rudder and elevators are . ) I could not find any Airbus references to ' afterbody ' however . I did find some references to the afterbody of a Boeing 787 , being that part of the plane behind the pressurized cabin , which is the very back of the plane , including the tail . Not a very good solid definition where everyone agrees , sorry .
If what you 're asking is to see groundspeed history of a certain type of aircraft , you can choose a type here : <URL> Then follow the links to see its flight track history as shown here : <URL>
The etiology of military power is from War Emergency Power ( WEP ) which in the WWII era was a higher than normal rating power ( i.e. > 100 % rated power ) setting on an aircraft engine . Such power settings were approved for short durations ( typically 5 minutes or less ) such as takeoff and battle maneuvers . The term was quickly shortened to military power . Sometimes military power is assumed to be simply full throttle , but that may not be accurate , particularly in blown engines , where turbochargers or superchargers may be set to permit higher than normal air delivery to the combustion chamber . Finally , military power was used for more extended periods of times , when conditions dictated , but at a reduction in reliability and service life . Sometimes in war , service life is not a pilot 's greatest concern .
You are right , the horizontal tail of a conventional airplane appears to have a higher incidence , but the actual angle of attack is smaller than that of the wing . The wing , flying ahead of the tail , produces downwash , so the flow at the tail location has a distinct downward component . The downwash angle can be calculated from the lift coefficient and the geometry of the aircraft : To simplify things , let 's assume the wing is just acting on the air with the density $ \ rho $ flowing with the speed $ v $ through a circle with a diameter equal to the span $ b $ of the wing . If we just look at this stream tube , the mass flow is $ $ \ frac { dm } { dt } = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v $ $ Lift $ L$ is then the impulse change which is caused by the wing and equal to weight . With the downward air speed $ v_z $ imparted by the wing , lift is : $ $ L = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v \ cdot v_z = S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho $ $ $ S$ is the wing area and $ c_L $ the overall lift coefficient . If we now solve for the vertical air speed , we get $ $ v_z = \ frac { S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho } { \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L \ cdot v } { \ pi \ cdot AR } $ $ with $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ the aspect ratio of the wing . Now we can divide the vertical speed by the air speed to calculate the angle by which the air has been deflected by the wing . Let 's call it $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ A typical airliner cruise lift coefficient is 0.4 , and a typical aspect ratio is around 8 : This results in a downwash angle of nearly 2 ° if the lift distribution over span is elliptical . In reality , it is more triangular-shaped , so the downwash angle is larger near the center of the aircraft . Note that the engine nacelles of the <URL> are tilted 3 ° up to align them with the local flow . The resulting angle of attack is lower by those 3 ° , and if the angle of attack difference between wing and tail is less than that , the tail surface will appear angled upward . To achieve static stability , the tail will have to fly at a slightly <URL> .
The published Maximum Operating Mach number ( MMO ) for the B747 is Mach 0.92 but it can sometimes be exceeded accidentally due to aircraft upset . It has been reported that Mach 0.99 was attained during a Boeing test flight in a slight nose down attitude . The A380 has a slower MMO of Mach 0.89 The actual true airspeed of a Mach number will depend on the temperature and altitude but at 35,000 feet Mach 0.92 would be about 530 Knots . ( 610 mph )
The details of the strength required are likely to be complicated and proprietary . However , we can do a very rough estimate . Using the equation for estimating root bending moment <URL> , and the following numbers : Fuselage weight : 230,000 kg MTOW : 577,000 kg Engines : <URL> Fuel : 260,000 kg Wings : 60,000 kg Wingspan : 79.75 m Wing taper ratio : <URL> The equation gives a root bending moment of 17,300,000 Nm . Of course , this is just a static load . If you consider a 2.5 g pullup , this could be 43,300,000 Nm . But on the ground , the wings will bend under their own weight . Running the bending equation on the wing weight , and adding in the engines , gives 23,900,000 Nm in the other direction . As to how it can be trusted : a lot of math . Organizations like EASA expect way more accuracy than my above estimate , which requires analysis of the specific loading conditions that need to be met , both static and dynamic , and the specific design of the wing , structurally and aerodynamically , which is how aerospace engineers earn the big bucks . Of course the A380 is bigger than anything mass-produced before . But the in-depth analysis will take this into account . Airbus has some experience building large aircraft , so they have a pretty good idea of what works and what does n't . Detailed testing is also done , on everything from the nuts and bolts up to <URL> . All of this information is used to back up the design . Airbus is n't going to invest money in a large test without being reasonably sure it will work , and EASA is n't going to certify a design until it has been successfully tested . Modern analysis allows predicting pretty accurately where and at what load structure will fail . But even then , with something so large and complex , things happen . Important things like the wings are required to not fail even if they are damaged , and to have redundant load paths so that even if a part fails , the remaining structure will hold . Parts are inspected to look for damage before it becomes critical . <URL> . More analysis is done , and fixes are implemented . Usually this wo n't be an issue of " the wing ca n't handle the load " , but that " the wing wears out too quickly " . <URL> is harder to predict and design for . The FAA requirements are in <URL> . This includes : Unless otherwise specified , a factor of safety of 1.5 must be applied to the prescribed limit load which are considered external loads on the structure . So they must take the maximum load expected without permanent deformation ( limit load ) , and allow a 1.5 safety factor on top of that without failing ( ultimate load ) . In order to show that the structure is capable of meeting the requirements : Compliance with the strength and deformation requirements of this subpart must be shown for each critical loading condition . Structural analysis may be used only if the structure conforms to that for which experience has shown this method to be reliable . The Administrator may require ultimate load tests in cases where limit load tests may be inadequate . This means that all analysis has to be shown to be reliable . This must either be tested , or compared to the known performance of previous designs . The testing must also be sufficient to prove the requirements will be met .
It 's been a while since my last lessons on radars , but . . The pulse length and the pulse repetition frequency play key roles in radar min and max ranges . The pulse the radar sends must be short enough to end ( and the radar switch to detection mode ) before the reflection returns . To give a rough example , if the pulse length is 2 ms , the theoretical minimum range would be equal to pulse distance in 1 ms ( 1 there and 1 back ) . The pulse travels at light speed , so you can calculate the distance there . Note that the pulse lengths differ a lot depending on radars , and presumably none of the are 1 ms long . Free quote from the book Understanding Radar Systems : Pulse length of 3 µs , which is a fairly typical pulse length for a long-range airborne surveillance radar , would give a theoretical range resolution of 450 m. However , other factors such as signal processing degrade the resoution , and in the given case the resolution would be around 750 m. Note again , that radars are designed to serve a specific purpose , for example a long-range surveillance radar emphasizes range over resolution . What it comes to fighters , most modern fighters have <URL> instead of pulse radars , which work continuously and handle the signal differently .
Aside from the obligatory <URL> answer , there are some components on an aircraft that will certainly fail at a higher rate than other components . From the Piston GA side of the equation I can name a few ( some of which are also applicable to turbine aircraft ) . Incandescent Light Bulbs A lightbulb is a supremely unreliable device : A delicate bit of wire is suspended in a thin glass envelope and heated until it glows - then subjected to vibration ( from the engines , turbulence , etc. ) in flight . We use them all over the airplane -- Position lights , landing lights , cockpit instrument lighting , etc. . If you think about how often incandescent light bulbs burn out in your house it 's probably not surprising that they fail quite often on aircraft . <URL> . We still use incandescent lightbulbs because they 're cheap : A $ 0.25 light bulb can be replaced multiple times before its cost even approaches the capital investment in a better solution . Modern aircraft are incorporating an increasing number of LEDs to replace incandescent lightbulbs - these solid-state devices have a lower failure rate ( and other benefits ) . Batteries Much like your car aircraft rely on batteries for some functions ( like starting the engines or the APU ) . Batteries have a finite service life and will eventually fail to hold a charge and need to be replaced . Sometimes <URL> . We still use batteries because hand-propping aircraft can be dangerous , and getting the APU turbine up to speed without a battery would be nearly impossible . Also if the engine-driven generators fail the battery is a useful source of electricity to help you get to a safe landing site . Spark Plugs Piston engines are spark-ignition , and spark plugs have a variety of failure modes ( they can become fouled with lead or carbon deposits , the internal resistor can fail , or the electrodes can simply wear out ) . These failures are not uncommon : Statistically if you fly piston aircraft long enough you 'll probably encounter at least one of them . We use spark plugs for obvious reasons : Unless the fuel is ignited it does n't generate any power . Without power the propeller does n't turn ( at least not very fast ) , so there 's no thrust . No thrust means no flying . Tires Tires are another aircraft component with multiple failure modes . Interesting ones include leaks ( air leaving the tire at a rate fast enough to be a problem ) , " catastrophic " failures where the tire explodes or disintegrates while rolling , and " self-protective " failures ( where the tire reaches a temperature that melts the fusible plug and causes it to deflate to prevent it from exploding ) . Tires are also used for an obvious reason : Aircraft that constantly belly-land require expensive maintenance ( to say nothing of the damage they do to the airport ) , and the alternatives - skis , pontoons , or flying boats - are limited in the areas from which they can operate . Air Filters On piston engines there is normally an intake air filter which is designed to keep dust and grit out of the engine . These filters can fail by becoming clogged ( which I suppose is n't really a failure : The filter is doing its job ) , and certain paper filters can fail by disintegrating and being ingested into the engine ( the FAA has issued <URL> on this subject ) . We still use air filters - even the paper kinds that can disintegrate - because ingesting dirt into a piston engine greatly accelerates wear . The required maintenance on the air filter costs less than increased overhaul frequency .
Stations ( STA ) , generally Fuselage Stations ( FS ) , designate location along the length of the aircraft , increasing from nose to tail . Generally station 0 is somewhere in front of the airplane . One reason for this is that if the airplane grows longer , there still wo n't be any negative stations , and sections of the plane keep their station numbers . FS 100 can also be placed at an important location ( looks like the firewall below ) . Water lines ( WL ) designate location in the height of the aircraft , from ground up . You can probably guess by now that these are holdovers from the marine industry . Like the stations , water line 0 is generally a bit below the aircraft , possibly to have WL 100 at the center of the fuselage , or WL 0 could be at the bottom of the fuselage . Butt lines ( BL ) designate location left/right on the aircraft , generally centered in the middle . While the main system is based on the whole airplane , different parts ( like the wings ) have their own system of STA , WL , and BL . The stations are generally in whatever unit is being used for the aircraft . In the US , this is inches . See <URL> for an example and further explanation . For a picture similar to the one below but with more detail , see <URL> .
The accessory gearbox is generally driven by the N2 shaft ( connecting the high-pressure turbine to the high-pressure compressor ) and in turn drives the engine accessories such as generators , hydraulic pumps , oil pumps , etc. . The air turbine starter is also part of this gearbox so during starting the accessory gearbox drives the high-pressure compressor . This analogous to the serpentine belt on your car , which connects your crankshaft to your cars engine accessories ( alternator , water pump , power steering , air conditioning , etc ) .
We found the problem . The control stops are under the seat and are made of plywood . It looks like at some point in the past someone had added a small layer of plywood to reduce the control deflections but that over time the glue had deteriorated or the wood had swollen , so that there was now too much stop . Removing the extra ply and sanding the glue back to the wood fixed the problem .
end question
start question
What does an Air Battle Manager do ?
<URL> has the following duties : Plan and execute theater air operations Analyze national defense strategy Develop and conduct flying and simulation exercises Conduct , manage , evaluate and improve unit training and readiness Create operational policies Further information can be found at <URL> . In USAirForce , there are seven categories of aeronautical ratings . They are : Pilot Navigator Combat Systems Officer ( CSO ) Air Battle Manager ( ABM ) RPA Pilot Observer Flight Surgeon For further reading about these ratings , read <URL> .
For subsonic aircraft the Mach number is normally measured from dynamic pressure and static pressure , very similar to the way calibrated airspeed is measured . $ $ M_a = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 } { \ gamma-1 } \ left [ \ left ( \ frac { q_c } { p } +1 \ right ) ^ \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { \ gamma } -1 \ right ] } $ $ with : $ M_a $ , the Mach number $ q_c $ , the dynamic pressure $ p $ , the static pressure $ \ gamma $ , the ratio of specific heats ( 1.4 ) If there is an error in the measurement of either the dynamic or the static pressure both the indicated airspeed and Mach number will be affected . Note that the Mach number has no direct dependency on temperature . The true airspeed is calculated by the ADC from the Mach number and the outside air temperature . $ $ V _ { TAS } = M_a \ cdot \ sqrt { \ gamma R T_S } $ $ with $ R$ , the specific gas constant ( 287.05 for dry air ) $ T_S $ , the static air temperature The indicated true airspeed has a direct dependency on the static air temperature ( $ T_S $ , SAT ) also known as the outside air temperature ( OAT ) . The static temperature can not be measured directly since the air will heat up on impact with the temperature sensor due to adiabatic compression . Instead the total air temperature ( $ T _ \ mathrm { total } $ , TAT ) will be measured . The relation between the measured total air temperature and the static temperature is given by : $ $ \ frac { T _ \ mathrm { total } } { T _ { s } } = { 1 + \ frac { \ gamma -1 } { 2 } M_a ^ 2 } $ $ Since the measurement probe may not recover all the energy from the adiabatic heating a correction factor is introduced : $ $ \ frac { T _ \ mathrm { total } } { T _ { s } } = { 1 + \ frac { \ gamma -1 } { 2 } eM_a ^ 2 } $ $ This ' recovery factor ' $ e $ is determined empirically for the temperature sensor used . The display on the EFIS will show the OAT , which may be slightly off if $ e $ is not entirely correct . This will also affect the " true " airspeed indication . To conclude ; anything indicated in the cockpit can contain measurement errors , regardless whether it is called ' indicated ' or ' true ' . With the introduction of digital flight data systems the error correction tables have been moved from the manuals to the computer , which automatically corrects for them .
The <URL> ( the parent airplane to the 330 ) : The Extra 300 is stressed for ± 10 G with one person on board and ± 8 G with two So it is certainly possible from an airplane perspective that you pulled that many Gs - in an aerobatic airplane , it 's not unheard of to pull 1G less than the aircraft limit ( usually there is a large margin of safety built into that number before a catastrophic structural failure ) . Now did you pull 7Gs ? As others have noted , 7Gs for 10-20 seconds seems very unlikely . But it is not out of the question your peak instantaneous G load was 7 . From a human factor standpoint , G-suits typically do n't increase the max G-load , but rather <URL> and the time period it can be held for . G-suits do very little to actually decrease blood flow ( pooling in the legs ) - they primarily serve as a reminder to the pilot to perform an AGSM . A g-suit does not so much increase the g-threshold , but makes it possible to sustain high g longer without excessive physical fatigue . The resting g-tolerance of a typical person is anywhere from 3-5 g depending on the person . A g-suit will typically add 1 g of tolerance to that limit . Now there are a vast array of factors affecting this resting G-tolerance . I flew a military high-performance trainer , and my resting G-tolerance was around 3 , or the lower end of the spectrum . One of the other pilots I knew had a resting G-tolerance of about 7.5 . The primary difference is blood pressure . I am 5 ' 10 " and only 145 pounds , with a resting blood pressure of about 90/60-100 / 70 . He was 6 ' 0 " and about 215 pounds , with a much higher blood pressure . Tall , skinny , nonsmoking runners have actually the worst resting G-tolerance while short , stocky , sedentary or heavily muscled smokers have much higher tolerance . Other factors , such as how hydrated and rested you are and how much stress you are feeling , can vary vastly your daily G-tolerance . All of those numbers I just listed do not take into account the pilot performing an AGSM ( Anti-G Straining Maneuver ) . This can add several Gs to the pilot 's tolerance , and is one of the biggest things taught in physiological training for high-G maneuvers . So TL ; DR : could you have pulled 7Gs without prior exposure ? It is possible , depending on varying personal factors and body type , but it is not likely . However , with a little training , 7Gs is perfectly attainable .
Yes , advanced flight directors and autopilots for helicopters can control the aircraft in all axes , and often they have modes for hovering built in , including maintain altitude , lateral veloctiy hold , hover , and/or autolevel . Hovering is difficult because it requires more complex controls than maintaining altitude in an airplane . Helicopters have a different set of control axes than fixed-wing aircraft . Fixed wing aircraft are controlled in pitch , roll , and yaw , with thrust as an extra variable . On a helicopter the flight path is controlled through cyclic ( roll and pitch ) , collective , and throttle , with the anti-torque pedals as well to control yaw . Hovering the aircraft requires controlling of the cyclic to keep the aircraft over its target with no lateral movement , and collective and throttle to maintain constant altitude , although the exact procedures are a little more complex . While not present on low-end helicopters due to a combination of complexity and lack of necessity , advanced autopilots for helicopters do exist . Like on other aircraft , there is a wide variety in autopilots between simple functions to maintain attitude ( often called one or two-cue guidance depending on the number of axes used ) to complex FMS-integrated three-axis modes ( which would be " three-cue " guidance ) . The FAA <URL> states , for example , that " The most advanced autopilots can fly an instrument approach to a hover without any additional pilot input once the initial functions have been selected . " On the Agusta AW139 helicopter that I 'm familiar with ( although I 'm not a pilot ) , they have several modes that provide this functionality : an altitude mode to maintain a given altitude an altitude acquire mode to smoothly reach a desired altitude an autolevel mode to level off at the end of an approach segment a lateral velocity hold mode to maintain slow lateral motion or no lateral motion more exotic search and rescue modes providing capabilites to transition to a hover , mark-on-target descents to predefined altitutdes , etc. . A traditional hover would be achieved by combining a low lateral velocity mode with a zero vertical speed mode like altitude or autolevel .
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
No because aircraft are categorized by their <URL> ( 1.3 times stall speed ) . <URL> VAT -- Speed at threshold used by ICAO ( 1.3 times stall speed in the landing configuration at maximum certificated landing mass ) By knowing the category , ATC is able to use appropriate speeds . The category is not actually listed anywhere , so the controller will have to know the approach category by heart for each aircraft type . E.g. if the controller sees " B738 " as the aircraft type in the flightplan , they have to know that the corresponding approach category is C. More : <URL> <URL> ( for the US )
There is n't much non-flying duty for airline pilots . The most important is recurrent training . Pilots are required to attend a refresher course at least annually . This school covers regulations , aircraft systems , and performance . The performance part involves computing weight and balance , airfield/weather restrictions , fuel required , etc ( basically the same thing as a Cessna 172 , but with much bigger numbers ) . Additionally , full flight simulators are used to teach and/or evaluate normal and non-normal ( we do n't get emergencies anymore ) procedure . This training is usually concurrent with the groundschool . Pilots are required to maintain their approach charts and aircraft manuals ; changes come frequently . A junior First Officer will spend an eternity ( at least it seems like it ) doing standby duty . This involves being available to take the place of any pilot who calls in sick or is otherwise unavailable . All pilots must pass a flight physical . The implication is that they must maintain themselves in at least minimal health . I hope this at least partially answers your question .
For the general question , the answer will be " it depends on the aircraft . " Specifically for the 787 , though , the ' 7E7 ' program was officially announced on <URL> . The program was later renamed to 787 . It received its type certificate on <URL> and flew its first passenger revenue flight on <URL> . So , from the time the program began to the time of the first revenue flight was about 8 years and 9 months . Of course , this is not including the R&amp;D time invested on different projects whose R&amp;D ended up being used either partially or completely in the 787 design before the 787 program itself began . It should also be noted that not every airframe they start developing ever actually flies . Notably , Boeing worked on designs including <URL> and the <URL> ( which would have cruised at Mach 0.98 ) before beginning the 7E7 program . In addition to completely new airframes , aircraft manufacturers also commonly make derivative airframes based on existing product families . Current examples of derivatives in development include the <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( " neo " stands for " new engine option . " ) However , development time on derivatives can vary widely depending on how much modification is being made to the existing airframes and the level of resources being devoted to the project ( which depends on market pressure . ) For a past example , the 2nd-generation Boeing 777 aircraft were announced on <URL> with the first aircraft , the 777-300ER , being certificated on <URL> , and first service entry on <URL> . This gives a time of about 4 years and 2 months from announcement to first service entry . This was likely slowed by the sharp downturn in aircraft orders following the 1999-2000 " . com bust " and , especially , the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. Also important is the FAA rule for applying for a type certificate . This will apply for new programs like the 787 , but not for derivative programs like the 777X , which amend the original type certificate and do not need a new one . In <URL> : An application for type certification of a transport category aircraft is effective for 5 years and an application for any other type certificate is effective for 3 years ... So once Boeing applies for a new type certificate , they have 5 years to get the type cetificate approved , unless they convince the FAA upfront that more time is needed . If the time runs out they must reapply , and the new type certificate would require the aircraft to comply with all new regulations passed since their original application .
In addition to the systems listed by RedGrittyBrick , it is also possible to let the aircraft detect itself , from its sensors , potential crashes . This problem has been studied , and is pretty well documented in a report made by the BEA ( the French equivalent of the NTSB ) after the crash of the flight AF447 . The full report is available in <URL> and in <URL> . I made a summary of their work in this answer . The solution proposed in this report is a triggered transmission of flight data . The aircraft transmits them only if it detects a potentially dangerous situation from its sensors ( this reduces the load on communication systems ) . Two types of triggering criterion are proposed : One base on binary logic One based on Fuzzy logic They both take into account several parameters ( speed , pitch angle , pilot 's inputs ... ) and verify some relations about them . For example , if , something is probably wrong . The criterion have been check against a database of real flight data recovered from crashed aircrafts , in order to assess their performances : The robustness of the triggering criteria was evaluated using the following metrics : False detection rate ( or nuisance trigger rate ) : out of all the normal flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation Nuisance transmission time that the nuisance triggers generate Emergency situation detection rate : out of all the accident/incident flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation For flights with a correctly detected emergency situation , what is the warning time between the time of detection and the time of impact with the surface The conclusion of these tests is that accidents were almost always predicted ( binary logic failed in only one case out of 44 , fuzzy logic detected every case ) . On average , the problem was raised about 350s before the actual crash ( the median is around 33s , minimum at 3s and maximum at 10,019 s ) . The second half of the report discusses different system to transmit these triggered alarms to infrastructures on the ground . It is also interesting and well written , but outside the scope of this question .
Check out <URL> published by the FAA which seems to be recent and some notes <URL> on the same topics . The full rules can be found in the FAR at <URL> They are required to do a preflight risk analysis as per § 135.617 but this is not really any different than what anyone should be doing before any flight however for them it is very specifically outlined . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting helicopter air ambulance operations must establish , and document in its operations manual , an FAA-approved preflight risk analysis that includes at least the following -- ( 1 ) Flight considerations , to include obstacles and terrain along the planned route of flight , landing zone conditions , and fuel requirements ; ( 2 ) Human factors , such as crew fatigue , life events , and other stressors ; ( 3 ) Weather , including departure , en route , destination , and forecasted ; ( 4 ) A procedure for determining whether another helicopter air ambulance operator has refused or rejected a flight request ; and ( 5 ) Strategies and procedures for mitigating identified risks , including procedures for obtaining and documenting approval of the certificate holder 's management personnel to release a flight when a risk exceeds a level predetermined by the certificate holder . ( b ) Each certificate holder must develop a preflight risk analysis worksheet to include , at a minimum , the items in paragraph ( a ) of this section . ( c ) Prior to the first leg of each helicopter air ambulance operation , the pilot in command must conduct a preflight risk analysis and complete the preflight risk analysis worksheet in accordance with the certificate holder 's FAA-approved procedures . The pilot in command must sign the preflight risk analysis worksheet and specify the date and time it was completed . ( d ) The certificate holder must retain the original or a copy of each completed preflight risk analysis worksheet at a location specified in its operations manual for at least 90 days from the date of the operation .
Let 's take the best case scenario to start with , and assume that the cruise ground speed of the airliner is around 400kts . For our best case , we also assume that the runway is lined up with the flight path and that the airspace is quiet so the plane is cleared " straight in " with no vectoring for separation or holding patterns . Descent : A typical descent profile would start 100nm out , during which the plane would slow pretty uniformly from around 400kts to around 140kt . This gives an average groundspeed of 270kt . So this 100nm is covered in around 25 minutes rather the 15 minutes at full cruise . The descent has cost us only 10 minutes . Taxi and turnaround : At a smallish ( and well designed ) airport the rollout and taxiing to the stand may only take 5 minutes , plus another 5 to attach the air bridge/stairs and open the door . Passenger and baggage turnaround would typically take around 30 minutes , but you have specifically excluded this in your question so we can ignore it . Then getting departure clearances , startup and taxiing to the active : say another 15 minutes . So this phase has cost more or less 25 minutes . Take off and climb out : Again assuming we 're cleared for immediate take off , it takes around 20 minutes to climb to cruise altitude , at an average ground speed of ( say ) 200 knots . This means we 've covered about 70 miles , which the cruising aircraft would have covered in just over 10 minutes . So this final phase has cost us another 10 minutes . Total for the best case scenario is 45 minutes . Of course the best case is not that likely . If the airspace is busy , holding for another 10 minutes before final approach , and 10 minutes further wait for departure and takeoff clearances , would not be surprising . And if the active runway is in the " wrong " direction or vectoring is needed for traffic or noise reasons , that can easily add another 10 minutes or so . So in the non-best case scenario , a total loss of 1h15 to 1h30 would not be unreasonable .
The key when selecting an aviation mechanic or shop to maintain your newly purchased plane is " time in type " : You would not take a Cessna 172 to the United Airlines maintenance facility at JFK , not would you take an A380 to the local Cessna service center ( even though it would be perfectly legal to do so ) . If you 're buying a new aircraft ( of any type ) the manufacturer will be able to recommend an authorized service center for you , and you 'll probably want to use an authorized service center ( especially for warranty work ) . If you 're buying a used aircraft you can still contact the manufacturer and ask about authorized service centers . They will usually be happy to give you a list of places near you that can work on your aircraft , and who are blessed by the factory to perform warranty service , complete mandatory service bulletins where the manufacturer is supplying parts / covering labor , etc. . Aside from manufacturer recommendations there are a lot of other ways to find a maintenance shop that beat simply asking Google and picking one at random . For the most common single-engine piston aircraft ( your typical Piper Cherokee , Cessna 172/182 , etc. ) you can almost certainly find a mechanic at your local general aviation airport - ask the FBO where you 're storing the plane for recommendations or talk to other pilots on the ramp about who they use for maintenance . For more esoteric aircraft ( high-performance singles , twins , vintage/classic/warbirds , etc. ) your best resource is often a type club ( e.g. . <URL> for Beechcraft Bonanzas , or <URL> for the Piper Comanche ) - Google can help you track down a type club , and the members can help you find mechanics who have experience working on your particular airplane . Type clubs are also a great source of other information ( like where to find parts ) .
Stall was an unfortunate choice of words for an engine that quits suddenly since the aerodynamic stall means something different1 . To a non-pilot , a stall can best be described as the situation where there is not enough air flowing over the wings to create the amount of lift needed to hold up the airplane . The main reason that student pilots practice stalls is to learn the telltale signs that occur just before it happens and to make the recovery procedure automatic . If pilots can recognize an impending stall , they can take corrective action to either avoid the stall altogether or to recover as quickly as possible . Outside of training , inadvertent stalls typically only occur shortly before landing and after takeoff , when the pilot gets distracted while already at a slow speed . In both of these situations the airplane is very close to the ground , immediately requiring the correct action from the pilot in order to avoid a crash . This needs to be instinctive and corrected using <URL> so that it is accomplished as rapidly as possible . The next logical question is usually : How does a pilot fix an airplane that has stalled ? Fortunately , airplanes are designed so that even during a stall the tail is still effective2 and the pilot is able to use it to force the nose down . This makes the airplane go faster , since it is pointed down towards the ground , and gets more air moving over the wing which allows it to create enough lift for the airplane to start flying again . During practice it is usually pretty uneventful , but when it happens at a low altitude there may not be enough time to regain flying speed before the airplane crashes . For more information , AOPA has a great Safety Publication targeting flight instructors called <URL> which is available on their website . 1 However , the sail on a sailboat can also " stall " when there is n't enough wind and since they have been around since 3,000 BC I guess that technically this usage of the word applies to both situations . 2 There are some stalls in particular airplane designs known as deep stalls that can be unrecoverable . I do n't think that this is important when describing it to a layperson though .
Yes it 's for lost comm . If you look at the MOCA you still have the required obstacle clearance . MOCA only gives you reception within 22 NM of the NAVAID , while MEA gives reception along the route . If this was not an RNAV procedure I 'd expect your level off altitude would probably be the MEA ( just my assumption ! ) . In this case you would maintain 3,000 ' until cleared higher . If you were to lose comm you 'd fly the higher of filed , assigned , MEA , or expected altitudes .
When you are not restricted by the size of a cargo hold , your cargo can become much bigger . See below how a <URL> lifts the fuselage and wing root of a Tu-134 . I have not checked whether this is a record , but I would expect that the world record will involve the Mil-26 somehow . Mil-26 lifting a Tu-134 carcass , seen from below ( <URL> )
Inertial Navigation Systems , unlike other navigation systems , do not depend on external ( radio ) measurements . Instead an INS keeps track of its position by accurately measuring acceleration ( accelerometers ) and rotation ( gyroscopes ) . It therefore works in remote areas where there are no ground based navaids available . Initially , the INS gets its position from pilot input at the gate , or in more recent systems from GPS , sometimes even during flight . By measuring all the accelerations and rotations and integrating them into speed and direction the position is tracked . In doing this , the INS has to correct for the rotation of the earth and the related Coriolis force . Due to small inaccuracies in the measurements the velocity error and , with that , the position errors grow over time . <URL> has quite a detailed article about the history and working of the INS . While raw INS position has mainly been replaced by GPS measurements on oceanic flights , the system is not being phased out . GPS is a sensitive systems and by crosschecking it with INS , errors can be detected in both systems . It is often used as a backup to GPS . Integrated GPS / INS systems provide better systems integrity and allow the navigation system to coast through short GPS outages with high accuracies . In addition to that , the ( laser ) gyroscopes of the INS are often used to provide data to the digital artificial horizon displays in the cockpit and to the auto flight systems . In this case the term Inertial Reference Unit ( IRU ) is used , which acts as a basis for the INS .
Simple answer : yes , air travel can deflate or pop air pillows . Longer answer : Cargo holds are at the same pressure as the rest of the airplane , it 's part of the pressure vessel . Generally airplanes are pressured to about 8000ft , so the air is a lot thinner and therefore there will be a higher pressure differential between the air in the pads and the air in the hold . Thin plastic is somewhat porous and will leak some air , the rate this happens will be faster when there 's a higher pressure differential . This differential <URL> to the point many will not use them when shipping by air . Styrofoam , cellulose pops , or crumpled paper are the preferred method . You can see these forces at work next time you fly yourself by taking an empty disposable plastic water bottle on board . Seal it with the cap at airport altitude before departure . After takeoff as the airplane climbs the plastic will bulge as the cabin pressure drops , and when you uncap it you will probably hear a hiss . Seal it back up and then during descent the bottle will crumple as the air pressure increases .
It is possible but there are side effects . If both rudders would be deflected to opposite sides to cancel out each others yaw moments , their drag will act as an air brake . But since the top rudder is further from the center of gravity than the bottom rudder , the resulting roll moments of the rudders do n't cancel each other out . As a result the aircraft will start to roll . This can then be counteracted with the ailerons . Since the rudders do n't deflect as far as air brakes would , they would be less effective . If they would be designed to deflect more , the increased forces upon them and on the control system would require a heavier construction and thus add weight to the aircraft .
I think you might have heard about the <URL> , which is deployed in case of some aircraft in case of loss of main electrical power supply . From <URL> : In case of total loss of all main generators , the RAT is automatically extended and drives the emergency generator via a hydraulic motor . The location of the ram air turbine varies with different aircraft and some of them ( like the popular A320 ) have them near the landing gear . The following image is from <URL> to another question . <URL> Location of Ram Air Turbines in different aircraft , image from <URL> Bombardier BD700-1A11 Global 5000 ( <URL> ) Airbus A320 Flight test ( <URL> ) Bombardier CRJ700 ( <URL> ) US Navy T-45A ( <URL> ) Airbus A330 ( <URL> ) Boeing B747-8 ( picture by Gregor Schläger , <URL> ) Boeing B777 , RAT extension switch ( <URL> )
There is no term ( that I am aware of ) referring to only the portion of the takeoff while the tail is off the ground . In general , the attitude where just the two main wheels are touching the ground is called " two-point . " Likewise , with the tail wheel also on the ground , it is called " three-point . " Specifically , a two-point landing is sometimes called a " wheel landing " . <URL>
end question
start question
What is the name of centre of mass speed of an aircraft ?
It describes what the velocity vector of the aircraft centre of gravity is in relation to the surface of the earth . Ground speed is the 2-D projection of your speed on the ground , climb speed is the vertical component . Both ground speed and climb speed are very useful parameters as such : ground speed to figure out when the aircraft arrives , climb speed to adjust engine settings etc for reaching cruise altitude with a minimum amount of fuel used . The 3-D vector sum of the two has little practical use , that is probably why it has no separate name as far as I know . The integrated signal is of more use : what is the position in 3D of the centre of gravity of the aircraft relative to earth ? Pretty useful for navigation .
Farhan 's answer covered why the deck is angled in the first place . As far as why the landing area of the deck points left instead of right , this is for several reasons : Angling to port makes the most use of the deck area behind the catapults . Angling starboard would require the catapults to be shifted left off the centerline of the carrier ( yes , the carrier does have two additional catapults on the port side , but these ca n't be used while the carrier is retrieving aircraft , which is more often than you 'd think as the carrier maintains regular patrols ) . Angling the landing strip toward the " island " ( conning tower ) of the carrier just does n't sound like a good idea when you say it . That goes double when you realize the carrier is underway while you 're trying to land on it , and therefore you have to lead the landing strip a little . If you do n't , you 'll end up " behind " the ship and the landing strip . With the landing strip angled to port , a plane on a " lagging " approach ( lined up " behind " where the carrier 's going to be at touchdown ) will have a relatively clear path off to port for a wave-off . Angled to starboard , a plane that 's " lagging " the carrier would be pointed right at the tower . It would be possible to mirror the entire deck layout ; island to port , landing area angled starboard . The reason the island is on the starboard side is primarily convention ; all U.S. Navy aircraft carriers ever built have been either flush-decked or have had the island to the right . That 's thus a familiar sight picture for naval pilots across all eras , and easy to train to . A new carrier design does n't get the luxury of a whole new crew trained an entirely different way ; the Navy 's been training pilots since 1910 , they 've been landing planes on boats since 1927 , and they 'll do it they way they 've been doing it for 88 years , thank you very much . The Imperial Japanese Navy commissioned two carriers , Akagi and Hiryu , with island-left designs , fielded with the idea that the island-left carrier would sail in formation with an island-right carrier in the same flag group , with opposing traffic patterns that did n't conflict . This procedure never materialized in practice ; most carrier groups in both Japanese and U.S. fleets ended up with a single carrier due to their high cost and lower total number , a pattern that continues today , and even when two ( or more ) carriers were close enough to be called part of the same naval group , they typically maintained a wide enough spacing to permit a left-hand pattern for both ships .
Why do you need a kite ? A glider is much better suited to the task . Again , nature has invented this long ago . Albatrosses use a technique called <URL> to cover wide distances over water , using the windshear close to the surface . <URL> have tried to imitate this with gliders , albeit with limited success . The few who tried it could indeed stay in the air by harvesting energy from windshear , but the dynamic loads ( up to 4 g ) were too much to do this over an extended time .
14.5 % given in the article is the ( maximum ) thickness to chord ratio , expressed in percentage . It is usually used to explain how thin ( or thick ) the airfoil is . Note that this is a characteristic of the airfoil . From the NASA page <URL> : <URL> Airfoil thickness to chord ratio , image from NASA page <URL> ... The straight line drawn from the leading to trailing edges of the airfoil is called the chord line . ... The maximum distance between the two lines is called the camber , which is a measure of the curvature of the airfoil ( high camber means high curvature ) . The maximum distance between the upper and lower surfaces is called the thickness . Often you will see these values divided by the chord length to produce a non-dimensional or " percent " type of number .
According to Wikipedia <URL> an American carrier type Kitty Hawk has a catapult capable of accelerating a mass of 35000 kg to 139 knots ( 71,51 m/s ) , and the system 's stroke is 76 m. From the terminal speed and the stroke , a simple calculation gives a mean acceleration of 33,64 m/s/s . Hence , and assuming the acceleration constant along the stroke , the time needed to reach 60 mph = 26,81 m/s is t = v/a = > t = 26,81 / 33.64 = > t = 0,796 seconds ...
The different terms represent different weights or masses1 . For each flight , the weights are taken into account for several reasons . A brief description about these is below : <URL> ( MEW ) Also called Manufacturer 's Weight Empty ( MWE ) or Licensed Empty Weight It is the weight of the aircraft " as built " and includes the weight of the structure , power plant , furnishings , installations , systems and other equipment that are considered an integral part of an aircraft . This excludes any baggage , passengers , or usable fuel2 . <URL> ( ZFW ) This is the total weight of the airplane and all its contents ( including unusable fuel ) , but excluding the total weight of the usable fuel on board . As a flight progresses and fuel is consumed , the total weight of the airplane reduces , but the ZFW remains constant . Maximum zero fuel weight ( MZFW ) is the maximum weight allowed before usable fuel and other specified usable agents ( engine injection fluid , and other consumable propulsion agents ) are loaded . <URL> ( OEW ) ( Roughly equivalent to basic empty weight on light aircraft ) It is the basic weight of an aircraft including the crew , all fluids necessary for operation such as engine oil , engine coolant , water , unusable fuel and all operator items and equipment required for flight but excluding usable fuel and the payload . <URL> It is the carrying capacity of an aircraft . It includes cargo , people , extra fuel . In the case of a commercial airliner , it may refer only to revenue-generating cargo or paying passengers . <URL> ( MTOW ) This is the maximum weight at which the pilot of the aircraft is allowed to attempt to take off3 . <URL> ( RTOW ) Depending on different factors ( e.g. flap setting , altitude , air temperature , length of runway ) , RTOW or maximum permissible takeoff weight varies for each takeoff . It can never be higher than MTOW . More information is on <URL> . <URL> ( MLW ) This maximum weight at which an aircraft is permitted to land3 . The following image depicts takeoff weight components . <URL> <URL> ( MRW ) also called maximum taxi weight ( MTW ) It is the maximum weight authorized for maneuvering ( taxiing or towing ) an aircraft on the ground . <URL> It is the total aircraft weight at any moment during the flight or ground operation . This decreases during flight due to fuel and oil consumption . 1 : As <URL> , several recent references use the term mass instead of weight . Having a Physics background , I tend to agree and know the difference between <URL> . I did not use mass as most of the references I included referred mass as weight . However , using correct terminology , all the weights mean mass . Thanks <URL> for pointing it out . 2 : What is the different between usable fuel and unusable fuel ? Usable fuel is the fuel on board an aircraft that can actually be used by its engines . The small amount of fuel that can not be drained from the tanks is the unusable fuel . For calculation of range , usable fuel is used . For weight and balance total fuel ( usable + unusable ) is used . 3 : This restriction is due to structural , design or operational limitations .
The stall speed is around 95-100 knots for the older F variant , and something like 90-95 knots for the newer J variants . A KC-130 can refuel between around 100 and 270 knots . The lower end of this is well within the maximum speed of many military helicopters , eg the Pave Hawk , Black Hawk , Chinoook or Sea Stallion . That leaves an " overlap " of around 20-40 knots , without having to approach too close to either the stall speed of the KC-130 ( around 90-95 knots ) or the VNE of the helicopter ( usually between 140 and 170 knots for a military helicopter ) . This is enough for aerial refuelling , which usually states a fairly tight bracket for the refuelling speed . As mentioned <URL> : The United States Marine Corps has chosen the KC-130J tanker to replace its aging KC-130F tanker fleet . The new KC-130J offers increased utility and much needed improvement in mission performance . As a force multiplier , the J tanker is capable of refueling both fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft as well as conducting rapid ground refueling . The refueling speed envelope has been widened from 100 to 270 knots indicated airspeed , offering more capability and flexibility .
A good engineer will first check existing designs : How much power is installed in comparable designs ? Use airplanes of similar speed and built quality , such as the <URL> which needs 50 to 60 hp . Cruise speed is 90 knots and the MTOW is 450 kg . Next , try to estimate the minimum wing area . Starting from the <URL> ( = 18 m/s ) , and assuming a maximum lift coefficient with flaps down of 1.6 , the area to support 340 kg at sea level is $ $ S = \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { \ rho \ cdot c_L \ cdot v ^ 2 } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot 340 \ cdot 9.81 } { 1.225 \ cdot 1.6 \ cdot 18 ^ 2 } = 10.5 m ^ 2 $ $ Now calculate the drag coefficient in cruise , using the <URL> . First , establish the <URL> : $ $ c _ { L _ { opt } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } $ $ The total drag coefficient at this point is simply twice the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ , so a low drag design is important . Still , with a fixed gear your zero-lift drag coefficient will hardly be lower than 0.035 , so your cruise lift coefficient is 0.938 ( assuming an aspect ratio $ AR$ of 10 and an Oswald factor $ \ epsilon $ of 0.8 ) , resulting in a flight speed of just 23.51 m/s = 45.7 kts . Total drag at this point is $ $ D _ { min } = 2 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = 249 N$ $ To sustain flight at this point only requires $ P = v \ cdot D$ = 5.85 kW , and assuming a prop efficiency of 0.75 , the installed power should be 7.8 kW . But you want to fly faster , so we need the drag at 100 kts ( = 51.4 m/s ) : $ $ D = \ left ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } \ right ) \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } $ $ There , your lift coefficient is only 0.196 but the dynamic pressure rises to 1,621 N/mm ² . Since the Reynolds number is higher , your zero-lift drag could drop to 0.031 , resulting in a drag force of 550 N . At that speed , the required power is 28.3 kW . Under the heroic assumption that your prop will still be 75 % efficient at that speed , the installed power needs to be 37.8 kW or 50.65 hp . If you " only " want to achieve a TAS of 100 kt at altitude , here is what you need to do in the case of cruise at 10,000 ft ( = 3048 m ) . First you need the density at that altitude , which is <URL> . This means that the dynamic pressure is 1,191 N/mm ² and the lift coefficient 0.267 , resulting in a drag force of 419 N . This needs a continuous power of 21.56 kW to overcome . Now I assume the 75 % efficient propeller again and that you run the engine at 75 % of max . power , so the installed power in 10,000 ft should be at least 38.3 kW or 51.4 hp . Assuming a normally aspirated engine , this would translate to a rated power of 70 hp at sea level . Considering that similar designs require similar power , this looks about right . Normally , you now need to compute the climb speed with the excess power of 35.15 kW to check how usable this design is , but at 10.5 m/s I doubt this will be not enough . If you manage to include a retractable gear with your limited mass budget , the zero-lift drag might be as low as 0.024 . Now the drag force in cruise at 10,000 ft will be only 324.4 N and the installed rated power at sea level only 40.4 kw or 54 hp . With piston aircraft , your power needs increase with the cube of airspeed . I leave it as an exercise to you to calculate how much more power the last 10 knots require : Repeat the calculation with only 90 kt cruise and your rated engine power can be as low as 51 hp with a fixed gear .
It describes what the velocity vector of the aircraft centre of gravity is in relation to the surface of the earth . Ground speed is the 2-D projection of your speed on the ground , climb speed is the vertical component . Both ground speed and climb speed are very useful parameters as such : ground speed to figure out when the aircraft arrives , climb speed to adjust engine settings etc for reaching cruise altitude with a minimum amount of fuel used . The 3-D vector sum of the two has little practical use , that is probably why it has no separate name as far as I know . The integrated signal is of more use : what is the position in 3D of the centre of gravity of the aircraft relative to earth ? Pretty useful for navigation .
Note : I am focusing on model of height-to-pressure relation in atmosphere , altimeter tries to follow and its limits of the model . There are , of course , limits of each particular instrument too , see answer by @ymb1 . [ EDIT : I have added more details on various uses of altitude and some more details what could be the limit for measuring absolute altitude ( it is not how thin air becomes , in fact ) , hope it answers your question better . ] Uses for altimeter reading Height displayed by common mechanical altimeter should be pressure converted according to the <URL> . This model makes few simplifications ( see the linked document for ex . ) , so it actually never gives exact height , except by chance . But as you are saying , it is anyway quite good approximation . When you are flying , there is few different reasons why you would need to look on altimeter . Obstacle avoidance , landing and maybe calculating final glide in glider . In this case it is really absolute height over terrain you need to know . To get this value you have to start with obtaining QNH , so already now altimeter itself is not enough ( in any altitude ) without external data . For greater precision you have to add more external data . You start with local temperature , but even then precision would be limited . The magnitude of error does not depend on your absolute altitude though , but ( in first approximation ) on height difference between airplane and station/place your QNH comes from . So you are lucky if you want to land . Given QNH comes from that particular airfield , your altimeter should read exact value just on touchdown . If you need to avoid obstacles at similar altitude , error will be likely acceptable for practical use . Again , it is not absolute altitude but relative difference what is causing this error . If you set QNH ( or runway altitude ) on airfield located 4000 ' above sea level and fly down to the see ( let 's say it is possible without traveling far away , so spatial change of air pressure is not an issue here ) , expected error of your altimeter will be similar as if you would fly 4000 feet up . It is because QNH ( pressure at the sea level ) is calculated based on the same model your altimeter is using , so model imperfections cancels out just at the altitude of this reference station . ATC , mid air collisions etc. . Absolute altitude is not important . Instead , you need to be sure that two pilots who see distinct values on their respective altimeters can expect not being at same altitude . For this purpose simplest model with minimum of external parameters works best . As it is of foremost importance that all altimeters involved converts pressure to height in the same way . ( Then , you need to expect pressure does not increase with altitude , but this is quite certain , as there will be always less air mass above you pressing down when you go upwards ) . Absolute altitude is completely unimportant here , or , for flying closer to terrain simple QNH-based offset will do . ( Otherwise STD pressure setting is used . ) Even simple altimeter ( in range of its physical limits of measurable pressure ) would work quite well for this purpose in any practical height . Aircraft performance and aerodynamics . That is service ceiling , choosing optimal cruise etc. . These parameters are usually denoted in altitude in a POH , but only for convenience . It is air density what matters for anything aerodynamic related . And air density is air pressure corrected to temperature . So " altitude " provided by pressure-based altimeter is " just right " for this purpose , you can correct it based on local temperature and you have the best possible value . Again , this will work in any height ( as long as POH and altimeter use same conversion between pressure and height ) . Note that for later two uses value provided by altimeter is actually better than , say , GPS-based height . Absolute altitude OK , what if you really want to know your absolute altitude in stratosphere or even higher . Is it possible to use your altimeter then ? If the altimeter converts pressure to height based on ISA ( true in most cases ) , the displayed value should be given by equation $ $ h = \ left ( 153.85 \ , { \ rm m \ cdot K ^ { -1 } } \ right ) \ cdot T_0 \ cdot \ left ( 1 - \ left ( p \ over p_0 \ right ) ^ { 0.19026 } \ right ) $ $ ( see the reference above ) , where $ T_0 $ is specified to be 288.15 K ( 15 ° C ) and $ p_0 $ is pressure you set in altimeter window . So , if you take such altimeter to space ( $ p = 0 $ ) it wo n't display more than 44 km ( or 145,000 feet ) , given it wo n't reach it 's physical/mechanical limits before . But , of course , the value becomes far from reality much earlier . Probably above the tropopause ( 10 -- 12 km ) , where assumption of constant temperature decrease with height used in this ISA model becomes completely invalid . You could improve the model , but it probably wo n't work too well without more external data . Nevertheless , problem is not that the air is thin . You can , in a way , measure air pressure even at low earth orbit few hundreds kilometer above ground
It depends on how you define " glass cockpit . " Technology has progressed in steps to the modern " glass cockpits " of the latest aircraft . Who developed the first glass cockpits ? The military appears to be the first place where electronic displays were used . First for specific uses like navigation or targeting scopes , and later gaining more functionality . Which planes first used these glass cockpits ? The <URL> was the first production aircraft with a HUD and entered service in 1963 . The North American <URL> was equipped with a multifunction display and entered service in 1970 . The commercial side of the industry took a bit longer to adopt the technology . The McDonnell Douglas <URL> had a glass primary flight display and navigation display , and entered service in <URL> . Boeing started work on glass cockpits in the <URL> while developing the the Supersonic Transport ( SST ) . While the SST never entered production , the work on glass cockpit technology was <URL> of the <URL> and <URL> , entering service in 1982 and 1983 , respectively . This was based on work with NASA , including <URL> beginning in 1973 . The Airbus <URL> entered service in 1983 , and also used <URL> . The <URL> , entering service in 1988 , was the first aircraft regarded as having a " full " glass cockpit , replacing traditional instruments for the primary flight instruments . How was the current layout developed , were other layouts in use beforehand ? The first displays were generally dedicated to specific functions . For commercial aircraft , there was a primary flight display ( PFD ) showing the pitch and roll of the aircraft . There was also a second display for navigation which displayed the aircraft 's heading . As RedGrittyBrick points out , adding the speed and altitude to the PFD was natural due to their typical position on either side of the PFD . The use of the vertical " tape " format allows the same visual sense of direction as a round dial while taking up less space in the display . Was there any resistance or difficulty in getting these systems adopted amongst pilots or their companies ? Although there was certainly a sense of caution with the introduction of new technology replacing the most important instruments in the cockpit , the benefits were enough to get the changes adopted . <URL> from 1989 , focusing on the " glass cockpit " in the 757 . It covers the effect on the pilots and their opinions of the new technology . The study shows that the pilots had an overall positive view of the new technology , since it reduced their workload and made tasks easier in many situations . However , the report also identified issues with crew members becoming " complacent " due to more automation , and some tasks actually became more difficult with the new systems . There is also the issue of training pilots on the complex new systems , and about what information should be hidden from pilots either during training or in operation of the aircraft . These types of discussions are certainly not going away , as is evidenced by recent events .
That is a static pressure line . The " shuttlecock " device on the end pulls the line out behind the aircraft , where it can get a more accurate pressure reading , away from the air flowing around the aircraft that affects the regular <URL> . It will also be more accurate during flight conditions that normal aircraft rarely experience , but need to be accurately analyzed during testing . <URL> Static pressure has an effect on the performance of the aircraft , so during testing that is one value they want to measure accurately during flights . Once testing is complete there is no longer a need for that information , and the regular pitot-static system takes the measurements needed . The line can be seen in <URL> , and in <URL> , you can see the reel inside the rear of the aircraft that is used to pull in the line when it is not in use .
Whether it 's a twin - , tri - , or quad-jet , it very much depends on the aircraft design , airline policy , and conditions such as taxiway slope , contamination , weight , etc. . Read the below example for the Airbus A320 to get an idea : <URL> An example of what can go wrong when taxiing on two out of four engines ( or 1 out of 2 ) is having the aircraft in the wrong configuration . Like what happened on <URL> when the ground engineer had no steering or braking and <URL> : <URL> For the Airbus A380 : <URL> The minimum is a symmetrical two on the A380 ( likewise for the 747 ) . 777 In the 777 it is not allowed . That 's an example of how it depends on the aircraft design . Taxi -- One Engine Because of additional operational procedural requirements and crew workload , taxiing with an engine shut down is not allowed . High bypass engines require warm up prior to applying takeoff thrust and cool down prior to shutting down . If the engine has been shut down for several hours , it is desirable to operate at as low a thrust setting as practicable for several minutes prior to takeoff . Note : Single engine taxi with an inoperative engine is authorized consistent with good judgement . ( Boeing 777 FCOM ) Fuel saving According to this <URL> , the saving is about 4-8 kg of fuel per minute .
Appearances can be deceiving . The view " behind " a Piper Cherokee looks something like the image below : no rear window so you ca n't see what 's behind you , but that really does n't matter since there 's no way to go " backward " in this aircraft using the flight controls . Visibility aside , ground handling is often a a complex production , particularly for larger aircraft or when you have a lot of aircraft in proximity to each other or obstacles . Moving small aircraft around typically requires at least 3 people . When you 're moving forward you will have the person operating the tug and two " wing walkers " who stand a few feet off the wingtips and walk along to make sure the wings are n't going to hit anything . When pushing an aircraft back in a tightly packed hangar there 's sometimes a fourth person walking ahead of the tail to make sure you do n't back the plane into something . Since there 's not usually much for the pilot to do inside the plane at this point , they usually serve as one of the walkers . Larger aircraft observe similar procedures , but for push-backs or power-backs it 's known that the area behind the aircraft is clear ( this is usually coordinated over the radio ) , and as long as the tug driver or pilot keeps the nosewheel on the appropriate pavement markings there will be wingtip clearance . Line personnel are also often stationed to <URL> in close quarters where positioning is critical ( e.g. when pulling an airliner up to a gate , or parking a small aircraft on a busy ramp ) . The other half of the picture is taxiing under your own power and control . When taxiing , it 's generally assumed that the pilot knows their aircraft 's dimensions and will avoid hitting things . This usually works out well , but <URL> . Airport taxiways are marked so an aircraft with a specific maximum wingspan will be clear of any obstacles while taxiing along the centerline , and as you 're generally only going forward that 's where visibility is most important ( you can assume if the area your wingtip was going to hit was clear 15 seconds ago when you last saw it and nothing was heading into that area it 's still clear now , and you 're relying on the pilot of the aircraft behind you to be paying attention and not taxi into your tail ) .
Each vessel , whether land , sea , or air , should ( might ) have a defined afterbody . The afterbody is <URL> as : The afterpart of a vehicle ; The part of a vessel abaft midships ; A companion body that trails a satellite or spacecraft ; A section or piece of a launch vehicle , rocket , or spacecraft that enters the atmosphere unprotected behind the nose cone or other body that is protected for entry and Merriam-Webster Online <URL> it as : : the after part of a body : such as a : the part of a ship abaft midships b : the bottom portion of a seaplane hull or float aft of the main step To show you , visually , an easy to see set of examples , consider the following pictures of floatplanes ( seaplanes ) : In the first and second images , the afterbody is that part of the aircraft behind the step , which is the little ' notch ' or , well , ' step ' just behind the main wheels . In the third picture , the afterbody is everything after the step , which is the more steeply angled section under the wings . The step is generally just aft of the center of gravity of the plane . Generally speaking , if one were to discuss the afterbody of a large airliners , such as the Airbus A380 , the afterbody would be the fuselage from the wings back , but not including the tail ( where the rudder and elevators are . ) I could not find any Airbus references to ' afterbody ' however . I did find some references to the afterbody of a Boeing 787 , being that part of the plane behind the pressurized cabin , which is the very back of the plane , including the tail . Not a very good solid definition where everyone agrees , sorry .
Best bet is that there was an issue with the artificial horizon . If it was on an older aircraft without a glass cockpit , the gyro or its gimbal was probably broken causing the face to ' float ' around or just stick at an odd angle . Then it was then communicated poorly to you by someone . Other than that I have never heard of a " floating horizon " and a google search does n't yield any results either .
You 're right -- the boundary layer is related to lift production since , in a subsonic example , " guides " the air relative to the airfoil shape and enables the necessary flow accelerations that create the pressure differential and downwash . However , a thick boundary layer is not necessarily a good deal , especially on an airplane wing . I think that <URL> makes a good reference here . The thicker than a boundary layer is , the greater the velocity and pressure gradient across it . Therefore , the chance of flow separation ( think of stall , when flow is no longer following the airfoil contour and is creating a ton of drag and not much lift ) is also higher . This consideration is further outlined <URL> ( a major technical university in the Netherlands ) . If the boundary layer is allowed to grow and is allowed to remain laminar , separation occurs relatively early , leading to dramatically increased drag and a similar reduction in lift . Artificial " tripping " ( i.e. , the introduction of turbulence ) of the boundary layer prior to laminar separation re-energizes the boundary layer and allows it to remain attached for longer . It can also decrease your drag by some amount , but that 's another story unto itself . This ( or some more active sort of boundary layer control ) is what I 'm guessing you 're referring to when you talk about keeping the boundary layer thin . It is , with the exception of circulation control and insofar as I 'm familiar with it , related to energizing the boundary layer to delay flow separation as long as possible .
If what you 're asking is to see groundspeed history of a certain type of aircraft , you can choose a type here : <URL> Then follow the links to see its flight track history as shown here : <URL>
Why do people have to worry about CG ? Because the manufacturer has designed the aircraft following certain criteria , and one of those is where the CG will be during flight . If the CG is outside that interval , the elevator will not have enough autority to keep level flight . does tipping over of aircraft actually occur these days due to improperly managed CG ? Was not improperly " managed " , but it went out of bounds ( in particular , the aft limit ) , unfortunately , soon after take-off and <URL> .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
end question
start question
Can I use my aviation handheld transceiver on MURS ?
You asked for legal opinion , so the main " legal " reason would be that a radio must be type-accepted for the service for which you want to use it . So unless Icom A-24 is MURS type accepted , and it is not , then it 's illegal to use it . You do n't need a special FCC license . FCC says this about licensing : MURS is licensed by rule . This means an individual license is not required for an entity to operate a MURS transmitter if it is not a representative of a foreign government and if it uses the transmitter only in accordance with Section 95.1309 . There is no age restriction regarding who may operate an MURS transmitter . But the transmitter itself must be marked as MURS transmitter . FCC has this to say about that : A MURS transmitter must be certified by the FCC . A certified MURS transmitter has an identifying label placed on it by the manufacturer . There is technical reason as well which makes it impossible to use it on higher VHF frequencies : Above 137 MHz , the traditional modulation type is FM . Aviation VHF is AM . So even if you wanted to talk to MURS users , you would n't be able to do so normally due to different modulation types used . Another technical issue is frequency coverage . A-24 can transmit 118.000 MHz to 136.975 MHz . I do n't know if it 's possible to unlock it for extra coverage ( but I 'd be surprised is that was possible , due to use case ) , but with default frequency coverage you ca n't go high enough to reach MURS frequencies . UPDATE : I just checked and it seems that AM is actually allowed on MURS . So it is , and you can somehow unlock the A-24 to operate on those frequencies , you could technically speak to other AM MURS users , but again it would n't be legal due to licensing system used for MURS .
There is no requirement to have the certificate with you on board during flight . The holder of a radio authorization shall , at the request of an inspector appointed pursuant to the Act , show the radio authorization or a copy thereof to the inspector within 48 hours after the request . Source : <URL>
The AIM gives good advice , but that is really all it is . It is acceptable methods of complying with the regulations , but you are not required to comply with what the AIM says . In questions of what you are required to do , especially in questions of whether you might be at risk for a violation , we want to look at the regulations in 14 CFR . <URL> states , in pertinent part : No person may : ( a ) During the period from sunset to sunrise [ ... ] -- ( 1 ) Operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights ; ( 2 ) Park or move an aircraft in , or in dangerous proximity to , a night flight operations area of an airport unless the aircraft -- ( i ) Is clearly illuminated ; ( ii ) Has lighted position lights ; or ( iii ) is in an area that is marked by obstruction lights ; ( b ) Operate an aircraft that is equipped with an anticollision light system , unless it has lighted anticollision lights . However , the anticollision lights need not be lighted when the pilot-in-command determines that , because of operating conditions , it would be in the interest of safety to turn the lights off . Note : Position Lights are commonly called Nav Lights Anticollision Lights can include what are more commonly called Strobe Lights and Beacon Lights ( See AIM 4-3-23 ) Lets first look at what the above regulation says about operating requirements . Is your given scenario ( engine off , etc. ) an example of operating the aircraft ? <URL> gives the following definition of operate : Operate , with respect to aircraft , means use , cause to use or authorize to use aircraft , for the purpose ( except as provided in § 91.13 of this chapter ) of air navigation including the piloting of aircraft , with or without the right of legal control ( as owner , lessee , or otherwise ) . By that definition I would argue that towing , pushing , or otherwise moving an unoccupied aircraft with engine ( s ) shut off would not be operating that aircraft anymore than leaving the aircraft parked overnight would be operating it , since you are not using the aircraft for the purpose of air navigation . Thus I would say that you are not required to follow any rules that pertain to operating the aircraft , such as that any installed anticollision light be lighted . ( This is in contrast to an airliner pushing back with a load of passengers , flight crewmembers at their stations , electrical power on , APU running , etc. , which would be operating , since the aircraft is being used . ) This leaves us with the Park or move paragraph . This paragraph specifically pertains to " in , or in dangerous proximity to , a night flight operations area of an airport " . What is a night flight operations area ? Absent any proffered definition , the plain reading of the phrase -- as I read it -- would be an area used , or subject to use , for flight operations at night . In other words , any public use airport with an apron or taxiway that is open to flight operations at night could and should be considered -- by my reading -- a night flight operations area . Whether the area is a movement or non-movement area should n't matter . Could someone else reasonably taxi past you ( or into you ! ) at night ? That 's probably a night flight operations area . Thus , for your given scenario , if you are pushing your aircraft back into a tie-down spot on an apron that is open to night flight operations , by regulation it must be either : a ) clearly illuminated ; b ) have lighted position lights ; or c ) be in an area that is marked by obstruction lights . I typically see airport ramps clearly illuminated by large overhead lights . This clearly meets the first requirement . Another means of compliance would be to turn on an internal hanger light to clearly illuminate the airplane when you push an airplane in off a taxiway into a hanger . You are also good to go if you are in an area that is marked by obstruction lights . I do n't think I have ever seen these demarcating an area where you would be pushing or towing an airplane ( I 'm thinking of those lighted construction barriers ) , but if you saw them I suppose you would know . In the absence of clear illumination or an area marked by obstruction lights , if you are going to park or move the airplane at night , you had better turn on the position lights . And this , I think , is where you could be at risk for a violation . Note that , even in that case , the requirement is for position lights , not the beacon . Unless the aircraft is being operated , there is no requirement that any installed anticollision light be lighted .
Zulu means the letter Z in radio communication . The letter Z designates UTC time . There is actually <URL> for each letter of the alphabet ( except J ) : Alpha time zone : UTC + 1 Bravo time zone : UTC + 2 ... India time zone : UTC + 9 Kilo time zone : UTC + 10 Lima time zone : UTC + 11 Mike time zone : UTC + 12 November time zone : UTC - 1 ... X-ray time zone : UTC - 11 Yankee time zone : UTC - 12 Zulu time zone : UTC + 0 However , the other time zones are seldom referenced in aviation . Why do we use UTC time instead of local time ? Because flights often cross time zones . Imagine this : the time now is 11:59 . We will take off at 12:30 and fly west . Afterwards , at around 11:48 , we will be 15 nautical miles away from the airport ... ... ... ... . Huh ?
The <URL> publishes a <URL> that includes seaplane facilities and flight planning maps for cross countries . This lists facilities that offer seaplane rental 's . There is a discounted price on the directory for SPA members .
In short : Yes , you can . The FAA does n't really care , as long as you 're not going to interrupt class B or C operations . And honestly as long as you 're not hosting a dozen other aircraft , how are they going to tell the difference between a field and an airstrip ? If you want it on a chart or you are near special airspace , you need to contact the FSDO and talk to them about it ( it 's good to do that anyway ) . They will send someone out to survey it and talk with you , and hopefully approve it . It 's the local authorities that usually ends up being troublesome . Your state/county/city might have laws that apply , and you 'll need to find that out on your own . A friend of mine spent just a few days talking/meeting with the FAA on his strip , but spent weeks dealing with the state transportation department and a local ban on new grass strips which he sat right on the border of ( as in it was a ban in a 50 mile radius and his house was on mile 50 ) . Persistence is key , good luck !
I think one thing that does not get emphasized enough : Pilots do not land airplanes!In fact , we try to keep the airplane flying as long as possible ! We systematically rob the airplane of energy ( energy from engine power , energy from airspeed , energy from altitude ) until the plane can no longer fly , and settles gently on the runway . But even as the plane is landing , the pilot is still trying to coax it back into the air to remove as much energy as possible . A big student mistake is to point the airplane at the runway , and try to force it to land there . That leads to landings too fast , too high , big bounces , porpoising , and sometimes nose-in crashes . So do n't think about " how am I going to land this thing ? " Instead think about " How am I going to remove more energy from the equation to lose altitude and airspeed ? " A landing is a series of precise targets you are aiming to hit , each with less energy than the last one ( but each one still with enough energy to keep flying and be safe ) Each target consists of Position ( horizontal and altitude ) , airspeed , and descent rate . You hit each of these targets at 3 different points on a square ( abeam the numbers , downwind-to-base , and base-to-final ) Hitting a target that consists of a position + airspeed + descent rate is not easy ! But the more precisely you can hit each target , the easier the next part is . Although I hope I 'm repeating the same instructions you 've already heard , for the sake of the Site , let me re-iterate the standard instructions for a C-172 . Be level at TPA ( airport + 1000 feet ) , and at a cruise speed of approximately 100 kts . The runway should be approx 3/4 of the way up your strut . When you are abeam the numbers , Carb Heat ( if applicable ) , throttle back to approx 1,600 RPM , and pull-back as necessary to maintain altitude ( the consequence will be that you slow down ) . Watch your speed , altitude and position . Drop flaps 10 & deg ; when speed allows , and aim to hit a speed of 85 kts , an altitude loss of 250 feet , and have the numbers at 45 & deg ; behind you , all at the same time . Turn the corner to base , using approximately 30 & deg ; of bank angle . Continue to reduce speed ( by pulling back ) to hit 75 kts , and drop altitude another 250 ft. ( you 're now 500 ft above the runway ) . Add Flaps 20 when appropriate . Turn the corner to final . You can " oval " your turn if you are undershooting the centerline , but do NOT over-bank if you have overshot the centerline . Aim for the centerline , acquire a PAPI/VASI , keep an eye on your airspeed relative to approach speed ( 68 kts ) . Watch 3 and ONLY 3 things : Airspeed ( Slowing towards 68 kts ) Centerline ( left ? right ? on target ? ) Slope ( PAPI/VASI ? Light configuration ) . Keep repeating " Airspeed , Centerline , Slope " out loud , describe if you 're too far/too close on each one , and describe how you 're going to correct . For example : " Airspeed : 75 kts ; too fast ; pulling back to slow down " " Centerline : Left of center ; coming slightly right " " Slope : 3 red +1 white is too low ; adding power to slow descent " ( repeat ! ) When the runway is made , drop final flaps , engine to idle , and prepare to flare when you 're about 10-15 feet , and hopefully right at the numbers . Remember that your altitudes are 1000 , 750 , 500 , touchdown . And your airspeeds are 85 , 75 , 65 .
Handlers are private companies who provide services ( for a fee ) to pilots and passengers when they fly in and out of an airport . Depending on the airport , sometimes handlers are required by the local authorities to be used , and other times there are not even any handlers available ( a lot of US airports do not have them , for instance ) . Often though , they are optional and there to assist crews that are unfamiliar with the procedures at a new airport or who want their assistance as a convenience . They typically assist with coordinating things like fuel , lavatory service , flight plans , local permits , passenger transportation , catering , coffee/ice/newspapers , etc. . Many times they pay for everything ( in the local currency ) and provide one consolidated bill for the client to pay . Note that handlers can be employed by local FBO 's ( Fixed Based Operators ) , or they can be part of a larger international company that provides handling services all over the world . In either case , they are generally coordinating all of the different parties and services needed in order to operate an aircraft in and out of their airport .
First , a caution : IFR procedures can ( and do ) vary between countries . It is incumbent on the pilot to study the respective authority 's Aeronautical Information Publication ( AIP ) to understand local procedures before flight . When asking questions about instrument flight procedures , it is helpful to know which countries you are specifically traveling through . While the vast majority of countries simply adopt ICAO procedures , many have significant deviations ( the United States included ) . <URL> , section 6.5.3 discusses instrument flight that terminates into a visual approach . Interestingly , the document is silent on what happens if the approach is aborted . In the United States , the FAA is more explicit . In the <URL> , section 5-4-23 visual approaches are specifically addressed . Paragraph ( e ) details what should happen if a visual approach is terminated : A visual approach is not an IAP and therefore has no missed approach segment . If a go around is necessary for any reason , aircraft operating at controlled airports will be issued an appropriate advisory/clearance/instruction by the tower . At uncontrolled airports , aircraft are expected to remain clear of clouds and complete a landing as soon as possible . If a landing can not be accomplished , the aircraft is expected to remain clear of clouds and contact ATC as soon as possible for further clearance . Separation from other IFR aircraft will be maintained under these circumstances .
I 'll have a go at answering this . It 's confused by the UK 's transition from the JAA to EASA licensing . My JAR-PPL ( A ) , issued in 2011 , is valid for 5 years so yes , I assume yours will have expired . My FRTOL is valid for 10 years so presumably yours will have expired too . The requirements are hidden in <URL> ( [ Deep breath ] Section 7 , Part B ( Schedule 7 ) Part C , Section 2 , Paragraph 9 - ( 1 ) ( c ) ) . Renewing an expired licence ( single-engined/single pilot aeroplane ) seems to require meeting FCL .740 . A of Part-FCL ( type rating ) and Appendix 9 to Part -- FCL ( skills test ) . I believe this effectively means you 'll have to undertake training to ensure you can pass the skills test , pass it and pay to have your licence reissued . ( Not forgetting the medical . ) You will end-up with a part-FCL PPL ( which do not expire ) . I 'm not sure about having to retake the FRTOL tests , I think you may just have to re-sit the theory ( PPL comms ) , fill out a form and pay but the answer is probably in CAP 804 somewhere ! The easiest/best thing to do would be to pop-in to your local friendly FTO and discuss with them ...
The UHF air band operates in AM in a general range of 225.0 -- 399.95 MHz . Many ATC functions have both VHF and UHF frequencies . For example , <URL> Tower uses 118.3 and 257.6 . ATC will often broadcast on both the VHF and UHF frequencies . You can look up these frequencies on the <URL> to see who is allowed to use these frequencies . This is also located in CFR Title 47 , § 2.106 . According to the table , the the non-emergency allocation of these frequencies is Federal use : In the bands 225-328 .6 MHz , 335.4-399 .9 MHz , and 1350-1390 MHz , the fixed and mobile services are limited to the military services . The bands 235-322 MHz and 335.4-399 .9 MHz are also allocated on a primary basis to the mobile-satellite service , limited to military operations . There are no non-Federal uses cited for those ranges . Also , per <URL> : Non-Federal stations may be authorized to use Federal frequencies in the bands above 25 MHz if the Commission finds , after consultations with the appropriate Federal agency or agencies , that such use is necessary for coordination of Federal and non-Federal activities So it seems that if you do n't have a military purpose , outside of special agreements you are not allowed to use these frequencies . For more information , the National Telecommunications &amp; Information Administration ( NTIA ) has reports on the usage of the <URL> and <URL> of this band . Technically there are also limited non-Federal uses but they do n't apply to this question : The frequency 243 MHz is the frequency in this band for use by survival craft stations and equipment used for survival purposes . ... may also be used , in accordance with the procedures in force for terrestrial radiocommunication services , for search and rescue operations concerning manned space vehicles . For the gap in the ranges mentioned above : The use of the band 328.6-335 .4 MHz by the aeronautical radionavigation service is limited to Instrument Landing Systems ( glide path ) . And additionally for 322-328 .6 MHz : ... all practicable steps shall be taken to protect the radio astronomy service from harmful interference .
The ship 's complement for a Nimitz class carrier is 3200 . That is the crew required to maintain ship operations . A further 2480 crew comprise the Air Wing - everyone needed to perform duties directly associated with flying activities , including maintenance , ordnance handling , emergencies , etc. . It 's treated as a separate entity because any one of ten Air Wings could be embarked on a carrier at any given time . That is a total crew of 5680 . I could n't find a breakdown of specific trades or ranks for either entity . Source : <URL> Note that the newer Gerald R. Ford class carriers make extensive use of automation , and so have several hundred fewer crew members in the ship 's complement .
You should wash your aircraft in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . We could all offer opinions and product recommendations in response to this question . However , the best answer is : in accordance with the manufacturer 's instructions . Since you ask the question generically , without any information on what aircraft you might have , I will answer generically . Your manufacturer 's instructions can generally be found in at least two places : the owner 's manual/AFM and the maintenance manual . For example , in the owners manual for a 1975 Cessna 172M , you will find Section V : Care of The Airplane containing instructions on how to wash painted surfaces , bare aluminum surfaces , interior surfaces , and the windscreen and windows . The maintenance manual for the same aircraft contains nearly -- if not exactly -- identical information in chapter 2 . Now , for that aircraft and others , Cessna recommends use of mild detergent in certain applications ; you might not find that overly helpful in choosing what to use . Based on my research and experience , and time honored practice that I 've observed , Dawn dish soap is widely used for cleaning painted Cessna aircraft with no apparent long term harmful effects . The airframe that I fly for work has tens of thousands of hours on it , and while I can not vouch for how often it was washed in the past , I try to wash parts of it a few times a week . There is no apparent washing damage to the paint . I will also highlight Cessna 's instruction to use Stoddard solvent on areas of stubborn oil or grease ; this can be especially helpful in cleaning the belly with it 's typical collection of oil and dirt . My practice is typically to wipe down the belly with solvent first , and then follow with a water and detergent wash . If the manufacturer 's instructions are not clear , or are otherwise insufficient to answer your question regarding your specific aircraft , I would recommend asking your maintenance professional . He or she should have both the knowledge and experience to steer you in the right direction . For more insight into the world of aircraft cleaning , and especially for the specific product recommendations you want , you might take a look at this AvWeb article by Kim Santerre : <URL> .
From the <URL> : CONTAMINATED RUNWAY − A runway is considered contaminated whenever standing water , ice , snow , slush , frost in any form , heavy rubber , or other substances are present . A runway is contaminated with respect to rubber deposits or other friction-degrading substances when the average friction value for any 500-foot segment of the runway within the ALD fails below the recommended minimum friction level and the average friction value in the adjacent 500-foot segments falls below the maintenance planning friction level . ( See also <URL> Thanks to <URL> . So this covers rubber and oil , but not debris . However , from searching the glossary there are no instances of the word " debris " in the document . Usually if debris or oil were noticed on a runway , ATC would close the runway ( issue a NOTAM ) and then use an alternate runway until the debris or oil were cleaned up . From a pilots perspective , if you notice debris on the runway just tell ATC ( provided you did n't hit it ) , and they will close the runway for a FOD ( foreign object debris ) check . My local airport does this usually twice a day or more , typically by running a car down the runway looking for debris .
<URL> for the Oakland ( ZOA ) Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) , and the locations of these match up with the RCO locations on the sectional . Seems Mt Tamalpais RCAG is the one that applies to my area . The list seems a little out of date , however , as the location of " Priest - RCAG " does n't have anything on the sectional , or in Google Maps . Further , there is an <URL> depicting RCOs and frequencies for Alaska .
The EASA issued LAPL ( A ) is limited to 2to MTOM , 3 passengers max and only valid in European countries . A PPL ( A ) issued by an EASA country does not have these restrictions , but can be subject to local restrictions in the non-European country you want to flyin , e.g. you can not use the EASA PPL ( A ) to fly in the US without further paperwork . For more information , see the <URL> . Your LAPL ( A ) is a lifetime licence that contains SEP ( land ) and/or TMG privileges restricted to non-complex EASA aeroplanes with a maximum take off mass of 2 metric tonnes and a maximum of four people on board . You can fly more complex aeroplanes within the privileges if you have ' differences training ' signed off in your log book by a suitable instructor . The LAPL is also valid on non-EASA UK registered aircraft in the UK . The LAPL requires an in-date EASA Part-Med Medical Certificate , at LAPL level , but Class One or Class Two certificates can also be used . A valid JAA Class One or Two medical certificate is also acceptable . But you can not use your LAPL with an NPPL medical declaration . The SEP ( land ) or TMG endorsement on this type of licence is not issued as a rating . So there is no rating expiry date . Instead you must follow self-validity checks on your own flying history for the past 2 years to ensure currency on the day of your planned flight . Further Reading from the UK CAA : <URL> <URL>
Honestly , very little . First , be clear as to whether you are actually see something failing . If you see flames , or a wing has broken off , then yes , it 's a problem . However , if you see someone doing a slow spiral towards an empty field with the power idling , they 're more likely to be practicing engine out procedures ( something that 's required for all US pilots to practice and demonstrate during their checkride for their certificate ) . In the event that you actually see an impact , fire , off-airport landing and so on , call 911 and give them your location . They 'll send the appropriate crews . Otherwise , if the aircraft is still flying , there 's a strong chance the pilot ( s ) are already talking to ATC about their problem , if it actually exists . There 's nothing you really can or need to do in this case . Quick Anecdote : I 've been told the story of a local police department who gets phone calls virtually every time a citizen lands his small airplane in his private field . Fire/police/medics / etc are summoned , when absolutely nothing bad has happened . This is why you should make an attempt to verify that a problem actually exists before reporting it .
<URL> are only a small part of smart materials . Once deformed , they will change back to their old shape when heated or subjected to strong magnetic fields . Of the many alloys with this characteristic , only a few like <URL> would be suitable for primary structures . They are extremely expensive to make and to process , so they have never been an economical alternative . Also , heating and cooling would be required to switch between shapes , which is very energy intensive when the outer structure of an aircraft is involved . Airflow will ensure intense convective heat transfer , and to maintain the needed temperature will be very uneconomical . Please consider that an aircraft with shape-memory alloys would need to carry extra fuel for heating or cooling over much of the flight time . Hinges and electric or hydraulic actuators will have a clear mass advantage when you consider the system mass , including energy sources . I guess you agree that creating strong magentical fields in parts of an aircraft is an exceedingly bad idea , so I will rule out <URL> . Shape-memory alloys will only switch between two shapes , and intermediate shapes are easier to realize with hinges and actuators . Sure , a smooth shape is aerodynamically better than one with a contour break at the hinge line , but the small aerodynamic advantage of shape-memory structures is quickly lost when you look at the whole picture . Another disadvantage is the accumulation of small cracks with every shape change . The low number of cycles will either require frequent replacement of the shape-memory parts or a very limited structural life of the aircraft . In the end , much of what can be said about <URL> also applies to shape-memory alloys . Their main function is to justify research grants and to keep the press occupied .
Even small 1 hp electrical motors can achieve that RPM Yes , but can it sustain that RPM when something tries to stop it , that is the question . 1 hp combustion engines can get to 2700 rpm as well , but you can not attach a propeller to it , stick it in the air , and expect it to maintain the RPM . It takes a lot of torque to create aerodynamic thrust . It is a fact that electric motors are way better at producing torque than combustion engines . An electric motor produces almost maximum torque at the get-go , with the rotor standing still . The combustion engine needs to make RPM in order to make torque . <URL> compares electric motors with combustion engines for powering a hydraulic pump : a 20 hp electric motor can do the job that a 50 hp combustion engine can do . Electric motor : <URL> Combustion engine : intermittent torque means torque pulse from combustion . <URL> But wait , is that even possible ? Power is power , kilowatt is kilowatt , and it should not matter which engine we use to generate the kilowatts , they should all equate to equal amounts says the first law of thermodynamics , the conservation of energy . But it does matter , since with a combustion engine torque is a function of RPM . So increase RPM , and power increases due to increased RPM and increased torque . At lower RPM the combustion engine may simply lack the torque to speed up , while the electric motor has an almost flat torque curve . This same happens with outboard motors , when comparing 2-stroke with 4-stroke . 2-stroke has way more torque at lower revs , the 4-stroke may have the same horsepower but may never get to the high revs because it lacks the ability to get the boat planing . But I digress . To get back to your questions : What 's the use of so much torque , and what happens if there is less torque at the same RPM To keep the output shaft at this RPM while the propeller is pushing all that air backwards . That requires a serious amount of torque . If there is less torque at the same RPM , there will be less thrust produced and the aeroplane wo n't fly as fast . Can an electric motor perform similar to the Lycoming IO-360 with the same max . RPM , but with just half the torque of the latter ? Well , the surprising thing is that a horsepower is not a horsepower . Part of the problem lies in the horsepower output functions , so maybe an electric motor with a lower hp rating can be used . But one thing is very clear : at the RPM of the propeller , a certain torque is required at a certain speed to keep the propeller turning . This amount of torque will always be the same , no matter what kind of engine produces it .
Yes . Your interpretation is the correct one . Several FAA legal interpretations cover the " calendar months " phrasing ; the best I could find was <URL> : Based on the facts that you have presented , a biennial flight review accomplished on April 2 , 2002 , would not lapse until May 1 , 2004 . Basically , your flight review is legal until the end of the month ( ie , June , or August ) it was completed in two years before . The same calendar logic applies to maintenance like the annual inspection .
end question
start question
What happens if a passenger passes through the boarding gate , but does n't get on the aircraft ?
Passengers are counted before the plane leaves the gate . Since everyone 's boarding pass is scanned at the gate , they know how many passengers should be on board . If that number does not match , it may be a red flag that someone has sneaked out . The missing passenger can usually be located as using the lavatory , changed seat etc. . As a last resort , the passenger 's luggage is removed from the cargo hold for security . If things get to that stage , the flight is inevitably delayed for sure .
The FAA <URL> contains the guidance for Aviation Training Devices , including the BATD 's . The AC states that as long as the system has been FAA approved by the manufacturer ( and in your case you say that it " meets the FAA requirements " ) , that no specific approval is required for training conducted under 14 CFR 61 . For use under 14 CFR 141 however , you would need specific FAA approval ( see below ) . 14 CFR 61 Approval You must simply follow the conditions specified in the AC : 5 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 61 . To be approved for use for pilot training and certification under part 61 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing procedural training in all elements for which it is to be used . Those elements should be specified in an acceptable training curriculum or as specifically authorized by the FAA and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components as required by paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c ( 2 ) . If the device is being used in a course of training for a pilot certificate or rating , a person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . In addition , a BATD may be used in a training curriculum that provides for : A similar scope and content of a syllabus that is used under part 141 ; Instructional materials for flight events ; A means of showing progress , such as an outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance ; and The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval . 14 CFR 141 Approval 141 Approval is almost the same , but must be approved by the school 's POI ( principle operations inspector ) : 6 . APPROVAL OF BATD FOR USE UNDER PART 141 . Local FSDO may approve BATDs as part of an overall part 141 curriculum approval and certification process . Pilot schools that want to use a BATD as part of their training curriculum must notify their principal operations inspector ( POI ) . The POI is responsible for approving how the BATD is to be used in the certificate holder 's part 141 curriculum . To be approved for use under part 141 , a BATD should : a. Be capable of providing training in all elements in which it will be used , as specified in the syllabus , and meet the description and suggested criteria outlined in this appendix . b. Have the following documents available for inspection by the student and instructor : The list of ATD components required in paragraph 3c , A copy of AFS-800 's letter of approval and authorized use of the ATD , and A copy of the QAG for the ATD being used . c. Successfully pass the start-up self-test described in paragraph 8c of this appendix . A person authorized by the FAA to provide ground or flight instruction should observe this test . After the ATD self-test is complete , no other software of any kind may be started on the computer running the ATD software . d. Remain in the approved configuration during the training session . Authorized ATD instruction may not proceed after a malfunction of the ATD system has occurred . The operator must correct the ATD malfunction and repeat the start-up test described in paragraph c of this section before resuming authorized instruction . e. Be used in an integrated ground and flight training curriculum which provides for : The scope and content of a curriculum in compliance with part 141 , The authorized use as approved in the AFS-800 letter of approval , Instructional materials for flight events , and An outline of stage ( phase ) checks and criterion levels of performance .
Since the aircraft is not grounded , the physics are the same as with a bird which lands on a high-voltage line . The aircraft 's skin will be charged , but very little current will be induced in internal parts in the process . The outer skin will act as a <URL> and protect the inner parts from the electric field . This is greatly helped by a metal structure . Composite aircraft parts need a copper mesh over all external surfaces to give them sufficient electrical conductivity . The terminals of that mesh must be connected to the metal parts of the structure to make sure that all parts will have the same electrical potential in case of lightning strike . However , the ionized air caused by lightning will leave burn marks on the surface , and an inspection of the affected part and the electrical equipment is advisable .
There are three really convincing arguments I 've heard for this - I 'm not sure which is " correct " and explains the FAA 's logic , but personally I suspect it 's a little bit of each . Argument 1 : Night landings are " special " . A night landing is definitely different from a day landing - there 's much less of a sight picture in the flare unless your airport is in a really bright area or you have a bright moon ( and even then it 's " different " ) . If all you 're doing is tapping your wheels on the ground and quickly accelerating back to takeoff speed you 're missing a lot of what a landing is - bringing the nose down , decelerating to a safe taxi speed , and leaving the runway under control . Which conveniently brings us to ... Argument 2 : " You got ta learn how to taxi all over again ! " That 's something my instructor told me , and I did n't really understand what he meant until I was in the plane . Airports are really dark and it 's hard to find your way around the taxiways at night . Personally I think a big part of this requirement is the intent that you taxi off the runway and make your way back to the end to shoot another circuit . The hardest thing about my night training - aside from finding the darn airports was taxiing around without getting lost . ( Of course the regs do n't say anything about " Taxi off the runway " - they just say " full stop " . You can satisfy the legal requirement with " stop-and-go " landings , but there 's a nagging voice in my head that says you 're not really " getting current " if that 's all you do ... ) Argument 3 : It slows your procedures down , which makes you safer . Touch-and-Go landings are kinda dangerous if you think about them - Bring the plane in for a landing ( which is already a lot of work ) . Now as soon as all your wheels are on the ground make a mental judgment as to whether you have enough runway to take off from given your current position &amp; rolling start , if so retract your flaps to an appropriate takeoff setting , cram the throttle back in , and take off again . . When you look at them that way it 's a bit odd that we have students do them ( and there 's more than one CFI around on the internet who says it 's a lousy teaching tool ) . Adding " Oh yeah , and it 's dark out ! " to that already difficult and dangerous procedure above is just begging for an accident - especially in a retractable gear aircraft ( gear lever , flaps lever , and what happens if you miss in the dark cockpit ? ) .
An AFSP application is valid for one provider , one aircraft category ( TSA category , not FAA category ) , and one training event ( single-engine , IR or multi-engine ) . If you change any of those things , you need to submit a new application . If you 're at a part 61 or 141 school that has multiple instructors , the approved provider is usually the school , not the individual instructor . So you can receive training from any instructor there without an issue . If you 're getting training directly from a freelance part 61 instructor , then it 's possible that the instructor himself is the approved provider . In that case , you would need to submit a new application to get training from a different instructor or school . In either case , your school or instructor should know exactly who 's registered with the TSA as the provider . As for the aircraft , you only need to submit a new request if you want to train in a different aircraft category . Initial training is usually done in category 3 aircraft ( maximum MTOW of 12,500 lbs ) and you can train in one or many physical aircraft , as long as they 're all in the same category . But remember that SEL and MEL are different training events so if your current approval is for SEL training you ca n't receive MEL training , even if the aircraft is under 12,500 lbs . Links to specific pages on <URL> do n't work properly , but their FAQ is reasonably clear and you can email their helpdesk at AFSP.Help@dhs.gov if you need more information . AOPA has <URL> , and the regulations ( including category definitions ) are in <URL> .
Your assumption is correct - it is indeed about infrared ( wavelength between 750 nm and 10,000 nm ) and ultraviolet ( wavelength between 100 nm and 400 nm ) radiation . The sensor detected two specific wavelengths , one from each range . Every body has an <URL> which is consistent with its temperature . This radiation has an intensity distribution which shifts to shorter wavelengths with temperature . By comparing the intensity of the IR and UV parts of this radiation , the sensor can much better distinguish between radiation sources of different temperature . Flares are normally hotter than engine exhausts , so by detecting an excess of UV radiation , the sensor can distinguish between flares and exhaust pipes . <URL> " Wiens law " by 4C - <URL> . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Commons . Natural disturbances means reflected sunlight off a polished aircraft surface or canopy , or off lakes or windows on the ground . Even after filtering by the upper atmosphere , sunlight will contain much more UV radiation than your average exhaust pipe , and glares were a big distraction to early thermal seekers . Sunlight would correspond to the green line in the diagram above , while the exhaust would be even below the dark red line . Note that the absolute intensity also goes up with temperature , but would not help in identifying the temperature of a target if only one wavelength is observed . A more distant , hotter target would cause the same intensity than a colder , closer one . By sensing two wavelengths , the sensor could much better tell an exhaust pipe from other heat sources . To answer the question directly : The UV signature of the aircraft itself is practically zero except for the reflection of the UV part of sunlight , and the active UV emission of a jet engine is extremely low and concentrated around its exhaust when seen from behind . Lighting the afterburner will increase the UV radiation , but it will still be much less relative to the IR radiation that that of , say , <URL> .
Engine separation wo n't cause automatic closure of valves , but the resulting low pressure will illuminate lights ( including the Master Caution light ) on the panels and display messages on the displays . The pilots will have to react to the engine separation , the same way than for an engine fire or severe malfunction . This non normal procedure includes shutting down the fuel line by setting the engine start lever to CUTOFF or triggering the fire bottles on the affected engine . There is a spar fuel valve ( or fuel shutoff valve ) fixed to the wing and to the fuel tank , which stays on the wing in case of separation . This valve is to prevent leaks due to a broken line . As the hydraulic power may be missing after the engine damage or separation , the valve is controlled by an electric motor with a backup battery and a double wiring redundancy . Example on the the B737 NG : <URL> ( Shut-off valves framed in purple , <URL> ) Non-Normal checklist used : ( NNC 8.2 of the Quick Reference Handbook ) . <URL> ( Click to enlarge , <URL> )
On the EMB-145 the passenger cabin was split into 5 zones and we were given passenger totals in each zone from the flight attendant prior to leaving the gate . If balance is off ( this happened quite rarely for us ) you would tell the flight attendant " I need 2 passengers from zone 5 moved to zone 1 " or " I need a passenger from zone 3 moved to zone 2 " or some other similar instruction . The flight attendant would solicit volunteers and if no one did , they would instruct someone to move . The move was only for takeoff and once airborne they could go back to their normal seat . After moving passengers we would re-calculate the weight and balance to verify we were in the envelope and set takeoff trim . Similar methods are used in larger airplanes with the cabin split into zones . The only time we would use ballast is when we had a full cabin and not enough bags in the cargo ( not common ) . In those cases we would ask ops for ballast and they would put something in the cargo . They would try to make it useful if an outstation needed something else they would just load 50 lb bags of sand .
At cruising altitude there is between 4 and 8 tons of pressure acting on the inside of the door . There are n't too many passengers capable of exerting that much force on the handle ( and even fewer handles that wo n't just snap off ) . Latch type doors have interlocks or over-center latches that prevent operation with a pressurized cabin . It 's theoretically possible to open the over-wing exits at approach altitudes when there is no pressure differential . Other than being windy/noisy it would not affect the flight in any way . Cabin doors usually open forward , good luck pushing them open against the airflow . If the person who pulled the window plug wants out , it 's their ( and only their ) funeral . I 've sat in the open doors of light aircraft in flight hundreds of times , legs in the breeze , no seatbelt , while the plane makes fairly steep turns toward the open door side . It 's not a problem .
It 's typically stored in the cargo bin with the checked luggage . If it is to be returned to the jetway , it will be tagged with a distinctive tag so that it 's clear that it has been screened already ( i.e. it came in through security , so it can go back out into the terminal with you at your destination ) . In many cases , though , once an item has been gate-checked , it will be delivered to baggage claim to be picked up there . The exception to that is baby strollers -- they should be returned to the jetway since parents tend to need those to get the young ones around the airport . Individual airline policies , of course , will vary . With small jets ( not a 737 , but a regional jet or turboprop , perhaps ) , the carry-on space is so limited that all sorts of things that would be accepted as a carry-on for a larger aircraft ca n't go into the cabin , so those may go into a dedicated cargo hold &amp; all returned as the passengers deplane .
The wings act as a structural dampener to disturbances such as turbulence , similar to the suspension on a car . As they flex , they absorb the sudden energy changes . The aerodynamic forces also take time to accelerate the large mass of the airplane . Because of these effects , most of turbulence will be too small to see from an outside observer 's point of view . However , in addition to the wing flexing , the aircraft will also roll , pitch , and yaw in response to the turbulence . The pilots or the autopilot , as well as the natural stability tendencies of the aircraft , will help the aircraft return to its previous state . <URL> recorded from the X-Plane flight simulator program of a 737 in turbulence . The wing flex and change in flight attitude can be seen .
This question has been asked and answered in a slightly different form at <URL> , and I refer you to that for basic info . Concerning the detail in your question : What difficulties would the pilots face for the remainder of the flight , including navigation and landing , with no one attending the flight engineer station in the cockpit ? It would be a nuisance for sure , but as long as there were no abnormal or emergency situations ( other than the FE 's personal situation ) , a nuisance would be all that it was . However , one could dream up scenarios that could get really sticky without the specialized knowledge that the FE would be expected to have that the pilots might not have ( or had forgotten ) . For example , would one of the pilots get up and sit at the FE station , leaving the other pilot the only person at the controls ? Or would the person get up , go to the FE station to read or adjust something , then sit back at the pilot 's seat ? Or do they not have to move at all ? The Captain can see the FE panel . Some of the gauges along the aft portion would be a little hard to read . For example , if he wanted to see what the exact pressure of the Potable water was rather than just that there was pressure , he might have to get up to get close enough . Or if a generator fault light came on , he 'd probably have to get up to see what the fault was . There would n't be any need to stay in the FE seat . If the flight were long , there would be some trips to the FE seat for fuel management . You can have as many as 9 fuel tanks ( 7 is the usual ) , and there are rules for the fuel burn schedule . The most important and most time consuming FE task during cruise was keeping track of what the fuel burn was , especially on the 747-100 because it did n't have the fuel capacity of the -200 . For example , a -100 going from JFK to Tel Aviv would sometimes not have the fuel to make it . Abeam Athens the FE would inform the Captain either than they had the fuel to continue or that they would need to divert to Athens for fuel . If the Captain wanted to talk to company for some reason , it was usually the FE that established contact via HF , and it was usually the FE that answered SELCALs . But the pilots sometimes did it . Flight attendants might show up and ask for a general cabin temperature change . Of course , it the FE had a severe medical problem , you would probably land at the nearest suitable airport just as you would for a passenger medical emergency .
The FAA has <URL> disturbances into four levels : Level 1 : Disruptive behavior - suspicious or threatening Level 2 : Physically abusive behavior Level 3 : Life-threatening behavior Level 4 : Attempted or actual breach of the flight deck These are also ICAO standard classifications from the restricted Doc 9811 , according to <URL> . I 'm not sure who came up with them first . That IATA document also provides sample things that might be considered to be each level .
In order to state the plane is airworthy you must be able to show that all AD 's have been complied with and that the aircraft is within annual ( or 100 hour ) inspection ; these proofs are typically found in the logbook so no , without the logbook your aircraft is probably not airworthy . It may be possible to fly the plane legally in the US anyway if you receive authorization from your FSDO ( which , I believe , would be a " ferry permit " ) . It 's not legally required that your logbook be complete to the beginning of time , just that it shows the current requirements are met ( along with the signatures/cert numbers of the AI 's that are stating them to be met ) . However , an incomplete logbook is very important from a resale point of view . Not having complete logs will make a plane very difficult to sell and will certainly affect the price most purchasers would be willing to pay .
If a " terrorist takeover " like this were to happen in the real world ... ... and the tower still had communication capability : The tower controllers would advise pilots of the situation , and likely instruct them to return to the Approach frequency to coordinate their next steps ( probably a landing at an alternate airport ) . Presumably the tower would still have telephone communication as well , and be able to let Approach know to expect the planes to come back because of the emergency , otherwise the pilots would certainly inform the approach controllers of what 's going on when they switch back to that frequency . ... and the tower has no communication capability : With no response from the tower the usual thing for pilots to do is return to the Approach frequency to find out what 's going on . The pilots could elect to attempt a landing anyway , treating the airport as an untowered field ( this somewhat famously happened at KDCA , <URL> ) , or proceed to an alternate airport . If the weather required an instrument approach and the ILS radio signals are not transmitting this would be something the pilots could detect pretty easily ( similarly if they were turned off while flying the approach there would be indications in the cockpit that the signal was lost and the pilot would execute the missed-approach procedure ) , and they would proceed to an alternate airport , again coordinating with the approach controllers . ... in any case : No matter what the situation the aircraft would divert to their alternate airports long before they were in danger of running out of fuel . They would notify ATC of the situation and proceed to an alternate airport . ( If not cleared by ATC to proceed to an alternate at some point any sane pilot will declare an emergency for low fuel and proceed on their emergency authority to make a safe landing somewhere . ) So basically there 's some " artistic liberties " taken in Die Hard 2 in the interest of making it a movie you 'd want to sit through . A movie where a bunch of terrorists take over an airport and a bunch of flights divert to alternate airports ( mildly inconveniencing the passengers ) while the National Guard surrounds the airport and deals with the terrorists would n't sell nearly as many tickets !
That 's pretty much the checkride in a nutshell - for all the details on what 's expected you should refer to the <URL> for the rating you 're pursuing . Before your checkride At some point before your checkride you must take a " knowledge test " ( the " written exam " ) - you must pass that exam in order to qualify to take the checkride ( the " practical test " ) . The results of the knowledge test are good for 2 years . You will also receive instruction from your CFI specifically for " checkride preparation " ( you must have 3 hours of this instruction within the 60 days prior to taking your checkride ) . Usually your instructor or school will arrange for an examiner . Be sure to find out where he wants you to plan your cross-country trip to , and also ask for his weight ( so you can do the weight and balance calculations ) , and the cost of the checkride ( so you can have the money ready ) . The Oral Exam The day of your checkride1 you 'll probably spend at least as much time on the ground with the examiner than in the air . You 'll start with the practicalities : making sure your <URL> is in order , <URL> , and paying the examiner . Next , you 'll go over your logbook with the examiner ( do everyone a favor and bookmark all the things they 'll need to see ) , and then you 'll be given <URL> 2 by the examiner . You 'll be expected to know your aircraft 's V speeds , it 's useful load , and its fuel capacity ( in gallons and hours ) , and you might have to be able to answer intelligently based on a scenario , like " supposed you want to take 3 members of your football team 's lineup on a 300 mile trip ... " There will also be scenario-based regulatory questions ( " You 're taking your friends for a flight in the spring , but you have n't been in an airplane all winter . What do you need in order to be able to conduct this flight ? " ) You will also be expected to plan ( or have planned , depending on the examiner3 ) a cross-country flight ( including a weight and balance calculation using the examiner 's weight , and possibly including one or more fuel stops ) , and be able to explain your decision-making process for things like the planned course ( if you do n't fly in an absolute straight line ) and your proposed altitude ( s ) and en-route waypoint ( s ) . 1 - Usually you do the oral exam , then go fly . Sometimes you may do the oral one day and the flight portion another day - for example if the weather is lousy . 2 - This video is a little old , but a lot of it is still valid . 3 - You used to have to complete the flight plan the day of the exam , within 30 minutes , but that requirement has vanished from the PTS . The Flight Exam Every examiner conducts this a little differently - the tasks can be done in any order as long as they 're all accomplished - but everyone I know has had the same basic sequence of events on their checkride . After the oral you 're going to get an update to your weather briefing ( because you should ) , do a preflight inspection , get in the plane , and go fly your cross-country . I 've never met anyone who has actually flown the whole cross-country flight -- The examiner will typically have you fly through one or two waypoints to demonstrate that you can actually navigate , then you 'll be told that something has gone awry and you need to divert ( " The guy in the back is sick , take me to the closest airport before he hurls . " ) . When you 've demonstrated your ability to navigate and divert , you 'll usually cancel your flight plan ( if you opened one ) and break off to do the required air work . At some point during your checkride the examiner will give you an engine failure , because aircraft engines are supremely unreliable whenever an examiner or CFI is in the right seat . You will be expected to pick a suitable landing point , establish a glide to that landing point , and run the " engine failure " checklist appropriate to your plane . The engine usually " miraculously restarts " at some point once the examiner is confident you would have been able to put the plane down on your intended landing spot . The air-work consists of all the require flight maneuvers , such as steep turns , stalls , slips , and slow flight , the required ground reference maneuvers , and basic instrument maneuvers . Once the air work is complete you 'll return to the airport ( or maybe to the airport you diverted to ) for the dog-and-pony-show landings ( one go-around -- usually called by the examiner with something exciting like " There 's a moose on the runway ! Go around ! " , one normal landing , one short-field landing over an FAA-Standard 50-foot giraffe , and one soft-field landing ) . If you mess up and the examiner has to fail you they will tell you immediately after finishing the maneuver that you busted on . You usually have the option of continuing the test and completing the remaining tasks unless you did something that made the examiner fear for his or her life ( if you 're comfortable continuing this reduces the number of tasks you 'll have to complete when you re-take the checkride ) . Assuming
The STCA ( Short Term Conflict Alert ) or pre-alert settings depend on the radar client in use and the ACC 's or ARTCC 's own standard operation procedures . Some ATC systems give a warning before a loss of separation can occur if criteria are met , informing the controller of a possible conflict . Factors can be clearing aircraft on the same altitude / flight level , aircraft on converging flight profiles , lateral or vertical separation reducing below threshold values , e.g. where 5nm lateral separation is required , a STCA could be set to occur at 7nm lateral separation . The minimum radar separation between aircraft depends on airspace ( <URL> ) , aircraft equipment and airspace separation requirements ( <URL> ) , flight rules ( e.g. IFR to VFR is not separated outside class C airspace in Germany ) or local rules imposed by the Civil Aviation Authority . The general rule of thumb for IFR separation in most countries ( as most countries follow RVSM rules ) : 5nm lateral separation enroute ( upper airspace ) 3nm lateral separation in TMA area ( lower airspace ) 1.000 ft vertical separation in lower and upper airspace where RVSM is observed and aircraft equipped 2.000 ft vertical separation in non-RVSM airspace or between aircraft not equipped for RVSM Oceanic separation is achieved differently , as non-radar procedures are in place . The separation in non-radar environments is achieved procedurally and through position reports and timing .
In general , the pilots are required to have good visibility to execute any maneuvers during normal operation of the aircraft . According to <URL> , during non-precipitation conditions , Each pilot compartment must be arranged to give the pilots a sufficiently extensive , clear , and undistorted view , to enable them to safely perform any maneuvers within the operating limitations of the airplane , including taxiing takeoff , approach , and landing The FAA advisory Circular 25.773-1 Pilot Compartment View design considerations gives certain guidelines for ensuring pilot visibility . <URL> Pilot compartment view from FAA AC 25.773-1 Pilot Compartment View design considerations The figure shows a pilot compartment view for optimum collision avoidance when seated in the left ( port ) seat . For the starboard side , all left/right dimensions are reversed . Usually , the aircrafts offer better visibility compared to the guidelines . For example , the A330 's visibility ( from <URL> ) is given here . <URL> Image from <URL> The actual visibility of the pilots will vary according to the seat position For example , the following figure shows the variation in pilot visibility in Boeing 727 when seat position is adjusted . <URL> Image from Airplane Design - Layout Design of Cockpit , Fuselage , Wing and Empennage by Jan Roskam Of course , the pilots can see things which is normally not visible though the windows through cameras mounted on the outside , like on top of vertical tail in A380 .
I ca n't provide references specific to this manoeuvre . The main texts on helicopter dynamics only generalise since such a manoeuvre is n't flown in real life or tested during certifications . When you raise the collective , you increase the pitch of the all of the blades together . In most flight regimes , this means increased angle of attack and therefore lift . The cost of producing lift is drag which always increases . So , there is a direct relationship between the collective lever and power required from the engine . As you continue to raise the collective , AoA and lift will increase until you reach a point where the power required to overcome drag exceeds the rated power of the engine . Most helicopters permit operation beyond the maximum for a short time , e.g. 2 or 5 minutes , typically during take-off . Continue to increase AoA beyond this limit and drag will exceed power available and the rotor RPM will drop ( a reduction in rotor RPM caused by drag exceeding power through too much collective is known as " droop " ) . As RRPM decreases , so does lift and the helicopter will descend . The relative airflow into the disk now has a greater horizontal component and the angle of attack will increase , either causing yet more drag or stalling the rotor . So there is some point , before the collective is pulled fully up where maximum lift is attained . Beyond that , lift reduces until recovery or a stall . The only time I have ever raised the collective fully is during " full and free " movement checks with the engine off as part of pre-flight . Your hypothetical manoeuvre : From VNE in level flight , you roll into a 70 degree bank . The TRT ( total rotor thrust ) is always acting perpendicular to the plane of the rotor disk . Since you are in a bank , and I assume it is at constant altitude , there is a large horizontal component of the TRT to maintain the acceleration in the turn and a large vertical component to oppose gravity and maintain altitude . This requires a lot of power which means a lot of collective and a lot of drag . I do n't know for the AH-6 , maybe there 's a chart relating bank angle and speed to power but let 's just say , your collective is going to be somewhere near the max lift point with a manoeuvre like this . Since you are now accelerating with max power , your speed will decrease . Therefore lift will decrease and since you are at or near max power , you will begin to descend . So far , this is probably recoverable simply by rolling level and reducing collective until back inside the performance envelope . The second part is where it definitely will go wrong . In all helicopters with a non-rigid head , including the AH-6 , the disk will adopt a new plane of rotation rapidly . There is then a significant delay before the fuselage adopts a new attitude which puts the TRT perpendicular with the aircraft Z axis . Pulling hard on the cyclic will very rapidly put the disk into a new plane of rotation which has a large angle between the plane of rotation and the fuselage . Additionally , the disk loading will increase dramatically and the blades will be forced downwards . On an articulated head such as that on the AH-6 , droop stops will prevent the blades from bending down so much that they fold . Hitting the droop stops a little is uncomfortable with a lot of vibration . Pulling hard on the cyclic at VNE in a 70 degree bank at or near max power may cause failure of the droop stops or blades or cause the static droop stops to contact the mast possibly leading to rotor separation . Let 's assume that there is no failure . The plane of rotation will be at the maximum permitted by the physical limits of the flapping hinges which is greater than the angle between the plane of rotation and the fuselage . Therefore , I would expect a hard pull on the cyclic to result in a blade hitting the tail or the top of the cockpit . Either results in destruction of the aircraft , either as it breaks up at that point or when it hits the ground 10 seconds later .
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
end question
start question
How were the graveyard spiral and other sensory illusions discovered ?
<URL> from the website of the Department of Behavioral Sciences and Leadership at the US Air Force Academy reviewed cases dating back to 1913 ( note though it does n't assert that the reports in 1913 suspected Spatial Disorientation ( SD ) ) . In the linked paper the author references a previous paper which I ca n't seem to find : Gibb RW . Historical assessment of visual spatial disorientation [ abstract ] . Aviat Space Environ Med 2010 ; 81 : 318 . In 2010 , the lead author presented an assessment of visual spatial disorientation at the annual Aerospace Medical Association conference and cited 25 studies dating from 1947 to the present declaring SD 's role in mishaps as well as surveys of pilots anonymously sharing their SD experiences The earliest research they reference is a Navy survey from 1947 . Quoted from the linked paper 1947 : U.S. Naval aviators , 67 total , reported on their illusionary experiences and categorized them into visual , non-visual , conflicting sensory cues , dissociative , and emotional ( 48 ) . Of note within visual illusions categories were confusion with lights , depth perception , " black night , " and judging height above the ground/water . Experienced pilots were still prone to illusions regardless of total flight time . ( 48 ) Vinacke WE . Illusions experienced by aircraft pilots while flying . J Aviat Med 1947 ; 18 : 308 -- 25 . The linked article suggests that the aviation community has known about these issues since the early days of flight but the issue was ( and they assert still is ) an underrated and underreported flight risk which may skew reporting which causes underfunding . Thus the published research may lag the time in which the community started noticing SD .
Almost every pilot learns to fly in an actual aircraft , this is one of the reasons all trainers have dual controls . <URL> My first day out , ever , was in an actual plane , behind real controls , in the sky . No sim-time prior to that . The instructor talked me though takeoff and maneuvers ( keeping an eye on everything and operating the rudder ) . All he did was radio coms , navigation and the approach/landing . As for whats common : The vast majority of American WWII pilots are said to have learned to fly in the <URL> <URL> <URL> In GA where everyone else gets their start the <URL> and <URL> or <URL> rule supreme . Of course these planes are slow , benign and fairly safe by aviation standards . But what if you have some super fast , one of a kind , high flying , awesome supersonic jet gadget . You surely cant afford to ruin such a plane but still need to train pilots . Well in that case you just <URL> ... <URL> <URL> designed to mimic its approach characteristics . <URL>
With a pressure fueling system , rather than fueling through holes in the tops of the wings , a fuel truck or fuel hydrant is used to push fuel into the airplane through a fitting at about 50 psi . The fuel fitting is generally in the right wing . A fueling control panel allows the fueler to fill the tanks to the amount called out by the flight plan . These large aircraft still have an overwing fueling port for those times when the pressure fueling system is inoperative . There is nothing to prevent fuel vapors from escaping to atmosphere .
The <URL> you are referring to explains how radar is used to fly through a <URL> whilst avoiding the most turbulent areas . Conventional weather radar can not detect wind speed or turbulence directly , it only detects solid and liquid objects above a threshold size . The most turbulent areas of thunderstorms are also those areas that contain the most water and ice . This precipitation reflects radar waves very well so the most turbulent areas have the strongest reflections and shows up as red / purple on the scope . The area downwind of the core is usually very turbulent as well . So the weather radar is merely detecting the presence of water . It is the pilot interpreting the picture who is really detecting the turbulence . <URL> ( CAT ) does not have condensated water in it and is therefore undetectable by conventional radar . There are systems such as LIDAR that can detect CAT but they generally not installed on aircraft . As @reirab noted in a comment , a Doppler radar can be used to detect the relative speed of the particles from an aircraft . This is not used to reliably detect wind speed , but when there are large variations in wind speed ( a.k.a. turbulence ) the Doppler shift in the reflections from the particles causes a spectrum spread . This is an indication for turbulence . The traditional S-band airborne weather radars do not have this capability but the newer X-band radar ( e.g. this <URL> ) can detect wet turbulence to distance of up to 40-60 nautical miles using this technique . LIDAR ( a portmanteau of Light and RADAR ) is a technology that uses light instead of radio waves . LIDAR can measure position and relative velocity of aerosols and therefore it can be used to detect turbulence . It has been used successfully to detect wind shears and map wake vortices on final approach from the ground ( <URL> ) . <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) is going on into airborne use of LIDAR to detect CAT . One of the difficulty is to detect vertical components of the turbulence . This causes very little Doppler shift but at the same time have the most effect on the aircraft ( since the vertical component of turbulence causes changes in angle of attack ) . As far as I know there are currently no commercial applications of LIDAR for airborne turbulence detection .
The metal of the tanker 's boom ( or drogue ) contacts the metal of the receiver 's receptacle ( or probe ) first , and that contact is maintained , so that would serve to ground the two aircraft to each other . It 's a good question , but I 've never heard of any fuel explosions due to static buildup during air-to-air refueling , so evidently the systems in place alleviate the risks . Aerial refueling is pretty routine these days , so in relative terms it would seem to be fairly safe . Purging the fuel lines is a relative term ; you could remove the liquid fuel from the lines , but you 'd still have vapors , and those are more flammable than the liquid jet fuel itself . Maybe somebody who flew ( or flies ) tankers can discuss how far down the boom the fuel goes BEFORE everything is connected and they start pumping ; as a receiver I just remember that the fuel flowed into the manifold and then into the tanks . We did n't do anything special to clear the manifold or fuel lines on our end . There ARE some inherent risks when refueling between two aircraft flying in close formation that are accepted ( i.e. the risk level is okay for the military mission , but nobody does it for commercial airliners ) , but I do n't think this is one of them .
It all depends on the laws of the country that the crew is visiting . Some do and some do n't . Many do unless they have a reciprocal agreement with the pilot 's country , in which case they do n't . This would be a great question for a specific country pair , or even if you want to know the laws about a specific country ( in which case we could give the actual requirements ) , but the best answer for a general question like this is " it depends " . In some cases , the crew is n't even required to clear customs unless they are leaving airport property . Other times they have to clear as soon as they land . Part of qualifying for a route with the airlines is making sure that you have the required visas . Having two passports help a lot in getting multiple visas , because they can keep flying internationally while the visa application is in process .
The first aircraft jet engine was ground tested by Frank Whittle in April 1937 . In September of the same year , Hans von Ohain ( ground ) tested his jet engine . The first jet aircraft , He 178 flew in August 1939 .
During the 1990s I flew into countries on every continent except Antarctica . As an American English speaker flying U.S. registered airplanes , I never had a complaint that a controller had trouble understanding me , and I was always addressed in English by the controllers . Sometimes , though , I would have trouble understanding the controller 's accent and would have to ask them to repeat their instructions . As you mentioned , in some countries the controllers will address the pilots of that country in their native language . Personally , I always felt that compromised the smooth functioning of the system to a degree , because it denied a good bit of the overall picture of what was happening to the pilots who did n't speak that language . For example , if two airplanes preceding you are being rerouted for some reason , but you ca n't understand what they 've been given ( and which you 're probably going to be given ) , you 're not as prepared for the reroute when it comes through to you in English . Even if controllers spoke to you in English , they would typically pronounce place names and fixes as they are pronounced in the native language . My first flights in France were a real problem in this respect . The French controllers were speaking good and understandable English , but the French pronunciation of the place names did not match our English rendition of the names we were seeing ( and had never seen or heard before ) on the IFR maps ( no glass cockpits back then for us ) . In a couple of instances , we had to request that they spell the names , which did n't make us popular . On one occasion , when we made such a request , another pilot came on frequency and said , " He means ... " and gave us an English transliteration if you will of what the controller was saying . Interestingly , the worst time I ever had understanding a clearance was one from a nominally English speaking controller . We were talking to Scottish control , and received a reroute into Amsterdam from a controller with a very pronounced accent ( Glaswegian ? ) . All I was able to get was that at the end he was turning us over to Dutch control and the frequency . I went over to the Dutch , and asked for them to restate what our new clearance was , and I apologized , explaining that I had been unable to understand Scottish control . His first words were , " That 's okay , we ca n't understand them either . "
The most important characteristic for a jet engine compressor is high mass flow rate with light weight and if possible small size . For the same size , the flow rate can be increased by operating the compressor at higher rpm . But sliding components do n't allow that . Only the axial and centrifugal compressors can achieve sufficient flow rates , so they are used . Centrifugal compressors achieve higher pressure ratio for weight , but are larger , so they were used in many early designs and now remain in small turboprops while larger engines use axial compressors for their compactness .
A helicopter will achieve its best climb rate at a moderate forward speed . Climbing in a spiral helps to have forward speed in what is essentially a vertical climb . In a hover all the airflow which is available for lift creation must be generated by the rotation of the main rotor . This means that a small amount of air must be accelerated by a lot . If the helicopter adds forward speed , it can achieve a higher mass flow through the rotor , and now less acceleration is needed to achieve the same lift . This improves the efficiency of lift creation . If the helicopter goes faster than its speed for maximum rate of climb , aerodynamic drag grows too high and reduces efficiency again . The difference can be dramatic : Below is a plot of the speed versus altitude of a generic helicopter and turboprop plane in comparison to the V-22 tilt rotor . Remember that the available power is roughly proportional to air density , and you can start to see how much more power is available for climbing when the helicopter flies with a moderate forward speed . <URL> Flight envelopes of a generic helicopter , a turboprop plane and the V-22 tiltrotor ( picture <URL> ) . Thanks to @mins for inspiring me to expand the answer a little .
The Airways that the planes fly on criss-cross the sky and there are many , many intersections where there can be a potential for 2 aircraft to meet . So yes , it is normal that aircraft are routinely flight planned to be on " collision courses " . The flight plans do n't keep aircraft separated . They are used so that Air Traffic Controllers can know the exact routing and plan where any conflicts may occur . It is normal and safe as ATC can then keep the aircraft separated using radar . Generally aircraft flying eastbound fly at odd altitudes and westbound aircraft fly at even altitudes . This works quite well but we can still have 2 westbound aircraft both flying at 36,000 ' on a " collision course " because westbound can mean any track from 180 degrees to 359 degrees . In this case the 2 aircraft were crossing paths at about 90 degrees to each other at the same altitude . Normally they would be constantly monitored and the ATC controller would simply have one aircraft climb or descend to avoid the other aircraft . Another common practice is to tell one aircraft to turn slightly off course to avoid the other aircraft . On this day the ATC system and the controller were both overloaded and a number of factors contributed to the controller not seeing the conflict until it was almost too late . At the last minute he told one aircraft to descend to avoid the other . This action alone would have been fine but the order was given far too late . The Traffic Collision Avoidance System on the aircraft also saw the conflict and automatically issued an instruction for one pilot to climb while instructing the other aircraft to descend . The controller did not know that the TCAS had also spotted the conflict and his command to descend was contrary to the TCAS climb command . The pilot chose to follow the controller 's instruction instead of following the TCAS climb instruction . The other aircraft was also following his TCAS instruction to descend so both aircraft were now descending while still on a conflicting flight path routing . TCAS is there as a safeguard when the ATC system fails . It should always take priority over an ATC instruction . It is clear that the ATC system failed these pilots and TCAS operated as it should . As pilots we spend so much time following ATC instructions that I can see how it would be difficult to ignore the controller and instead follow the TCAS instruction .
Do civilian space ships count ? In the <URL> the captain survived . The plane broke up around him and he was able to unstrap his seat after which his parachute automatically deployed . The co-pilot died in the crash .
Radio frequencies in the USA are assigned by the <URL> , not the FAA . There 's no ' private ' air-to-ground frequency mentioned in the AIM but <URL> does say that the FCC has assigned 122.900 as a MULTICOM frequency for : Activities of a temporary , seasonal , emergency nature or search and rescue , as well as , airports with no tower , FSS , or UNICOM Arguably your fly-by is " temporary activity " , however the definition of MULTICOM is : A mobile service not open to public correspondence used to provide communications essential to conduct the activities being performed by or directed from private aircraft So if your fly-by is " essential " ( and safe ! ) then I guess you could use 122.9 . There are <URL> for requesting temporary air-to-ground frequencies for air shows , but that 's obviously a special case . As for legality , it seems that <URL> to use an aviation handheld radio on the ground : You may only use your hand-held aircraft VHF radio in your aircraft under the terms of your aircraft license . You are required to have a separate Ground Station license to operate your radio on the ground . But because this is more about FCC regulations than FAA ones , I suggest that you ask on <URL> ; they 'll probably know a lot more about how it all works .
<URL> , the World Meteorological Organization defines tropopause as The boundary between the troposphere and the stratosphere , where an abrupt change in lapse rate usually occurs . It is defined as the lowest level at which the lapse rate decreases to 2 ˚C / km or less , provided that the average lapse rate between this level and all higher levels within 2 km does not exceed 2 ˚C / km . Occasionally , a second tropopause may be found if the lapse rate above the first tropopause exceeds 3 ˚C / km . The tropopause height varies with latitude and season . The variation with latitude , based on annual mean conditions , is shown below : <URL> Image from <URL> Troposphere can be identified only if the <URL> ( the rate at which atmospheric temperature decreases with increase in altitude ) in the stratosphere and troposphere are known . Also , weather phenomena like thunderstorms shift the tropopause . As a result , the height of the tropopause is forecast based on localized weather conditions , and is not a fixed boundary . The International Standard atmosphere , however , defines tropopause as lying between ~ 11,000 and 20,000 meters ( geopotential altitude ) above MSL .
The biggest single reason for the decline of flying boats was the proliferation of long runways during World War II . The infrastructure advantage of flying boats -- the ability to operate heavy aircraft without long runways -- was no longer relevant . Large airfields were a result of the long-range heavy bomber campaigns in Europe and Asia . Century of Flight has <URL> that goes a bit more in depth .
Yes , cargo aircraft are like other aircraft in that there is generally at least a jump seat available . Especially larger aircraft will also have <URL> . This area can be used for relief crew , or other crew that are <URL> . There are exceptions though . The upper deck of the 747 is <URL> than just the cockpit , even on the <URL> <URL> . There is more room in the back for additional crew . The <URL> and An-225 also have additional space for crew behind the cockpit . The extra crew can be loadmasters , navigators , mechanics , or other functions that can make it easier to operate in and out of airports with less services available . Here is the upper deck of a 747-400F : <URL>
No , no , by all means do n't turn left . See also <URL> . Transport category aircraft are capable of climbing out on one engine . It is a certification requirement for them . So if the left engine failed after rotation , the first thing the pilot has to concentrate on is to keep the plane flying and under control . That means ease the pull on the stick a bit to avoid stalling as the plane is not able to climb as fast and push the right rudder pedal to keep the plane flying straight ¹ . Once the plane is in straight climb at $ V_2 $ speed , it 's time to deal with the engine . First both pilots cross-check the instruments and the rudder position to determine it was the left engine that failed . Then they feather the propeller ( auto-feather might have done it already ) and cut fuel to the failed engine . If the engine fire warning is on and did not extinguish when fuel was cut , they discharge fire extinguisher . These things are done according to standard emergency procedure that the pilots have to remember and train in simulator . I do n't know the specifics for ATR-72 , but in all aircraft it is roughly like above . Meanwhile the aircraft climbs to safe altitude and then they should level off and let it accelerate a bit to get some safety margin for manoeuvring . The plane is now in relatively safe condition . Even if engine was on fire , it is unlikely to spread while the aircraft is flying . So the pilots now have time to declare emergency and ask the controller for what options they have for landing . Whether they do a complete circuit and land back on the same runway or turn around and land in opposite direction or land on some other runway then depends on wind and where they are relative to the runways at the time . There were many accidents where plane crashed after one engine failure during take-off because pilots started manoeuvring before they attained sufficient altitude and safe speed . It is better not to hurry , engine failure does not require it . ¹ Of course provided there are no obstacles in the way . For example if you were taking off from VQPR runway 33 and your right engine quit , you 'd still have to do a right turn rather early to avoid the <URL> right in the axis of the runway and quite a bit above it . But for any airport that require such avoidance ( and there is quite a few of them in various mountains ) , the pilots are specifically briefed and trained for that airport which includes instructions on how to best handle engine failure during take-off and during approach and viability of the procedure is verified in simulator and with a test flight . The above answer just outlines the generic procedure .
FAA considers space shuttle either a military aircraft or spacecraft and hence its rules do n't apply on space shuttle . However , requirements to be a <URL> : ... at least 1,000 hours pilot-in-command time on jet aircraft It means that you need type rating to operate a heavy jet aircraft ( not light jet ) . <URL> is 172,000 lb ( 78,000 kg ) 1 . In addition , you need the additional requirements mentioned by NASA ( link above ) , which include education and health standards to meet . Operating empty weight of <URL> is 610,000 lbs .
It all depends ... There will be some minimum power required to maintain level flight at any given altitude . If you 're applying more power than that then you can trim for level flight at any power setting . More power means faster flight , higher fuel consumption and less range , while less power will save fuel and take longer . It 's really your call , but I 'm sure your flying school will opt for economy every time ! You may also find that some light aircraft have prohibited ranges for RPM . Some Robin aircraft , for example , prohibit continuous operation in a band just above 2000rpm ( do n't remember the exact details ) so you 'd have to trim at a power setting below or above that band .
<URL> from the website of the Department of Behavioral Sciences and Leadership at the US Air Force Academy reviewed cases dating back to 1913 ( note though it does n't assert that the reports in 1913 suspected Spatial Disorientation ( SD ) ) . In the linked paper the author references a previous paper which I ca n't seem to find : Gibb RW . Historical assessment of visual spatial disorientation [ abstract ] . Aviat Space Environ Med 2010 ; 81 : 318 . In 2010 , the lead author presented an assessment of visual spatial disorientation at the annual Aerospace Medical Association conference and cited 25 studies dating from 1947 to the present declaring SD 's role in mishaps as well as surveys of pilots anonymously sharing their SD experiences The earliest research they reference is a Navy survey from 1947 . Quoted from the linked paper 1947 : U.S. Naval aviators , 67 total , reported on their illusionary experiences and categorized them into visual , non-visual , conflicting sensory cues , dissociative , and emotional ( 48 ) . Of note within visual illusions categories were confusion with lights , depth perception , " black night , " and judging height above the ground/water . Experienced pilots were still prone to illusions regardless of total flight time . ( 48 ) Vinacke WE . Illusions experienced by aircraft pilots while flying . J Aviat Med 1947 ; 18 : 308 -- 25 . The linked article suggests that the aviation community has known about these issues since the early days of flight but the issue was ( and they assert still is ) an underrated and underreported flight risk which may skew reporting which causes underfunding . Thus the published research may lag the time in which the community started noticing SD .
end question
start question
When crossing a mountain ridge at low height above terrain what consideration is given to turbulence ?
From an older <URL> on mountain flying : Mountain Wave When the wind speed is above about 25 knots and flowing perpendicular to the ridge lines , the air flow can form waves , much like water flowing over rocks in a stream bed . The waves form down wind from the ridge line and will be composed of very strong up and down drafts , plus dangerous rotor action under the crests of the waves . If enough moisture is present , lenticular clouds can form to give a visual indication of the wave action . These clouds are reported in the remarks section of hourly sequence reports as ACSL ( altocumulus standing lenticular ) or CCSL ( cirrocumulus standing lenticular ) Pretty much sums up what you 're seeing I guess . As for action : Ridge and Pass Crossing On most mountain flights , you will need to cross at least one ridge or pass . Experienced pilots recommend crossing a ridge or pass at the ridge elevation plus at least 1,000 feet . If the winds at mountain top level are above 20 knots , increase that to 2,000 feet . Plan to be at that altitude at least three miles before reaching the ridge and stay at that altitude until at least three miles past it . This clearance zone will give you a reasonable safety zone to avoid the most severe turbulence and down drafts in windy conditions . If conditions or airplane performance dictate , you may need to fly along the windward side of a ridge to find updrafts for gaining altitude before crossing a ridge . You may also need to circle before reaching the ridge if climbing out of a valley airport . When you actually cross a ridge , you should do so at a 45 • angle to the ridge . This allows you to turn away from the ridge quicker if you encounter a severe downdraft or turbulence . Once you have crossed the ridge , turn directly away from it at a go • angle to get away from the most likely area of turbulence quickly . Plan your crossing to give yourself the ability to turn toward lower terrain quickly if necessary . As for helicopter mountain flying specifically , I 'm afraid you are unlikely to find somebody on here with that experience . You might have better chance on searching for it online and phoning up flight schools that offer such courses ( I found a few in the states ) for information .
<URL> that the pressure decreases over the wing . We can also assume that a particle of air travelling above a wing does it so fast that does not have the time to exchange energy with the sorrounding ones ( called <URL> ) We can now look at a pressure/volume diagram for an adiabatic process that goes from " high " pressure ( the free undisturbed air in front of the aircraft ) to low pressure ( the air on top of the wing ) : image <URL> ( currently unreachable ) As you see from the diagram , if you move along the Adiabat line from the top to the bottom , the temperature drops . If the air has already a temperature near the water condensation one and a high enough humidity , it will condense . From the Wikipedia article linked before : Adiabatic cooling occurs when the pressure on an adiabatically isolated system is decreased , allowing it to expand , thus causing it to do work on its surroundings . When the pressure applied on a parcel of air is reduced , the air in the parcel is allowed to expand ; as the volume increases , the temperature falls as internal energy decreases .
Smelling exhaust in the cockpit is not normal . Tell your instructor and squawk the problem . Bonus - turn it into a learning experience by arranging to be with the A&amp;P when he decowls and inspects . You can learn a lot about the engine that way . If you are getting a headache from this you may have mild CO poisoning . This does need to be checked out .
When flying over mountains Pilots will have to encounter unpredictable winds , high density altitude , steeply rising terrain and box canyons , mountain waves , rotor clouds , turbulence , and clouds covering high ground . <URL> It is therefore essential to take the below mentioned factors into consideration : ( 1 ) ROUTE PLANNING : When flying over mountains Route Planning is extremely important because a straight line between two points may not always be the best way to go . Therefore , pick a route that avoids the rugged areas and highest peaks where an emergency landing could not be made . It usually takes very little extra time to bypass the most mountainous areas and follow major roads through more populated areas and lower terrain . Do not approach a ridge until you have sufficient altitude to cross with a safety margin . If you encounter too much sink , you must have enough altitude to turn away towards lower terrain . To make that turn as easy as possible , its wise to turn your aircraft to a 45-degree angle to the ridge before you cross . <URL> ( 2 ) THE TERRAIN FACTOR : The rising terrain will often out climb non-turbocharged aircraft . If your aircraft has a service ceiling of 14,500 ft. , that is based on standard atmospheric temperature which is 59 ° F at sea level and decreases an average of 3.5 ° F per thousand feet . If the surface temperature at 5000 ft. is 100 degrees , the density altitude on the ground is about 9,000 ft. When you climb to an indicated altitude of 9,500 feet you have reached the service ceiling of you aircraft . ( 3 ) THE WIND FACTOR : In a light aircraft , it is best to stay on the ground if the winds are greater than 35 miles per hour . Due to the venturi effect , winds will be much greater in the vicinity of mountain passes . Cross passes as high as possible , as downdrafts up to 2,000 feet per minute can occur on the leeward side.When strong winds of 40 to 50 miles per hour are blowing perpendicular to a mountain range , expect mountain waves and strong downdrafts for many miles on the leeward side . ( 4 ) THE CLOUD FACTOR : The combination of rising ground and lowering ceiling can be deadly . Mountains disappear not only in clouds , but also at night . You should not fly over high territory after sunset unless you are at the minimum en route IFR altitude which provides a 2,000 ft. clearance along airways . When flying after dark , closely monitor your altitude and when in a turn , your rate of descent . A mountain checkout flight is all that is required to get started . The checkout will enable you to operate around some pretty impressive terrain : Flatlander Focus : Two good books on the market are The Mountain Flying Bible by Sparky Imeson , and Flying the Mountains : A Training Manual for Flying Single-Engine Aircraft by Fletcher Fairchild Anderson . Reading either one will give you a solid foundation on which to build your skills . Most Importantly - Know Your Aircraft &amp; Its Limitations <URL> ( a ) What distance over the ground does your aircraft cover in a rate-one turn ? ( b ) What 's the distance for a steep turn ? ( c ) What speed and configuration do you use for reduced visibility and for a minimum radius turn ? ( d ) What is the best-angle-of-climb speed ? ( e ) Do you know the manoeuvring speed ( VA ) and understand its application in potentially turbulent conditions ? ( f ) How is your aircraft performance and handling affected by altitude and turbulence ? ( g ) How is performance affected when operating at maximum-all-up-weight ? Needless to say recent practice and currency are vitally important .
In the ICAO PANS ATM ( Doc 4444 ) ( * ) the vertical separation is specified as : 5.3.2 Vertical separation minimum The vertical separation minimum ( VSM ) shall be : a ) a nominal 300 m ( 1000 ft ) below FL 290 and a nominal 600 m ( 2000 ft ) at or above this level , except as provided for in b ) below ; and b ) within designated airspace , subject to a regional air navigation agreement : a nominal > 300 m ( 1000 ft ) below FL 410 or a higher level where so prescribed for use under > specified conditions , and a nominal 600 m ( 2000 ft ) at or above this level . The minimum horizontal separation mimumum is for flights under radar control : 8.7.3 Separation minima based on ATS surveillance systems 8.7.3.1 Unless otherwise prescribed in accordance with 8.7.3.2 , 8.7.3.3 or 8.7.3.4 , or chapter 6 ( with respect to independent and dependent parallel approaches ) , the horizontal separation minimum based on radar and/or ADS-B and/or MLAT systems shall be 9.3 km ( 5.0 NM ) . The approach and departure phases of flight has some small deviations , e.g. small aircraft behind heavy aircraft have to keep horizontal separation because of wake vortexes . ( * ) Unfortunately I could n't find the official Doc 4444 on the ICAO website .
They still want to get into the low cost segment but want to market themselves differently for better penetration . You can only present so many images of a brand to customers : You ca n't show both the super-cheap prices with happy youth on them and posh first class at the same time . They do not want to tarnish a nice brand by mixing it with a low cost carrier and what that is perceived to entail . For instance , Germanwings got a somewhat infamous reputation recently , and Lufthansa is probably happy their name was not more frequently used in media . Low cost is also associated with less good customer service and hidden fees . Crew are often less well paid , and they are sometimes put under a separate working agreement and company to try to prevent conflicts . Some legacy carriers have very good pay which is difficult to reduce . Management does not want to be bound by these when expanding or adjusting their business . Each case is pretty specific depending on exactly they are trying to do and achieve . For many American Carriers and Lufthansa , the last one is probably the principle reason .
What you experienced is common , but it would serve you well to better understand your engine . There are quite a few engine options for the PA28 , so without more specifics I can not give you specific guidance , but I will address this in a general form . Spark plugs foul from several different sources . The leading sources are from excessive unburnt fuel , and from oil . The unburnt fuel can cause carbon and fuel based buildup on the plugs , or it can come in the form of lead fouling , where lead deposits bridge the spark gap or insulator in the spark plug . Oil fouling tends to happen in higher time engines , but can happen in new engines during their break-in period . Normally , running at cruise power keeps the plugs clean by scavenging these deposits off . Again , engines vary , and manufacturer 's recommendations vary , but in general , I run with the engine lean during taxi . This reduces buildups and will clear some fouling . Because the engine running is impacted by engine temperature , I generally do not do a run-up until after taxi , when the engine is warmer . If an engine is running rough , or the mag check fails , or the engine repeatedly stalls , I will do a clearing run-up , where the engine is run at a higher power setting , typically 1800 to 2000RPM and leaned until it will just continue running . This creates higher temperatures , and tends to burn off oil or other fouling . This is done for anywhere from 1 minute to about 3 minutes , and then the mixture is enrichened and a normal run-up and mag check are done . Magnetos do not foul , rather spark plugs foul , and typically the R mag will run the top plugs on one side of the engine , and the L mag will run the top plugs on the other side . Bottom plugs tend to fould more , especially if there is oil fouling . But the point is that whether the L or R mag fails , or runs rough , does n't tell you exactly what spark plugs it is . A cylinder temp gauge or other instrumentation may , but usually it is determined by disassembling and inspecting the spark plugs . So to get to the OP question : Large drops at runup are a sign of either a condition which may resolve itself , or conditions which are causing the engine to run less effectively . If they ca n't be respoved the plane needs to be seen by a mechanic , or someone more familiar with it . If the mag is rough , and the engine has just been started , then it is premature to perform a normal mag check . Let the engine ward up more , during taxi , and then check the mags . The engine should not die at idle . If that happens repeatedly after the engine is warmer ( not even up to operating temps ) , then there is a problem , and the engine should be checked out by a mechanic or someone with more experience . In addition to not clue as to what engine you are dealing with , we also do n't know the local meteorological conditions . If you are having problems at 0F it is more typical than having problems at 35F . But in general , engines should not stall at idle even when cold at 40F temperatures . A final comment . I have trained many CFIs , and I spend quite a bit of time on engines and their operation and work-arounds . Much of this is not in FAA publications , or even training publications . I find that many CFIs are not a knowledgeable about engine operations and related methods . Being engine smart will help you in your flying , and it will reduce your risk . Addendum : As a general rule : Lycoming : R Mag top left plugs , cyl 2 , 4 and bottom right plugs , cyl 1 , 3 . Continentals : R Mag fires the top plugs , L Mag fires the bottom . The impulse is the R Mag , as the top plugs tend to get less oil fouling .
As DeltaLima said , it is kind of hard answering your question . After looking at the <URL> you might have found the answer already . Let me try to answer your specific question though : Assuming an airliner , let 's say the A320 , for some reason got into a spin , can it be recovered ? The general answer would be yes ! Here are some things to consider though : The FAA requires all single-engine normal category aircraft to demonstrate spin recovery in <URL> . It depends a lot on the center of gravity of the airplane whether it is recoverable from a spin or not . If the center of gravity is too far aft , it will not be recoverable from a spin . Gliders , being light , have an easy shiftable CG , and there is some that do n't enter spins at all or need extra weights in the back in order to make them spinnable ! Airliners are not required to do so as they are not as likely to get into a spin in the first place ! The structure of an airliner is designed for air flowing over it , not for being in a spin ! Centrifugal forces will be applied to the structure due to angular acceleration . Also , spins by airliner would be a lot faster then by little aircraft and more forces would be applied to the frame . If the recovery from the spin is made too fast or abrupt , it can overstress the airplane as well ! All Airbus I know are fly-by-wire , and Airbus is well known for its computer based controls . Most airliners have a lot of systems , which prevent them from even getting into a stall . There a incidents where these systems failed and it went back to the pilot doing the right thing . As a spin always always always requires a stall first , and pilots are trained to avoid stalls in the first place , it is very unlikely for an airliner to enter a spin , having the pilot and various systems working against entering a stall !
For altitude callouts during the landing phase ( 2500 , 1000 , 500 , 400 , ... 100 , 50 , 20 , 10 ) , the computer simply reads the data from the radar altimeter . The radar altimeter uses radio waves to measure the vertical distance between the airplane and any ground / obstacle below . The radio altimeter is mounted on the underside of the fuselage . They are usually accurate up to feet . This is different than the standard altimeter in the cockpit , which measure air pressure . The radio altimeter has no idea where the runway is ; if there is uneven terrain leading to the airport , or if the pilots ' descend profile does not match the glideslope , the readings ( and thus the callouts ) will not reflect the height above runway elevation . Note that the airlines can customize the altitude callouts . Different manufacturers also uses slightly different callout patterns . The second type of audio alerts are messages from a <URL> ( TAWS ) . These systems uses radio altimeter , and may combine information from other sources , such as GPS and a global terrain database , to issue alert messages to the pilots if terrain impact is imminent . Since the radio altimeter is only capable of detecting ground directly below , it is unable to provide timely warnings in certain situations , e.g. approaching a steep hill . By integrating with GPS data and a terrain database , the computers can predict the flight path of the aircraft and issue warnings if a risk of collision exists .
The pressure inside the cabin is usually more than the outside pressure at the cruise altitude . The pressure altitude ( ISA altitude with the same pressure ) inside the cabin of civil aircraft is called the equivalent effective cabin altitude or normally cabin altitude . As the aircraft climbs , the cabin altitude is gradually raised so that it reaches around 8000 ft for the aircraft cruising altitude of ~ 40000 ft. This level is maintained at flight ceiling too . <URL> Source : www.flyertalk.com The pressure is around 0.75 bar inside the cabin . The outside pressure at this point is around 0.2 bar , resulting in a pressure differential of 0.56 bar . This pressure differential causes stresses on the aircraft body . <URL> Source : ecnmag.com In addition to the stresses , pressurization - de-pressurizatoin cycle can cause fatigue in the windows . As reducing the cabin altitude will improve the passenger comfort , newer aircraft tend to have lower cabin altitudes . For example , the Boeing 787 has a pressure altitude of around 6000 ft and the Bombardier Global Express jet has a cabin altitude of around 4500 ft. This is achieved by the use of advanced composite materials , which allow a higher pressure differential have excellent fatigue properties compared to the metals . As a result , the windows of newer aircrafts are considerably larger than their predecessors . <URL> Image : Boeing
In subsonic flow , a pitot tube measures the total pressure $ P _ { 0 } $ , while a static port measures the static pressure $ P$ . For very small Mach numbers , we can use the incompressible form of Bernoulli 's Equation for determining the speed . As there is no energy due to compressibility , the density $ \ rho $ is constant . This means that along a streamline , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } + gh = constant $ Neglecting gravity , we have , $ \ frac { P } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ Using this , we can determine the velocity as $ v = \ sqrt { 2 \ frac { P _ { 0 } - P } { \ rho } } $ This equation , however does not take the effect of comprehensibility into account . While at low speeds this is not a problem , this causes an error as the Mach number increases above ~ 0.3 . As the speed increases above this value , the term $ \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho v ^ { 2 } $ no longer gives the difference between the Total and static pressure . In case of compressible flow , neglecting gravity we have , $ \ int _ { P _ { 0 } } ^ { P } \ frac { dP } { \ rho } + \ frac { 1 } { 2 } v ^ { 2 } = constant $ along the streamline as $ \ rho $ is no longer constant . For adiabatically expanding gas , we have , $ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } = ( 1 + \ frac { \ gamma-1 } { 2 } M ^ { 2 } ) ^ { \ frac { \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } } $ where $ \ gamma $ is the specific heat constant and $ M$ is the mach number . In this case , the velocity can be calculated as , $ v = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ gamma } { \ gamma - 1 } \ frac { P } { \ rho } [ \ frac { P _ { 0 } } { P } ^ { \ frac { \ gamma - 1 } { \ gamma } } -1 ] } $ This difference gives rise to the error , which is positive i.e. compressibility error produces ASI readings that are too high . In terms of the pressure ratio , the error is more than 8 % as the aircraft approaches transonic speeds . The following image shows the difference in pressure ratio between readings using assumptions of incompressible and compressible flow . <URL> Image from Mechanical Measurements and Metrology - Measurement of Fluid Velocity by S. P. Venkateshan Basically , the issue is with the assumptions in the method use to calculate the velocity - for low speeds , we assume that the density is constant , which is clearly not the case as the speed increases . Usually , M = 0.3 is taken as the cutoff point .
Low density altitudes mean your engine generates more power , and your wings generate more lift . Everything is better with low density altitudes , right ? The potential danger in low density altitudes is that your engine generates more power than it can handle . Even without exceeding the maximum rated RPM and manifold pressure , you can exceed the rated power of an engine under low density altitude conditions . At low temperatures the air becomes denser . At standard sea level conditions air has a temperature of 15 degrees Celcius and a density of 1.225 kg per cubic meter . When the temperature is -30 degrees Celcius , the density increases to 1.452 kg per cubic meter . The equivalent altitude where this density is found under standard atmosphere conditions would be about -5900 ft. This is called the density altitude . When air with these properties enters the combustion chamber of your engine and is combusted to the normal exhaust temperature it expands ( increases in pressure ) far more that air normally would , resulting in excessive power . This <URL> says the following about the risks associated with low density altitudes : Do not overboost supercharged engines . This is easy to do because at very low density altitude , the engine " thinks " it is operating as much as 8,000 feet below sea level in certain situations . Care should be exercised in operating normally aspirated engines . Power output increases at about 1 % for each ten degrees of temperature below that of standard air . At -40 degree F , an engine will develop 10 percent more than rated power even though RPM and MP limits are not exceeded .
Airline pilots generally arrive at the airport 2 hours before departure . Typically , a pilot will gather in a meeting with other pilots flying the same flight ( who he/she may have never met before ; but that is not a problem as there are Standard Operational Procedures which every pilot follow ) . They will discuss the flight plan ( including expected delays , departure / arrival routes and procedures ) , weather , review the loading sheet &amp; fuel etc. . After the pilots ' meeting , they will also meet the flight crew and have a brief discussion about the flight . Matters such as expected delays , transport of patient ( sick passengers ) needing medical attention etc. will also be brought out . Around 30 ~ 45 minutes before departure , the pilots will board the plane . One pilot will program the Flight Management Computer in the cockpit while the other will conduct a walk-around . There are " stand-by " pilots ready to takeover whoever is unable to report to duty at the airport . They can be anywhere and doing anything while on call , however they must be able to arrive at the airport typically 1 ~ 2 hours after receiving a call . Also , they must not consume alcohol while on call as this will invalidate their flying status .
Because the fuel-air mixture in a turbine is <URL> than what it would be for a <URL> combustion . It needs to stay lean to restrict the maximum gas temperature inside the engine - higher temperatures lead to exponentially shorter lives of the turbine components .
Turbulence affects aircraft in the same way whether it is banked or not . The difference however would be the end result of the turbulence . For example , if an aircraft were to encounter turbulence strong enough to roll the aircraft 20 degrees to the right , the end results would be a 20 degree bank if starting from level , but 45 degrees of bank if they were already in a 25 degree banked turn . If this were to happen it puts them closer to their stall speed because of the higher bank angle , and if they were already going slow and the airplane is at a low altitude , it could be a problem . Fortunately , most turbulence strong enough to cause this while at low altitude is caused by the wake turbulence of other aircraft or microbursts , and we have pretty good procedures in place to keep it from being a problem these days . If they are n't at a low altitude it matters even less because there is altitude for the aircraft to recover even if it does get into an unusual attitude .
Most modern jets use an Air Data Computer ( ADC ) to calculate ( among other things ) Mach Number . <URL> Air Data Computer An ADC is simply a computer which accepts measurements of atmospheric data to calculate various flight related data . A typical ADC may be connected to $ ^ 1 $ : Inputs Static System Pressure Pitot Pressure Total Air Temperature ( TAT ) Outputs ( Calculated ) Pressure Altitude Baro-Corrected Altitude Vertical Speed Mach Number Total Air Temperature Calibrated Airspeed True Airspeed Digitized Pressure Altitude ( Gillham ) Altitude Hold Airspeed Hold Mach Hold Flight Control Gain Scheduling . Each of the inputs and outputs may be analog or digital depending on the design of the system , and are used for many purposes throughout the airplane . Each output is a purely calculated value based on the various input measurements and data stored within the unit . To answer your question about the pitot source for the Mach Meter : Yes , they use the same pitot and static sources as the airspeed indicator . In the case of mechanical instruments , they are both connected directly to the pitot static system . In the case of an ADC , the pitot static system is connected directly to the ADC and then electrical signals communicate the airspeed and mach number to the electric airspeed indicator and mach meter ( or EFIS ) , which no longer require actual pitot static connections . The Math A simplified example for the Mach Number calculation $ ^ 2 $ would be based on the pressure inputs : $ $ Mach ~ number = 5 ( ( PT/PS +1 ) ^ { 0.2857 } -- 1 ) ^ \ frac12 $ $ Where : $ PT$ = Total Pressure $ PS$ = Static Pressure The actual calculation makes corrections to the pressure data to compensate for installation errors and nonlinear sensor readings . Note that it does n't actually calculate the ( local ) speed of sound ( LSS ) in order to determine the current mach number , but with the TAT input and the calculated mach number , it could calculate it by calculating the outside air temperature ( OAT/SAT ) first : $ $ SAT = \ frac { TAT } { 1 +0.2 \ times { Mach } ^ 2 } $ $ $ $ LSS = 38.945 \ sqrt { SAT } $ $ For example , let 's say that the TAT is -36 C ( 237.16 K ) and we are flying Mach 0.80 : $ $ SAT = \ frac { 237.16 } { 1 +0.2 \ times0 .8 ^ 2 } = \ frac { 237.16 } { 1.128 } = 210.25 ° K = -63 ° C$ $ $ $ LSS = 38.945 \ sqrt { 210.25 } = 38.945 \ times14 .5 = 564.70 knots $ $ Again , these are simplified formulas because the actual ones would consider sensor error , etc. . $ ^ 1 $ List of inputs and outputs obtained from <URL> . $ ^ 2 $ Formula from <URL> .
Please do not worry about the loss in lift . It is real , but so small that it can be neglected . A poor flap or aileron seal will cost you more in L/D than the dihedral ever will . The loss is proportional to the difference of the cosine of the dihedral angle to unity . With 5 ° ( which is on the upper end of typical values for low wing aircraft ) this is just 0.38 % . The exact amount of dihedral depends a lot on details of the configuration : Aspect ratio of the wing Fuselage size relative to wing root chord <URL> Directional stability In general , you need a <URL> between $ c _ { l \ beta } $ ( dihedral effect ) and $ c _ { n \ beta } $ ( weathervane effect ) .
The short answer is " Yes " , if the pilot is not properly trained , does n't trust their instruments , or has an instrumentation failure . Without a visual reference ( such as the real horizon or artificial horizon ) it 's very easy for a pilot to place their aircraft in an " unusual attitude " -- something other than the expected straight-and-level flight or commanded turn . As humans we naturally rely on our inner ear and sense of balance to tell us what 's " up " or " down " , but in a moving aircraft you can move through a whole range of attitudes in " 1G maneuvers " ( where your body thinks down is where your seat is ) . Little micro-movements we unconsciously make on the controls ( or larger movements we may make consciously in response to turbulence or other perceved disturbances in the aircraft 's attitude ) based on what our ears and butts are telling us will eventually get us into trouble . It 's so easy that often instructors will have students create their own unusual attitudes in training by having the student close their eyes and simply try to fly straight and level - within a few minutes at most the student will invariably no longer be in level flight . There 's an exercise you can do on the ground to illustrate how imperfect your sense of balance and direction is , but it requires a large , flat , open area . We 'll use an American Football field for this example : Stand on one of the goal lines Have a friend stand at the 50 yard line ( about 45 meters away ) Close your eyes or put on a blindfold , count to ten , and walk directly toward your friend Stop when you reach your friend ( or your friend yells " STOP " because you 're about to walk into a goal post ) Most people will not make it to their friend on the 50 yard line , because without a visual reference it 's very hard to walk a straight line : You will veer off one way or the other , and some folks will even manage to walk in a complete circle ( which is what eventually tends to happen over a large enough distance ) . The same principles apply to flight , except there 's a third dimension ( vertical ) to contend with .
The elasticity of the fuselage does indeed dampen the load factors from gusts somewhat . Therefore , gust-induced accelerations are a little higher over the wing than in the forward or rear fuselage . If the gust causes a pitching motion , this creates its own accelerations which adds to the bumps from the vertical accelerations . Elevator deflections cause similar pitching motions , and their accelerations are more pronounced in the rear fuselage since the aircraft will pivot around a point ahead of the center of gravity . The main factor , however , is the location of the axis of rotation of the <URL> of airliners . This is a weakly damped oscillation which creates lateral accelerations which are bigger the more aft you sit in the fuselage . The <URL> was hurriedly test-flown with nobody sitting in the back , and the pilots were happy with its comfort level . The first passengers , however , got seasick from the Dutch roll motion , which was only detected when the passengers sitting in the rear of the cabin complained . Modern airliners offer better comfort thanks to artificially enhanced stability , but even there you are better off sitting in front . I once flew on an <URL> <URL> from Cairo to Frankfurt , and the captain flew through the tops of <URL> sitting over the Alps . Soon the obvious sounds and smell told me that people in the back were filling their air sickness bags . Maybe half of the rear third of the seats was affected , while the forward two thirds had only a few cases of airsick passengers .
Since you have your private , the LSA just has to be approved . According to the <URL> which covers LSA certification : ( 5 ) This aircraft is to be operated under VFR , day only , unless appropriately equipped for night and/or instrument flight in accordance with 14 CFR § 91.205 , and when allowed by the manufacturer 's operating instructions . So it must be properly equipped ( see below ) AND allowed by the manufacturer 's operating instructions . You will need to check this with each manufacturer to see if they certified it for night flight . <URL> says day VFR instruments ( paragraph b ) plus : ( c ) Visual flight rules ( night ) . For VFR flight at night , the following instruments and equipment are required : ( 1 ) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section . ( 2 ) Approved position lights . ( 3 ) An approved aviation red or aviation white anticollision light system on all U.S.-registered civil aircraft . Anticollision light systems initially installed after August 11 , 1971 , on aircraft for which a type certificate was issued or applied for before August 11 , 1971 , must at least meet the anticollision light standards of part 23 , 25 , 27 , or 29 of this chapter , as applicable , that were in effect on August 10 , 1971 , except that the color may be either aviation red or aviation white . In the event of failure of any light of the anticollision light system , operations with the aircraft may be continued to a stop where repairs or replacement can be made . ( 4 ) If the aircraft is operated for hire , one electric landing light . ( 5 ) An adequate source of electrical energy for all installed electrical and radio equipment . ( 6 ) One spare set of fuses , or three spare fuses of each kind required , that are accessible to the pilot in flight .
end question
start question
What causes the reduction in speed across the shockwave ?
The mechanism is not as complicated as might seem in a first glance . First thing , what 's a supersonic flow ? Is a flow where the speed of the air is higher that Mach > 1 and if we are talking about air that is coming from an upstream subsonic flow the air will be at lower pressure ( that is what is happening on the upper surface of a wing ) . So , high speed air with low pressure that tries to move along the wing up to the end of the wing ( the trailing edge ) , but at the end of the wing the air is at the upstream subsonic pressure ... so , air at a higher presure usually tries to go into low pressure air ... but the supersonic air has a lot of inertia . Finally we end up having air of high speed very difficult to stop ... we are talking about very high speeds and the only way the air can adapt is in a very small space with a shock wave . That is the mechanism that is called " shock wave in adverse pressure gradient " . There is another mechanism that has been described above , supersonic flow agaisnt obstacles . Imagine that we have a supersonic flow moving towards a step , or a ramp ... obviously the air has again the same high inertia , is supersonic !!! But the air " does not know " that there is a ramp . Why not ? Because the information within fluid moves at the speed of sound , the molecules of the air that bound of the ramp are not able to reach fast enough the other molecules fast enough . So ... a high inertia flow moves towards a ramp and suddently notices a ramp that the flow was not adapting before and needs to adapt !!! So does it suddently in a very similar way as before . Another way to understand the mechanism is by looking at the waves that are created when we throw a stone into water . What happens when they approach to the shore ? They continue as there is no shore until , suddently they notice it and they die or bound on it . Is the same mechanism ( actually the same !!! supersonic moves in " waves " ) . Finally , just to remark that shock wave has a finite size , is really small but is not a 0 thickness surface . Notice that we have an area where a high speed is transformed into low speed in a very small space . There the viscosity plays some effect .
Firstly , " co-pilot " is not a term that is really used anymore . When people say that they usually mean the First Officer . It 's a bugbear of mine because " co-pilot " implies that there is one real pilot and a half pilot , when the reality is an airliner needs at least two fully qualified pilots to fly it safely ! When it comes to actually flying the plane , the two pilots have designated roles - Pilot Flying ( PF ) and Pilot Monitoring ( PM - sometimes this is called Pilot Not Flying ) . Both the Captain and the First Officer share these roles - usually one of them is PF on the outbound leg and the other one is PM on the inbound leg . The PF manipulates the controls to actually fly the plane , whereas the PM handles communications and other required tasks that do n't involve actually flying the plane . The biggest difference between a Captain and a First officer is responsibility . The Captain is the Pilot In Command ( PIC ) , who has ultimate responsibility for everything that happens throughout the flight . There are some practical things that only Captains can do , like flying into some tricky airports , landing in strong crosswinds , and on many aircraft only the Captain can use the steering wheel ( or Tiller ) for taxiing . Historically there was a strong heirarchy - the Captain was the boss and the co-pilot was , you could say , a servant . This posed big problems , because the Captain is not always right . The advent of Crew Resource Management ( CRM ) has brought this down to a much more desirable level - where there is still a heirarchy to ensure decisions are made , but not so much that they are unquestionable . The future of the First Officer role will be one of continuing to recognise that they play an important role in a functioning cockpit , rather than just there to serve the Captain . And hopefully people will stop calling them co-pilots !
Peter Kämpf would be the one to answer this definitively , but in the context of his full answer it 's clear that he is referring to the function of the vertical stabiliser during sideslip . If an aircraft is slipping the flow will have some component perpendicular to the vertical tail fin , and thus the fin will have some angle of attack . Sideslip too steeply and the fin will stall , just like any other aerofoil .
While Peter Kämpf already commented the effects I 'll take a look at the numbers . Do n't expect this calculations to be exact predictions , rather worst cases to know the magnitude of following effects : Mass increase due to rain drops Forces due to drops hitting the wing Early tripping of the boundary layer After deducing some equations I 'll feed them with the data of two different airplanes . Mass increase due to rain drops The dew layer you find on your airplane in the morning can reach a <URL> of 0.8 mm . Raindrops , which do not fill the complete wing surface , do n't usually exceed 2 mm diameter.Therefore taking an average distributed height of $ h_W = 1mm $ for the water on the wing should be still a worst-case prediction . $ $ m _ { Drops } = \ rho _ { W } \ cdot A \ cdot h_W $ $ $ A$ is the projected area of the aircraft on the horizontal plane and $ \ rho_W $ water density . Forces due to drops hitting the wing Normal <URL> are about 5 mm/hour and we already speak about violent rain with precipitation rates beyond 50 mm/hour . But let us take the <URL> ever measured : $ I_R = 38mm/min $ . Drops fall normally with $ v _ { Drop } = 10m/s $ . To simplify the calculation I 'll assume vertical rain and that once a drop hits the airplane it sticks to it . In reality you do n't accelerate every drop to the airplane speed nor slow its vertical speed down to 0 . i ) Drag increase $ $ \ Delta D = \ rho _ { W } \ cdot I_R \ cdot A \ cdot v _ { airplane } $ $ ii ) Lift decrease $ $ \ Delta L = \ rho _ { W } \ cdot I_R \ cdot A \ cdot v _ { Drop } $ $ To calculate the total drag ( $ D = C_D \ cdot \ frac { \ rho _ { Air } } { 2 } V ^ 2 \ cdot A$ ) I 've used $ C_D = 0.035 $ . $ V$ is the cruise speed of the aircraft . Early tripping of the boundary layer While it 's possible to find airfoil polars in rain searching the Internet , I 'll first look at a " bugs influence " diagram where you can see the effect of small disturbances at the nose without other effects overlayed . Bugs and raindrops are similar in size , therefore the comparison should be valid . <URL> <URL> The polar above shows how the drag can double ( 100 % increase ) just because of some small disturbances at the leading edge . Keep in mind that in modern profiles the effect will probably be smaller . The next polar is from a transport aircraft airfoil . <URL> <URL> While not so important as in the glider airfoil , the drag coefficient increase ( experimental results ) is everywhere at least a two-digit percentage . Airplanes I 've taken two airplanes with really different wing loadings : A1 would be something between the two Solar Impulse models and A2 a single engine four-seater like a Cessna 172 . The last three rows give the drag , lift and mass difference as described above as a percentage of its total value . SUMMARY For a normal GA airplane the water mass on the wings and the lift decrease influence due to raindrops hitting the wing even considering the worst possible conditions are low single digit percentages . While drag increase due to drops hitting the wing is relevant in the extreme case I took here , under normal conditions it should be below single digit percentages too . On the other hand the drag increase due to the early tripping of the boundary layer is at least a two digit percentage , at high lift coefficients even more . Airplanes with lower wing loading are more affected with rain precipitation .
The answer to your question is actually really simple : do not exceed the limitations specified in the POH . Really , that 's it ! Note that LIMITATIONS are not the same as RECOMMENDED PROCEDURES . Recommended procedures are just that : recommendations . Limitations ( exclusively from the " limitations " section of the POH ) are the hard and fast rules you must adhere to . Full RPM in Cruise As long as your POH does not impose a limitation on takeoff RPM ( the Seneca II has such a limitation , for example ) , then there is nothing wrong with using max RPM from takeoff to shutdown . You wo n't damage the engine . If the POH provides a limitation on engine RPM ( specifically in Section II of the POH ) , you must adhere to that limitation . It 's common to see a 5 minute " max RPM " limitation on some turbocharged engines . Great , takeoff at max RPM then pull the engines back to the top of the green arc until you land . Easy ! Manifold Pressure &amp; RPM Mike Sowsun said : " You should always follow the manufacturer 's procedures but a general rule for direct drive normally aspirated engines is to keep the manifold pressure less than the RPM for cruise power . ( eg . 24 inches of MP at 2400 RPM ) . " If you decide to apply " rules of thumb " to all phases of flight you will be voluntarily handicapping your airplane 's full potential . Some definitions : Oversquare - manifold pressure > RPM ( 23 " @ 2100 RPM ) Undersquare - manifold pressure < RPM ( 23 " @ 2500 RPM ) Square - manifold pressure = RPM ( 23 " @ 2300 RPM ) Do not embrace the idea that manifold pressure should never , ever exceed the value of the first two digits of the engine RPM ( sounds pretty arbitrary when I put it that way , right ? ) . It actually may be beneficial to run an engine " oversquare " in some cases ! This is another example of why knowing your aircraft 's " Section II " limitations is important . If 23 " @ 2100 RPM falls within the limitations , go for it !! You wo n't hurt the engine . Same with 25 " @ 2300 RPM or 26.756431 " @ 2196.454634 RPM . I think you get my drift . As long as your manifold/RPM combination falls within the limitations set out in Section II of the POH , you 're golden !! Now , climbing out on a hot day with a garden variety Lycoming or Continental ( like in 170 ) ? 29 " @ 2100 RPM probably is n't wise . 30 " @ 2700 RPM ? Yeah , that 's better ! 25 " @ 2500 RPM is n't bad but it 's no better or worse that 26 " @ 2700 RPM or 30 " @ 2650 RPM . Remember , there 's nothing special about " square " manifold/RPM values . I 'd routinely run the IO-520 in my Bonanza at max manifold pressure and max RPM from takeoff to cruise and simply leaning to an EGT target as I climbed ( and watching CHTs , of course ) . Only when leveling off in cruise did I pull it back to an economical setting ( sometimes oversquare , sometimes undersquare ; always lean of peak ) . The engine ran beautifully with good CHTs and incurred no unusual wear . In fact , the engine 's health improved . Exhaust and plugs became noticeably cleaner and compressions improved . In cruise , set the power to any combination of manifold/RPM you desire provided that setting falls within the limitations in your POH . You wo n't hurt the engine with a valid manifold/RPM setting . It 's possible to put undue stress on a motor with a bad mixture setting , though . POHs are notorious for giving poor guidance with regard to mixture settings . Mixture settings require a little more attention above ~ 65 % power but that 's another topic entirely . I recommend that everyone with engine questions read John Deakin 's " Pelican Perch " articles . He 's THE source for fact based , accurate engine operation information . He happens to have touched on this " oversquare " myth here . See <URL> . Edit : I credited John Deakin with my linked article . I was mistaken . The author of the linked article is Linda Pendelton . She links to a Deakin article , though . Mike Busch also addresses the oversquare myth <URL> .
Modern Air Combat Maneuvering takes place between about 350 to 600 KIAS ; There is no specific speed but each aircraft has a specific optimal cornering velocity which gives it the greatest rate of turn in order to maximize its maneuverability . Pilots will seek to maintain this speed when entering a merge as it can give them the greatest maneuvering advantage in order to turn inside on opponent or for jinking to evade a cannon or a missile shot . As an example , the Lockheed Martin Block 50/52 F-16C has a cornering velocity of 420 KIAS . Traditionally air combat has been about energy management . Fighter pilots have something in common with economists in that they are engaged in the art of managing the flow of currency ; in the case of the pilot that currency is energy and not money . The total energy state of a fighter is : current energy state = energy in - energy out . The current energy state is the sum of the kinetic energy , proportional to the square of the velocity of the jet and the potential energy of the jet , which is proportional to its height above the ground . Energy leaves the system in the form of parasite and induced drag acting over a distance as well as loss of altitude , which is proportional to the flat plate area of the jet , load factor , AoA , etc. . Energy enters the system at a rate proportional to the amount of jet fuel burned ; this supply is limited to the fuel onboard which again affects the mass of the jet , the induced drag , etc. . So keeping this in mind , a good fighter pilot will seek a way in which he/she can maneuver through space , gaining the best speed and turning performance for the least amount of energy consumed , in order to land in an advantageous position to employ the weapons against an enemy jet . These kinds of speeds vary between if the jet is on the offensive or defensive in relation to a threat . So a pilot maintaining that optimal energy state is in the best position to attack , or defend against an attack , and a pilot in a very low energy state is very vulnerable - " low and slow , you 're outta dough " - and could be quickly killed in a multi-jet furball . The cornering velocity is preferred for this reason if maneuvering is anticipated ( a given if the jet is about to enter a merge ) . With the advent of terminal homing , beyond visual range missiles allowing pilots to stand off from the fight and shoot a threat before it could get close enough to turn with them , higher speed cruise , along with a capability to maneuver well at those higher speeds has become an advantage . It allows a pilot to more quickly close with an enemy aircraft into the missile 's ' no escape ' zone , fire , and then turn and dash from the threat , minimizing their presence in an enemy 's ' no escape ' zone whereby enemy missiles simple do n't have the available energy to catch you . This was the basis for supercruise - supersonic cruise without the use of afterbruners - on the ATF / F-22 program . Combined with good frontal stealth to minimize the detection range by enemy fighters , supercruise could give a Raptor jock a major advantage in the BVR areana - near invincibility in BVR engagements against non stealthy fighters , if the published results of the Red Flag and other military exercises are to be believed .
Yes , it is , at least for small pitch angles and low thrust . Here is how : $ $ L = m \ cdot g \ cdot n_z \ cdot \ cos \ gamma $ $ If thrust or pitch attitude become significant , you need to modify $ m \ cdot g $ by the vertical thrust component . Then the answer must be no , because the thrust information is missing : $ $ L = \ left ( m \ cdot g - T \ cdot \ sin ( \ Theta + \ sigma ) \ right ) \ cdot n_z \ cdot \ cos \ gamma $ $ $ L \ :\ :\ : $ lift $ m \ :\ : $ mass $ g \ :\ :\ : $ gravitational acceleration $ n_z \ :\ : $ load factor ( = 1 in horizontal , unaccelerated flight ) $ \ gamma \ :\ :\ : $ flight path angle , with $ \ gamma = asin \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) $ $ v_z \ :\ : $ vertical speed $ v \ :\ :\ : $ flight speed ( TAS ) $ T \ :\ : $ Thrust $ \ Theta \ :\ : $ pitch angle ( up is positive ) $ \ sigma \ :\ : $ thrust angle relative to airframe 's x axis Note that the altitude is only needed if you use the <URL> . Using the standard value will give you a negligible error . Please note also that lift > weight will result in an upward acceleration . In a quasi-stationary climb or sink the <URL> .
<URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> Yes , it 's possible . If it did n't separate , then it needs to be checked after the scary and cold flight is completed . There will be warnings if the canopy is not closed shut . <URL> ( <URL> )
For me , it seems that air can escape the parachute by this hole That 's the point , air HAS to escape the parachute anyway , and without the hole it would do so laterally and in an uneven fashion , leading to lateral oscillations . The hole allows the air to escape in a controlled location , avoiding undesired and possibly dangerous oscillations . Some ( most personal ones , but for example not the SR22 one ) parachutes have handles that allow the user to deform the parachute : this allows some extra air to escape from the desired side , giving lateral controllability .
Based on the speeds that you are talking about , it is n't a turbojet definition that you are looking for . The definition for $ V_R $ that you gave is for turbojets . In small GA airplanes , I teach my students to rotate around $ 1.3 V _ { S0 } $ which really means to slowly bring the nose up to the takeoff pitch attitude . Under no circumstances do I want them to yank the airplane off the ground . If done correctly , the airplane will naturally lift off when it is ready to .
The Boeing chart you reference appears to use for the approach speed column the Vref speed of the aircraft at its max landing weight in the landing configuration . This is the speed you want to be at or close to when you start the landing flare ( the two 747 carriers I flew for used Vref +5 ) . Absent charted speed limits , controller instructions , or company policy , there is no specific distance threshold along the approach path that you can not cross above that speed . The requirement is to be at the proper speed when you enter the landing flare . However , if you were , say , flying the classic stabilized approach , you would be in the landing configuration at this speed from the FAF ( final approach fix ) to the landing flare . The FAF is typically around 5 miles from the runway . Now , insofar as speed stages , the requirement is not one of specific distance points along your approach path ( again absent charted limits , etc. ) , but rather what you have to do speed wise while changing from a clean configuration to the landing configuration . You 're approaching the airport with the gear and flaps up . The critical element speed wise on the approach is the wing configuration . Given the 747-200 speed of 150 kts in that chart , if you slow to that speed with the flaps up , you will stall . The minimum safe speed would be around 80 kts greater than that . Go to flaps 1 ( which really does n't put the trailing edge flaps at 1 degree but rather puts out the leading edge flaps or slats as some call them ) . Once they 're out you can safely slow to Vref +60 . At flaps 5 you can slow to Vref +40 . At flaps 25 you 'll be able to safely slow to the Vref speed in normal operating conditions . Other aircraft have different flap settings and different speeds . The important thing to remember is that you 're changing the shape of the wing to be able to fly more slowly . Where you will be along your approach path when you do this is typically not determined by distance per se , but by time . Do it too soon and you burn more fuel . Do it too late , and the problem becomes one of not being at Vref when you need to be .
There is a variety of sounds an aircraft can produce , some even depending on the type of aircraft you are sitting in . Without any further data or reference , the most likely events that you can hear during pushback , taxi or vacating the runway are : Cargo Doors being shut and locked Flaps being extended to take-off position Flaps being raised after landing There are many more things that you can hear from the cabin , so without further information , it will be difficult to pin-point . Another option , if it was predominantly on Airbus aircraft , is the <URL> , which is described to sound like a <URL> or <URL> . See also this question and the answers : <URL>
Which means , roughly 5 times more passengers can be accommodated by compromising half of the top speed . So , why does speed loses out so much to capacity that it ultimately becomes unfeasible to operate a supersonic airliner ? I think you are asking , " why do supersonic aircraft have such low capacity " ? To travel faster than the speed of sound you need to have a very sharp nose and minimal area exposed to the forward direction , to minimize the generation of shockwaves . Shockwaves are bad for people on the ground ( the ' sonic boom ' effect ) and they are terrible for fuel efficiency . Second you really do not want to trap air on flat surfaces facing forwards , because the air will get squashed in the supersonic flow and heat up a lot ( like when you blow up a bicycle tyre or a football it is warm afterwards , or when the space shuttle re-enters the atmosphere ) . Again this is an enormous drag and having hot air flowing around your aircraft causes problems with the structure ( Concorde used to grow by 300 mm during flight because of the heat ) . Since you can not be wide and you can not be tall ( without being aerodynamically inefficient ) , you need to be very long if you want lots of people . And then you have other problems . The design and construction of Concorde was never a commercial project , it was funded by two governments almost as a vanity project , as a prototype or as an experiment . Then it was given for free to two airlines to use as they wanted . So unlike the A380 and the B747 , no one has ever said " now we try to maximize the economics and the capacity of our design " : that never happened . All they ever asked was " How do we make this work !? " Whereas the subsonic aircraft get a lot of time , money and thought spent on how to make them more economical to use by filling them with more passengers . For more information I recommend this interview with a former Concorde pilot : <URL> Also , Concorde was developed 40 years ago . Are some more efficient supersonic Airliners possible today ? I am sure that these days a far more fuel efficient supersonic engine could be built for passenger operations . And I do believe there would be a market for it on say LON-NYC or even maybe LON-DXB . But designing supersonic aircraft is quite different to designing subsonic ones ; and then you have all the difficulty of modern safety regulations without being able to demonstrate you are relying on old , proven designs ; and then there are very few routes where it could work profitably so you have very high development and maintenance costs spread over a small number of airframes . Basically , it is n't worth the risk to anyone to make it .
Before we get started , I should mention that the most basic constant-speed propellers were driven by balancing air pressure and centrifugal force . The blades were shaped in such a way , or equipped with a counterweight that would cause the blade to intrinsically move to a shallow pitch . However , when air was moved over the blade , it would begin to overpower the counterweight and push the blade to a higher pitch . It 's a pretty ingenious design that meant that the prop would automatically be at a high RPM when the plane was moving slowly ( takeoff , landing , climbs ) , and would automatically move to a higher pitch when the plane sped up for cruise . There is even a single-bladed propeller that utilized this design very efficiently for light aircraft . The problem is that this type of propeller is not pilot-adjustable , and I am assuming you are wondering about adjustable props , so that 's what we 'll talk about from here on . In the first picture , observe that the pilot valve is resting directly on the flyweights ( separated by a bearing ) . The second picture better depicts the valve system . So we see that the speeder spring is pushing down on the top of the pilot valve 's shaft , which is in turn resting on the flyweights . First off , the flyweights are turned by the crankshaft , so any change in engine RPM is immediately reacted to . There are a few ways that the propeller is attached to the piston , and a rack and pinon type gear system is common and easy to imagine . The rack is fixed to the piston so that when it moves , the prop blade 's pinion gear is rotated and thus the blade is rotated . Another common type uses a peg that is offset from the center of the blade 's circular base . When the piston moves , it pushes or pulls on the peg and because the peg is offset it causes the blade to twist . Overspeed : When your airspeed increases . When the RPMs increase , the centrifugal force causes the flyweights to want to spread apart in order to conserve momentum . Because they 're in an L shape and have a hinge in the corner , this causes the lower part to rise up , pulling the pilot valve up and compressing the speeder spring . When the pilot valve is raised , pressurized oil from the pump is allowed to flow into the prop hub through a tube that passes through the center of the hub piston . The oil fills a cavity in front of the piston , pushing it backwards . The prop blade is rotated to a higher pitch ( closer to feather ) which slows the engine RPM . When the RPM is reduced , the flyweights will be under less centrifugal force , and the speeder spring will push them back to equilibrium ( on-speed ) , pushing the pilot valve back down to block the hub oil tube from gaining or losing oil . Underspeed : When your airspeed decreases . When the RPMs decrease , there is less centrifugal force acting on the flyweights . Due to their shape as described earlier , they are no longer able to push up on the speeder spring with the same force as before , so the compressed spring will begin to expand . This brings the top of the flyweights in , and their bottoms down . When their bottoms move down , the pilot valve moves down as well and unblocks the hub oil tube . Positive oil pressure in the hub and the blades ' built-in tendency to want to move to a low pitch pushes the oil out of the hub and back into the oil system . The piston moves forward and the blades rotate to a low-pitch condition . The flyweights do not necessarily return to equilibrium , especially if you manually set the spring to maximum compression with the prop lever : you want the prop to stay at minimum pitch no matter what . Loss of oil pressure : Oil pressure is constantly pushing against the bottom of the pilot valve , trying to force it upwards . The speeder spring is resisting , and while the flyweights are on-speed , the whole system is in equilibrium with the valve blocking the hub tube . When you lose oil pressure , that pressure is no longer holding the valve up and the speeder spring will win , pushing the valve down and allowing the oil to flow out of the hub . This resets the prop to the low-pitch climb setting , giving us maximum power because that 's more useful than maximum speed in the emergency situation that is probably about to occur . So why do we do this ? All propellers are set at a pitch . Theoretically , a propeller is pitched to move forward a certain distance each revolution , just like a screw moving through wood . But unlike wood , air is fluid and difficult to grip . If you imagine screwing a screw into a board , the only way to make it go in faster is to turn it faster . This is because the screw 's pitch is fixed . If you could space out the rungs on the screw ( increase the pitch ) the screw would move through the wood faster but it would become much harder to turn . An airplane 's propeller works much the same way . When we first take off , we need to impart maximum power into the air and it does n't matter if we do n't move forward very far for each revolution , because we 're not going very
This call serves two main purposes . The first is to verify that both airspeed indicators are showing the same speed . Since airspeed = life , it 's best to find out that one of them is faulty on the ground rather than in the air . The second purpose is to distinguish a high-speed rejected takeoff from a low-speed one . Below 80kts ( or 100kts or another speed set by the manufacturer and/or airline ) , a takeoff would be rejected for almost anything out of the ordinary . But rejecting a takeoff at high speed carries a lot of risk - like brake fires , tyres exploding , directional control difficulty , etc. . So above 80 or so knots , a takeoff will only be rejected in the case of major failures . Some modern aircraft even inhibit minor warnings from appearing after 80kts until the aircraft is airborne , because rejecting the takeoff is not worth the risk , so do n't saturate the pilots with unnecessary information . <URL> goes into some detail about what you would reject a takeoff for at low speed vs high speed . The criteria may vary slightly amongst airlines but the general themes are the same .
When looking at the rules on ecfr.gov you will find references at the bottom of the paragraph indicating the Amendment , Federal Register notices , and other documents related to the rule . In this case it leads to the following <URL> . That document includes the following explanation for the rule ; II.B .5 . REQUIRE 1 HOUR OF FLIGHT TRAINING ON THE CONTROL AND MANEUVERING OF AN AIRPLANE SOLELY BY REFERENCE TO INSTRUMENTS FOR STUDENT PILOTS SEEKING A SPORT PILOT CERTIFICATE TO OPERATE AN AIRPLANE WITH A V Current regulations require student pilots seeking a sport pilot certificate to receive and log flight training in the control and maneuvering of an aircraft solely by reference to flight instruments . This training must be received before conducting a solo cross-country flight or any flight greater than 25 nautical miles from the airport from where the flight originated . It also must be received prior to making a solo flight and landing at any location other than the airport of origination . These requirements are detailed in § 61.93 and are applicable to persons seeking a student pilot certificate to operate any category and class of aircraft . That section , however , does not specify any minimum flight training time to meet these requirements . In addition , current regulations for the issuance of a sport pilot certificate do not require an applicant to receive flight training on the control and maneuvering of any aircraft solely by reference to instruments . The FAA is concerned that persons exercising student or sport pilot privileges in airplanes with a maximum airspeed in level flight with maximum continuous power ( VH ) greater than 87 knots calibrated airspeed ( CAS ) may inadvertently encounter conditions less than those specified for VFR operations due to their greater speed and range . Operators of these aircraft are more likely to encounter instrument meteorological conditions than operators of other categories of aircraft . In order to enhance the ability of these pilots to appropriately react to the possibility of encountering instrument meteorological conditions and the potential consequences of attempting continued visual flight rule ( VFR ) flight in instrument meteorological conditions , the FAA is proposing to require persons operating an airplane with a VH greater than 87 knots CAS to receive and log 1 hour of flight training on the control and maneuvering of an aircraft solely by reference to instruments . The FAA recognizes that persons may currently be authorized to operate aircraft with a VH greater than 87 knots CAS . To provide those persons with a reasonable period of time to obtain this training , the agency is proposing that the training be completed by 1 year after the effective date of the final rule . This training would include straight and level flight , climbs and descents , turns to a heading , and recovery from unusual flight attitudes . Due to the slower speeds and limited capabilities of categories and classes of aircraft other than airplanes , the FAA is not proposing that this requirement be extended to operators of those categories and classes of aircraft and airplanes with a VH less than or equal to 87 knots CAS . The FAA notes that for training to be conducted solely by reference to instruments in visual meteorological conditions , it must be conducted with a view-limiting device . My take is that earlier rules covered the conditions with VH less than 87 KCAS . The FAA felt it was necessary to add rules to cover flight at the higher airspeeds .
During that time , the in-flight entertainment mostly available on flights was radio1 and/or TVs . Although it was not on all flights . Oops , that is true even today . The radios may or may not have channels . If they had , there was a knob on the armrest , next to headset jacks , to switch channels . The headsets were pneumatic units like this : The in-flight movies were shown using one or more common CRT TVs mounted on ceilings or walls and audio could be heard using the headsets . The <URL> was in 1962 by <URL> . It was more like the picture below but instead of LCD monitors , there were CRTs . In mid-seventies , <URL> was the first airline to offer <URL> . By 1979 , electronic headsets replaced their pneumatic counterparts , which improved audio quality . Wikipedia has a <URL> about the history of in-flight entertainment : In 1971 , TRANSCOM developed the 8mm film cassette . Flight attendants could now change movies in-flight and add short subject programming . In the late 1970s and early 1980s , CRT-based projectors began to appear on newer widebody aircraft , such as the Boeing 767 . <URL> has nice slideshow about the history . 1 : Not actually a radio , but recorded audio
Ah that 's a good question indeed . You asked How to reduce altitude in a passenger jet Normally most of the passenger jets have <URL> They are effective and can be <URL> . Now what happens in case you do n't have spoilers for any reason . I was discussing the subject with a pilot many years ago and he told me the trick you mentioned : you apply rudder to one direction ( I assume opposite to the engine rotation to avoid unpleasant surprises ) . That increases dramatically the forward surface of the plane against the relative air flow . That results in increased drag and thus speed loss . But yaw causes roll ( and vice versa ) . Also the wing of the side you are yawing to , has less lift because it is shaded from the forebody of the plane . This is where the aileron is needed . You need aileron to maintain lateral stability and prevent the aircraft from rolling . See the image bellow . The orange lines denote the area of increased drag by the fuselage . The green area is the " shaded " area of decreased lift of the wing . <URL> Top view from <URL> . Derivative work by me . According to that pilot , this is more effective than spoilers . But there is a trap : You need to be careful not to yaw the plane too much because the shaded wing will loose too much of its lift and will result in capsizing the plane . EDIT : Finally , you mentioned emergency . There are different types of emergencies . Pressurization is an emergency situation but does not affect aircraft control ( at least not directly ) . Hydraulics problems or engine loss is an emergency as well . But that will affect the way you will handle the aircraft . Here I can not help you . A trained pilot perhaps can answer , though I believe that the answers will vary depending on each planes flight manual .
The mechanism is not as complicated as might seem in a first glance . First thing , what 's a supersonic flow ? Is a flow where the speed of the air is higher that Mach > 1 and if we are talking about air that is coming from an upstream subsonic flow the air will be at lower pressure ( that is what is happening on the upper surface of a wing ) . So , high speed air with low pressure that tries to move along the wing up to the end of the wing ( the trailing edge ) , but at the end of the wing the air is at the upstream subsonic pressure ... so , air at a higher presure usually tries to go into low pressure air ... but the supersonic air has a lot of inertia . Finally we end up having air of high speed very difficult to stop ... we are talking about very high speeds and the only way the air can adapt is in a very small space with a shock wave . That is the mechanism that is called " shock wave in adverse pressure gradient " . There is another mechanism that has been described above , supersonic flow agaisnt obstacles . Imagine that we have a supersonic flow moving towards a step , or a ramp ... obviously the air has again the same high inertia , is supersonic !!! But the air " does not know " that there is a ramp . Why not ? Because the information within fluid moves at the speed of sound , the molecules of the air that bound of the ramp are not able to reach fast enough the other molecules fast enough . So ... a high inertia flow moves towards a ramp and suddently notices a ramp that the flow was not adapting before and needs to adapt !!! So does it suddently in a very similar way as before . Another way to understand the mechanism is by looking at the waves that are created when we throw a stone into water . What happens when they approach to the shore ? They continue as there is no shore until , suddently they notice it and they die or bound on it . Is the same mechanism ( actually the same !!! supersonic moves in " waves " ) . Finally , just to remark that shock wave has a finite size , is really small but is not a 0 thickness surface . Notice that we have an area where a high speed is transformed into low speed in a very small space . There the viscosity plays some effect .
That would be an <URL> , a small jet engine that is used to provide power on the ground when the engines are off and when there is an emergency in the air .
end question
start question
How does the particular piece of flap behind an engine on a B777 work ?
It is called " inboard aileron " or " high-speed aileron " and is actually a flaperon . It will deflect with the flaps but not extend backwards . At high speed , the outboard ailerons are locked and all roll control is achieved by deflecting the inboard ailerons ( and spoilers , if needed ) . This helps to reduce wing torsion and twist . Background : Since the trailing edge 's sweep angle has a break at the wing station of the engine , and since in Boeing aircraft the flaps extend perpendicularly to the hinge line , there must be a gap between inboard and outboard flaps , otherwise they would collide during extension . This gap is best placed in the station of the engine blast , and is filled with a simple hinged flap . Note that Airbus aircraft have rear-sliding flaps , which stay at a constant span location and can be adjacent to each other even at the wing station of the sweep change . Boeing 767 from below . Picture by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) The picture is of a Boeing 767 , but shows the flap arrangement nicely . Note the offset of the forward and rear part of the Küchemann bodies which house the flap tracks .
Thrust is air mass flow multiplied by the speed difference between flight and nozzle speed of the engine . To increase thrust , subsonic engines try to maximize mass flow ( by increasing the bypass ratio ) while supersonic engines rely more on increasing the nozzle speed ( by using afterburners ) . The core engines do not differ much - after all , the intake will make sure that air reaches the engine <URL> , regardless of flight speed . The main difference is in their bypass ratio . The slower the design speed , the bigger the bypass ratio may become . At very low speed , the ungeared , shrouded fan is exchanged for a geared , free spinning propeller , in other words , the jet changes to a turboprop . The intake and nozzle , however , are very different indeed . The optimum bypass ratio changes continuously , but since the drag coefficient drops after crossing Mach 1 , airplanes are either designed for a maximum Mach number of 0.9 or less , or 1.6 and above . The corresponding bypass ratios today are up to 12 for subsonic engines , and less than 1 for supersonic engines . This produces a sharp boundary at the speed of sound , and many military engines designed for supersonic flight lost their afterburners and were fitted with a big fan to become the engines for subsonic transport aircraft . Examples are : The <URL> turbojet ( installed in the F-100 and F-102 fighters , among others ) became the JT-3D turbofan which powered the Boeing 707 or the DC-8 . The core of the <URL> ( installed in the F-15 and F-16 fighters , among others ) became the <URL> turbofan which is used in the Boeing 737 or the Airbus A320 . The differences between sub - and supersonic engines grow bigger the more you move away from their core . High-pressure compressor , combustion chamber and high pressure turbine look and work the same , but the low pressure compressor of subsonic engines swallows a lot more air and has a much bigger diameter . Supersonic engines in turn mostly have an afterburner . The biggest difference , however , are the intakes ( large pitot intake with <URL> for subsonic aircraft versus adjustable <URL> for supersonic flight ) and the nozzle ( fixed for subsonic flight versus a complex , <URL> for supersonic flight ) . This is due to the very different air speeds and the much higher exit velocities required for supersonic flight .
HUD The most common form of head-Up Display ( <URL> ) is simply an out-of-sight display screen reflected in a transparent flat sheet of glass in the viewers line of sight out the cockpit front window . The glass sheet is called a combiner . It combines the HUD information with the view out of the aircraft . There are coatings for glass ( <URL> ) which allow for reflecting a monochromatic image while allowing transmission of other colors . The display is obviously tailored for that specific use . It must avoid obscuring the view . Therefore it mostly consists of minimal light-colored lines and numerals/letters against a dark background . The dark background allows the pilot to see through the reflection to brighter objects outside - it 's a bit like the matt black upper surface typically found on many car dashboards which prevents distracting unwanted images of the top of the dash being reflected into the driver 's view out of the windscreen . Here 's an example from <URL> A HUD display is visible on the left in the pilot 's line of sight . Above it , mounted on the ceiling is the projector unit . The Projector contains optics to make the pilot 's view of the display appear to be at infinity ( rather than the few feet away it is in reality ) . This allows the pilot to read the data while their eyes are focused on far-away real-world objects outside the aircraft ( runways , weather , other aircraft etc ) . EFVS Beyond the projection of basic flight instrument data is the use of HUDs for Enhanced Flight Vision Systems ( <URL> ) which provide a kind of augmented reality display that typically uses external infra-red camera systems to identify landmarks ( e.g. runway outlines ) that may be obscured to the pilot due to fog etc. .
With a pressure fueling system , rather than fueling through holes in the tops of the wings , a fuel truck or fuel hydrant is used to push fuel into the airplane through a fitting at about 50 psi . The fuel fitting is generally in the right wing . A fueling control panel allows the fueler to fill the tanks to the amount called out by the flight plan . These large aircraft still have an overwing fueling port for those times when the pressure fueling system is inoperative . There is nothing to prevent fuel vapors from escaping to atmosphere .
Changes to federal aviation regulations are listed on the FAA 's Regulatory &amp; Guidance Library ( RGL ) at <URL> : From the home page , click on the database titled " Code of Federal Regulations " On the left , in the navigation tree , select one of the branches under " Historical CFR " ( for example , " By Part " ) On the right , expand the items leading to the regulation that you are looking for ( in this case Part 61 ) Scroll down to the regulation that you are looking for ( 61.51 ) and it will list the original version and all of the revisions : Each revision is a link which takes you to the regulation as of that version , with links to the NPRM 's and dockets so that you can see what has been changed !
Aircraft are not always moved with <URL> ( the small vehicle you refer to ) . Much of the time , they operate under their own power . Airliners are generally pushed back from the gate using a tug , as that 's the simplest and most efficient method . They then taxi to the runway ( and all the way up to the gate , after landing ) using their own engines to provide thrust . This is true of both jets and propeller aircraft . Some work is being done on self-contained electric-powered ground propulsion ; one major player in this area is a company called <URL> . They use high-torque motors and the aircraft APU to allow the aircraft to move itself without starting its engines or requiring a tug to be connected and disconnected .
The step-to-step guide : 1 . Search for Flight Number : Get hold of the flight number , such as LH123 or AA789 for instance . This is usually found on your ticket , baggage tag or some email . Enter it on a site such as <URL> or <URL> . Note down the registration ( such as N1234A or D-ABYT ) for the flight on the day your are interested in . 2 . Search for this Registration : Try entering it on for instance <URL> which is often considered a reliable source for aircraft data . You should be able to get the aircraft history : First flight and delivery dates ( and hence aircraft age ) Previous operators and registrations . MSN ( manufacturer serial number )
For conventional designs , the tail is composed of two parts : the horizontal tail and the vertical tail . They play a role in the trim and the manoeuvrability of the aircraft but at different levels . The horizontal tail is mainly used for longitudinal stability ( and trim ) while the vertical tails used for the lateral stability ( and trim ) . About Stability It is possible to talk of stability only after having defined an equilibrium point around which the stability is studied . An aircraft is in equilibrium if the forces and moments it experiences are balanced . Using a simple model for the longitudinal analysis , it can be decomposed in three relations called the trim equations . In order to keep it simple , it will be assumed here that the angle of attack and the flight path angle are zero . ( Note that the same reasoning can be achieved with non-zero values but the equations then become quite messy . ) Longitudinal Equilibrium These three equations are : $ $ L = mg $ $ $ $ T =D $ $ $ $ M = 0 $ $ where $ L$ is the total lift , $ mg $ is the weight of the aircraft , $ T$ is the thrust , $ D$ is the drag and $ M$ is the pitching moment around the centre of gravity of the aircraft . The second equation wo n't be studied further since it does not help to understand the role of the horizontal tail and its influence . Looking at the following picture , one can see that usually , the centre of gravity and the point where the lift applies ( called the aerodynamic centre ) are not the same . This means that the lift generated by the wing creates an induced moment around the centre of gravity that one should add to the already intrinsic pitching moment due to the main wing ( usually a pitch down moment for conventional airfoils ) . Knowing that , it is possible to rewrite the two equations of interest including the contributions from the main wing and from the horizontal tail . $ $ W+L _ t = L_w $ $ $ $ M_0 + bL_t = aL_w $ $ From these equations and the figure , it appears that the horizontal tail is used to generate a lift which induces a moment helping to balance the moments equilibrium and thus prevent the aircraft to spin on itself ( pitchwise ) . Drawback and Solution From both the figure and the equations it turns out that the lift contribution from the tail is usually negative , meaning that more lift from the main wing is needed to keep a trimmed ( or balanced ) aircraft . This drawback can be overcome by the use of a canard configuration instead . Lateral Stability The same can be done for the lateral equilibrium and stability but there it is the vertical tail that is used . It is symmetrical so that there is no yaw induced and if there is some side force experienced , it will create a moment in order to reduce the side-slip angle . Comparison of Lift Created by the Tail and Main Wing For a trimmed configuration , it is easy to see that the lift created by the main wing is more or less the one created by the tail plus the total weight of the aircraft , which gives an idea of the difference between the two forces .
Firstly , to understand the answer , we need to understand that the Cessna 152 's and 172 's run a 4 Cylinder , Horizontally-opposed Engine . Each Cylinder has 2 spark plugs , one on the top side of the cylinder head , and one on the bottom side . The spark plug ignites the fuel/air mixture that has been sucked into the engine , and causes a controlled burn to push the piston down the cylinder and turn the crankshaft in turn ( hence turning the propeller as it is connected to the end of the crankshaft ) . Now , as I 've stated , each cylinder has two spark plugs , one connected to the " left " magneto , and one connected to the " right " . If we turn one magneto " off " ( or ground it to be politically correct ) , only one spark plug in each cylinder will " fire " to ignite the fuel/air mixture . This causes the mixture to have a delayed and less effective burn , meaning that the piston does not get pushed down the cylinder as effectively , meaning the crankshaft will not rotate as fast , and hence , leads to a drop in the Propeller RPM ( Revolutions per Minute ) . We check the magnetos on the ground to check that ; A . They both work , and the engine wo n't die if we lose a magneto ( we should be able to return to land on the remaining serviceable magneto ) B . We are checking that there is no " Spark Plug Fouling " . The fuel we use in aviation contains lead , and hence after a time of running the engine at low power settings on the ground , the lead in the fuel will accumulate on the spark plug head ( instead of being burnt off when the engine is working under power ) , and cause the spark plug to let off a limited spark , or completely block the spark , hence again , making our engine less efficient . If there is anything you want explained about this answer , please let me know ! :)
There is a good writeup <URL> that explains the engine issues as well as the rest of the incident you mentioned . Core lock happens when parts inside the engine cool off at different rates , causing interference between them . In the case of the CF34 engines on these Bombardier jets : GE isolated the problem to contact between components of the high-pressure-turbine interstage seal - a static , pressurized honeycomb component - and the rotating seal teeth on the outer torque coupling . Working on getting a good illustration of what they are talking about . This does not mean that the engine is " not functional . " There is just much more resistance on the rotating components , but once the temperatures have time to equalize , the components will break free . According to the NTSB , FDR data indicate that the engine cores were beginning to break free just before the impact . During core lock , the resistance makes starting the engine more difficult . A windmill start does not provide very much turning force on the engine components , so the resistance from core lock makes that method of starting difficult . GE has done engine testing , and when the windmill restart fails , they are able to use bleed air from the other engine to restart the engine , which provides more turning force .
For a basic True Airspeed Indicator ( TAS Meter ) like the one shown below , you simply dial your pressure altitude into the top window using the knob ( aligning it with the appropriate temperature mark at the bottom of that window ) , and then read your true airspeed in the other window at the bottom . <URL> Your pressure altitude can be obtained by setting your altimeter to 29.92 and reading the indication , the air temperature can be obtained from an outside air temperature ( OAT ) gauge ( or you can use one from the Winds Aloft forecast if your aircraft does not have an OAT gauge ) , and the combination of the two gives you your density altitude . The meter itself is simply a mechanical slide rule , performing the same functions as you could do manually on an E6B flight computer . The indicator above is showing a true airspeed of about 202 MPH , at a pressure altitude of 10,000 feet and a temperature of -15 degrees . For a nice video tutorial <URL> .
With these conditions , how would this exist ? The comment by @mins appears to answer the question for modern engines , although I 'm not quite sure if I 'm interpreting your question as you intended , but if your intent is to find out how this happens from an operational standpoint , here 's an answer for the P&amp;W JT9D-3 through -7 engines as used on 747-100/200 aircraft . In 10 years of flying with these engines , I only had a flameout once , so it was n't a major problem , and the -3 engines were more susceptible than the later variants . The scenario is that you 're above 35,000 and you 've reached your descent point and need to reduce power from full cruise to idle . We were taught to first lower the nose to ensure that we would n't lose any airspeed ( a little gain was okay ) and then to slowly bring the thrust levers all the way back . As I remember , we typically took at least 5 seconds to get the levers back . In other words , if you suddenly reduced power or lost airspeed , you risked a flameout . From the pilot 's standpoint , if you had a flameout , all you did was tell the flight engineer to restart it when low enough that that was possible .
The basic problem is that no matter how the aircraft 's fuel tanks are designed , if there is an air gap in the tank , then there is an attitude and/or a g-loading that puts that air gap over the inlet to the fuel line running to the engine . There are a lot of solutions to this problem . The first is exactly as you say ; do n't sustain any maneuver that starves the fuel pump ( and by extension the engine ) for a longer period than you have fuel in the lines to feed the engine . You can actually do a lot without the fuel system seeing a single hiccup in supply ; the fuel tanks are designed to feed while under positive G-load ( otherwise you could n't get any fuel to the engine just sitting on the tarmac ) , so hard turns , rolls , loops etc that keep a force on the aircraft and its contents acting downward towards the floor of the cockpit will keep the fuel flowing into the engine . Spins and high negative-G maneuvers tend to be the things that starve the engine ; if the tanks are in the wings , a hard spin , snap roll or zero-g parabola will push the fuel out away from the inlets at the wing roots . Most fuel systems except on the lightest aircraft have at least two fuel pumps per engine ; one electric pump on the tank side to shove fuel into the line , and one crankshaft-powered pump that draws fuel out of the lines into the carb chamber or other fuel delivery system . The checklist often involves turning on the electric fuel pumps just before startup to prime the fuel lines , then turning them off once the engine is running smoothly , but you can keep the electric pump on if you plan on really twerking the aircraft in flight . The line between these two pumps actually holds a fair amount of fuel , plenty for a minute or more of sustained operation with the inlet at the tank totally starved , and coupled with a bleed valve on the engine side to release any air that 's entered the line , the two pumps running together can usually keep an uninterrupted flow of fuel into the engine by having the electric pump shove fuel down the line as fast as it can whenever the inlet is under the liquid level . For mild aerobatic maneuvers , a " flop tube " is put into the fuel tank . This is simply a flexible hose with a weight , that keeps the hose under the liquid level , no matter what forces are acting to move the mass of liquid around in the tank . This is a simple and very effective way to keep fuel flowing to the engine while the aircraft is under load in any direction , but because the flop tube requires a significant volume of fuel to sink underneath and draw from , flop tubes can increase the " unusable fuel " capacity of the aircraft ( fuel that exists in the tank , but the fuel system ca n't draw out in some normal circumstance ) . However , there 's a tradeoff ; the heavier the weight on the end of the flop tube , the more reliably it will stay under the fuel level regardless of attitude , but the more force with which it will impact the sides of the tank in violent maneuvers ( and padding the weight further increases unusable fuel ) . For the real aerobatic nuts , though , the maneuvers are so violent and so long that even a flop tube , redundant fuel pumps and bleed valves might get starved as the fuel sloshes and churns and there is n't a real " liquid level " to draw from . Many of these aircraft go one step further ; a bladder-style fuel container . Within the fuel tank is a flexible polymer vessel that actually holds the fuel ( typically in either wingtip tanks or a fuselage tank ; it 's usually impractical to try this with in-wing tanks ) . This bladder keeps the liquid and gas in the tank shell separate as the tank empties , and may also keep the fuel under some static pressure . If there 's no air to draw into the fuel lines , then no matter how the aircraft is oriented or how many Gs it 's pulling in any direction , the fuel lines ca n't be starved . Of course , the fuel lines are only one consideration . Most " normal " - rated aircraft have float-type carburetors , which hold a reservoir of fuel with another air gap , and the fuel level in the reservoir is controlled by a float that opens the inlet from the fuel pump ( this system also deals with small hiccups in the fuel flow from the tanks ; the air just forms part of the air gap and the float keeps the inlet open until fuel flows in to raise the level ) . This type of carb will starve the engine during any maneuvers involving less than 1g of force acting towards the " floor " of the float chamber , as the float will keep the inlet closed and the reservoir will starve the fuel feed tube that allows fuel to dribble into the throttle body at the throat . For aerobatics , either a diaphragm-chamber carb ( which has a flexible wall on one side of the reservoir chamber that is connected to the fuel inlet ) or a fuel injection system must be used to avoid dependence on gravity to get fuel into the engine . The downside of these systems are increased complexity , and in the case of the diaphragm-chamber carb , intolerance of air this far along t
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
It is called " inboard aileron " or " high-speed aileron " and is actually a flaperon . It will deflect with the flaps but not extend backwards . At high speed , the outboard ailerons are locked and all roll control is achieved by deflecting the inboard ailerons ( and spoilers , if needed ) . This helps to reduce wing torsion and twist . Background : Since the trailing edge 's sweep angle has a break at the wing station of the engine , and since in Boeing aircraft the flaps extend perpendicularly to the hinge line , there must be a gap between inboard and outboard flaps , otherwise they would collide during extension . This gap is best placed in the station of the engine blast , and is filled with a simple hinged flap . Note that Airbus aircraft have rear-sliding flaps , which stay at a constant span location and can be adjacent to each other even at the wing station of the sweep change . Boeing 767 from below . Picture by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) The picture is of a Boeing 767 , but shows the flap arrangement nicely . Note the offset of the forward and rear part of the Küchemann bodies which house the flap tracks .
From this PPRune forum <URL> , the Boeing 777 does use ultrasonic sensors ( some 20 per tank ) This airplane has some 20 sensors per tank . Each of these is effectively a " radio doppler " and works on the same principle . The sensor calculates the height of fluid by measuring the difference in the speed of the sonic signal sent out thru one sensor to another , as against the ACTUAL local speed of sound ( which is a preset value ) thru standard temp air.This difference is then converted very accurately into height in the tank in mm.Which translates into quantity of fuel AT THAT sensor given the actual specific gravity of fuel at that point . - King on a Wing
There are two aspects here , one what is required legally and then what may be required locally . From a legal standpoint ( in your case ) the basic PPL will allow you to fly single engine , fixed pitch prop , under 200HP , fixed gear aircraft . If you want to go over 200 HP you will need a High Performance check out and log book endorsement . For a constant speed prop/folding gear/movable flap ( all 3 are required to require this endorsement ) plane you will need a complex endorsement in your log book . You may want to fly something like a Piper Cub which will require a tail wheel endorsement . If you are lucky enough ( and have the funding to do so ) you may find your self in a small pressurized single ( or twin ) like the <URL> or <URL> these planes will require a high altitude checkout as well . <URL> . If you want the full <URL> . Now as for a club or school that depends on a variety of factors including their insurance and their personal limits . I 'll offer some personal experience which seems to be pretty par for the course . The flight school I fly from requires a checkout in type from every new renter before you can fly it even if you have a PPL and the proper endorsements . They do n't have an official amount of time but it usually takes about an hour with an instructor . The former flight school I was at had the same deal with the exception of their Saratoga which they also required an instrument rating ( along with their checkout ) . My buddy 's flight club is somewhat similar . They require a check out in their Archer and Dakota to fly solo . They also have a <URL> . As for your log book you should be logging the full type of aircraft for every flight . For example when I fly the Warrior I make sure to note PA-28-161 and the Archer I fly is noted as PA-28-181 when I record hours this way I can note time in type at a detailed level . For what its worth with the PA-28 airframe it seems that some places to allow you to fly the lower rated planes if you are checked out in the higher power ones . The same basic frame was built in a 140 , 160 , 180 and 235HP variant over the years and has little differences aside from useful load and V speeds . For example at the place I go if you are checked out in the Archer first you are allowed to fly the Warrior with out a checkout . This will also extend to ownership should that be the path you go down . In that case you insurance company may require a certain amount of hours of time in type before you are allowed to solo your plane . Keeping that in mind you are not actually prevented from buying the plane and will be insured under the stipulation that the first hours in the plane are with an instructor . When a buddy of mine ( instrument rated and close to 600 hours at the time ) upgraded from his 72 Archer to a 95 Saratoga HP his insurance company mandated he do 25 hours in type with an instructor before taking the plane solo . The first 25 hours he flew his plane were with an instructor ( this included transporting the plane from the factory in Vero Beach to his home field ) . You can legally fly both planes once you have your PPL . What someone will let you fly should be pretty well addressed above . Neither the 172 or 152 requires a specific type rating like larger planes do .
I 'd suggest that you review the topic of <URL> , first , and then review how a <URL> works as it does n't sound like you 're very familiar with engine components ; I 've never heard of a ' pressure chamber ' or ' fire output controller ' . Modern jet aircraft technically do n't use throttles ; rather they are equipped with thrust levers which are connected to a Fuel Control Unit ( FCU ) . This can come in the form of a mechanical computer in the case of earlier engines or a digital electronic computer called a Fully Authority Digital Engine Controller ( FADEC ) , similar to the schematic in <URL> for the F100 fighter engine installation on the F-16 airplane . Early jet aircraft did use a throttle - literally a cockpit lever connected to a throttleable valve to precisely meter fuel into the combustion chamber ( s ) of the engine . This could be problematic to operate in flight as the fuel rate has to be changed as altitude - and consequently combustor inlet conditions - changes , making the engine vulnerable to flameouts from excessively rich fuel flow and compressor stalls from abrupt throttle changes . FCUs were developed , specific to each engine to offer simplified control .
You can cross behind the aircraft on departure roll . This type of operation is done heavily at ATL , on the middle complex during an east flow . Aircraft will depart runway 9L at M2 , and arrivals from either of the south runway will cross behind them the whole time at M1 , to get up to the gates .
A higher configuration number indicates that the flaps/slats are extended by an higher amount . In turns this means that for the same angle of attack the wings will produce higher lift ( and drag ) in the higher configuration . You achieve take-off when the lift is at least equal to the weight of the aircraft , and with higher flap/slat deflection you will have sufficient lift even when the nose is relatively low on the horizon , leaving plenty of margin against a tailstrike . On the other hand , if you are using a low configuration , the flaps/slats will be mostly retracted , and you will need a higher AoA to produce sufficient lift , meaning that you have to raise the nose of the aircraft more , leaving less margin against a tailstrike .
end question
start question
How are bids packages and awards generated ?
This differs from airline to airline , at a large ME carrier the staff is divided in groups based on their personality . People from each group are randomly assigned to flights . Then there is a list where you 're at a certain position , with each flight you take you move one spot higher on the list . The higher you are on this list the more they will take your preference for a flight into account . Lets say that this list has 7 positions , once you 've hit the top you are moved back to the bottom of this list . Then with each flight you 're going one step up in the list again . So after each 7 flights you have the flight of your preference . But say that you 're almost at the bottom and file a preference for a very unpopular flight then you have a high change they will schedule you on that flight .
The scenario you 're asking about is common . Let 's say that your Delta 158 from Korea to Detroit is running several hours late , and the decision is made to operate the A320 DTW-BOS on time . ATC does n't accept having two aircraft flying with the same callsign at once due to exactly the sort of confusion you suggest , so something has to change . What will happen is that the second flight -- i.e. the one that is n't already airborne , will get a new ATC callsign . Sometimes you 'll hear something like " Delta 158A " as the callsign of the flight , or they may use something entirely different like " Delta 9158 " as the ATC callsign for that flight . Each company will have their own method of resolving the conflict ; some use letters , others do n't . Some can go to " 9000 + original flight number , " and others will simply use something like 9001 for the first " stubbed out " flight that day , 9002 for the next , and so on . But , the basic answer is that the ATC callsign of the flight changes . Which does NOT mean , incidentally , that the flight number as far as the passengers are concerned has changed . It 's possible to be " Delta 9158 " or " Delta 9001 " or " Delta 158A " or whatever for ATC and still be " Flight 158 " when talking on the PA to the passengers . The fact that the ATC callsign changed is transparent to the rest of the operation , since reservations , ticket counter , baggage handling , and so forth is n't upset when 158 ICN-DTW happens to overlap ( in time ) 158 DTW-BOS . Only ATC worries about that , so the fix is only visible to them ( and the pilots &amp; dispatchers ) .
PPL is <URL> May fly for pleasure or personal business . Private pilots can not be paid , compensated to fly , or hired by any operator . CPL is <URL> Can be paid , compensated to fly , or hired by operators and are required to have higher training standards than private or sport pilots . ATPL is <URL> ATPs , as they are called , typically qualify to fly the major airliners . ATPs must qualify with a range of experience and training to be considered for this certificate . -- <URL>
Proficiency in English is something very much required in aviation . One other major accident I remember is the <URL> , which resulted in 349 fatalities , and one of the major reasons was believed to be the poor English of Kazakh Airlines crew . Keeping such importance of English in mind , and the need to standardize English testing and training , the <URL> has issued <URL> Training Candidates are trained for Aviation English in a very similar way to it would be for any other purpose , other than ensuring the following points : Use of operationally relevant , work-related language . Exposure to an aviation environment . Practical training activities such as Listening practice in ATC lab . Testing The Test of English For Aviation is a test Developed by <URL> in accordance with ICAO 's ratings . Here is how the candidates are tested in TEA : TEA candidates can score from Level 1 to Level 6 but most candidates score Level 3 , 4 or 5 . Candidates are awarded a mark from 1 to 6 for each of the 6 skills : pronunciation , structure , vocabulary , fluency , interactions , comprehension . <URL>
As mentioned Commercial should really be " Civilian " which includes Private and Commercial . Lets assume that military includes the various branches that employ pilots ( Navy , Air Force , Marines etc ) . In the end of the day everyone flies a plane ... A chunk of military aviation is devoted to combat related missions , this is something a civilian will never see ( at least as far as I know ) . This includes but is not limited to surveillance , escorts , combat and other military related missions . The military operates troop transport and cargo planes much like commercial operations do and they have pilots who fly them . I would think the tasks are very similar since moving people and cargo is moving people and cargo whether for the military or a civilian organization . The military obviously had access to flying some planes that would be tough to get into as a civilian ( fighter jets mainly ) . One operation that Civilian pilots will never see is take off and landing on a carrier . That is unique to Navy operations and as far as I know there is no way to do it as a civilian or even train for it ( unless you can buy a carrier ) . As far as regulations go the military aircraft and pilots are subject to military regulations ( in terms of up keep and things like that ) and must adhere to those rules which I believe are different in some cases than the FARs that govern US commercial and Private operations . That being said , if flying in US airspace the same rules apply to military planes that apply to civilian planes .
This depends on the airport but at <URL> where I used to fly there was a $ 5 landing fee ( paid to the city of Philadelphia ) that was collected at the FBO ( where I rented the plane from ) when I paid for the rental . I think if you do not pass through an FBO they will hunt the tail number down and send a bill to the party that has the aircraft registered . Its tough to fly into an airport and not pass through the FBO ( unless you are just doing touch and goes ) . I would assume that for commercial traffic the airline/owning body pays and may even be billed by the airport monthly but I do n't know the specifics I only know what I have seen for GA traffic . If you are curious you can check out the Philadelphia Airport ( KPHL and KPNE ) <URL> which outlines the various fess and collection mechanisms the city imparts . Keep in mind these are city owned airports , see section V for details on collection but in short , Section V Part d Non-tenant Air Carriers and Operators not providing adequate surety or security in form and amount satisfactory to the Department of Commerce , to ensure payment of fees and charges , shall be required to pay all incurred fees and charges prior to aircraft departure . For the point of contrast lets take a small privately owned airport here in the US , <URL> in NJ has <URL> for parking and the such , but like most small airports like this , these fees are waved with the purchase of fuel ( usually at least some minimum amount ) . There would be no way to avoid paying ( well Im sure there is ) since usually the only way off the tarmac is through the FBO .
You are right that older designs used ( and needed ! ) higher safety margins . I would , however , not call this over engineering . But that is besides the point . The biggest advances have been made in materials ! Not just new alloys , but much better quality control in manufacturing . The aluminium sheets and slabs you would get from a factory 50 or 80 years ago had much greater variations in local strength , and in strength between different production batches . The same goes for fasteners , forgings , whatever . Computer-controlled manufacturing and the relentless effort to improve quality and consistency have made this possible . Only wood is still the same as it was then , but Basil Bourque is right : Processing the wood has also improved by leaps and bounds . But now consider what we do when we stress a wing : We use the maximum static lift coefficient , add aileron deflection and use that bending moment at v $ _ A$ to size our wing spar . We do this by applying a <URL> ( § 25.303 ) . For parts with a more error-prone production process additional factors need to be added ( <URL> ) . And now consider what happens in the real world : The dynamic maximum lift coefficient , which does not obey the rules and regulations imposed by the FAA , will easily be 1.3 times bigger than the static lift coefficient used for stressing the wing spar . <URL> . Makes you think how sensible that safety factor really is . While we understand the static loads very well ( because they are easy to study ) , <URL> . A little extra margin sometimes can be quite useful . On the <URL> the structural safety factor was indeed reduced to 1.4 with the reasoning that more precise modeling and simulation would allow to use a smaller margin .
Using CPDLC makes life easier for pilots so we typically use it whenever it is available and logon shortly after takeoff . When departing Frankfurt there is no rush as CPDLC is not available until crossing into Maastricht Radar . Continental USA does not have it so you lose CPDLC after Moncton Center . ATC will often remind you , or ask you to logon if you have forgot as it makes life easier for them too . Where VHF is available we usually use a combination of voice and CPDLC . Over the ocean , out of VHF range , we have to establish HF radio contact with Shanwick or Gander radio and do a Selcal check to insure we have a backup communication method .
It 's the same thing , it changes only the point of view , see <URL> : for each action there is an equal and opposite reaction , i.e. to create thrust , the engine has to push air backwards . Pushing the air backwards means that the air is pushing you forward and this , in the reference system of the propeller blade , is lift .
Under FAA jurisdiction , these items are regulated under <URL> . The size of the registration markings must generally be at least 12 inches high : <URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( f ) of this section , each operator of an aircraft must display marks on the aircraft meeting the size requirements of this section . ( b ) Height . Except as provided in paragraph ( h ) of this part , the nationality and registration marks must be of equal height and on -- ( 1 ) Fixed-wing aircraft , must be at least 12 inches high The markings must be displayed on either the vertical tail surfaces or the sides of the fuselage . <URL> ( a ) The operator of a fixed-wing aircraft must display the required marks on either the vertical tail surfaces or the sides of the fuselage , except as provided in § 45.29 ( f ) . ( b ) The marks required by paragraph ( a ) of this section must be displayed as follows : ( 1 ) If displayed on the vertical tail surfaces , horizontally on both surfaces , horizontally on both surfaces of a single vertical tail or on the outer surfaces of a multivertical tail . ( 2 ) If displayed on the fuselage surfaces , horizontally on both sides of the fuselage between the trailing edge of the wing and the leading edge of the horizontal stabilizer . However , if engine pods or other appurtenances are located in this area and are an integral part of the fuselage side surfaces , the operator may place the marks on those pods or appurtenances . There are exceptions to these requirements , but these exceptions will not generally apply to the modern airliners referenced in your question . While the regulations do not prohibit it , I think it would be unusual for the registration to be displayed in more than one location on a given side of the aircraft -- for example , on both the tail and the fuselage . Under ICAO requirements , these items are described under <URL> . Annex 7 , paragraph 3.3.1 includes the additional requirement for heavier-than-air aircraft that the registration markings should be displayed on the lower surface of the wing structure . 3.3.1 Wings . On heavier-than-air aircraft the marks shall appear once on the lower surface of the wing structure . They shall be located on the left half of the lower surface of the wing structure unless they extend across the whole of the lower surface of the wing structure . So far as is possible the marks shall be located equidistant from the leading and trailing edges of the wings . The tops of the letters and numbers shall be toward the leading edge of the wing . The FAA has no such requirement , but other jurisdictions do , such as the <URL> , which is effectively identical to the ICAO guidance . The ICAO size requirements for heavier-than-air aircraft are similar to FAA requirements , with the obvious exception of the wing markings . These requirements are found in Annex 7 , paragraph 4.2 : 4.2.1 Wings . The height of the marks on the wings of heavier-than-air aircraft shall be at least 50 centimetres . 4.2.2 Fuselage ( or equivalent structure ) and vertical tail surfaces . The height of the marks on the fuselage ( or equivalent structure ) and on the vertical tail surfaces of heavier-than-air aircraft shall be at least 30 centimetres . Note that 30 centimetres is approximately equivelant to 12 inches , and 50 centimetres is approximately equivelant to 20 inches .
Mapping starts with basemaps , with topos ( DEMs or digital elevation models ) and geographic features . Then cultural overlays are added . The charts in US utilize a national spatial reference system . Today this is done with GIS/Mapping software . Then overlays for aviation data , such as man made obstructions , and air navigation data is added . The ( old ) process has been the topic of many articles in pilot journals . The newer process is rapidly evolving , as the government transitions to AWS / cloud based applications . To address your questions , the DEMs may have been created with RADAR and integrated with topo data , but today LIDAR is the norm . LIDAR data helps with man made structures as well , while not as good as SAR RADAR , it can still show catenary and power line structures . Those metallic structures show up very well in SAR due to their conductivity .
A radome , or nose cone , is essentially a structural cover serving a different purpose than the fuselage . These are made separate because they a special material invisible to the radar mounted beneath them . They are different shapes or sizes depending on the customer specific component they cover ( radar antennas ) and can be easily removed or replaced . The radome serves two essential purposes . 1 ) It covers electronic equipment mounted to the forward bulkhead of the fuselage to protect it from weather , or from view . 2 ) It acts as an aerodynamic cover for the leading edge of the aircraft . <URL>
Inverters , it would appear , were not uncommon . I get the feeling that the quality of the ( unregulated ) AC from alternators was insufficient for instrument applications , and was primarily used for less sensitive systems . For more stable AC , it appears that the inverters were used . B-17G AC System Alternating current for the autosyn instruments , drift meter , radio compass , and warning signals transformer is furnished by either of 2 inverters , one of which is a standby for the other . One inverter is under the pilot 's seat and the other under the copilot 's seat . A single-pole , double-throw switch on the pilot 's control panel controls the DC power to the inverters and selects the inverter to be used . In the " NORMAL " position the left-hand inverter is on and in the " ALTERNATE " position the right-hand inverter is on . <URL> <URL> also seem to offer support for this . B-47 Stratojet Finally , a <URL> . Two ( unregualted ) AC alternators for ' windscreen deicing and some radar equipment ' , with 2 +1 spare single-phase inverters for other AC users . <URL> <URL> KC-97 Stratostanker Has 6 generator dials , and 4 inverters on the flight engineer 's station , looking at a panel diagram and the bottom right of <URL> . That being said , there are two switches labelled alternators on the AC section of the panel . They only seem to offer " NESA Bus " ( B-47 manual seems to imply this is for window deicing ) or Bus No. 2 , depending on how the right switch is set . The left switch is for the voltmeter/ammeter dials . Credits to brewbooks on Flickr
Hong Kong International Airport represents the largest single airfield installation of interlocking concrete pavements . Since most of the airport is on reclaimed land , anticipated settlement required that flexible asphalt pavement be used instead of rigid concrete for runways . Concrete pavers also provide a more fuel-resistant surface than asphalt . <URL> See also <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
While Accuracy and Precision are closely related , they 're not the same thing . In the context of your question both are important : Accuracy In the US altimeters are broadly required to comply with <URL> limits for accuracy ( technically this is regulatory for IFR flight , but TSO 'd " sensitive altimeters " will generally meet these requirements - at least when they left the factory - and that 's what you 're going to find in most aircraft ) . The accuracy requirements provided in FAR 43 are based on mechanical altimeters , and are subject to a number of requirements ( friction error limits , hysterisis limits , etc. ) , but the test tables there are a good guide to the accuracy of " typical " altimeters . Also note that the accuracy of sensitive altimeters depends on the pressure setting the pilot enters ( an incorrect pressure setting could mean substantial error ) . In " the flight levels " everyone uses the same standard altimeter setting ( 29.92 inches of mercury / 1013 millibars ) to avoid this issue ( similarly the ATC transponder transmits an altitude assuming a pressure of 29.92 inches of mercury - ATC 's computers correct that value based on local altimeter settings as required ) . Depending on the design digital altimeters may also be immune to some of the accuracy-affecting issues in an analog/mechanical altimeter - for example a solid-state digital altimeter should not suffer from " friction error " as there 's no rotating/moving shaft involved . Precision Analog altimeters are " reasonably precise " -- take this example : The tick marks are every 20 feet . One could easily eyeball 20 foot increments , and even 10 foot increments ( with the pointer directly between two ticks ) . Similarly the pressure settings are marked every 0.02 inches of mercury ( or 1mb ) , allowing for a fairly precise setting of the value . Digital altimeters are extremely precise ( often offering one-foot precision in their display , and 0.01 inches of mercury for the pressure setting ) . I believe the precision requirements for altimeter markings are specified in the relevant TSOs , but I do n't have those documents handy . In both cases the precision of the markings can exceed the accuracy of the device : At 10,000 feet the FARs allow an 80 foot tolerance , and whether your measurement is presented as a needle position ( roughly to the nearest 10 feet ) or a number ( to the nearest foot ) you could still be 79 feet higher or lower than you " think " you are and be " within tolerance " . So , combining all of this together - If we have two aircraft flying along indicating the same altitude ( say 10,000 feet ) and both altimeters are perfect there will be zero feet of vertical separation between them ( the static ports of each aircraft will be at the exact same altitude ) . On the other hand if both aircraft are at the outer edge of tolerance ( one +80 ft , one -80 ft ) there will be 160 feet of vertical separation between them ( discounting visual " slop " in the analog altimeter and assuming the pointer is perfectly on the line and the pressure setting is perfectly dialed in ) . ( In either case the answer would be " WAY TOO CLOSE ! " )
When I went through USAF pilot training ... Useful ? Absolutely invaluable . Many of our instructors had experience before " real " simulators were used in training . All of them commented on how obviously better we were on our very first actual flight . We had " cockpit familiarization " trainers . This looked like a cockpit , sat still on the floor , had all the switches but all they did was switch . They did nothing . We practiced " switchology " , checklists , and so forth . Beyond required time and tasks in this thing we could spend free time playing around with these . Not unlike checking out a book from the library . The above are very useful because it kept the " real " simulators available for actual flight training . We had quite a few hours in this simulator before we got in a real airplane . And simulator training continued throughout the year in flight school . But this does not give them the physical feel of controlling the airplane Yes it does . But as we got more expert in the aircraft , flying every day , sometimes twice a day , we could tell the difference . But the simulator feel was quite good and in no way did it hinder acquiring the touch for precision , when in formation for example .
I think Saftey guy asks about features like the escape hatch from the <URL> . Probably there is something similiar on the A380 : <URL> I think that I can read the label Escape Rope on the cover of at the top right . You can look around inside the cockpit <URL> .
They mean an <URL> - Instrument Landing System . An ILS consist of : A localizer component , which tells the angle between the aircraft 's position and the extended runway centerline . In short , it tells the pilot whether they are left or right . A glideslope component , which tells the angle between the aircraft 's position and the extended runway surface on the ground . Typical glide slope angle is 3 degrees . In short , it tells the pilot whether they are high or low . An ILS is usually coupled with an DME ( Distance Measure Equipment ) , which tells the distance between the aircraft and the runway threshold . Using the glideslope angle together with the horizontal distance , one can compute the height above runway level . From page 12 of the report : AC624 was then cleared for the straight-in LOC approach ... Which means only the lateral ( left or right ) component is available , there is no signal which tells the pilot whether they are high or low relative to the ideal descent path . A radio altimeter is not very useful when the approach path leading to the runway has uneven terrain . It tells the height above the ground directly under the aircraft . A barometric altimeter needs to be calibrated by a reading at ground level . It tells the height above sea level . Both of these altimeters can not tell the height above runway level . Therefore the pilots must rely on other data to monitor the descent profile , which increases the pilots ' workload . In a situation such as low visibility and high crosswinds , this presents a very challenging situation . If both vertical and horizontal guidance is available , then the pilots can simply follow this guidance all the way to the runway . They can also program the autopilot to follow this guidance , if suitable equipment is installed on the ground as well as onboard the aircraft . <URL> Note the green bars : one is horizontal and one is vertical . They form a cross on the display . If the horizontal bar is up a little bit , the pilot would pull up a bit . If the vertical bar is to the right , the pilot would turn right a bit . These green bars only possible when ILS is used . It is possible to compute the relative height by using a DME and a barometric altimeter only . For example , I am now 5.5 nautical miles from the runway threshold , and according to the approach chart , I should be at 1,800 feet . Right now my altimeter reads 1,600 feet . That means I am too low and I should reduce my vertical speed to slow down my descent . This calculation has to be done by the pilot himself and not by a computer . Furthermore the pilot must fly the plane , i.e. adjust the control surfaces , run landing checklists , visually verify the alignment with the runway , talk to ATC , set the flaps etc. . A pilot is trained to do all this , but increased workload also increases the chance of making an error .
Two things : <URL> . This can be alleviated by carefully touching down , but you never know what exactly will happen in the next landing , so better do n't count on it to be smooth Deceleration distance : The higher mass requires a higher approach and touch down speed ( higher by the square root of the mass ratio between your actual mass and the maximum certified landing mass ) . Now you have more mass and more speed , but the landing strip and the airliner 's brakes are still the same . The risk is that you overshoot the runway with an airplane full of fuel or that you overheat the brakes ( which will result in their failure , and again an overshoot ) . Since the kinetic energy is proportional to mass times speed squared , the energy which needs to be absorbed by the brake goes up with the square of the mass increase . If the selected runway for your overweight landing is long enough and the weather is calm ( so a smooth landing is easier ) , an overweight landing is not such a problem . Now let 's look at the 777-300ER in detail . I use the figures from <URL> , because the <URL> is trying much harder to hide the relevant data . The MTOW ( maximum take-off weight , which is actually a mass ) is 351,534 kg , and the maximum landing weight is 251,290 kg , about 100 tons less . Now let 's assume that <URL> and returning to the airfield uses 5 tons of fuel , so the mass ratio is 1.379 . Therefore , the approach speed has to be 17.4 % higher and the total kinetic energy at touchdown is higher by a factor of 1.9 compared to the case at maximum allowable landing weight . If we now assume that speed is reduced linearly during the landing run and that the wheel brakes will just absorb as much energy over time as in the case at maximum landing weight , the deceleration needs to be lower by the mass ratio , so the aircraft decelerates with only 72.5 % of the deceleration at maximum landing weight . To shed its kinetic energy , the landing run will take longer by the increase in kinetic energy , i.e. 1.9 . Since the average speed is also higher by 17.4 % , the landing distance will be higher by a factor of 2.233 or 223 % of the landing distance at maximum landing weight . This neglects that the heating of the brakes is an instationary process , so you can not simply brake with the same intensity for more than twice the time they were designed for . But this little estimation should illuminate what impact a higher landing mass has on the energy and distance involved .
To start out with , I 'll be referring to how the US does it , and it 's generally laid out in the <URL> . Every facility has various blocks of codes that they can use to assign to flight plans , as described in the linked document . For example , a smaller tower/approach control , could use the codes 0101-0177 for IFR flights that are only in their airspace , and 0201-0277 for the VFR flights that stay in their airspace , and a Center would have a similar bank of codes for flights just in their airspace , and then a different bank for codes that go to different centers . The whole purpose to these allocations , is to minimize the need to change the squawk code while in the air , and to avoid overlap with adjacent facilities . As flight plans are submitted to the various computers , about 30 min before an Instrument flight plan 's proposed time , it 's officially assigned a code from the available blocks , and it 's printed at the departure airport or facility that 'll first work it . Flight plans stay in the system , depending on however long the center sets . Often it 's 2 hours , sometimes 3 , but during bad whether when lots of flights are being delayed , it could be extended to 4 + hours . The drop interval helps to keep enough codes available for aircraft intending to depart , while allowing flight plans to go away if something happens and the flight wo n't be departing . If the aircraft just randomly calls ATC , the controller types it in to either the radar or flight plan system , depending on what extent the pilot wants services , and then the system prints out an appropriate beacon code .
end question
start question
What does " traffic in position ... " phrase mean ?
" Traffic in position " is a phrase to let the next aircraft inbound to a runway know that another aircraft is in lined up and waiting for departure on that runway . This procedure is used to line an aircraft up on the runway ( usually right after the previous arrival crosses the runway threshold , or previous departure begins their takeoff roll ) , to have them ready to go , when the previous arrival/departure clears the runway . At airports ( in the US ) , without ASDE-X ( a system to track airplanes on the ground ) , the tower controller is n't supposed to clear the next aircraft to land , until they have issued the takeoff clearance to the aircraft holding on the runway . ASDE-X locations can clear aircraft to land , as long as certain conditions in the ASDE-X equipment are working properly .
After some searching , I found a <URL> from November 19th , 2009 , that reads in part : ( SBU ) SUMMARY : Miami and Havana air traffic controllers signed a letter of agreement ( LOA ) on November 12 updating procedures for the coordination of flights between Cuban and U.S. controlled airspace . Both sides stressed the excellent working relationship between the Miami Air Route Traffic Control Center ( ARTCC ) and the Havana Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The U.S. delegation agreed to review information to be provided by the Cuban delegation regarding flights operating under the rules of " due regard " that could pose a safety risk . Both sides also agreed to discuss switching from verbal to electronic flight data sharing , on the margins of a regional aviation meeting in Miami in May 2010 . END SUMMARY Apparently handoff procedures have been a regular occurrence for a long time , and are cooperated on extensively .
I took the PPL written exam this morning ( 9/30/2016 ) , but I used the Jeppesen PPL materials to prepare . Although I can not speak to the Sporty 's study materials , the Jeppesen practice exam and supporting materials were identical to the questions on the real exam . I would assume that Sporty 's will be ( almost ? ) the same . I actually scored higher on the real exam than on any of the practice tests . Yes , the current exam uses the Airman Knowledge Testing Supplement for Sport Pilot , Recreational Pilot and Private Pilot booklet .
Versalog already told the core of the thing . Most prop aircraft which are approved for flights into known icing conditions have such boots to remove the ice from the wings leading edge . Those boots are either inflated manually whenever you need them ( by the press of a button of course ) , at regular intervals or automatically whenever ice is detected . Check this picture , the black thing is the boot on a Dash 8 's wing : <URL> <URL>
When you consider the aircraft as a whole , lift equals weight in level flight . This must be true following the laws of physics . However , if you break down the forces , the lift produced by the wings does not necessary equal to the weight of the aircraft . Lift is also generated by the body ( albeit very inefficient ) and by the tail . Most horizontal stabilizers generate negative lift , but some ( e.g. the A380 ) generate positive lift . If we ignore the fact that fuselage produces lift , and assume a configuration where the tail produces downward force , then you are correct . But the fuselage does produces lift . Modern aircraft designs use software to take that into account .
According to <URL> , it is a super-heavy aircraft capable of generating correspondingly super-strong wake vortices . Currently <URL> are the Airbus A380 and Antonov An-225 ( FAA ) .
I think it 's a little bit of both -- for most aircraft , how they behave in a turn is a byproduct of their designed aerodynamic properties . This question is actually quite complex to answer . Let 's assume you 're talking about a simple light aircraft , where control surfaces are mechanically linked to the controls that move them -- this ensures that anything you feel is related to what 's happening to the plane , and not necessarily to anything more complex ( like a fly-by-wire computer , or a hydraulic linkage with some degree of hysteresis ) . Aircraft turns are divided , by the CAA &amp; FAA at least ( see the FAA 's Airplane Flying Handbook , <URL> ) into three main categories : Shallow turns ( roughly speaking , < 20º angle of bank ) . These tend to become shallower if left alone . Medium turns ( roughly speaking , 20º < $ \ theta $ < 45º angle of bank ) . These turns tend to be stable without further pilot input . Steep turns ( $ \ theta > 45 $ º ) . These tend to become steeper if left alone , sometimes dramatically so . Let 's look at these in a bit more detail , with some explanation as to why these effects occur . Shallow turns . These tends to become less steep as the turn progresses , and most aircraft have a natural tendency to decrease the angle of bank throughout the turn . This tendency to lessen the angle of bank arises , I believe , entirely as a designed aerodynamic feature of the aircraft to have lateral stability . As shallow angles of bank are essentially a situation that 's is but a small perturbation about flying straight and level , it 's desirable for the angle of bank to decrease back to zero if left alone . If that is n't the case , the aircraft stability has to be actively maintained by constant manipulation of the control surfaces ( which is tiring or impossible for a human ) . This stability can be achieved through design features , such as ( i ) the dihedral of the aircraft 's wings , ( ii ) their sweep , and ( iii ) their height position -- if high , there is an increased degree of lateral stability due to the centre of mass of the aircraft being below the tilted plane of the wings , and , if disturbed slightly , it experiences a force $ F \ approx mg \ sin \ theta $ to " pull " the wings back upright again . The sole purpose of any degree of wing dihedral -- the angle they make with the horizontal -- is to improve lateral stability . If a perturbation causes one wing to drop , the resultant ( unbalanced ) force will produce a sideslip in the direction of the downward wing . In effect this is analogous to " creating " a flow of air in the opposite direction to the slip . This flow of air will strike the lower wing at a greater angle of attack than it strikes the upper wing . The lower wing will thus receive more lift and the airplane will roll back into its neutral position . Many small aircraft have a slight degree of dihedral on the wings . A similar effect occurs with ( ii ) swept wings -- when a disturbance causes an airplane with swept back wings to slip or drop a wing , the low wing presents its leading edge at an angle that is almost perpendicular to the relative airflow . As a result , the low wing acquires more lift , rises and the airplane is restored to its original attitude . As an aside , you do n't really notice you 're in a shallow turn , aside from the fact that you 're continually applying a little bit of stick and rudder . The $ g $ - loading is minimal . Medium turns . In this case , the aircraft is in a metastable state -- it will carry on at a constant angle of bank , but a ` shove ' to either side will result in the bank increasing or decreasing as appropriate . By this point , $ \ cos \ theta \ neq1 $ , and the outer wing is really generating a lot more lift than the other one -- and thus you 'd effect the angle of bank to increase , as it pulls the aircraft into the circle . The effects discussed above , however , still apply , and provide an effective restoring force back to the normal attitude . In a medium turn , aircraft are designed to have these forces balanced , and , in practice , you often need little-to-no aileron and almost no rudder to do a coordinated medium turn in a light aircraft . If it 's properly trimmed , you can take your hands off the controls and sit there merrily going around in a circle . Depending on your speed , the $ g $ - loading is apparent , but not great . Steep turns . By this point , one wing is generating almost no lift , and the other is generating quite a lot . We 've gone beyond the designed stability point of a medium turn , and the angle of bank tends to increase as the outward wing pulls the plane of the aircraft towards its axis of turn . This type of turn actively requires pilot input to maintain a constant angle of bank , and , depending upon the speed , it can physically be quite hard work . The $ g $ - loading of the wings is significant , and , as the stall speed of an aircraft approximately increases as the square-root of the $ g $ factor experienced , it 's entirely possible to enter an accelerated stall or even a spin here . You notice the
Depending on how long you are storing the plane , there are different options . Some planes may be used or sold in the future . They are just waiting for the market conditions to improve so that the owner can afford to operate it again , or someone else would be willing to buy it . Some planes are too old for anyone to want to buy them . In this case , they are most useful to the current owner , so they store them in case they will be useful in the future . Another possibility is spare parts . While the plane is stored , it can be slowly disassembled to provide parts for other aircraft still in service . Once all useful parts are removed , it will be chopped up into scrap metal . Recently , some new aircraft are being stored <URL> . There is also a case where the Air Force decided to purchase some planes , but later decided they did n't really need them . It 's cheaper to send them to storage than cancel the contract , so <URL> . You can rent hangar space somewhere to store the plane . This is much harder to do for larger planes , and hangar space is expensive and limited . However , it obviously offers the best conditions for the plane , where it can be protected from the weather . This is more likely to be a short term solution unless the plane is very important ( or the owner has deep pockets ) . Another option is the " <URL> : " <URL> Areas like the US southwest have very low humidity year round , which reduces the amount of corrosion on an airframe . Airplanes are designed to be outside most of the time anyway , so they will hold up pretty well . Windows may be covered to keep the internal temperatures down , and certain gaps may be covered as well . Small airplanes may be completely wrapped in plastic . Some examples of this include the boneyard at <URL> in Tucson , AZ , where the US military parks its planes , and nearby <URL> , where many civilian aircraft are stored .
In short , VNO does n't provide you any protection , it just tells you that flying that fast puts you in a regime where structural damage will occur before increased load factor will cause a stall -- regardless of weight . For part 23 airplanes that are not turbine powered and VD has not been established , <URL> ( b ) establishes VNO must be established such that it is between VC , min and 0.89 * VNE . Section <URL> defines VC as a multiplying factor of the square root of wing loading at design maximum takeoff weight . For normal and utility category airplanes , VC is design cruising speed and is be between 33 √ ( W/S ) and 0.9 VH where W/S is wing loading at the design maximum takeoff weight . The factor 33 may be scaled as low as 28.6 based on W/S values greater than 20 ( the regs do not provide units on any of these numbers ... ) . VH is the maximum forward airpseed in level flight at maximum continuous power at sea level . Section <URL> also defines VA and the only relation to VC is that VA need not exceed VC . We can see from this information that establishing VNO is a design choice based ultimately upon maximum possible wing loading as a guideline and unlike VA stall speeds are not involved in the calculation . What you can take from this is that VA will vary by weight ( because this affects the stall speed ) but VNO is based upon wing loading at max gross takeoff weight and is constant with actual weight . Flying slower than VA you will stall before causing structural damage . Flying faster than VA you will cause structural damage before stalling the airplane . VNO will be at least the VA or higher . Flying below this speed does n't really tell us anything ( VA is better for that ) , but flying above this speed lets us know the design margins for load factor induced structural damage are such that we do n't want bumps or abrupt control deflections because we can damage the airplane . Regulation excerpts . § 23.1505 Airspeed limitations . ( b ) The maximum structural cruising speed VNO must be established so that it is -- ( 1 ) Not less than the minimum value of VC allowed under § 23.335 ; and ( 2 ) Not more than the lesser of -- ( i ) VC established under § 23.335 ; or ( ii ) 0.89 VNE established under paragraph ( a ) of this section . ( c ) ( 1 ) Paragraphs ( a ) and ( b ) of this section do not apply to turbine airplanes or to airplanes for which a design diving speed VD/MD is established under § 23.335 ( b ) ( 4 ) . For those airplanes , a maximum operating limit speed ( VMO/MMO airspeed or Mach number , whichever is critical at a particular altitude ) must be established as a speed that may not be deliberately exceeded in any regime of flight ( climb , cruise , or descent ) unless a higher speed is authorized for flight test or pilot training operations . § 23.335 Design airspeeds . Except as provided in paragraph ( a ) ( 4 ) of this section , the selected design airspeeds are equivalent airspeeds ( EAS ) . ( a ) Design cruising speed , VC . For VC the following apply : ( 1 ) Where W/S ′ = wing loading at the design maximum takeoff weight , Vc ( in knots ) may not be less than -- ( i ) 33 √ ( W/S ) ( for normal , utility , and commuter category airplanes ) ; ( ii ) 36 √ ( W/S ) ( for acrobatic category airplanes ) . ( 2 ) For values of W/S more than 20 , the multiplying factors may be decreased linearly with W/S to a value of 28.6 where W/S = 100 . ( 3 ) VC need not be more than 0.9 VH at sea level . ( c ) Design maneuvering speed VA. . For VA , the following applies : ( 1 ) VA may not be less than VS √ n where -- ( i ) VS is a computed stalling speed with flaps retracted at the design weight , normally based on the maximum airplane normal force coefficients , CNA ; and ( ii ) n is the limit maneuvering load factor used in design ( 2 ) The value of VA need not exceed the value of VC used in design .
When departing from a towered field pilots may request something other than a " standard " departure . As an example , consider the noise abatement procedures for my home field shown below : <URL> When departing from Runway 14 the standard noise-abatement departure for light aircraft requires you to turn south ( heading 190 ) when you pass the departure end of the runway . This is obviously inconvenient if your destination is to the north , so you can request a northbound departure . If the tower can accommodate your request they will clear you for the non-standard departure , usually with the phrase " left turn-out approved " or " northbound departure approved " , and a heading if necessary .
VHF transmissions are limited by line of sight . So , assuming the transmitter is at the tower location , and assuming the aircraft is at cruise altitude ( say F300 , or 30,000 feet or more ) , the maximum range is perhaps 200 to 300 km before the curvature of the earth eliminates the line of sight . This also depends on weather conditions and the transmitter power . In practice , VHF coverage may be extended using additional transceiver sites on the same ( or different ) frequency . This is particularly important in mountainous terrain . For oceanic flights where there is no place to put additional transceiver sites , HF ( shortwave ) radio can be used which has a much greater range ( thousands of km ) , especially at night . Some aircraft are also equipped with satellite phones so controllers can simply call them . However , this would n't be the tower controllers talking to the pilots over the ocean , as tower controllers are n't responsible for en route control .
Depends on the reasons the FAA had to justify the need for a 709 ride . If it was some kind of bureaucratic maneuver without justification for doing so and you pass the ride with flying colors , probably nothing . If there was a serious discrepancy in your airmanship which required a 709 ride to verify improvement on your part , it 's going to depend on whether it was a one time event or a trend in airmanship deficiency resulting in the check ride . In addition have there been further reports of deficiency in your airmanship after the 709 ride ? That will also have an effect on an employer 's judgment of you as a potential employee . Whatever the reasons for the 709 ride , an employer is going to see it , so be prepared to explain anything associated with it . Look at this from the employer 's perspective : I 'm going to put you in charge of a big , heavy multimillion dollar machine that you are going to pilot several miles off the ground at speeds close to that of sound . If anything goes wrong , you 're going to get killed , someone else on board is going to get killed , people on the ground are going to get killed and I 'm going to get sued , go bankrupt , end up in jail , or all three if your negligence can be traced back to me . Is there anything in your background which make me suspicious this is likely to happen if you are in my employ as a pilot ? The fact that you do make mistakes , possibly even serious ones , is not necessarily the issue here ; everybody makes mistakes . The last time you flew on an airliner the flight crew probably screwed something up . People with thousands of PIC hours learn something new on their next flight and it 's a mark of a good pilot that you can identify your own faults and fix them . The Blue Angels have a private saying amongst themselves that " We 've never flown a perfect airshow and we probably never will . But we strive for the perfect airshow each and every flight " . Striving for perfection as a personal motivator is the mark of a good airman and looks good on a resume , no matter how balls up some flight in your logbook was . The real issue here is do you have a recent or chronic history of uncorrected gross negligence or inability to handle the kinds of aircraft a potential employer flies which raises red flags as to your airmanship or trustworthiness . If you have a spotty record or recent 709 ride in your recent past , take a couple of years staying on with your current employer and do an outstanding job . Work on your airmanship and develop a stellar reputation with them as a pilot . That will go a long way to erasing the past , or at least mute its bite . Speaking of trustworthiness , DO NOT LIE TO A PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYER ABOUT A 709 RIDE OR ANY OTHER FAILED CHECKRIDE . Aviation is built upon an honor system and any kind of detected lying or deceitfulness on your part is an automatic fail with no second chances , no matter how squeaky clean your career is up to that point . If they ask about it , tell it like it was , no more , no less , and let the chips fall where they may . It will yield the best possible outcomes , even if you do n't get the job .
Check out this <URL> it provides a nice overview of some of the basics and how some of the systems are set up . Does the auto-throttle send its command directly to the EEC or to the mechanical throttle ? This may vary from design to design but the <URL> that physically move the throttle levers . You can read up on the <URL> . Are the throttle levers customized/calibrated for an engine model , or are their output standardized ( assuming the output is an electric signal ) . Does the electronic engine control apply further adjustment to the throttle input ? It seems that <URL> instead of mechanically actuating anything . With that in mind Im sure there are older designs out there that are closer to or a complete direct linkage from lever to engine . Is this correction transmitted back to the throttle lever ? I dont think so , it seems that when say full throttle is applied the throttle control will remain at full and the FADEC unit will take care of spooling it up as need be . Likewise if an engine suddenly cuts out or fuel flow becomes restricted as far as I know the throttles will remain in place . Auto throttle units will however physically actuate the throttles as need be . As per the comments here it seems this is only the case in Boeing aircraft . Airbus throttles must be set to maximum setting auto-throttle is allowed to use .
Direct link vs satellite There are three major ways of sending control messages to an aircraft : Direct radio link [ when ] in line of sight , satellite , ground stations , e.g. , tracon . The way the question starts brings confusion so the many comments . There are two categories of radio links involved in voice/data communication : Between a ground station and the aircraft and via a relay , e.g. a satellite . Satellites are merely used today for air traffic control , it 's a thing of the future ( 2 to 3 years for tracking the aircraft using <URL> ) . However satellites are sometimes used for aircraft communication with the airline technical staff and/or the manufacturers . However the information exchanged here is not ATC related at all : It can be technical , e.g. live <URL> sent to airline technical staff or to the engine manufacturer , to prepare maintenance at the destination airport . It can also be internal exchange with the airline operations . Satellite communication is also used for passenger services like telephone and Internet access aboard the aircraft . So ATC uses the other kind of links , the direct ones , which means a transmitter on the ground . However these " ground stations " can serve different purposes because ATC is organized so that ATC facilities are specialized . Simple ATC organization There are ATCOs on the site who may add details to this answer , but I 'll draw the mainlines . In the US , ATC operational facilities are divided into 4 categories : ATC Tower . Controllers are located in the airfield tower and they control aircraft on the ground ( e.g. at their gates , or on the taxiways ) , aircraft on the runways ( landing or taking off ) , aircraft approaching the airfield to land , aircraft leaving the airfield and climbing to their cruise altitude . The tower controllers have a good sight on all those aircraft . Tracon ( terminal radar approach control ) . Controllers maybe located in the tower or at other locations . They are in charge of taking over the aircraft that just took off and are now departing . They continue the control that was started by their colleagues of the Tower . They also take care of the descending aircraft before they are handed over to their colleagues of the Tower for landing . As you see , tracon actually takes aircraft from cruise altitude to near the landing runway , and from near the takeoff runway to cruise altitude . Next , there is the enroute ATC center for controlling aircraft in cruise , between the departing tracon and the arrival tracon . This facility is also known as air route traffic control center ( ARTCC ) . The enroute controllers can be located anywhere , they do n't need to see the sky , and usually they do n't see it at all , they work in a dark room using only displays and microphones . There are a <URL> to control the whole US airspace . This split is shown on this figure : <URL> that is extracted from <URL> . The last type of ATC facility is the oceanic ATC which controls an ocean area , because the procedures and tools used are a bit particular . Oceans are not belonging to a particular country , however all countries have agreed to delegate the control to a particular country for a particular area . In the US , for the East coast , New-York oceanic center will control an area , Canada will control another , UK and France will manage the other side of the pond . These centers control areas named OCA , for oceanic control area . See <URL> for North Atlantic . When the aircraft progress along its route , it is handed over to the next area controller . This was the first part : We have clarified who are the controllers and ATC facilities , where they are and what phase of flight they control . Now let 's see the radio equipment they use . Radio links First let 's clarify between radio and radar . Radar is used to determine the position of the aircraft . This can be done everywhere , except over oceans . The reason is radar has a limited range , and there are no radar stations in the ocean ( at least not for civil aviation ) . Radar stations are located at selected locations , on hills and other high places , to increase their range . some radar are located on airfields too , but that 's not a requirement . Actually , all information collected by all radar stations are gathered and distributed to all control centers as a synthetic picture . Radio is used to exchange voice messages and data . As I wrote , all radio links have a ground station at the center . This ground station is usually at the same location than the controllers . So some ATC radio equipment is at the airfield , some at the enroute centers , etc. . For OCA , the equipment can be remote from the controllers , but this is just a technical detail . Aviation radio for ATC messages can use two types of frequencies : VHF ( very high frequency ) which works mostly in line of sight , so the range is something around 50 km to 200 km depending on propagation conditions and location . VHF is used when the aircraft is flying over lands . Controllers at the towe
Generally when used in ATC movement instructions the word " company " means " The other aircraft operated by your company " . In this context it 's a convenient shorthand for controllers and pilots : If two aircraft from the same operator are going to the same place on the airport ( one may be told " Follow company " ) , or to assist with visual separation and sequencing on approaches . In other cases it can mean " the airline ( company ) you work for " ( such as being instructed to taxi to a ramp and " call company for your gate assignment " - the distinction is made based on the context of the request or instruction ) . Note that this is not standard phraseology : despite being widely used <URL> or the <URL> .
On one hand , they know my heading and altitude , so I assume that I should continue straight on , entering the Class B in my climb and level out at 3500 feet , which I have done often with no consequences . This is what the controller wants you to do . It 's slightly sloppy phraseology - " Cleared into Bravo , climb and maintain 3500 " would be better . But what she said is not really ambiguous in any practical way . She would definitely not be expecting you to turn away , then climb , then turn back toward the B.
That specific phrasing means that you ca n't touch a cloud . See the VFR minimums in <URL> , where it says : no person may operate an aircraft under VFR when the flight visibility is less , or at a distance from clouds that is less , than that prescribed for the corresponding altitude and class of airspace in the following table [ ... ] The table lists the " distance from clouds " in class B as " clear of clouds " . You can also find it in the <URL> on class B airspace , and in other sections about SVFR , visual approaches etc. where a requirement for those procedures is to remain clear of clouds . The actual cloud cover in the class B airspace is reported by METARs and ATIS .
If Seattle works anything like a number of major German airports , these instructions refer to literal coloured lines on the ground . Taxiway markings are usually yellow , but some large airports have started to use different colours for marking taxilanes on the apron ( " ramp " ) . This is a way of maximizing use of available space in areas used by many differently sized aircraft . One example is Munich , Germany ( EDDM ) where yellow , orange and blue taxi lines are used . <URL> ( snippet from APDC EDDM , from DFS ) Two medium sized aircraft can pass eachother when following the blue and orange lines , whereas a larger aircraft will have to follow the central yellow line , thus taking up the entire width of the taxiway . As @ymb1 pointed out in a comment , the system in KSEA appears to be similar . The colour of the taxilines are varied , and signs ( or markings on the ground ) describe the colour code for certain taxi lines : <URL>
In the case of the 737 , the first series produced was the 737-100 . Not many were made . Then the 737-200 was built , which was very popular . The third generation of the 737 , known now as the " Classic " , had three variants , the -300 , the -400 , and the -500 . All are very similar , the significant difference being the size . The -300 has bigger ( more powerful , as well as physically larger ) engines than the older -200 did , and a longer cabin . With its success , Boeing decided to lengthen the cabin further , resulting in the -400 . They also made a variant that was essentially the length of the shorter -200 , and since it came along third it got the next designation , the -500 . The next generation of 737 's , known as the " Next Generation " , runs from the -600 through the -900 , and this time Boeing decided to make the numbers correspond with the fuselage length , so the -600 is about as long as the -200 and -500 ( roughly ) , the -700 is comparable to the -300 , the -800 is longer as the -400 was , and the -900 is longer than anything before . Now they 're out of numbers , and so the NEXT generation of 737 's , known as the Max , gets single digit numbers ... the Max -7 ( i.e. 737-7 ) corresponds roughly to the length of the -700 , the Max -8 to the -800 , the Max -9 to the -900 , and so on . The point of this long discussion is simply that the numbers following the dash represent different variants of the aircraft . In some cases , it may be a new generation design ; in other cases it may simply be a different fuselage length . As the <URL> discusses , HOW those numbers are chosen is sometimes driven more by marketing than it is by mathematical progression . Often , though , the higher number indicates a later version , and often-but-not-always , a newer generation . But you really have to know the particular aircraft line to know which it is .
The mean aerodynamic chord is only identical to the mean chord for rectangular wings . For tapered wings it is slightly longer . Why ? Because the mean aerodynamic chord is the mean chord of a rectangular wing that has the same pitch characteristics as the " real " wing . Pitch characteristics need to include pitch damping , and pitch damping grows with the square of the local chord . That is why the formula for the mean aerodynamic chord divides the square of the local chord by the wing area : $ $ \ text { MAC } = \ int _ { y = - \ frac { b } { 2 } } ^ { y = \ frac { b } { 2 } } { \ frac { c ^ 2 } { S } } dy $ $ Here $ b $ denotes wing span , $ y $ the spanwise coordinate and $ S$ the wing area . Since the chord is squared , deeper sections of the wing are overrepresented in the result . The resulting rectangular wing will have a larger area than the original , tapered wing but the same pitch damping ! In case of a delta wing , MAC will grow to be 2/3 of the root chord , and for an elliptical wing it will be 90.5 % of the root chord . The MAC has been invented to convert arbitrary wing planforms into much easier to calculate rectangular wings . By doing all calculations on the correctly sized rectangular version , the more complicated calculations on the real one could be avoided . However , this works only up to a point : if you want to calculate lift , you need a wing of equal area . if you want to calculate induced drag , you need a wing of equal span . if you wand to calculate pitch motion , you need a wing of the correct MAC . This rectangular wing can either have the same area or the same span as the real wing , but not both together , unless the real wing is rectangular , too . You are right , the two definitions you quote are not compatible . The rectangular wing can not have the same span than the real one , or its area and all associated forces and moments would be higher .
end question
start question
Do transatlantic flight plans have alternates routes ?
Each airborne flight has only one flightplan , which was submitted for that particular flight . The routing is embedded into that flightplan and only that one routing is valid for that flight . In case the routing is no longer available for the next flight due to airspace closure via NOTAM or airways being restricted by time of flight / day of flight , another routing will be used for that flight and submitted in the flightplan . In case the routing needs to be changed for an already airborne flight , a new IFR clearance is read to the crew en-route , which alters the existing flightplan . Alternate routings are usually managed by the airline 's dispatch / planning centre and the best routing for a specific flight is created by the dispatchers , taking into account weather , NOTAMS , restrictions and many other factors . En-route changes to a flightplan are made by ATC units and their data processing centres , if an impromptu change needs to be made due to airspace closures or other restrictions coming into effect which were unforseen .
Yes , helicopters can be fitted with autopilots . Some are very simple , others are quite advanced . The more advanced ones can , for instance , follow a pre-programmed route , climb/descent to a pre-selected altitude , fly an ILS approach , perform a go-around automatically . They are not ordinarily found in small helicopters due to cost and lack of necessity . All modern offshore helicopters that I 've encountered have them and they are used extensively . Usually they are engaged shortly after take-off and disengaged shortly before landing .
Since you mention Dublin , I am going to give an answer that describes the situation in Europe . Other parts of the world may have different procedures , although I believe they will be similar . Usually a flight plan must be activated within a given time window to ensure that there is enough capacity ( airspace , ATC staffing , departure &amp; arrival airport constraints ) along the route to handle the flight . If the flight is not departing with this ' slot ' a new flight plan needs to be requested and approved by the <URL> ( NMOC ) ( Previously called Central Flow Management Unit ( CFMU ) ) . The controller is not responsible for filing flight plans and can not be tasked with doing the paperwork for the crew . The crew therefore needs to contact their handler or flight operation centre to refile a flight plan . The NMOC will reassess the flight plan and verify that there is capacity along the planned route to handle the flight . If there is n't , the flight may need to be planned along another route or an additional slot delay will be given .
Stapleford and Damyns Hall are both in class G airspace , so there would be no need to file a flight plan or ask permission of anyone to make the flight . The only thing you might need to do is call Damyns Hall in case they are PPR ( Prior Permission Required ) . VFR flights generally do n't need any sort of flight plan unless you are going abroad or to the channel islands . If you are going a long distance over water it 's advisable as well . If flying into Damyns Hall keep in mind that the London City zone is very close by , so make sure you stay clear of it . The London TMA is at 2,500 ft as well . Both airfields are not controlled , however both have AG radios who try to coordinate flights , you technically do n't have to communicate with them but you might not be allowed to use those airfields in the future if you do n't use it .
First of all , gliders fly slowly . Everything happens more slowly than in other aircraft , and this helps to make flying them less challenging than you might think . Flying them well is a different matter - this requires a lot of skill and good physical health . Historically , the early age limits were introduced in Nazi Germany when the Deutscher Luftstportverband ( <URL> ) and later the <URL> organized groups of adolescents to let them build and fly gliders . Flight training started at the age of 14 , mostly in very simple , <URL> ed gliders like the Zögling or <URL> which were flown in summer and built or repaired in Winter . Since bungee launching is a very labor-intensive process and flights last only a few seconds , this was less about pilot training than keeping the young occupied and under the influence of the Nazi party . <URL> Bungee launch of a Zögling glider ( picture <URL> ) And it worked . Accidents did happen , but were almost never fatal since all operations happened at low speed and altitude . Therefore , these age limits were exported together with the idea of flying unpowered aircraft . Note that in Europe the same health certificate is required for glider flying as for flying GA aircraft . Now to your concerns about the demanding nature of gliding : Glider flying is done from airfields which are suitable for GA aircraft ( or the gliders could not be aerotowed ) or winch launching . 800 meters is about the minimum , and this leaves plenty of space to land a glider . Flight training is done initially only in the direct vicinity of the airfield , and students are supposed to stay within a cone which allows them to reach the airfield at any moment . Flying cross-country comes much later , when the students have made more than a hundred landings and know how to get the plane down in a certain spot . Again , the slow speed helps to make such landings simple if the pilot is prepared . Today , training is initially in two-seaters , so there is an experienced pilot around for the first landings and the first cross-country flights . Aerotowing is also quite simple , and altitude management while in tow is more challenging than keeping the right distance from the towplane . Again , this is done initially in two-seaters , and all the glider pilot has to do is to fly with the same bank angle as and slightly above the towplane . The rope takes care of the rest .
The air conditioning system on board airliners is an open system : it scoops up air from the atmosphere , compresses it , expels it through the cabin vents , and then outflows it through discharge valves . In modern airliners there is a certain amount of re-circulation : the expelled air was of such good quality that it seemed a waste to just dump it in the atmosphere . <URL> <URL> In the A320 family of airliners : Outside air is compressed in the engine compressors , part of it is tapped of as bleed air : already compressed and warmed , it is used for refreshing the cabin air ( marked green ) . Temperature and pressure regulators then provide automatic mixture control for the amount of outflow : the outflow valve is regulated , decreasing the opening results in increase of cabin pressure and decrease of flow . The recirculation fans regulate how much air is re-used , after being filtered through HEPA filters which remove pathogens and other nasty stuff . The whole cabin air volume is refreshed every 2 - 3 minutes , as also referenced in <URL> : with such a frequent refresh rate , it would be pretty safe to assume that there will always be roughly the percentage of oxygen in the cabin as there is in the outside atmosphere ( see below for the actual percentage ! ) . People have climbed to the <URL> without the help of oxygen masks , and that summit is about at cruising altitude of an airliner . AFAIK , the aircon system does not have oxygen sensors , but it does have temperature and pressure sensors which are of more immediate concern . Low concentration toxic gases are much more dangerous than a drop in oxygen concentration . In fact , the human body makes use of this : when holding your breath , the urge of breathing fresh air again after a while comes from the <URL> , not from any decrease in oxygen . So CO$ _ 2 $ detectors on board of aircraft would make sense , as would detectors for the very lethal carbon monoxide . These are available , even in the form of a key hanger for GA pilots ( not including any links due to them being adverts ) . There have been reports of dizziness and fainting on board of airliners , and investigations into these . <URL> did not reveal a particularly high carbon dioxide content : Discussion With additional measurement reports pending , I found in-flight cabin air quality measurements of oxygen to be relatively stable , ranging from 11.2 % to 12.5 % . Typical outdoor CO2 levels are between 350-400 ppm ( 0.035 % - 0.04 % ) or up to 500 ppm by some sources . Carbon dioxide levels measured in-flight in the aircraft cabin ranged between 0.04 % or 400 ppm and 0.1 % or 1000 ppm to date in our studies and were measured at close to 0.5 % or 5,000 ppm in earlier studies . As indicated at CO2 HEALTH EFFECTS , occupants are unlikely to be affected or to notice CO2 levels under 2 % or 20,000 ppm - a far higher number than in-flight aircraft cabin carbon dioxide levels . Notice that the oxygen contents on board is a bit over half of that of the outside air - the cause of dizzy passengers ? Reports of dizziness do keep appearing , and nothing beats direct detection of noxious gases by a sensor . Problem is , there are so many of them . Oxygen , carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide sensors would be good candidates for inclusion into the aircon systems . On your second part of the question Is there any situation ( emergency or not ) in which some other gas could pressurize the cabin and lower the O2 percentage inside it ? Yes , in air conditioning systems that use bleed air there definitely is , an engine malfunction can for instance inject gases from burning oil into the cabin air , a problem that was reported a few times for the BAE 146 . <URL> The British Aerospace BAe 146 was the aircraft type most commonly involved in fumes/smoke events when taking into account flying activity . The Airbus A380 , Boeing 767 , Embraer EMB-120 and E-190 were among other aircraft types that also had a higher than average rate of fumes/smoke occurrences over the period . The most common source of fumes/smoke was aircraft systems issues , primarily relating to failure or malfunction of electrical and auxiliary power unit ( APU ) systems . Equipment and furnishings also featured highly as a source of fumes and smoke . Within this category , air conditioning and galley equipment were the most common sources of fumes/smoke . External sources of fumes/smoke and cargo/baggage related events were relatively rare .
Before I comment I have to ask your training habit : Do you fly one lesson each week , or only occasional lessons because you 're so busy , or 3 flying days each week , or full time ? Sometimes life gets in the way In terms of progress , 70 hours and just starting cross country flights seems to be on the slow side . But then , if you 're not training regularly , you ca n't blame the CFI for spending some time reviewing previous materials during each lesson . Ideally , the flight lesson pre-flight should go like this : CFI : Today we will be practicing steep turns . We will takeoff , head North to this area on the chart and practice there . Then we will fly North East and proceed to this airfield to practice some touch and go . Our weather report says there is weather system South of us , we need to keep an eye on it in case it moves North . I will work on the radios and navigate , you will be doing all the flying . Questions ? This establishes clear goals of the lesson . A good lesson should also conclude with a post-flight debriefing : CFI : Today I noticed that you did not enter the traffic pattern correctly . You entered like this , which is not good because of that , that , and that . Given the situation , you should have went like this . We will be practicing more traffic patterns in our next lesson . If the agenda is driven by the instructor instead , you 'll get more benefits : The goals of the lessons are clear . The instructor can adjust lessons based on your weakness . For example , if you were rather sluggish during engine-out emergencies , the CFI should review emergency procedures with you on the ground and give you more practice in the air . You may not be aware that you are not getting enough practice in some areas . You can prepare for the next lesson ahead . For example , if your next lesson is a cross country , you can review flight planning , navigation principles &amp; airspace regulations . Is your situation normal ? I 'm not an instructor so I do n't know , but it can be better . Then again , if your flying schedule is rather random , learning efficiency would be lower , and you end up spending more flying time and money . Now , falling asleep ... . To me , this is a big No No . I am just a student . I have not been certified ( yet ) that I can operate an airplane safely : What if I make a navigation error and end up heading to Area 51 ? What if I 'm heading into IMC and need to turn around ? What if the fuel level is reducing at a dangerous rate but I did n't notice ? What if I got a stuck elevator ? A flight instructor is seated in the same cockpit with the student to correct mistakes or react to situations in a timely manner . To fall asleep during a flight lesson is an irresponsible behavior to the student and other people on the ground who might get hurt if your plane crashes . Of course , flight instructors are all humans and we all tend to make mistakes . Perhaps he was overstretching himself . Perhaps he got a family emergency the night before and stayed up really late . If it was just one flight , I would pass but keep an eye on . If it happens continuously , it might be a good time to turn away and look somewhere else while you 're still safe .
The vortex generators are used in commercial aircraft ( Boeing especially ) , for a number of reasons , which are usually not applicable to GA aircraft . For example , vortex generators are used for anything from stall alleviation to <URL> to noise reduction , some of which are not applicable for GA aircraft . Also , they are <URL> , which is much more expansive compared to the GA aircraft . That said , vortex generators are found in some aircraft , like the Piper Malibu Meridian , as shown below , <URL> . <URL> Image from www.nasa.gov Another point is the a <URL> for GA aircraft . A number of GA aircraft have been retrofitted with them . <URL> By Ahunt at English Wikipedia - I took this photo and release it to the public domain , Public Domain However , they are quite costly and require extensive tests for certification , with the result that they are not used much compared to commercial aircraft .
Lockheed Martin Flight Services ( LMFS ) provides a history of filed flight plans on their web site under Flight Planning &amp; Briefing | History . The path to the particular page is : <URL> . Unfortunately , only the last 15 days are available . So if your flight plan is older , it wo n't be displayed . Additionally , if you 're filing your flight plans through a service provider that does n't provide full LMFS integration ( e.g. , ForeFlight ) it wo n't be displayed even if within 15 days . In this case , you 'll need to refer to your service provider 's interface .
A quick look at the <URL> makes it sound like , in the USA , they can enter any sort of airspace provided they can do it safely . So , theoretically , they could file a flight plan or at least alert local ATC to their activities . All of that being said , having been involved in hot air balloon operations before , I think it would not be terribly feasible . Firstly , flying a hot air balloon outside of Visual Flight Rule conditions ( being able to see several miles ) would be extremely dangerous , so you would n't need to file a flight plan for that . Secondly , you generally only want to fly a hot air balloon in very sparsely populated areas ( Class G airspace ) , and while you could have a flight plan there really is n't a need . A more congested area ( Class B or Class A ) would be extremely dangerous to navigate in a hot air balloon . It 's pretty hard to get out of the way , since controlling where you are going is ... iffy sometimes . So , in summary , yes it could be done , but in the vast majority of cases there 's little need to do it . Other than to just alert local ATC that you will be in the area .
It could have been as you witnessed . In 2005 , a modification package dubbed <URL> was offered for the 737-200 and the 737 Classic ( -3 / 4/500 ) that would droop the flaps by 4 ° for all phases of flight . [ It ] decreases drag for cruise , and increases the aerodynamic efficiency of the wing by between 2 % and 3 % . The <URL> that many 727 pilots were doing the same thing in cruise -- but manually and unapproved . They would pull a CB to keep the slats on the leading edge of the wing retracted , while the flaps extended to the their first stop . Investigators believed that 727 pilots ( in general , and this flight specifically ) were setting the trailing edge flaps to two degrees during high altitude cruise , while at the same time pulling the circuit breaker for the slats so that they would not activate . This configuration was rumored to result in increased lift with no increase in drag , thus allowing more speed , higher elevation , or decreased fuel consumption . Flaps and Slats were intended to only be deployed at low speeds during take-off or landing . To answer the title question , yes . Flap position indicators exist , and combined with the electronic speed tape , the maximum speed indicated will be slower . If the flaps were to be extended at above design speed , an overspeed warning will be triggered as well .
In training , flight attendants are given lots of emergency training , but always with the caveat that they are under no obligation to put themselves in danger . Emergency procedures should proceed up until the time a flight attendant feels they are in danger , then they are to evacuate the airplane themselves as quickly as possible . There was a long standing joke among flight attendants when I was working , which was the most important emergency instruction you can give : Follow me ! Funny , but not really . It keeps things in perspective . Not commonly known is that any emergency responder today operates under the same conditions . You are not being paid to put yourself in danger beyond what your training will accommodate .
Many airlines do in fact have inflight camera feeds for Cabin surveillance so I do not think the question is relevant to most major airlines anymore . For a specific example , Emirates Airline employs the Cabin Video Monitoring Systems ( CVMS ) across its fleet of Airbus A380 aircraft . These Cabin cameras can be accessed by Cockpit crew through the System Display or the Cabin crew through the FAP ( Flight Attendant Panel ) and for any abnormal situation such as a hijacking/hostage situation on ground , the CVMS can be accessed on a laptop via the GSP ( Ground Service Panel ) . Additionally , as mentioned above , they have landscape cameras installed for an external video feed but that is more of a feature for passengers . The advantages of a CVMS in a hijacking/hostage situation such as positioning , identity , body language and weapons of the hijackers plus general operational advantages such as issues during boarding/offloading and other emergency situations such as an evacuation are great and not to be discounted .
You ask about Jeppesen in the title , but you mention ICAO in the body . Does Jeppesen show top altitude ? Yes . <URL> Top image is FAA chart , bottom is Jeppesen . Both for the LOOP SID . Does ICAO show top altitude ? The ICAO charts are produced by <URL> based on ICAO 's style if they do n't have their own . The FAA has its own format . But the answer is also yes if the top altitude is used . The top altitude was added for the climb-via instruction , which is a recent addition . Not all states ( nations ) follow the climb-via and descend-via system just yet . But those who do , <URL> .
Yes , there is an indicator for passenger oxygen status . <URL> ( Image Source : www.b737.org.uk )
Essentially they plan on some fraction of the fleet undergoing some sort of maintenance check at any one time , so they build their flying schedule around the remaining fraction . And then there is some amount of flex due to things needing unscheduled maintenance or coming out of maintenance early . What makes the task easier is the fact that maintenance needs can be forecast fairly far in advance , and so the schedules can be built around a knowledge of how many aircraft are likely to be available . As an illustration ( not necessarily representative of any particular airline 's actual numbers ) , let 's say you have a fleet of 200 aircraft , and you know that on average each aircraft will be down for two 2-week heavy maintenance checks each year . That works out to essentially one month out of 12 , each aircraft is down , or a little under 10 % of the time . Add in a little time for shorter maintenance visits ( but still longer than an overnight ) , plus an allowance for the fact that some aircraft just need unscheduled work , and the maintenance planners may end up telling you to plan on 175 aircraft available each day . So that 's what you build your schedule around . Now let 's say that one aircraft takes a birdstrike &amp; an engine needs to be changed . That is now a hole in the schedule . It can be covered by cancelling a flight ( undesirable , but always an option ) . If an aircraft is finished with maintenance ahead of schedule ( say it was scheduled down all day for some work , but the work is actually done by noon ) , that aircraft may be able to be put into service . Perhaps it 's possible to delay some sort of minor maintenance a day ( not a heavy check , but something quicker ) and essentially create one aircraft-day of capacity , and push the check off to a weekend day when the schedule uses fewer aircraft . Or maybe the schedule was built with one or two aircraft available as spares that day . Depending on a variety of factors , spares may or may not be available , or even deliberately built into the schedule at all . Having an A-380 sitting around unused all day is an EXPENSIVE insurance policy against something unforeseen happening , but cancelling a flight on something that big is an expensive event when it happens ! If you operate all out of one giant hub and you know that your fleet of 500 aircraft ( flying 450 lines every day ) is likely to have 2-4 aircraft every day go to the hanger for unexpected maintenance , it 's probably a good financial decision to allocate two or three of those lines as dedicated spares . If your aircraft operate a point-to-point schedule , it 's harder ( or unfeasible ) to keep a spare aircraft at every airport you serve , " just in case " something happens to break there . There are complicated decisions that airlines will continuously evaluate to find what balance works best for their particular operation . In some cases , it may be possible to substitute an aircraft from a different fleet for a broken jet ... an MD80 goes to the hanger , and a 737 with a reserve crew flies the rest of the day that the MD80 would have flown . Or maybe a 757 broke , and the decision is to use the 737 to cover the flight , and re-accommodate the extra passengers that the 757 could hold that the 737 now ca n't . That 's a tactical decision that the airline 's operations center will make , considering the availability of both aircraft and crews , as well as the passenger loads . ( They also may pull a " healthy " 757 off of its less full schedule to fly in place of the broke 757 , use a 737 that was n't going to be very full to cover that 757 's route , put an RJ on the 737 's route that day , and cancel the RJ 's flights " due to maintenance . " And if that inconveniences 4 flights of 40-50 people who mostly just get delayed a few hours , that 's probably a better plan than stranding two flights of 200 people who 'd otherwise have no way to get where they 're going until tomorrow or later . )
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
I do n't know for certain as I 'm not military , but I imagine that they pressurize the fuel tanks using bleed air , much like jet airliners do . It 's also likely that they make use of boost and ejector pumps to provide positive pressure directly to more centrally-located tanks which the engines then feed from . ( from <URL> [ pdf ] ) The F-15 has both wing &amp; fuselage tanks ; <URL> : The left and right engine feed tanks contain baffles in order to provide a limited amount of fuel to the boost pumps during inverted flight or during negative G maneuvers Left wing tank Auxiliary tank Left engine feed tank Right wing tank Right engine feed tank Tank 1 ( main tank ) <URL> that limit the speed at which fuel can flow from one end to another , usually to prevent fuel sloshing and screwing up balance .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
Other than extra braking and reverse thrust , is there a specific short-field landing technique for large jet airliners ? Never heard of any . The required landing distance is calculated so that the plane can reliably stop ( even if reversers fail ) and landing at shorter runway is not allowed . so the 747s try to land right on the numbers , rather than the usual technique of touching down within the first third of the runway . The usual technique is to aim for 1,000 ft down the runway and touch down with some flare somewhere around 1,500 . In discussions about the famous landings at St Maarten , it is sometimes said that part of the reason for the low passes is due to the relatively short runway , so the 747s try to land right on the numbers Actually the <URL> runway 10 has PAPI and TDZ marking a little beyond the usual 1,000 ft mark at around 1,250 ft. <URL> the threshold is displaced 162 ft ( but it also says runway 9 , so it is likely out of date ) , but according to the satellite images it is a bit over 300 ft plus some runway end safety area , placing the threshold around 500 ft past the fence and the touch-down zone around 1,750 ft past the fence . Now the normal glide-slope is around 5 % . That means the aircraft is supposed to cross the fence at around 90 ft , on average . That seems about right . Of course you ca n't expect every aircraft to be positioned precisely within a few feet , so now and then some crosses it at maybe 50 ft. That is not intention , but simply a deviation . But of course the photos of planes flying especially low are more likely to be picked for publishing . Also , a short field landing normally calls for steep approach which make precise aim for landing spot easier . That would actually place the aircraft higher over the beach . But the glide-slope at TNCM is normal 3 ° ( 5 % ) one , so it is not a steep approach . Such a procedure is fine in a Cessna , but in a large passenger jet ? I have my doubts . In large jet it is n't . Air transport has stricter regulations than general aviation because more is at stake and larger aircraft have stricter limits because the higher energies involved mean errors are harder to fix and have more serious consequences .
end question
start question
Why do airlines have intermediate stopovers with no passenger boarding ?
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
I think the policy is completely justified . An analogy : You would n't allow an unsafe and unapproved car onto a highway in Europe where it presents a unjust danger to everybody else . You have to remember that the European Union is a fairly compact bunch of nations : To get to Paris from Southeast Asia or Africa , you 're probably looking at overflying at least two or three other countries . Thus , a single flight will have wider implications and involve multiple nations . The policy keeps everybody somewhat happy that they have safe airlines in their airspace . It also keeps their own citizens off the airline in question . I do not think that it is a question of ' caring ' . If they do not feel that the airline can safely fly , they ban it . Note that a fair number of the EU blacklist are automatically banned by country if they have insufficient oversight . It 's also not a permanent ' thing ' or sentence . Garuda Indonesia was on the EASA blacklist for two years until they brushed up , and are now back flying into the EU . Perhaps it might even have been good , since it pushed the company to improve their standards ? Here is a recent quote on the Iraqi Airlines ban : ATW understands from unidentified sources that 600 non-EU airlines had applied for TCO authorization . Most had been granted with few problems , but a small number of airlines were subject to greater scrutiny because of their perceived high-risk status . <URL> While perhaps less prominent , I think the United States will quickly block any unsafe airline from coming in , although perhaps on a more case-by-case basis . I believe there are other hurdles , such as airport security requirements , that have to be settled to fly into the United States and can act as barriers . I believe the same applies for any other nation . Other countries say no as well , just perhaps not being as ' vocal ' : Some Thai-registered airlines earlier faced flight restrictions by Japan , South Korea and Indonesia , following an audit of Thailand 's air operations by the UN-based International Civil Aviation Organisation . In June the agency raised a red flag over aviation safety standards and gave the country until November to tackle the issue . Meanwhile , the US Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) last Friday gave Thailand 65 days to address shortcomings it had found . <URL>
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
There a several reasons for the demise of commercial supersonic aircraft . And there is a strong possibility we may be able to take a ride on a supersonic aircraft by 2021 . Supersonic commercial aircraft have a lot of constraints on them which are not present on subsonic commercial aircraft and which military aircraft are not subject to PROHIBITIVE DEVELOPMENT COSTS : Supersonic aircraft - and in particular high supersonic and hypersonic aircraft - are considerably more expensive to design and manufacture as they require the use of novel materials and manufacturing techniques in their design . As you pass about Mach 2 , heat starts to become a major problem , weakening traditional aerospace aluminum alloys to the point that they are no longer a viable material to construct an aircraft from . The airframes also expand and contract considerably in the heat and this must be accounted for in the design . Designers are forced to seek out more exotic materials like Titanium alloys , high temperature composites , etc. . and it is not just structure that requires novel materials to address this - fuel systems , electrical wiring , mission systems , even sealants and paint all must be chosen so as to combat heat but still satisfy traditional design metrics like safety , durability , and economics . The result of this are very high development costs : Adjusted for inflation , Concorde costs the governments of England and France some $ 28 billion or roughly 5 1/2 times the cost that Boeing spent to develop the 747 . Similar figures were consumed on the design and development of the ill fated Boeing 2707 , which never progressed past the mockup stage , even after re-design . LIMITED CABIN CAPACITIES : SST design favors a slender , needle like fuselage which limits the number of people which the jet can carry . The Concorde was limited to approximately 100 passenger in very narrow seats ; the 2707 could carry 260 people but had a length of over 300 feet making it very awkward and unruly in existing terminal aprons or taxiways . This also makes the SST very unprofitable for its operators , as Concorde proved . Over the last 50 years no more than 20 SSTs have ever been operational and all with only three airlines - British Airways , Air France , and the Soviet Aeroflot - all of which were heavily subsidized by their respective governments . PROPULSION INEFFICIENCIES RESTRICT RANGES : Design of SSTs have in the past been hampered by the high fuel consumption rates of turbojet engine imposing a design range limit of approximately 4,500 MN . This effectively curbs sales to airlines looking for SSTs to fly the pacific rim routes where the times savings offered by a supersonic aircraft would be the most pronounced . SUPERSONIC FLIGHT OVER LAND STILL PROHIBITED - Supersonic aircraft generate noxious sonic booms which can cause damage to fragile structures on the ground and generally are a nuisance to the inhabitants below . While advancements in quiet supersonic transports are happening , global aeronautical regulation bodies still prohibit supersonic flight over land , restricting an SST to subsonic flight over these regions , making its operation exponentially more expensive than a traditional subsonic aircraft . CONCERNS OVER SAFETY OPERATING IN RARIFIED ATMOSPHERE - a high speed SST would be required to operate in the higher parts of the stratosphere in excess of 60,000 feet . While this is achievable for military pilots in full pressure suits , there are considerable risks to civilians in street clothes at these altitudes should a rapid decompression occur . At these heights a rapid decompression will boil your blood inside your veins ( very painful way to die ) . It also can not be combated with traditional supplemental oxygen systems , making such a scenario very dangerous for passengers . ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS : The ' dirty burning ' turbojet previously discussed create a lot of NOX emissions , far more that today 's high bypass turbofans , which poses risk of increased depletion of stratospheric ozone . COST SAVINGS : A conventional high bypass turbofan subsonic airliner is between 16-20 times more efficient on a cost per passenger per NM basis . A typical transatlantic ticket on a 747-8 is approximately 1500 USD . A ticket on the Concorde was about 11,000 in today 's dollars . Taken all together and faced with the reality of designing such a craft with 3 million parts , 6 million lines of software code , all tested and validated , which is restricted only to transatlantic routes , aircraft designers quickly see the handwriting on the wall and the aircraft is doomed from the drafting paper upward . But that 's not to say the supersonic dream is dead . Aerion in Reno , NV and Airbus are in the process of developing a 16 passenger supersonic business jet , capable of Mach 1.6 , with a tentative rollout and flight in 2021 . Areion claims the jet will have a ' boom less ' cruise up to Mach 1.2 at or above FL350 and hopes this will coax regulating bodies into permitti
The cabin crew simply counts the seated passengers ( or alternatively empty seats ) by zone ( a block of rows ) , writes it down and hands the slip to the flight crew . It is common to do this on commuter planes even with assigned seating since passenger balance matters more on small aircraft and people may move . As pointed out by <URL> : In practice , low cost airlines , which routinely offer free seating , also operate the majority of their flights with a high load factor , so that identifying any unoccupied seats will be a fairly simple matter .
The practice of naming aircraft probably comes from the days of the flying boat , and the naval tradition of naming ships - <URL> had many named aircraft , and <URL> . Other airlines of the period had similar naming practices ( I 'm not sure who started it , but Pan Am 's fleet was well known for it ) . As a marketing tool telling folks they 're flying on " Clipper Emerald Isle from New York to Dublin " may have been more attractive to passengers than " Pan Am Flight 12345 " or N880PA . Particularly before the commoditization of air travel , when flying was still a new and novel form of transportation , having a connection back to familiar " sailing " metaphors may have helped get passengers on board and could help differentiate your service from another airline . Modern airlines do n't seem to push their aircraft naming as much as historic carriers did , but <URL> - in fact Lufthansa paints their plane names onto the fuselage , though I 'm not sure if they announce them to passengers . A skilled marketing department could build a brand around ship names , but I 'm not aware of any airline doing so today .
Many airlines do in fact have inflight camera feeds for Cabin surveillance so I do not think the question is relevant to most major airlines anymore . For a specific example , Emirates Airline employs the Cabin Video Monitoring Systems ( CVMS ) across its fleet of Airbus A380 aircraft . These Cabin cameras can be accessed by Cockpit crew through the System Display or the Cabin crew through the FAP ( Flight Attendant Panel ) and for any abnormal situation such as a hijacking/hostage situation on ground , the CVMS can be accessed on a laptop via the GSP ( Ground Service Panel ) . Additionally , as mentioned above , they have landscape cameras installed for an external video feed but that is more of a feature for passengers . The advantages of a CVMS in a hijacking/hostage situation such as positioning , identity , body language and weapons of the hijackers plus general operational advantages such as issues during boarding/offloading and other emergency situations such as an evacuation are great and not to be discounted .
Boarding takes a long time , true . There are <URL> which <URL> to speed up boarding by between 20 % and 50 % , still they are not adopted . Why ? You need to load the baggage , too . Also the catering . And fuel . You need to inspect the aircraft , run through checklists and brief the new crew . This all takes up time , too . Airlines do not see a big saving by loading passengers faster , and then waiting for all other jobs to be completed . Your radical idea of containerizing passenger transport would certainly speed up things , but it would cost a lot of payload . The most efficient pressure vessel is a sphere , and the next efficient is a cylinder with spherical ends . Pressurizing a boxy container is structurally very inefficient . Loading passengers on palettes first and sliding those palettes through a narrow opening takes time in itself . And the palettes have their own weight , their own floor , their own support structure for the baggage racks , their own cabeling for the entertainment system . They would , however , not need their independent pressurization , so their weight impact would be moderate . A possible " flatbed " airliner which could attain the shortest boarding times has only half as much fuselage height ( or less ) to transmit bending loads along its length . <URL> for an example of buckling in a fuselage skin due to bending loads . Now consider that reducing height by 50 % will need four times more cross section in the longerons to keep stiffness constant . That will make the fuselage much heavier . In the end , airlines go with the solution which maximizes their profits . By using a hollow cylinder and let their " cargo " self-load , they can maximize their payload and get tolerable boarding times . Tolerable for them , that is . That better loading procedures could allow you to come to the airport later is of no interest to them . If they would see an advantage in shorter boarding times , there would be ample of opportunity by improving strategies , even with existing airplane designs .
Display of ownship 's position has a very strong effect on the mental model that the pilot has of it 's navigation . When the EFB displayed position is wrong , the change that the pilot will detect that by comparing to other instruments or outside visual are very limited . This is a safety concern . To have the EFB approved to display ownship 's position , the most straightforward way would have been to certify it under TSO C129a " Airborne Supplemental Navigation Equipment using the Global Positioning System ( GPS ) " TSO-C129a has now been superseded by TSO-C196 which has slightly different requirements . Often class I or class II EFB will have a GPS receiver that technically could be used as the source of ownship 's position . The GPS receivers chips used in are not designed and certified against the " Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Airborne Supplemental Navigation Equipment Using Global Positioning System ( GPS ) " ( RTCA document DO-208 ) , which is a requirement of TSO-C129a or " Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Global Positioning System/Aircraft Base Augmentation System " ( RTCA document DO-316 ) which is a requirement for TSO-C196 . The major technical difference between simple commercially available GPS chips and aviation grade GPS chips is that the latter include a Receiver Autonomous Integrity Monitoring ( RAIM ) function which does Fault Detection ( and Exclusion ) . If a GPS satellite would drift out of it 's orbit or GPS data gets corrupted in the receiver , an ordinary GPS chip would most likely display a position error , while an aviation GPS chip would either indicate a failure state ( fault detection ) or still display the correct position ( fault exclusion ) . This protects the pilot from being mislead by a map shift .
1 . Money Meals are available at different prices . Most US airlines know you are n't choosing them on the basis of cuisine and pick the lowest priced meal they can get away with . Other airlines eg Emirates , Singapore compete by offering high customer services and so invest more money in better food and service . 2 . Culture Airlines which are mostly flying a home market will adapt the food to the traditions of the country . EL-AL are n't going to be serving bacon cheese-burgers and Air India used to do very good veggie curries .
The Super Hornet ca n't even shoot a VOR approach , much less an ILS . We are TACAN / PAR only . That 's fine at the boat , because that 's how we operate , but apparently the Navy still has n't figured out that there are stationary airfields that do n't float . Maybe someday we 'll upgrade and get the finest in 1980 's technology . In all seriousness I 'm assuming it has to do with operational requirements and money . The less the Navy spends on stuff like ILS equipment , the more they can spend on stuff that goes boom . Also , if the weather is questionable at home we probably ca n't safely do our training mission anyway , and out at sea , we have some other systems that help us land on the boat in bad weather . It would be really nice though to be able to use civilian fields as legal weather alternates . It gets a little tricky sometimes when planning cross countries .
The airjet openings are connected to a long duct running along the ceiling . Since the air volume inside the cabin is restricted , fresh air must be pumped into it constantly . It is bleed air from the compressor section of the engine , which is first cooled and then enters the cabin via those ducts which feed all the little vents or airjets , as you call them . Passengers can open or close them individually and direct the flow for best comfort . The general idea is that some vents will be closed , but enough are open during every flight so the needed recirculation of air can happen . If more are closed , the pressure in the duct will be higher , so the flow through the remaining vents will increase . The total weight of all the cabin ducting is a minor consideration , it 's only a few dozen gram per passenger .
The crash was only one of the ( albeit an important ) reason for the grounding of Concorde . Actually , the aircraft was retired around three years after the crash . The main reason was that not enough people were flying it to keep it profitable . The Concorde as a technological marvel , but it had a number of disadvantages : The aircraft was costly - The program cost over $ 3B and produced 20 aircraft , of which 14 were used in commercial service . Maintenance costs - The small number of aircraft and technological sophistication meant that the cost of spares was high and options limited . Operating costs - The Concorde consumed nearly three times per passenger fuel when compared to the Boeing 747-100 . Still , the aircraft made operational profit due to the high cost of tickets . Recession - After 9/11 attacks exacerbated the global downturn in aviation due to recession , there was an enormous drop in first class air travel , on which Concorde was dependent on . While announcing the retirement , British Airways cited commercial reasons , with passenger revenue falling steadily against a backdrop of rising maintenance costs for the aircraft .
I 'm no expert , but I can think of two general reasons : risk of incapacitation , and general physical limitations ( reaction speed , stamina , the ability to maintain concentration for extended periods etc. ) . The age 65 limit only applies to part 121 ATP pilots , by the way ; you can still be a commercial or private pilot for as long as you can keep getting a valid medical . Older people are simply at <URL> and many other medical conditions , and they 're also much more likely to require medication that may not be approved by the FAA or other national authorities . Of course that does n't mean that every older pilot is the same but I guess that the FAA has decided that since the risks increase with age , at some point they become unacceptable . To understand the specific reasons for that decision you would probably need to dig up the original <URL> or transcripts of the public debate/hearings , but I have no idea if that 's possible or not . Then the other aspect is general physical and mental condition . They both deteriorate with age , and the NTSB sometimes <URL> as a potential factor in accidents : On the day of the accident , the pilot had flown several formation sorties . The day was hot , and the formation activities were demanding . The accident flight was relatively long , and the co-owner of the airplane guessed it was about 45 minutes long . Most formation sorties were 30 minutes or less . The accident pilot was in his early 70s and was by far the oldest member of the flight . Due to the pilot 's age , the demanding schedule , and the length of the formation sorties , fatigue could have been a factor , although it could not be conclusively determined . Of course , any discussion like this is a generalization and I 'm sure it 's easy to find individual 70-year old pilots or controllers who are ' sharper ' than younger ones ( after all , experience counts for a lot too ) . But there 's no escaping the overall pattern that older people in general are more prone to medical issues and less physically/mentally capable than younger ones , and at least one US court <URL> that there 's no effective way to determine individual risk so a general rule is not discriminatory : The court also concluded that ExxonMobil had established , through the testimony of several medical experts , that the risk of sudden incapacitation in flight significantly increased with age , and that there are no adequate means of individually testing each pilot to determine whether a pilot was at risk to suffer such an incapacitation .
In the early days of aviation it was simply easier to have the gear fixed . The landing gear adds drag , but so does <URL> and <URL> . Airplanes generally did not fly very fast or far , so the drag from the landing gear ( and that other stuff ) was not a big issue . The first design with retractable gear <URL> . Since then , retractable gear has been a design decision each airplane must make . Retracting the gear into the airplane allows for a cleaner form , which reduces drag . However , this is at the expense of added weight . The retract system , which is usually hydraulic , must be added , and the plane must be designed to make room for the gear somewhere at least mostly inside the aircraft . The plane must also be designed to handle situations where some or all of the gear does not extend properly . For planes that need to be fast and/or efficient , retractable gear is worth the reduction in drag . The additional drag has to be supported by the structure as well . Aircraft with retractable gear will have a maximum speed at which the gear can be extended . Even gear with proper fairings would add significant drag at the speeds airliners fly at . This would be much more critical at supersonic speeds . In these cases the weight of reinforcing the gear could be even higher than the weight of the retracting system . Particularly smaller general aviation planes tend to not have retractable gear . The retract system adds extra weight and complexity ( and therefore cost ) , which will be fairly significant in a small plane . Fixed gear is simple and can be designed to minimize drag as much as possible . These planes do not typically need to fly fast or have large range , so the added drag is less of an issue . Other small planes do have retractable gear , which will allow for greater speed and range . The PA-32 type shown in <URL> was later produced in a <URL> as well .
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
The 'N' numbers you 're referring to are <URL> . The FARs ( Federal Aviation Regulations ) specifically mention registration as not being required for military aircraft : <URL> ( b ) No person may operate an aircraft that is eligible for registration under 49 U.S.C. 44101-44104 , unless the aircraft -- ( 1 ) Has been registered by its owner ; ( 2 ) Is carrying aboard the temporary authorization required by § 47.31 ( c ) ; or ( 3 ) Is an aircraft of the Armed Forces The FAA issues these registrations in accordance with its responsibilities under the <URL> , which required ( in <URL> ) that : Every aircraft engaged in international air navigation shall bear its appropriate nationality and registration marks . As per the above-cited 14 CFR 47.3 , though , the U.S. specifically requires that all eligible aircraft have registrations unless it 's either a military aircraft or it has temporary authorization under 14 CFR 47.31 ( c ) .
Not the FAA , but the manufacturer . If the parts are composite , only a small range of colors may be approved , depending on the <URL> of the resin matrix . For gliders , only white is allowed for most of the surface area , and similarly composite parts of airliners must be painted <URL> so they do n't heat up too much in sunlight . Curiously , the lower surface has the most restrictions , because here the reflected light from a concrete surface and the restricted ventilation create the highest surface temperatures . Next , the UV absorption capability , moisture protection characteristics and the chemical stability of the paint when in contact with aviation fuel , hydraulic fluids , de-icing fluids and other solvents is important . Composite gliders must use a special topcoat which is more brittle than the composite structure , so cracks will show up . Airliners may use more flexible paints , but must then undergo regular inspections of their composite parts . Metal surfaces are less demanding and can be painted in any color . Only the area in front of the windshield should be dark enough to reduce glare and irritating reflections .
Navigation has gotten much simpler over the years . Initially , navigation would be done by a combination of dead reckoning , looking out the window for landmarks , and for night or long-distance flights , by celestial navigation ( many old airplanes have a window at the navigator 's station specifically to let the navigator see the stars ) . This took quite a bit of time and effort , so the pilot could n't do it and also fly the airplane . In the 1920s , radio navigation was added to the navigator 's toolkit , but finding bearings to beacons and calculating a location was still an entirely manual process . Additionally , radio beacons did n't cover the entire world , so older navigation techniques were still needed for most flights . In the 1950s , fully-automatic radio direction finding systems became common and navigation beacons were available across most of Europe and North America . At this point , the workload involved in navigation dropped to the point that the pilot could also navigate : plot out the sequence of NDBs to follow ahead of time , then tune the radio and follow the navigation display . Very recently , navigation has been integrated with the autopilot to the point that the pilot can punch in a sequence of waypoints and have the airplane fly the route entirely on its own . And yes , even today if the electronic navigation system fails , the fallback is map , compass , and slide rule .
end question
start question
What is a 709 ride ?
The regulatory basis for the exam comes from <URL> ( hence the name ) , which states : ( a ) The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may reinspect at any time a civil aircraft , aircraft engine , propeller , appliance , design organization , production certificate holder , air navigation facility , or air agency , or reexamine an airman holding a certificate issued under section 44703 of this title . The outcomes and procedures are handled as show <URL> . Possible Outcomes ( 5-1424 , 5-1428 ) : TL ; DR : As shown in 5-1428 , the results are : Issuance of a letter of results to the airman ; Possible issuance of a Temporary Airman Certificate ; or Possible downgrade of the airman 's certificate . If the airman satisfactorily completes the reexamination ( 5-1424 ( A ) ) , then the inspector will issue a letter of results . If the certificate had been temporarily suspended , then the Otherwise , if the certificate had not been suspended , the airman is free If the airman does not satisfactorily complete the reexamination ( 5-1424 ( B ) ) , then : The airman must be informed in detail of each deficiency . Additionally , if the airman 's certificate had been temporarily deposited at the FSDO and the temporary deposit term is nearing expiration , a decision must be made to suspend the certificate or to extend the temporary deposit period for another 30 days . If , in the opinion of the inspector , the airman could successfully complete another reexamination by obtaining additional instruction , every effort must be made to encourage the airman to do so . Depending on what the inspector decides , one of two things happens : 1 ) When the inspector decides to allow the airman additional time , the inspector takes the airman 's certificate for temporary deposit at the FSDO and issues a temporary certificate . The temporary certificate must have a limitation against carrying passengers and a 30-day expiration date . The airman has 30 days in which to practice or obtain additional dual instruction before being reexamined again . 2 ) If the inspector determines the airman is unable to establish qualification to hold the certificate or rating , legal enforcement action must be taken to revoke the airman 's certificate and/or ratings . ( See FAA Order 2150.3 , Chapter 8 . ) When is the enforcement action issued ? This is mostly covered in the above sections . Essentially , if you are not found deficient , a revocation of your suspension will begin to be processed or you can just proceed on your merry way . If you are found deficient , then you will either be immediately be issued a temporary certificate with limitations so you can practice to pass another re-exam , or your certificate will revoked as soon as can be legally done ( presumably the inspector will tell you not to fly , but I do n't have backing for that ) . What happens during a 709 ride ? ( 5-1423 ) Part ( A ) of 5-1423 deals with this , and states : Extent of Reexamination . The inspector should test the airman only in the areas specified in the letter of notification . However , if other deficient areas are noted during the reexamination , these would also be the basis for failure of the test . For example , during a reexamination when the airman was to be tested on the ability to recognize and recover from stalls , the inspector noted that on takeoff the airman over-rotated to a dangerously high pitch attitude , requiring the inspector to take corrective action . In this situation the reexamination should be discontinued , and the airman should be informed of failing the test because of deficient skills exhibited while en route to demonstrate the maneuvers . Part ( B ) notes that the inspector can place special emphasis on certain areas based on the reason for the letter being issued . You can fail if you are unqualified for any maneuver contained in the PTS for the certificate/rating you are being tested for , as Part ( C ) notes . Part ( D ) notes that the test does not have to be flight-based , though presumably one that did would have some portion of oral examination . ( Part ( E ) allows the test to be taken in a simulator , if it is requested by the airman and approved by the inspector ) . Knowledge Reexamination . The reexamination may be conducted using an oral or knowledge test , devised by the inspector , if the area to be reexamined is one of knowledge rather than skill or flight proficiency .
According to <URL> : 5.7.4 . ARRIVAL PROCEDURES : 5.7.4.1 . DESCENTS : 5.7.4.1.1 . TACTICAL ( PENETRATION ) DESCENT ( Overhead , Downwind , Beam , etc ) : High rate ( unrestricted ) visual descent profile designed to transition an aircraft from a high-level altitude structure to a low-level altitude structure putting the aircraft in a safe position to execute a tactical approach . ... 5.7.4.1.3 . TACTICAL ( PENETRATION ) DESCENT ASSAULT -- High rate ( unrestricted ) visual descent profile designed to transition an aircraft from a high-level altitude structure to a low-level altitude structure putting the aircraft in a safe position to execute a tactical approach to an assault landing zone . Note : A separate penetration descent profile may also be flown to Mackall AAF ( HFF ) , see Pope Aircrew In-flight guide for procedures . 5.7.4.1.3.1 . Arrival Procedures : 5.7.4.1.3.1.1 . When sequenced , commence penetration descent to a tactical approach , ARA , or normal pattern . Request desired approach as early as possible upon switching to Pope Tower . 5.7.4.1.3.1.2 . Remain at or above 2500 ' MSL until within 5 NM of Pope . Do not descend below 720 ' MSL until given clearance to land from Pope Tower . See also fooot 's <URL> to another question , where he describes a tactical descent as an extremely steep descent , and a tactical approach as an extremely steep approach . According to other sources , the technique in question might also be called ( depending on the exact landing circumstances ) an <URL> , a <URL> or even a <URL> .
The clearest definition I could find is from <URL> ( of all places ) : The airplane is pitched up into a vertical or near-vertical climb . It then pauses , slips downward momentarily ( tail first ) , and then whips into a steep , nose-down attitude . The tail-first slip backwards seems to be the defining characteristic of a whip stall . Interestingly , Whip Stall and Tumble Awareness is included in the <URL> , but they are n't defined there either .
Background The Sequenced Flashing Lights are part of some <URL> and are a row of strobe lights that flash in sequence to direct the pilots eyes to the runway . They are useful in conditions of bad weather , as they quickly catch the eye and help the pilot locate the runway threshold which might otherwise be hidden ; however , during normal operations they can actually be distracting . These lights appear to run towards the runway and are often called chasers , the rabbit , or the running rabbit . Kill the Wabbit Because these lights are very bright , and often distracting during normal operations in clear weather , it is not uncommon to hear pilots ask the controllers to kill the w/rabbit on their approach . I personally find them overkill , and have heard many other pilots asked them to be turned off as well . <URL> Photo credit <URL>
The composition of total Drag as it is shown below : <URL> <URL> Thanks to DRAGBUSTERS ... <URL> can solve this question , and analyses the drag in detail . Profile Drag Definition : Profile Drag is the drag incurred from frictional resistance of the blades passing through the air . It does not change significantly with angle of attack of the airfoil section , but increases moderately as airspeed increases . Taken from <URL> . Definitions of profile drag as they are in dictionaries : The portion of the wing drag that is due to friction and turbulence in the fluid and that would be absent if it were nonviscous The part of the drag on an aerofoil or aircraft which arises directly from its profile and from skin friction ( i.e. the part not attributable to lift ) . By reading <URL> ... ( in fifth par . ) Form Drag Definition : Drag which depends on the shape of the aircraft , is called form drag . The following definition has been taken from <URL> . Profile Drag or , sometimes called form drag , is the drag caused by the separation of the boundary layer from a surface and the wake created by that separation . It is primarily dependent upon the shape of the object . Form or pressure drag is caused by the air that is flowing over the aircraft or airfoil . And finally , the most commonly types of drag encountered are , Parasitic Drag , composed of Form Drag , which is the result of the aerodynamic resistance to motion due to the shape of the aircraft , Skin Friction Drag , which is due to the smoothness or roughness of the surfaces of the aircraft , and Interference Drag , which may occur where surfaces with different characteristics meet ( e.g. wing and fuselage ) Induced Drag , which is a secondary effect of the production of lift , and Wave Drag which comes into play when shock waves are developed close to the surface of the aircraft in transonic and supersonic flight . Taken by <URL> which describes very nicely the types of drag .
They basically ask you to report it as a " memory jogger " for themselves so that they can do something when you call in ( like clear you to land ) . A standard airport traffic pattern is described in Chapter 7 of the Airplane Flying Handbook as : The downwind leg is a course flown parallel to the landing runway , but in a direction opposite to the intended landing direction . This leg should be approximately 1/2 to 1 mile out from the landing runway , and at the specified traffic pattern altitude . During this leg , the before landing check should be completed and the landing gear extended if retractable . Pattern altitude should be maintained until abeam the approach end of the landing runway . At this point , power should be reduced and a descent begun . The downwind leg continues past a point abeam the approach end of the runway to a point approximately 45 ° from the approach end of the runway , and a medium bank turn is made onto the base leg . It looks like this : <URL> When the tower asks you to fly a two mile pattern , they want you to fly a pattern that has the downwind leg 2 miles out from the runway instead of the 1/2 to 1 mile that is normal . The base leg would still be turned when 45 ° from the approach end of the runway . In this case , you are either : Doing pattern work in which case you fly the two mile wide pattern and should report turning base , or Approaching the airport and the controller would like you to enter the two mile wide pattern on the base leg . You should report the point where you would have normally turned onto the base leg if you were flying the entire pattern ( 45 ° to the runway ) . This would actually be both of your last two scenarios above : Established on the base leg , two miles prior to intercepting a two mile final ( which for fun would actually be 2.83 miles from the runway ) .
First allow me to give a quick introduction to RNAV and RNP before geting to SAAAR / RNP AR . Area Navigation ( RNAV ) is a method of instrument flight rules ( IFR ) navigation that allows an aircraft to fly on any desired path within the coverage of referenced navigation beacons , rather than navigating directly to and from the beacons . In other words , waypoints can be defined at arbitrary locations and paths betweens those points ( and traditional navigation beacons as well ) can be defined . RNAV routes are coded into the navigation database by ARINC 424 path-terminators . Whilst RNAV routes can be designed in such a way that the lateral path is strictly described , in general the lateral path has a quite some freedom due to floating leg types ( e.g. turn at altitude , fly heading etc ) and wiggle room for the aircraft to negotiate the turns . When the route is described only by TF ( track to fix ) and RF ( radius to fix ) path terminators , the lateral path is fully fixed . These fixed lateral paths allow procedure designers , for example , to design approaches through mountain valleys down to the runway . RNAV defines a 95 % accuracy bounds . For example , RNAV 1 requires the aircraft to be within 1 NM from the path centreline 95 % of the time . The route designer will ensure a 2 NM obstacle free zone around the path in such a case . Note that RNAV provides no assurance against exceeding the 2 NM zone . There is no automated system monitoring required . Potentially causes of deviations between the path intended by the procedure designer and the actual flown path can be grouped into three categories : First , there is the Path Definition Error . This is caused by database coding mismatch with the original path design . Second , there is the Path Steering Error , caused by the combination of display inaccuracies on the Navigation Display and the inability of the pilot or the autoflight system to stay exactly on path ( Flight Technical Error ) . Third , there is Position Estimation Error , which is the difference between the position of the aircraft estimated by the navigation system and the true position . It is not unthinkable that while normally ( 95 % of the time ) the aircraft will fly within e.g. 1 NM of the intended centre line , there are cases that the aircraft will exceed the 1NM by far , possibly even busting the 2 NM obstacle free zone . That could potentially ruin your day if it happens in a mountain valley . This is where RNP comes in . RNP ( Required Navigation Performance ) is basically RNAV with added protection . For example , RNP 1 again defines a 1NM accuracy for 95 % of the time , but it also offers 99.999 % assurance that it will not exceed the 2NM . It will raise an alert if the 2 NM value will potentially be exceeded . So in addition to what RNAV offers , it includes a system monitoring function that will detect navigation errors and alerts for them . The RNP value alway gives the 95 % accuracy , the 99.999 % assurance ( integrity ) limit is always at twice that value . So RNP 0.3 means that the aircraft has to stay within 0.3 NM of the designed path centreline 95 % of the time . And if it exceeds the 0.6 NM threshold , an alert will be raised with 99.999 % certainty . RNP systems therefore require a system monitoring function . To ensure that the RNP values are met , each of the three error sources mentioned earlier must be under control . For RNP values down to 1 NM that is not much of a challenge . Standard procedures and equipment are deemed to be sufficient here . ( of course the required RNP values must be met by the Actual Navigation Performance ) If an approach requires tighter limits , such as RNP 0.3 or 0.15 , then special authorization is required . This is where SAAAR comes in ( Special Aircraft and Aircrew Authorization Required ) , now renamed to RNP AR ( RNP Authorization Required ) . RNP AR routes only make use of TF and RF leg types to fully fix the lateral path . RF legs are not supported by all navigation systems by default . To get authorization for RNP AR , the aircraft needs to comply with the applicable functional and performance requirements , the crew needs to be trained and lot 's of documentation must be maintained . Basically proof must be provided that all of the three error terms are under strict control . In a sense it is somewhat similar to ILS CAT III approval . References : <URL> describes a means of compliance for RNP AR <URL> gives a good explanation of RNAV and RNP
It depends on what you mean by " optimal " . For a dogfight , the optimal age is probably 30 . At this age a person has lots of experience , but still maintains their full mental agility , ability to calculate and energy . In a dogfight your ability to think fast and calculate your next move is the critical factor . For combat missions , however , 40-45 may be more optimal , because experience , judgement and knowledge becomes more important . Knowing when to attack , how to attack , how to make your approach , how to do your mission setup , and many other things become the product of long experience . For complicated missions in enemy territory , it is better to have someone with long experience , rather than a young hotshot . Once a person hits about 60-65 years in age , their mental ability to calculate declines significantly . Nevertheless , experience can make up for it in some instances . For example , at age 63 <URL> was a candidate for the world chess championship , an amazing accomplishment for a person of that age . Emanuel Lasker took 3rd place at Moscow 1935 , a premier chess tournament , at the age of 66 , which was practically a miracle . These are exceptions , however . In general , once a person gets into their 60s , their mental ability deteriorates . Therefore , the age 50-55 can be considered the maximum age at which experience and judgement can be used effectively in high speed combat situations . Complex Mission Role To investigate my basic assertion that optimal age for a combat mission ( not air supremacy ) pilot is 40-45 I investigated pilot astronauts . Since astronauts are selected from large numbers of candidates and have short careers typically , it is a safe assumption that their average age is what NASA considers to be ideal . According to <URL> the mean age for all selected pilot candidates is 39.90 years old . If we assume a pilot has a 5-year career , then my guess for optimal age matches perfectly with NASA 's selection choices . This may be considered strong evidence that for a pilot executing complex missions , the optimal age range is , indeed , 40 to 45 years . Air Supremacy Role ( " dog fighting " ) To determine the optimal age for air supremacy ( " dog fighting " ) , if we had access to the USAF 's ( or other country 's ) exercise data over time , we might get an idea since we could calculate an ELO rating for each combatant and identify to the top exercise fighters of all time . Unfortunately this kind of data is not released as far as I know , probably because the armed services do like naming or identifying particular soldiers . I do strongly suspect , though , that if such a study was done it would show the " best in the world " air supremacy pilots would be clustered around the age of 30 . To check this , I tried summarizing statistics from WW2 German fighter pilots . Using birth data on 470 German aces I generated the following plot : In this chart , the bar chart is the total number of aces grouped by date of birth . The blue dots are the average number of victories for that birth year group . What this chart seems to show is that performance is remarkably consistent between the ages of 18 and 32 , with a slight advantage to the younger pilots , but then declines significantly . The 1922 group was significantly skewed by <URL> . If we eliminate him as an outlier , the top group is the class of 1920 which would have been between the ages of 19 and 25 during the war . This seems to show my original guess was wrong , and that dogfighting is dependent more on quick reflexes and fast thinking than on experience , which hands the edge to the young .
When you look at FAA publications <URL> is pretty simple : A stabilized approach is one in which the pilot establishes and maintains a constant angle glidepath towards a predetermined point on the landing runway . When pilots talk about stabilized approaches we generally mean a little more than that though - for example <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> all include more than just the constant-angle glide path in their recommendations for what makes an approach " stabilized " . Criteria that are commonly included in a " stabilized approach " are : Maintaining a constant-angle glidepath toward a predetermined aiming point on the runway . Maintaining a specified descent rate Maintaining a specified airspeed ( Vapp ) ( Generally being slightly above Vapp is OK , but below is unacceptable . ) Having the aircraft configured for landing ( gear , flaps , etc. ) All required checklists completed The approach can be maintained with only " small corrections " to pitch , heading , or power . An approach is " stabilized " if all the required criteria are met by a specific altitude ( Airbus calls them " Stabilization Heights " , and recommends 500 feet for approaches in VMC , and 1000 feet for approaches in IMC ) . If the approach is not stabilized by the appropriate stabilization height ( or conditions cause the approach to become " destabilized " - a sudden change in winds for example ) the approach is abandoned ( a " go-around " ) . So what makes stabilized approaches safer ? The theory is that a stabilized approach reduces the pilot 's workload as they 're getting closer to the ground : If the aircraft is configured for landing and all the checklists have been completed all the pilot has to do is gently nudge the controls to keep the plane going where they want it , and they can concentrate all of their attention on a nice , safe , ( hopefully ) smooth landing . Are stabilized approaches always safer ? From a workload perspective , yes . It 's hard to argue with " The pilot has less work to do " . <URL> Stabilized approaches generally require partial power to be maintained throughout the approach , and although the engines in modern single-engine piston/jet aircraft have a pretty good track record of reliability there are good arguments for " non-stabilized " approaches ( or approaches that are effectively " stabilized " at idle power ) in single-engine aircraft . Even if you 're not flying a " stabilized approach " the way the airline folks define it you 're well-served by incorporating some of the elements though - going around if your checklists are n't completed by a certain altitude , abandoning the approach if you have to manhandle the controls to try to keep things together , etc. .
There are contingency measures for PF incapacitation when PNF is absent from the cockpit . This includes measures for cockpit decompression ( e.g. window breaking ) These measures are balanced with measures to prevent unauthorised passengers forcing entry to the cockpit , including by using force on cabin crew ( or PNF ) to make them open the cockpit door . Some of these measures are at the airline 's discretion . Cockpit door locks According to <URL> A locked door is opened by a flight crew inside the cockpit but can also be unlocked by cabin crew entering a keycode from the outside . Crew inside the cockpit can manually override it to keep a door locked for up to five minutes . " In the case of an electrical supply failure the door is automatically unlocked , but remains closed , " reads the manual . It is equipped with a manual escape hatch but that is only accessible from the inside . According to <URL> safety protocols mandated by Congress in the U.S. after the Sept. 11 attacks ... eliminate the use of keys for entering the cockpit - assuring that no errant passenger can wrestle a key away from a crew member . ... If a member of the flight crew does n't open the locked cockpit door from the inside , according to a manual for the Airbus A320 <URL> , the door can also be unlocked by the cabin crew outside the cockpit by entering a two - to seven-digit code , pre-programmed by the airline , on a keypad . Cockpit occupancy Guardian : Protocols and standard procedures around what happens when a pilot leaves the cockpit mid-flight vary according to country and airline . A flight attendant taking the seat of an absent pilot to ensure there are always two people in the cockpit , and/or blocking access to the open door with a trolley , are often seen on US flights , but not necessarily on others , [ Aviation expert Neil Handsford ] said . For instance it is not a requirement on Australian flights . LA Times : American experts say the typical procedure is for a flight attendant to use a food cart to block access to the cockpit when the pilot opens the door to leave . A flight attendant is supposed to remain in the cockpit and open the door for the pilot upon his or her return . ... Airbus Manual The Airbus manual referred to above says The Cockpit Door Locking System ( CDLS ) provides a means of electrically locking and unlocking the cockpit door . This system is mainly composed of : A keypad , located in the forward cabin , near the cockpit door , A toggle switch , located in the center pedestal 's Cockpit Door panel , A control unit and its CKPT DOOR CONT normal panel , located on the overhead panel , A buzzer . The keypad enables the cabin crew to request access to the cockpit . There are two different access request types : " Routine " and " Emergency " access request ( Refer to PRO-SUP-25 Cockpit Door Operation - General ) . The toggle switch enables the flight crew to lock or unlock the cockpit door , following an access request , thereby allowing or denying the entry to the cockpit . The cockpit door control unit is the system controller , in charge of : Locking or unlocking the door latches , upon flight crew action . Unlocking the door , in case of cockpit decompression ( the door then opens towards the cockpit under differential pressure ) . Indicating system failures of electrical latches and pressure sensors . Activating the access request buzzer and turning on the keypad LEDs . The buzzer sounds in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s to indicate that a routine access request has been made , or sounds continuously if an emergency access procedure has been initiated . The keypad is used to sound the buzzer in the cockpit for 1 to 9 s ( 3 s by default ) , by entering a zero to seven-digit code , as programmed by the airline , followed by the ' # ' key . It is also used to enter the two to seven-digit emergency code , followed by the ' # ' key , when the flight crew does not respond . There is also an <URL> that shows how the cockpit door lock operates normally and in the case of pilot incapacitation Abbreviations PF = Pilot flying , PNF = Pilot not flying .
Rotor is the generic name for something in rotation . It can be used for a propeller , the rotating wing of an helicopter , the rotating elements of a compressor or a turbine , etc. . Rotor ( rotating ) is the antonym of stator ( stationary ) . Propeller blades are airfoils ( small wings ) which accelerate air to create lift and thrust . Sometimes a propeller is referred as a propeller disc to designate the whole disc swept by the blades , and the inner cone . <URL> <URL> . Propeller blades are fixed on the rotation axis , except for the pitch angle . Rotor blades ( rotorcraft ) are not fixed , they have some freedom in flapping and leading-lagging . <URL> Source : <URL> These freedom degrees are necessary to prevent vibrations due to varying forces encountered by a blade during a full turn . Rotor blades of a gas turbine are like propeller blades , though for the turbine itself they may work by " impulse " and by reaction ( acceleration by converging nozzle ) , and more generally by a mix of both principles . <URL> Often the inner part of a rotor holding the blades is referred as the rotor disc . Blades of a turbine engine are fixed like blades of a propeller , though in some cases they are not locked on the disc mechanically , but dynamically by the centrifugal force . The distinction between rotor and propeller is more a matter of custom . Rotor is quite generic , you ca n't be wrong using it for a spinning device . Propeller is rather specific to the mean of creating horizontal thrust within a fluid and with the objective to move an object . A house fan is not a propeller . You may find a similar distinction between ( aerodynamic ) lift ( and drag ) and thrust , created by the same phenomena : Fluid acceleration . The distinction is here in the way the aerodynamic force is symbolically broken down into geometrical components .
The squawk code is assigned by Air Traffic Control to the aircraft and is used for radar identification purposes . It is a 4 digit octal number ( each digit has a value in the range [ 0-7 ] ) . The flight crew enters the assigned squawk code into the transponder control panel and the radar extracts the code using a Mode-A interrogation ( or UF5 / UF21 interrogation in case of a Mode S radar / transponder ) . The extracted squawk code can then be used to correlate the radar reply with an aircraft 's flight plan . A number of squawk codes are reserved for generic purposes and emergencies . These codes are used in emergency , or when no flight plan correlation is needed . Some generic codes are : 1000 - Conspicuity code signalling the Flight Data Processing system to use Mode-S Aircraft ID for flight plan correlation . ( Primarily in Europe ) 1200 - Visual Flight Rules standard squawk code ( USA &amp; Canada ) 2000 - Used when entering a Secondary Surveillance Area and no code has yet been assigned . 7000 - Visual Flight Rules standard squawk code ( ICAO , USA &amp; Canada use 1200 instead ) 7500 - Unlawful interference / hijack ( ICAO , worldwide ) 7600 - Radio communication lost ( ICAO , worldwide ) 7700 - General emergency ( ICAO , worldwide )
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
One seller 's link on Amazon claimed 10 " x 5 " , but when I measured an old one ( only one I have handy ) , it was between 10.25 " and 10.5 " long by 5 " wide . So I 'd recommend using the latter value , knowing that the chart will probably be a hair under 10.5 " long and so you have room for error ( or a badly refolded chart ) .
The obvious answer you mentioned should be reiterated : Avoid thunderstorms whenever possible ! Just because there are " best penetrating altitudes " does n't change the fact that thunderstorms are extremely hazardous to aircraft and should be avoided in the first place . With that said , the FAA 's <URL> mentions that , if unable to avoid penetrating a thunderstorm : To avoid the most critical icing , establish a penetration altitude below the freezing level or above the level of -15 ºC . This is to help minimize rapid accumulation of clear ice : Supercooled water freezes on impact with an aircraft . Clear icing can occur at any altitude above the freezing level but at high levels , icing from smaller droplets may be rime or mixed rime and clear . The abundance of large , supercooled water droplets makes clear icing very rapid between 0ºC and -15 ºC , and encounters can be frequent in a cluster of cells . Thunderstorm icing can be extremely hazardous . Another point to mention is that , regardless of there being a recommended " penetration altitude , " it is important to maintain a constant attitude , not altitude : It is almost impossible to hold a constant altitude in a thunderstorm , and maneuvering in an attempt to do so greatly increases stress on the aircraft . Stresses are least if the aircraft is held in a constant attitude . But again , emphasizing the dangers of thunderstorms , the circular states : Never regard any thunderstorm lightly , even when radar observers report the echoes are of light intensity . Avoiding thunderstorms is the best policy . and Weather recognizable as a thunderstorm should be considered hazardous , as penetration of any thunderstorm can lead to an aircraft accident and fatalities to those on board .
There is a ( relatively ) new requirement for Flight Attendants ( on aircraft with more than 20 passenger seats ) to be certified as per the FAA . This was done in the <URL> , in section 814 if you want to read it . The applicable CFR is <URL> . In summary it says : You have to have a certificate of demonstrated proficiency , this looks like a pilots license . Demonstrated compliance with the air carrier approved training program . Proficiency to read , speak , and write English Comprehend written material in English Ability to write incident reports and log entries/statements Carry out written and oral instructions Now , the actual physical requirements are up to the airline , as long as the individual can complete the training program , they are physically allowed to become a flight attendant ( physical appearance requirements aside ) . As for " legally " allowed , they need to be able to pass the same TSA background checks that pilots are subject to . So legally , almost all airlines require : U.S. Citizen or appropriate work visa Be able to enter/exit the United States without any issues ( no visa problems with other countries , although for regionals this may not apply ) Be able to pass a TSA/FBI background check No DUI or felony convictions within the past 10 years There is n't a lot more " legal " to it than that , they do n't have to demonstrate the use of safety equipment if the airline 's training program does n't require it .
A major advantage is standardization . An aircraft can be given a <URL> , and assuming everything goes to plan , everyone involved will be on the same page as to what is going to happen . When air traffic control instructs an aircraft to fly a departure procedure , a large volume of information ( e.g. climb to this altitude , turn this way , turn that way , etc. . . ) can be communicated just by giving the name of the procedure . This is far more convenient and predictable for both the crew and controllers than giving every instruction individually . This allows controllers to focus on preventing conflicts and dealing with abnormal situations rather than issuing routine instructions , and it reduces the risk those instructions may be miscommunicated or misunderstood . The procedure itself will have been developed by specialists based on all sorts of criteria , among them : Obstacle clearance . This can be anything from the huge mountain range near the airport to buildings to towers to anything else . The procedure can be designed with a required minimum rate of climb , and pilots can ensure they are able to meet that requirement to climb over any obstacles . Obstacles might also be virtual , such as restricted areas for military purposes . Noise abatement . Communities in the vicinity of airports often have noise complaints . Departure procedures can be designed to direct aircraft away from noise sensitive areas . Traffic flow . Near a busy airport , large numbers of aircraft are maneuvering at low altitudes . Standardizing departure and arrival flows along certain corridors allows air traffic control to deal with aircraft moving in predictable ways and avoids potential conflict between different aircraft . Departure procedures help ensure separation between arriving and departing aircraft . Regional traffic flows . In congested airspace where several busy airports are located in close proximity , procedures can be developed to ensure that traffic to and from each airport are kept separated . A good example is the busy airspace around New York City , where <URL> are used to separate traffic into the region 's airports . Winds . Different runways may be used depending on wind conditions . There may be different departure procedures available for different runway configurations and/or universal departure procedures that have different instructions depending on the runway used . Navigational aids . While modern <URL> procedures are now available , traditional departure procedures guide aircraft from the runway through routes navigable through NAVAIDS like <URL> and <URL> onto established <URL> . Of course , an aircraft flying a departure procedure can always be given instructions to deviate from that procedure if it becomes necessary , such as for other traffic . If conditions permit , it 's also possible for a controller to give a " shortcut " by circumventing part of the procedure , perhaps by turning early toward the next waypoint on the flight 's filed route .
Really depends on what you are flying , what 's growing , what season and what the roads are like . Our Cessnas have used gravel roads a couple of times , either due to problems aloft or at the airport ( bad weather ) . In the Alberta prairies finding a side road to land on is no problem whatsoever . 100 and 200-series Cessnas have fairly narrow fixed gear that can take an amazing amount of abuse , do n't know about other types . A real cornfield , with the corn fully grown , will destroy a light aircraft . The plants are 2-3m high with a hard , heavy log of corn at the top . Hit a couple of thousand of them at 100km/h ... ( Skydiving centers in corn country have firm advice for landing in the corn : keep your legs crossed . ) Ripe canola is also nearly 2m high and is a bushy plant interwoven with it 's neighbors . You 'll probably flip over forward . Wheat is the best choice .
The fundamental benefit is that the operator does n't have to make a lot of adjustments on " legacy " airplanes , they can " simply " install the arm on the existing aircraft that they already have in service . And this is the main selling point for such a device , they are not marketing it to operators that still have to buy or lease an airliner , but to those that already have one and might want to reduce the number of pilots they have to employ . Gürkan Çetin notes in the comments that this device is not certified ( yet ) . That 's partially the point of such demonstrations , to convince authorities that it can be certified , and to incentivate operators to lobby for their approval .
This short answer is that you could break something if you over torque the engine . And that 's really about all that we can tell you in general terms . The manufacturer or an engine repair shop could tell you what is most likely to fail for a particular model , but the failure modes wo n't be consistent from engine to engine . As far as what to do if you were to over torque one , refer the the aircraft flight manual . They will have a limitations section , and most airplanes will have " transient " limits in addition to the " normal " limits . For instance , the limitation could be 100 % , with a transient limit of 103 % for 10 seconds and 105 % for 5 seconds . If the transient limits are exceeded , then you ( or more likely a mechanic on your behalf ) would need to refer to the maintenance manual for instructions . Depending on the severity of the exceedance , it can be anything from simply logging it in the engine logbooks to a complete tear down and overhaul of the engine . I 'll also add that some pilots lean towards pretending that the exceedance never happened , and hope that nobody noticed . This is not a good idea for several reason , the main one being that something could have been damaged that is not immediately obvious . Even though things are running correctly now does n't mean that all is well , and if an inspection is required , it 's for a reason . Another issue is that a lot of modern engines are computer controlled and monitored . The next time that the computer information is downloaded , maintenance will see the exceedance anyway and if you have flown it since then you could be in even more trouble . In short , follow the AFM procedures for your airplane . They are there to help keep you safe !
end question
start question
Is it dangerous to do a skidding turn to lose altitude without increasing airspeed ?
As Ron Beyer pointed out in a comment , your instructor was showing you a <URL> - a pretty standard maneuver for light aircraft . A spin would involve full rudder and a stalled wing , which usually means pulling the yoke or stick back a lot . That 's why overshooting the base-to-final turn can be dangerous - you likely already have a lot of rudder in and it 's tempting to pull back on the yoke to try to tighten up the turn . An unexpected spin at low altitude is not recommended as recovery tends to be both abrupt and fatal . As long as you 're keeping the yoke more or less centered forward and back and your airspeed up , there should be nothing to worry about .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
Here is what a lot of people experiences about simulator : they sit on a chair in front of a desk at home , run some PC flight simulator game with a yoke , and they can do pretty much anything - in the simulator . Many of these simulators are very real , especially with quality addons . Since they fly very good in the simulator , they should be good pilots too - after all , you just read the readings on the instruments then react to them ! How hard can that be , huh ? It turns out , we are biologically wired to orient ourselves with our ears . It is the result of evolution , with us staying on the ground for the past million years or so . When we fly , the body sends " wrong " signals to the brain . These signals are interpreted as " instincts " , and since we have trusted our body 's sensation ever since we 're born , they are very hard to fight against . Many new pilots faced trouble reacting to instrument readings , because their biological body is telling them the opposite of what the instrument is indicating , creating doubt . Full-motion simulators solves this problem . The movement of the simulator itself is , obviously , restricted . However , it is designed with ear-balance in mind . For example , the simulator will slowly right itself to upright over time , but the rate of rotation is just under the detection threshold of the ear-balance mechanism . Therefore , the occupants will not feel the simulator platform resetting itself . This allows pilots to practice with the sensation associated with attitude changes , in a controlled environment , with a much lower risk ( and much lower cost ) than flying in a real airplane .
Yes , it has been done before in an even larger aircraft , the Boeing 367-80 , <URL> . This aircraft was the prototype for the Model 707 . When a barrel roll maneuver is properly performed the aircraft remains in a positive-G state , so no " inverted flight " is experienced by the aircraft . According to the <URL> , The Barrel roll is a combination between a loop and a roll . You complete one loop while completing one roll at the same time . The flight path during a barrel roll has the shape of a horizontal cork screw . Imagine a big barrel , with the airplanes wheels rolling along the inside of the barrel in a cork screw path . During a barrel roll , the pilot always experiences positive Gs . The maximum is about 2.5 to 3 G . The minimum about 0.5 G.
I 'm answering the question of after the Edit . Simple momentum theory : $ $ T = C_T \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 \ tag { Thrust } $ $ $ $ P = C_P \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 3 \ cdot R ^ 3 \ tag { Power } $ $ $ $ C_P = \ frac { { C_T } ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt2 } \ tag { Ideal Power } $ $ $ $ FM = \ frac { Ideal Power } { InducedPower + ProfilePower } \ tag { FigureOfMerit } $ $ The Figure Of Merit is a dimensional unit and provides an efficiency measure . It always gives a better result for higher disk loadings , but does provide a correction for real life effects on the ideal power . So for your case , with A = 3.14 m $ ^ 2 $ , $ \ rho $ = 1.225 , T = 981N , the ideal power is : $ $ P _ { ideal } = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( T/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A } } \ right ) = 2 \ cdot \ left ( \ frac { ( 981/2 ) ^ { 3/2 } } { \ sqrt { 2 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 3.14 } } \ right ) = 7.8 kW $ $ From J. Gordon Leishman , Principles of Helicopter Aerodynamics : <URL> $ $ C_T = \ frac { T } { \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ Omega ^ 2 \ cdot R ^ 2 } \ tag { CT } $ $ Tip speed $ V _ { tip } = \ Omega \ cdot R$ should not exceed critical Mach = 0.7 * 340 m/s = 238 m/s . At this tip speed , $ C_T $ = 981 / ( 1.225 * 3.14 * 238 $ ^ 2 $ ) = 0.009 0.0045 . Corresponding Figure of Merit = 0.75 0.55 . So the power to drive the rotor would be $ $ 7.8 / 0.55 = 14.2 kW $ $ The rotor would turn at 238 rad/s = 2,270 rpm , hopefully that is around the rpm for max . torque for your engine . Otherwise you need to gear up/down as required , you have gearboxes anyway . You would need to add transmission losses for driving the two rotors from your engine . Prouty gives a power loss per stage of 0.0025 [ max.power + actual power ] . Each disk has 2 stages , so a power loss of about 0.005 * 2 * 14.2 = 0.14 kW per disk . $ $ Torque = P / \ Omega = 14,200 / 238 = 60 Nm $ $ EDIT A numerical error in calculating $ C_T $ = 0.0045 not 0.009 , so the FM is lower and torque may not be enough . In that case the rotor diameter should be reduced and the rpm increased .
It is possible but there are side effects . If both rudders would be deflected to opposite sides to cancel out each others yaw moments , their drag will act as an air brake . But since the top rudder is further from the center of gravity than the bottom rudder , the resulting roll moments of the rudders do n't cancel each other out . As a result the aircraft will start to roll . This can then be counteracted with the ailerons . Since the rudders do n't deflect as far as air brakes would , they would be less effective . If they would be designed to deflect more , the increased forces upon them and on the control system would require a heavier construction and thus add weight to the aircraft .
Chances are you would not survive but lets explore this a bit more in depth for the sake of education . This <URL> explores the very issue . There is some research that has gone into the topic of hitting the ground but the research is rarely about cases from the height you are asking about ( ~ 30,000 ft ) . Some relevant info First off at that altitude you really ca n't breathe that effectively so hypoxia will be your first concern followed closely by extreme cold . Hitting water : Studies of bridge-jump survivors indicate that a feet-first , knife-like entry ( aka " the pencil " ) best optimizes your odds of resurfacing . Hitting the ground : The question of how to achieve ground contact remains , regrettably , given your predicament , a subject of debate . A 1942 study in the journal War Medicine noted " distribution and compensation of pressure play large parts in the defeat of injury . " Recommendation : wide-body impact . But a 1963 report by the Federal Aviation Agency argued that shifting into the classic sky diver 's landing stance -- feet together , heels up , flexed knees and hips -- best increases survivability . Your best bet for surviving the airplane break up is if you are stuck in a situation similar to that of <URL> who did survive the situation you describe . Unfortunately there is some debate as to what actually happened so take the info at face value . " Speed has never killed anyone . Suddenly becoming stationary , that 's what gets you . " -- Jeremy Clarkson
Stalls occur based on a wing 's angle of attack rather than the aircraft 's airspeed . ( In fact , one of the basic facts that all pilots learn in their initial training is that an airplane can stall at any airspeed ) . The A330 measures angle of attack using vanes mounted on the fuselage : However , below 60 knots , these vanes <URL> . During the AF447 accident , the stall warning only engaged intermittently because the computers detected that the airspeed readings from the blocked pitot tubes were invalid , and therefore silenced the stall warning system . Furthermore , because of the lack of valid airspeed data , AF447 was no longer in <URL> ( and therefore had no automated angle-of-attack protection ) , a fact which the pilots may not have been aware of . By the time the deicing equipment had cleared the pitot tubes , the aircraft was at such an extreme pitch that airspeed indications were still considered invalid , and the stall warning system did not activate . The computers only activated the stall warning system when the crew pitched down , which brought valid airspeed data back into the cockpit . An <URL> suggests that this may have contributed to the accident : We also note that the aircraft , or more specifically the design of the stalling warning system , misled the pilots : each time they reacted appropriately , the alarm triggered inside the cockpit , as though they were reacting wrongly . Conversely , each time the pilots pitched up the plane , the alarm shut off , preventing a proper diagnosis of the situation . ( Emphasis mine )
IRS will drift over time . Decision altitude is 200ft for ILS CAT I approach . 0.5 nm drift is not to much for navigation but it will be huge difference in altitude and you can hit obstacles if your altitude has drifted just couple of feet . Probably it could be used if backed by GPS as EGPWS does or non baro RNAV approaches do . But even GPS precision alone is not enough in this case and you need WAAS . Radio altimeter can give much better precision .
Which means , roughly 5 times more passengers can be accommodated by compromising half of the top speed . So , why does speed loses out so much to capacity that it ultimately becomes unfeasible to operate a supersonic airliner ? I think you are asking , " why do supersonic aircraft have such low capacity " ? To travel faster than the speed of sound you need to have a very sharp nose and minimal area exposed to the forward direction , to minimize the generation of shockwaves . Shockwaves are bad for people on the ground ( the ' sonic boom ' effect ) and they are terrible for fuel efficiency . Second you really do not want to trap air on flat surfaces facing forwards , because the air will get squashed in the supersonic flow and heat up a lot ( like when you blow up a bicycle tyre or a football it is warm afterwards , or when the space shuttle re-enters the atmosphere ) . Again this is an enormous drag and having hot air flowing around your aircraft causes problems with the structure ( Concorde used to grow by 300 mm during flight because of the heat ) . Since you can not be wide and you can not be tall ( without being aerodynamically inefficient ) , you need to be very long if you want lots of people . And then you have other problems . The design and construction of Concorde was never a commercial project , it was funded by two governments almost as a vanity project , as a prototype or as an experiment . Then it was given for free to two airlines to use as they wanted . So unlike the A380 and the B747 , no one has ever said " now we try to maximize the economics and the capacity of our design " : that never happened . All they ever asked was " How do we make this work !? " Whereas the subsonic aircraft get a lot of time , money and thought spent on how to make them more economical to use by filling them with more passengers . For more information I recommend this interview with a former Concorde pilot : <URL> Also , Concorde was developed 40 years ago . Are some more efficient supersonic Airliners possible today ? I am sure that these days a far more fuel efficient supersonic engine could be built for passenger operations . And I do believe there would be a market for it on say LON-NYC or even maybe LON-DXB . But designing supersonic aircraft is quite different to designing subsonic ones ; and then you have all the difficulty of modern safety regulations without being able to demonstrate you are relying on old , proven designs ; and then there are very few routes where it could work profitably so you have very high development and maintenance costs spread over a small number of airframes . Basically , it is n't worth the risk to anyone to make it .
The device you are talking about is called a <URL> . This is a device that listens for a signal ( an interrogation ) and responds with information about the airplane including an ATC assigned code , altitude information and additional aircraft info for certain equipment . There are 2 ways ATC watches airplanes : <URL> <URL> The transponder is interrogated by the Secondary radar and the response is listened for . Even with no transponder , the aircraft can still be tracked by primary radar . This is just a normal radar that is good at seeing airplane sized objects and not so great at seeing weather and can occasionally spot a large flock of birds . The primary radar is what provides the " blip " on radar and tracks the airplane . The datablock ATC has on the airplane comes from the secondary , so what ATC will see is a blip with no information . Turning off the transponder is as simple as setting it to OFF or pulling a circuit breaker and yes , it can be selected OFF in flight , it is just a switch . The problem with radar is that it only works so far from a radar transmitter and the further away you are the higher you must be to be seen by the radar . Over the ocean away from land , you are going to be on the fringe of radar or out of radar contact completely and thus unable to be tracked directly by ATC ( at this point , non-radar procedures such as position reporting and ETAs can be used to track positions ) . The flight in question was apparently visible by a military radar before it disappeared from the scopes ( it allegedly observed what appeared to be a turn back toward its origin ) .
These terms obviously stem from an Airbus flight deck . Anything selected represents pilot 's discretion . If you want to keep a certain speed , HDG or altitude , you would pull the corresponding FCU ( Flight Control Unit = Autopilot Panel ) knob . This means in Airbus philosophy : I have control . Anything managed represents a flight management calculation . If you want to fly , e.g. in the most economic way , you push the corresponding FCU knob and therewith " handover the controls to the aircraft " . The calculations for managed autopilot options are derived from e.g. gross weight entries on the INIT page or current gross weight , Angle of Attack , Air Data Computers , Cost Index , ... depending on the flight phase . So , you always prefer to follow the economically calculated way and use managed modes . Whenever ATC requests you to keep a certain speed , sink/climb rate , heading whatever , you pull the knobs and select the target values .
The safest approach to a normal landing is a <URL> , so it 's going to depend a lot on you , your aircraft , and the day 's conditions . If you 're operating in a confined area , then that changes things a lot , and I 'm not going to address that . It also depends on your definition of a normal pattern and approach . The FAA <URL> , which should keep you fairly close to the airport anyway , and <URL> . That said , a normal approach is going to be much safer . As you point out in your question , a short approach often requires extreme descent rates or slips ( or both ) , and results in a much shorter final ; neither of those situations improve safety . Approaching with a high descent rate just so that you can reduce it if necessary does n't strike me as a particularly good choice for normal operations , either .
You do not calculate indicated airspeed : It is an indicated value , you read it from the airspeed indicator . ( I suppose you can calculate it if you really want to , but I 've got no idea why you would want to do so in the context of flight planning . ) You determine what airspeed to use for flight planning purposes using your aircraft 's performance data ( from the POH or other manufacturer documents ) : There will usually be either a chart or a table giving true airspeed as a function of power setting and density altitude . ( True Airspeed is a more useful number for planning purposes as it saves you a calculation . ) <URL> <URL> When in flight you can calculate your true airspeed based on the indicated airspeed and density altitude . You can then compare this to your planned figures from the performance charts to determine if adjustments are necessary to your flight plan ( ETA , Fuel use , etc. )
An Aeronautical License issued by the <URL> ( ACMA ) is required in order to operate a handheld aviation-band VHF transceiver in Australia . An aeronautical licence is issued to authorise a station that : is not fixed to an aircraft ; is operated on aeronautical frequencies ; is operated for purposes relating to the operation of an aircraft , or airport or aerodrome operations ; and in relation to an aircraft includes a mobile station operated on board the aircraft or on the ground in communication with aircraft . An aeronautical licence is necessary to authorise the operation of stations providing : air traffic control services ; aerodrome radio information services ; private company radiocommunications ; and other airport or aerodrome services . Reference : <URL> The Australian-based <URL> tutorial website may also provide more useful information . ( Note : This applies for a transceiver -- i.e. transmit &amp; receive -- rules may be different for receive-only ) .
It depends on the country where you are flying , and also what the message is . For example in the <URL> Chapter 2 , section 2.48 : 2.48 Ground to Air : Aircraft callsign -- message or reply . Air to Ground : Initiation of new information/request etc. -- Aircraft callsign then message ; Reply -- Repeat of pertinent information/readback/acknowledgement then aircraft callsign . In Germany the normal procedure is to start a message with the call sign , a reply may have the call sign at the end . From the AIP , GEN section 3.4-9 : 6.1 Procedures for Radio Communications ... ( 4 ) The call sign shall be transmitted at the beginning of a message . A direct answer to a message may be terminated by the call sign instead .
Basically everything that consumes power on an aircraft can potentially cause interference , short-circuits , or otherwise jeopardize the safety of flight and therefore must be switchable . Sometimes the switch is in the form a button , otherwise by a fuse . There are several particular reasons that the transponder can be turned off . If the transponder malfunctions , it may cause interruptions to all ATC surveillance in an area . There have been occurrences in the past that due to a fault the transponder it was basically acting as a radar jammer . In one particular incident it took a while before the aircraft that caused it was identified and after requesting the pilot to switch of the transponder , secondary surveillance was restored . Another reason is that when the aircraft is at the gate , the transponder is switched of to reduce the amount of radio transmissions . 100 aircraft on the surface of a large airport can produce a massive Radio Frequency noise , which negatively affect radar systems . When taxiing , radar replies are useful for aircraft identification , hence the transponder is switched on at push-back or engine start . For an example to see how such requirements are worded in aircraft certification regulations , see rbp 's answer . The focus here and in the media1 on the transponder in relation to hijacks is a red herring . If an aircraft is hijacked , there are way more important things to worry about than an active radar transponder . If hijackers turn off the transponder it means that they have access to the cockpit already . 1This answer was written shortly after flight <URL> went missing while en-route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing . Initial speculation focussed on a possible hijack scenario .
If you are asking about all or some of the masks as your title suggests , it <URL> . One such example from 2008 is <URL> . After the accident , numerous passengers said that some oxygen masks did not deploy , whilst others had deteriorated elastic . Consequently , it was reported that one passenger smashed a panel of the ceiling to attempt to gain access to the masks . It was stated that these passengers were deprived of oxygen until the plane was lowered to a breathable altitude . Best thing to do is to stay clam , and to breathe slowly/normally ( deep calm breaths ) . Worst case scenario if a person is a smoker and obese , they 'll pass out but will regain consciousness when the pilots reach a lower altitude . In a rapid depressurization emergency , the pilots act quickly to descend , it will be a matter of <URL> until the air would have sufficient oxygen again . Pilots have different mask systems that should be tested routinely . Related : <URL> <URL>
Wake turbulence can affect aircraft in the most critical phases of flight such as landing approach . For example , consider this <URL> On June 12 , 2006 , while on visual approach at Kansas City International Airport in Kansas City , Mo. , the pilot of a Piper Saratoga crossed below the flight path of a Boeing 737 that was landing ahead on a parallel runway . The Saratoga encountered wake turbulence so violent that it tore apart the aircraft in flight . The pilot and his passenger were killed . The effects are most severe for small aircraft entering the wake of a large aircraft but large aircraft can be affected too . Skybrary <URL> of incidents involving wake turbulance .
The standard operating procedures state that before every flight , a thorough pre-flight inspection should be performed . Depending on the aircraft , minute and tiny details are not even omitted . Things do not normally and occasionally fall off from a flying airplane , the same way as different objects do not fall from a driving car , although the pre-drive inspection of a car is no where nearly as comprehensive as the pre-flight inspection . Yet , how many times we have seen a bumper , guard , muffler or rear-view mirrors falling off ? How dangerous it would be when it happens ? This depends on the part which has fallen . Some parts are not noticeable until landing or next inspection and some can cause disasters . <URL> reports <URL> : No deaths or injuries have been reported in such incidents , but the Federal Aviation Administration is not even 100 percent certain of that . The proper term for this incident is Things Falling Off Aircraft ( TFOA ) . The pilot must then submit a <URL> within 24 hours in case the material can cause further harm . <URL> has listed some TFOA incidents : In August 2000 , a KLM Royal Dutch Airlines Boeing 747 was forced to make an emergency landing when some engine pieces plummeted to the ground and landed on a crowded Los Angeles beach On March 10 , 2005 , a couple taking a stroll through woodlands near Gatwick airport had a lucky escape when a door from a passing British Airways jet , crashed to earth . A part of the 70-pound door from a Boeing 777 had become dislodged just after take off and missed the couple by only 20 feet ! On August 11 , 2006 , a door fell off from a TAM Fokker 100 from Sao Paulo to Rio de Janeiro . It dropped off 18 minutes after departure but the plane was able to return to Sao Paulo without incident . Nobody was injured . An engine exploded on a Japan Airlines flight bound for Tokyo with pieces of the engine falling on a neighborhood in Jakarta . The falling debris hurt no one but 16 homes were damaged . The right wheel of a Blue Panorama Airlines Boeing 737 fell off after it departed from an airport in Spain and was forced to make an unscheduled landing amid emergency in Rome . A similar incident happened near Los Angeles where an American Airlines Boeing 757 lost its right nose gear but managed to land safely with 105 passengers on board . A landing gear door fell off a Delta Airlines Boeing 727 shortly after the plane took off from Boston * s Logan International Airport . The 30-pound metal door crashed into an empty street in a quiet residential neighborhood .
end question
start question
Was it possible to land a Boeing 707 with 300 feet cloud ceiling in the 70s ?
ILS approaches were in common use in 1970 when I got my instrument rating . The normal ( Cat I ) ceiling minimum was 200 feet . So , yes , a 707 would have been able to land with a 300 foot cloud ceiling in the 70s . I checked <URL> and and found the history paragraph below : Tests of the ILS system began in 1929 in the United States . [ 14 ] A basic system , fully operative , was introduced in 1932 at at Berlin-Tempelhof Central Airport ( Germany ) named LFF or " Lorenz beam " due its inventor , the C. Lorenz AG company . The Civil Aeronautics Administration ( CAA ) authorized installation of the system in 1941 at six locations . The first landing of a scheduled U.S. passenger airliner using ILS was on January 26 , 1938 , when a Pennsylvania Central Airlines Boeing 247D flew from Washington , D.C. , to Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania , and landed in a snowstorm using only the Instrument Landing System . [ 15 ] The first fully automatic landing using ILS occurred in March 1964 at Bedford Airport in UK . [ 16 ] The CAA referred to in the quote was the forerunner of the U.S. FAA .
As DeltaLima said , it is kind of hard answering your question . After looking at the <URL> you might have found the answer already . Let me try to answer your specific question though : Assuming an airliner , let 's say the A320 , for some reason got into a spin , can it be recovered ? The general answer would be yes ! Here are some things to consider though : The FAA requires all single-engine normal category aircraft to demonstrate spin recovery in <URL> . It depends a lot on the center of gravity of the airplane whether it is recoverable from a spin or not . If the center of gravity is too far aft , it will not be recoverable from a spin . Gliders , being light , have an easy shiftable CG , and there is some that do n't enter spins at all or need extra weights in the back in order to make them spinnable ! Airliners are not required to do so as they are not as likely to get into a spin in the first place ! The structure of an airliner is designed for air flowing over it , not for being in a spin ! Centrifugal forces will be applied to the structure due to angular acceleration . Also , spins by airliner would be a lot faster then by little aircraft and more forces would be applied to the frame . If the recovery from the spin is made too fast or abrupt , it can overstress the airplane as well ! All Airbus I know are fly-by-wire , and Airbus is well known for its computer based controls . Most airliners have a lot of systems , which prevent them from even getting into a stall . There a incidents where these systems failed and it went back to the pilot doing the right thing . As a spin always always always requires a stall first , and pilots are trained to avoid stalls in the first place , it is very unlikely for an airliner to enter a spin , having the pilot and various systems working against entering a stall !
The <URL> says yes granted the cockpit is approved and the required additional equipment is met ( refer to EASA AFM ) . Minimum Flight Crew : One pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) plus additional equipment as specified in the Limitations Section of the EASA Approved Airplane Flight Manual The related note : Approval for operation with a minimum crew of one pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) is based upon the cockpit equipment installation and arrangement evaluated during ANAC certification testing . No significant changes may be made to the installed cockpit equipment or arrangement ( EFIS , autopilot , avionics , etc. ) , except as permitted by the approved MMEL , without prior approval from the responsible Aircraft Certification Office .
The FAA has some rules pending about this , you can read <URL> but for drones under 55 LBS one of the proposed rules is , Must yield right-of-way to other aircraft , manned or unmanned . and since you bring up class E it should be noted that Operations in Class B , C , D and E airspace are allowed with the required ATC permission . if/when this goes through it looks like its the drone operators fault since the plane had the right of way According to the <URL> they state that , ( 4 ) the aircraft is operated in a manner that does not interfere with and gives way to any manned aircraft ; this is pretty much a blanket statement that maned aircraft have the right of way but the FAA handles most things on a case by cases basis so in the end of the day it could go either way .
There is no regulatory requirement for oxygen to be available for anyone on board an aircraft so long as it remains at altitudes of 12,500 ' MSL or less . And only the required minimum flight crew is required to have oxygen if they are flying above 12,500 ' up to and including 14,000 MSL ' IF they will be at those altitudes for more than 30 minutes . <URL> If they were going above 15,000 ' MSL that would be another story . So the short of it is , No , that pilot was not irresponsible , perhaps , maybe slightly inconsiderate , but not irresponsible . The reason for this is the lower density of the air is n't low enough to harm the majority of passengers . Except for extreme cases , such as those with severe and uncontrolled asthma or heavy smokers , the worst thing that would happen would be the passengers would just get sleepy and fall asleep . This is natural , and because the body does not need as much oxygen when asleep . For passengers there generally wo n't be any harm done from a mild case altitude induced hypoxic hypoxia . And YES ! You can ask someone if they will be ' OK ' at higher altitudes ! Just as it is not only ' OK ' but required to ask their weight for weight and balance calculations . ( And quite frankly I believe most people find that more intrusive . ) In fact you should take 5 minutes to tell your passengers that the flight will be in excess of , say 11,000 ' , that way they can be prepared for some unusual effects and not have to worry about them . To take it a step further , remember you are the Pilot in Command and you should be aware of your passenger 's limitations as that may trigger any self imposed safety limitations you have for the safety of the flight . Now , if you just want passengers to be comfortable and/or they absolutely insist on not taking a little nap , then it is entirely up to you if you want to carry a portable aviation oxygen canister with you for your passengers . For further information on hypoxia I would recommend the <URL> on it and the differing effects on pilots , and by extension passengers . Hope this helps !
The TSA operates the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) , which allows general aviation flights originating at designated <URL> to fly into DCA , however <URL> , some of the most significant being : You will need an FAA <URL> to fly in to DCA ( This is required for all unscheduled flights into DCA ) You will need to submit a flight manifest &amp; undergo TSA passenger/baggage screening The flight crew will need to be cleared by the TSA ( fingerprint/background check ) You will need to carry an <URL> onboard So the answer is " Yes , you can do it , but you probably do n't want to . " It also makes no sense to do it in something like a Cessna 172 as you 're giving up at least one seat for the security officer . The program is really geared toward larger aircraft ( business jets , etc. ) transporting executives with a business reason to be in DC , like testifying before Congress .
Yes , what you describe is perfectly possible . A stall in banked flight can result in a spin , given you fly the " right " plane . My first flight in an ASW-20C was late in the afternoon , when most thermals had died down . I got a winch launch to maybe 350 m ( the ASW-20 is rather poor in winch launches ) and tried to find an updraft . In maybe 270 m I found one , but it was weak and narrow . So I slowed down to tighten the circle . Having flown a Discus all day before , I was not really alerted to watch out for a departure on stall . At some point the lateral stick force faded markedly , and out of the Discus habit I threw the stick into the circle so the inner aileron would deflect downwards to support the stalling wing . Bad choice ! This aggravated the incipient stall , the aircraft rolled into the circle and pitched down . While the view from the cockpit before was blue above and green below , it got now all green . I was entering a spin . The weakening stick force was the result of flow separation over the aileron , and while the Discus airfoil would still provide more lift with more deflection , the ASW-20 airfoil simply went into full stall . I immediately pushed down and levelled the plane , and went on to land straight away , having lost maybe 100 m . It all took only seconds , and only long after the flight I could piece all details together . My next flight in the ASW-20 was when the thermals were much stronger . I went up to 1000 m and did stall training until I knew how it felt when stall starts and what my options are . I should had done this on the first flight , and do so on all subsequent new types I fly .
Mass does n't affect the maximum distance , only the maximum endurance . For example , image two identical planes A and B : A weights 50kg less than B. Assuming no wind ( horizontal / vertical ) and speed of best glide , both gliders will land at the exact same spot . The lighter airplane A however will arrive later than B , as the speed of best glide is less than for B . In conclusion you can say , that additional mass only increases cruise speed , but not the travel distance . Glider competitions are most of the time a route you have to fly in the shortest time possible . So that means , if you have a higher speed of best glide , you can fly faster in competitions . The only downside to having a higher weight is , that your liftrate in thermals will be decreased and due to the higher speed it is harder to center the thermals . It is to some extend also possible to shift the Centre of Gravity ( CG ) with the added load . The further it is to the aft limit , the higher your maximum distance is . This is because you will have less down-force from the stabilizer required . ( If the CG is at the front limit , you will need to pull the control stick in order to fly level , therefore you have more drag ) . However I think this is rather a positive side effect and most of the time the water is used for flying faster . Source : I am a glider pilot and currently doing my ATPL training .
Some autopilots found on advanced aircraft can be engaged on selected axis only , for example Boeing 737 , 747-200 &amp; MD-11 . There are three autopilot indicators on the Boeing autopilots : auto throttle , roll and pitch . Each can be in a different mode . Here a Boeing 737 's autopilot roll mode is set to Heading Select ( HDG SEL ) while the Pitch is flown manually ( CWS P ) : <URL> The pilot can pull or push the yoke , and the autopilot will roll the aircraft automatically . If the pilot steer the yoke left or right , the roll mode will change to CWS R . In this image below , the pilot is manually Rolling the aircraft ( CWS R ) , but the autopilot pitch mode is set to Vertical Speed mode . <URL> Later models , such as the Boeing 777 , does not have this feature - both pitch and roll modes must be engaged together .
A lot has changed since the Frank Abagnale / " Catch Me If You Can " days , and riding as a non-revenue passenger ( particularly in the cockpit jump seat ) is no longer not as simple as grabbing a passable captain 's uniform , polishing your shoes up , and smooth-talking the flight crew . Someone seeking a ride in an airplane jump seat would still have to pass through airport security and prove their identity &amp; authorization to occupy such a seat to the satisfaction of the crew operating the flight , which would likely include checking credentials that are at lease somewhat difficult to forge . So in short it 's possible -- if someone is particularly adept at <URL> , forgery , and has at least a working knowledge of airport &amp; airline security procedures they might get away with it -- but it 's extremely unlikely , and as has been pointed out the consequences if and when you get caught are particularly unpleasant these days .
The EUROCONTROL example you give , allows controllers from all member states to work in Maastricht Upper Area Control ( Netherlands ) and provide ATC over Belgium , ( part of ) Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands . Many of the controllers there are not from any of these four countries so they are foreign air traffic controllers . Also EUROCONTROL is only providing Upper Area Control above the four countries mentioned above . All member states have their own Air Traffic Control providers , some have more than one . Within EU countries ( note that not all EUROCONTROL member states are EU member states ) we have freedom of labour movement . So for EU citizens there should be no official barriers to work as a foreign controller in another EU member state . Apart from the intra-EU rules , some ATC organisation within the EU are open to applications from outside the EU . For example the Dutch Air Traffic Control Organisation LVNL is open to <URL> . Applicants are not limited to citizens of EU countries . ATC at airports is becoming a commercial business . The companies that you mentioned provide civil ATC at various airports around the world . Another example is ATC at London Gatwick Airport : the contract was <URL> . Outside the EU I know that there are many foreign controllers work in the United Arab Emirates . They are looking for <URL> at this moment as well .
Technically speaking , inertial measurements are not sufficient to derive airspeed . You need pressure measurement ( or airspeed measurement , see LIDAR ) . Pitot-static probes are the most usual and conventional devices to measure pressure . However , several researches have been conducted , to replace pitot-static tubes with different technologies . These technologies are mainly based on measuring surface pressure on a part of the fuselage . Of course the measurements ( not a single value but several values from various locations ) have to be calibrated via flight tests . With the current popularity of machine learning I think the calibration algorithms will not be the main problem . Some other technology being investigated there 's also ongoing research and trials about using LIDAR to directly measure airspeed . Which wo n't need pressure measurement . ultrasonic devices are also able to measure airspeed directly , however their real flight usage is unknown ( to the author ) .
Are you asking about the rear support wheel ? It is for supporting the aircraft and avoiding tilt on the ground . <URL> Image from wikimedia commons . Autor : M Radzi Desa As the aircraft had four engines in the aft , the cg would 've been aft too ; so they added a tail prop to prevent tilt on ground . Interestingly , this does n't seen to be unique for Il-62 . Another aircraft with rear mounted engine , Sud Aviation Caravelle , has something similar to this . <URL> Image from wikimedia commons . Author : Eduard Marmet
Yes take-off without flaps is possible . The Airbus A300 and Boeing 767 are approved for such take-offs and it is being done regularly . It results in a better climb gradient , especially with one engine out . The one engine out climb gradient is an important and sometimes limiting factor in take-off calculations . One important constraint is the length of the runway . Another limitation , perhaps less obvious , is the maximum rolling speed of the wheels . The tires are rated to a limited speed which may be exceeded by a flap-less take-off .
A major disadvantage to that design would be the aft wing had a disrupted airflow over it as it travels through the fwd wing 's wake , so lift is greatly diminished . As to doing a stacked biplane design typical of small sport biplanes in use over the years , this is probably frowned upon for two reasons : High Drag - more structure in the relative wind always means more drag anemic this was one of the major advantages to the cantilevered wing developed in the 1930s . Heavier - more wings means more structure both in terms of the second wing itself plus the mounting structure to mate the wing to the fuselage . A single cantilevered monoplane is by far the most efficient solution save only a flying wing , but these are not commonly used in commercial travel which has been discussed in previous threads . Now that 's not to say a biplane may not be useful for commercial aircraft . <URL> which usea the configuration to dramatically reduce its sonic boom . <URL> Whether this idea survives the CGI proposal and becomes actual hardware is another story ; this business is full of concept aircraft and precious little flyable hardware .
In the US , for general aviation flights , operating under <URL> , it is legal to take off with zero visibility ( <URL> , PDF ) . In my opinion , it is not safe . If an emergency were to take place , you would be unable to return and land ; under Part 91 , it is not legal to land unless conditions are equal to or better than a runway 's published approach minimums . Unless you 've got a great alternate nearby , conditions are improving rapidly , or you 've got an extra engine or two , you probably should n't take off in conditions you could n't land in .
In theory yes . The loss of the engines will mean you also lose the generators and hydraulic pumps , but Concorde was equipped with a RAT which drove it 's secondary and emergency hydraulic systems , so control would be possible . Having never flown Concorde , but familiar with the flight characteristics of supersonic , high performance aircraft , I would guess such a forced landing would be flown at a steep angle of descent and at higher speeds say around 220-230 kts with leveling out in a shallow descent and roundout at or very near the threshold , placing the aircraft down at Vref in 1000-1500 feet thereafter .
Briefly : yes , it 's possible ( but very unlikely ) ; small pressurized aircraft are the more likely scenario ; maybe it has happened but if so it 's very rare . According to the FAA 's AC on <URL> it 's possible and more likely to happen in a smaller pressurized aircraft : ( a ) Explosive Decompression . A change in cabin pressure faster than the lungs can decompress . Most authorities consider any decompression that occurs in less than 0.5 seconds as explosive and potentially dangerous . This type of decompression is more likely to occur in small volume pressurized aircraft than in large pressurized aircraft and often results in lung damage . [ ... ] ( b ) Rapid Decompression . A change in cabin pressure where the lungs can decompress faster than the cabin . The risk of lung damage is significantly lower in this decompression compared to an explosive decompression . Unfortunately they do n't cite any statistics or source for the statement " often results in lung damage " so it is n't clear when it has actually happened . Other sources suggest that it 's very rare , for example Beyond the Black Box : The Forensics of Airplane Crashes <URL> this : The Air Force reports no serious injuries resulting from rapid decompression with open airways , even while wearing an oxygen mask . However , disastrous , even fatal consequences can result if the breath is forcibly held with the lungs full of air . [ ... ] Lung damage is considered nearly impossible in a commercial aircraft because of the large volume of air inside the plane . [ ... ] Even <URL> [ ... ] did not decompress fast enough to cause internal injuries . In other words , it 's not going to happen unless you hold your breath , but <URL> says that you wo n't be able to do that anyway : I 've had pilots tell me they would be able to hold their breath [ in order to extend the <URL> . That wo n't happen . First of all , the surprise of the event will override any defensive measure you may have thought you could put into place . Secondly , the rapid change in pressure differential will make it impossible to hold your breath . ( Remember , we can be talking about a pressure differential of 8.8 PSI . Let 's put these pressure differentials into perspective . A differential of 8.8 PSI is 1267 pounds per square foot . I think the surprise is a key point here : the <URL> increases your breathing rate so even if it were physically possible to hold your breath it 's extremely unlikely that you would do so . Interestingly , Google finds numerous sources that claim lung injuries are commonly caused by aircraft decompression , but I could n't find any source that mentioned a specific incident or even any statistics on it . I did find <URL> that studied 47 incidents of aircraft decompression but there was only one single barotrauma event among them and it affected the ears , not the lungs .
" We know that most of the plane accidents and deaths result from the explosion of fuel tanks in the planes " This is a fallacy . Most deaths do n't happen because of explosions , but because of impact damage , fire , and inhalation of toxic fumes ( in no particular order ) . Next to that , many people tend to get killed because they are crushed by fellow passengers during evacuations . And some die on the ground being run over by emergency vehicles or from environmental conditions ( heat , cold , wildlife ) . Ratchet Freak correctly points out why your " solutions " wo n't work ( in fact one of them will make the problems worse ) . And yes , research is being done and has been done . Modern jet fuel has a much higher flame point and vapour pressure than does regular gasoline as a result . Fuel tanks are fitted with baffles and sometimes coolers to keep the fuel liquid so it does n't explode easily . This is in part a result of what happened to TWA800 , one of the very few accidents to be caused by a fuel tank explosion ( and there the explosion was itself only possible due to a combination of rare circumstances and chance events , made worse by maintenance problems with the aircraft ) . The image of aircraft ( and cars , trains , ships , buildings , anything really ) blowing up in a wall of flame at the least trouble is one created and perpetuated by Hollywood and has no reflection in reality whatsoever .
From the Boeing 737 emergency procedures : After all attempts fail to free the stabilizer ... Anticipate higher than normal elevator forces during approach and landing . The thrust reduction at flare will cause a nose down pitch . Note : Elevator control is sufficient to safely land the airplane regardless of stabilizer position .
end question
start question
Is wingtip design mature ?
The wingtips are a unique part of the aircraft in that they really have one job ; minimize drag . Their design is easy to see , and they are a fairly recent addition to transport aircraft . Developments continue to be made in the study of aerodynamics , with modern computing power and methods allowing much better modeling of flow patterns to evaluate designs , and improvements in materials allowing more complex designs to be built . The key is that the winglet must be properly designed . As wing designs change , the flow over the wings changes , and new winglet designs are invented . Since it is heavily dependent on the specific application , it 's more relevant to look at the evolution of the designs on different aircraft . The design chosen is dependent on the technology available at the time , both for evaluating the design and building it , the design of the wing , intended use of the aircraft , and the previous experience of the manufacturer . The 737 is an old design that has evolved over time : Original/Classic : none , NG : winglet , P-8 : raked tip , MAX : split scimitar The A330 is a fairly new design : Current : small winglet , neo : winglet The 747 has also evolved over time , and the latest version shares technology with the 787 : Original : none , -400 : small winglet , -8 : raked tip The A320 has also evolved over time : Original : none , Current : tip fence , neo : winglet The A380 is a new design : tip fence The A350 is a new design : winglet The 787 is a new design : raked tip The 777 is a fairly new design : Basic : none , -200 LR and -300 ER : raked tips You will notice a trend from smaller designs to larger ones . On larger aircraft though , the weight of a large winglet and the loads it produces can get too large . New designs like the 777 , A380 , 787 , and 747-8 all use either raked tips or small winglets . As for other parts of aircraft , engines are changing more than you think . The jet engines on the early jet transports look very different from modern high-bypass turbofans . The GEnx engines on the 787 and 747-8 have chevrons at the back to reduce noise . All you see on the outside is the nacelle that minimizes drag ; most of the changes go on inside . Also , if you look closely at the front , fan blades on newer engines have curves in them instead of having straight edges . Most other parts of the aircraft have more complex jobs , not primarily external . A fuselage should be efficient at carrying things inside but also keep drag low . If you look closely you will notice that new planes like the 787 and A350 have a lot in common with previous fuselages , but they are shaped differently as well . It 's harder to see the other drastic changes like the use of composites in place of traditional aluminum , electric systems instead of hydraulic or bleed air , fly by wire , etc. . Control surfaces must provide sufficient control while minimizing drag . The size and shape has also changed over time , though the general design has remained .
Critical speed or Mach number is the speed at which the speed of sound is locally reached somewhere along the flow around an airfoil . A supercritical airfoil can tolerate operating speeds slightly above the critical speed ( hence the name ) , which means that a pocket of supersonic flow will show up , most likely on the upper surface . What qualifies an airfoil as supercritical is that the recompression does not need a <URL> , but can be done shock-free for a small lift coefficient range by clever shaping . See <URL> for more . Calculation of a supercritical airfoil is best done with a computer program which models the flow conditions around Mach 1 faithfully . Once such program would be <URL> . The picture below shows one result for the BACJ airfoil at Mach 0.8 , and you can see that the speed on the upper surface reaches Mach 1.3 .
Broadly the legal constructs that apply here are essentially the same as for sailing vessels - in other words when you 're outside the jurisdiction of any given nation the laws of the country the vessel is registered in apply , and the captain is the one who makes the decisions . More specifically once you enter the airspace of a nation that nations laws also apply ( the same as crossing the boundary from international waters to the territorial waters of a nation - by entering their territory you 're obligated to abide by their laws ) . If the above does n't seem murky enough , it 's because it actually gets a lot more complicated than that when you start considering all the laws various countries may pass ( and subsequently attempt to enforce ) . Consider for example <URL> in which the US claims jurisdiction over any aircraft in our airspace , or any aircraft in flight which is intending to land on our soil ( as long as they actually do land on our soil ) . As with most areas of international law going to far down this rabbit hole will likely lead to madness . For practical purposes you can assume that four bodies of law will govern every flight : The laws of the country from which the aircraft is departing . The laws of any country whose airspace the aircraft transits , while in that airspace . The laws of the country in which the aircraft is landing . The laws of the country to which the aircraft is registered . ... and if you can avoid breaking any laws in those 4 categories you 'll be pretty well covered for most circumstances .
I would actually assume the opposite to be true . Let us assume the vortex intensity and the induced drag are directly correlated . The induced drag coefficient can be expressed as : $ c _ { Di } = \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot AR \ cdot e } $ $ c_L $ : Lift coefficient $ AR$ : Wing aspect ratio $ e $ : The so-called Oswald factor , a number which equals one for elliptic lift distributions . It decreases for distributions that deviate from the elliptic one . Most wing designs aim to achieve an elliptic-like lift distribution in order to minimise induced drag in clean configuration . As flaps , spoilers , air-breaks and so on are deployed the lift distribution will deviate substantially from the elliptic one ( see diagram ) , hence reducing the $ e $ factor and increasing the induced drag . If the first assumption still holds , an increase in induced drag will have been caused by an increase in vortex intensity . <URL> Additionally , significantly higher lift coefficients can be achieved with deployed high-lift devices , which also contribute to increase vortex intensity .
Some TMA arrival sectors can be further split up into an arrival/pickup part and a director/feeder part . The arrival controller is responsible for getting aircraft separated either onto downwinds or onto transitions , where they are handed off to the director . The director is then only responsible for turning these aircraft onto the approach , in most cases the ILS . Essentially , the arrival or pickup tries to get everyone onto the correct separation and speeds , so the director or feeder can turn and clear the aircraft onto their approaches , i.e. feeding the ILS with aircraft . <URL> ( Source : SentryRaven - Own Work ) The above picture shows the TMA airspace of Frankfurt ( EDDF ) . The TMA arrival controller would clear aircraft onto the transition or a vectored downwind and hand them over to director . The director position would then vector the aircraft onto the ILS for a handoff to tower .
Most ATC software systems are developed by a few large companies . Companies that produce such software include Lockheed Martin , Thales , Raytheon , Indra , Comsoft , Adacel ( and maybe a few others ) . It 's not a big market since there are only a limited number of customers ( countries ) and safety critical software is very expensive to develop . One interesting offering is the <URL> open source ATC software . This is n't a complete system ( yet ? ) but some parts are available now . I 'm not sure whether this software is actually used in operations anywhere at this point . Most ATC providers ( which are usually run or owned by their government , though not always ) do not do their own software development . They buy a system from one of the established vendors , who may do some amount of customisation work ranging from none to extensive , perhaps with a support contract for future fixes or enhancements . There are a few exceptions though , for example Airways New Zealand uses software originally developed by a large vendor but also has an in-house software development group who maintains , enhances , and extends the existing software . Each system has the same general operating concept - an ASD ( Air Situation Display ) which shows the locations of aircraft , plus auxiliary windows that may contain all kinds of other things used for communication and coordination . Like any sophisticated computer software , the general idea of two different systems might appear the same , but be completely different to actually operate ( think of Photoshop vs. Gimp , or Microsoft Word vs. Apple Pages ) . A qualified controller from the US would not be expected to be able to operate in Australia straight away . Not only will the software be different ( different mouse clicks , or different key commands ) , but also the rules of air traffic control can be different between countries . Furthermore , a controller must become familiar with the local airspace and operating procedures . Having said that , the general skills of air traffic controllers are portable between countries . On moving from one country to another , a controller would be expected to go through a certain amount of training in their new country , which could range from brief familiarisation to more rigorous retraining .
The safe operations of an aircraft is called <URL> . It is the standard by which an aircraft is determined fit to fly . Responsibility of airworthiness lies with national aviation regulatory bodies , manufacturers , as well as owners and operators . International standards are dictated by <URL> during the <URL> : The International Civil Aviation Organization sets international standards and recommended practices for national authorities to base their regulations on FAA has <URL> governing all aviation activities in the US . EASA also has airworthiness <URL> . The answer to your question is : The aircraft manufacturer makes sure that the aircraft meets existing design standards , defines the operating limitations and maintenance schedules and provides support and maintenance throughout the operational life of the aircraft .
In observing the configuration of the current aircraft used for weather study , it 's important to also note that those planes were originally built for different missions that allowed modifications for such a special purpose . The P-3 was built as a maritime patrol plane , which is a role not all that different from weather observation . It requires good range and endurance to allow the plane to fly out to sea and remain there long enough to accomplish its mission . The primary mission is using sensors , either onboard or deployed from the aircraft . The plane must also be able to withstand more time spent at lower altitudes and in more turbulence than typical aircraft . The C-130 was built as a transport plane . This requires good range and payload capacity , both in weight and volume . These attributes have allowed it to serve in many roles , such as <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . As both aircraft were originally built for the military , they are built to withstand higher loading than typical civilian aircraft , which is useful when flying to bad weather . 4 engines are <URL> but provide redundancy - Both aircraft have 4 engines , as this is a good compromise between size of engine and propeller for this size of aircraft , at the time at which they were designed ( around 1960 ) . <URL> . The plane is required to be able to fly with one engine failed , and controllable with two on the same wing failed . Turboprops are efficient at moderate speed - Both aircraft are also powered by turboprops . The primary roles for the aircraft do not require high speeds or altitudes , which is where turbofans have an advantage . Turboprops provide good power and efficiency at moderate speeds and altitudes , which is acceptable for shorter cargo missions and maritime patrols as well as weather observation . It 's worth noting that the US Navy is replacing the P-3 with the P-8 , which is a twin engine jet aircraft . A large part of this is likely due to the availability of an existing aircraft design , not being worth the cost of designing an entirely new plane . Although two engines provide less redundancy , they can still provide a similar level of reliability . <URL> Although turbofans may require more fuel , they do allow higher speeds which allows the aircraft to reach its station faster . Low wing may be a more versatile configuration - The high wing of the C-130 is mainly to allow easy loading and unloading of cargo by keeping the fuselage closer to the ground . This is less important for a weather observation role , though it does allow better downward visibility from the cabin . The P-3 sits higher above the ground , which allowed for a radar to be mounted underneath . Mounting sensors on top is <URL> but may require <URL> to retain stability . One might conclude that a low wing offers more versatility in this regard . Moderate aspect ratio with sweep to match speed - The <URL> will depend on the speeds for which the aircraft is designed . Low aspect ratios and high sweep or delta wings are good for reducing drag at higher speeds . There is no need for very high speeds in a weather observation aircraft , so these would seem to be poor choices . High aspect ratio and low sweep are good for reducing drag at lower speeds , which can maximize endurance . Though endurance is important for weather observation , these designs also have higher wing bending and generally lower top speeds . Both the C-130 and P-8 have moderate aspect ratios and low sweep , which offers a good compromise for strength and efficiency . Jet aircraft fly faster and generally use moderate sweep and aspect ratio . Conventional tails can be more robust - T-tails have some issues with <URL> , and this prevents them from being used in most cases . The T-tail is mainly useful when the normal position of the horizontal stabilizer is taken up by engines or cargo doors , or would place it too close to wash the engines , or if efficiency is a high priority . Control and stability are particularly important when flying in adverse weather conditions , so if there is no other reason for having a T-tail , a conventional tail works better . All of the aircraft mentioned above have conventional tails .
SNLF stands for <URL> . Laminar flow over the wing reduces the friction drag . Achieving this has been the aim of a number of designs , from the <URL> of the past to the latest <URL> . While it is difficult enough to achieve in subsonic flight , the high wing sweep and Reynolds number in supersonic aircraft make it much more difficult to achieve . One method of achieving this is to use wings with low sweep ( unlike delta wings ) and sharp ( supersonic leading edges ) at the expense of other forms of drag . <URL> Dark colors show the expected laminar flow regions , while the graph shows the pressure gradients . Image from Unconventional Configurations for Effecient Supersonic Flight by I. Kroo A number of designs have been proposed to this end from reverse delta to the Aerion 's design , which looks strikingly similar to <URL> . One method of achieving the laminar flow ( i.e. extending it chordwise ) in supersonic flight is by using laminar flow control ( LFC ) methods like suction etc. . A good example is the use of suction in a F16XL test aircraft by NASA , which produced laminar flow over nearly half of the wing ( less than the design value though ) . <URL> F16XL with porous titanium LFC glove on the left wing , image from NASA report TF-2004-12 DFRC , F-16XL Supersonic Laminar Flow The problem with LFC is that it increases weight and takes up space in the wing , hardly an advantage in a supersonic aircraft . So , the next thing to do is increase the laminar flow distribution without using any mechanical ( or other ) aids . Natural laminar flow means the presence of laminar flow even in the absence of any LFC measures . From NASA <URL> : Passive laminar flow can be achieved in the wing design process , ... Passive laminar flow can also be created on an existing wing by altering the cross-sectional contour of the lifting surface to change the pressure gradient . Both of these laminar conditions are called natural laminar flow . SNLF then , is basically laminar flow in supersonic flight without the aid of active boundary layer control methods . SNLF has been demonstrated in the past ( unsurprisingly in F-104 ) , but the tools to analyze it and replicate it in other aircraft were lacking . This seems to the main thrust of the Aerion . The AS2 's wing design has been tested by NASA in a F-15 and the results seem to be encouraging . <URL> SLF flight test on F-15 with NASA Dryden ( top ) . Predicted transition ( left ) and infrared image ( right ) showing extensive natural laminar flow . Mach 1.8 , 40,000 ft. , Reynolds Number about 10 million . Image from Unconventional Configurations for Effecient Supersonic Flight by I. Kroo Aerion does n't say that delta wing is inferior , but it is a simple fact that you ca n't use a delta wing for supersonic laminar flow . Aerion claims that its design will have 20 % less drag than delta wing , but till the aircraft actually flies , we should take its announcements with a large dose of salt . There are other problems the company has to overcome if the product is to be successful - if the wing is thin ( as I expect it to be ) and quite small , the aircraft 's range appears wildly optimistic . For example , the F-104 had thin wings , but had the fuselage to put the fuel in ; something that is very difficult in AS2 unless the passengers agree to carry some . Also , the small wing size may lead to quite high landing speeds . <URL> Planform comparison of AS2 ( top ) and F-104 . Not to scale . AS2 from company website ; F-104 from Wikipedia - attributed to Kaboldy .
The wing thickness is basically the distance between the upper and lower surface of the wing ( or airfoil ) . ` <URL> Source : NASA . The wing thickness is usually given as a percentage of the wing ( or airfoil ) chord ( the distance between the leading and trailing edge ) . This is to make it a non-dimensional quantity for ease of comparison across different scales .
One of the main reasons wing tip tanks were used was to <URL> by adding mass to the end of the wings . As time has progressed and our understanding of materials has grown as well as our ability to design structures better the need for tricks like this has gone away . As our general understanding of aerodynamics has gotten better so has the understanding of the <URL> . As such wing tip tanks have been traded out for wing tip devices . In some cases the tip tanks are an option available as a later add-on or at purchase time . Generally this increases the range of the aircraft at the cost of useful load . As such , it may just be that most people who order planes these days prefer the higher useful load and the reduced range , rather than the extended range flying with a lighter load . You can find some more discussion <URL> .
Briefly , " overhaul " is n't a strictly defined term but it 's generally used to refer to the intensive inspection , maintenance and repair of an aircraft component , frequently - but not exclusively - the engines . The word overhaul by itself is a general term that 's used in all sorts of places but it 's not defined in <URL> , for example . The most specific definition I could find is in <URL> between the FAA and EASA : " Overhaul " means a process that ensures the aeronautical article is in complete conformity with the applicable service tolerances specified in the type certificate holder 's , or equipment manufacturer 's instructions for continued airworthiness , or in the data which is approved or accepted by the Authority . No person may describe an article as being overhauled unless it has been at least disassembled , cleaned , inspected , repaired as necessary , reassembled and tested in accordance with the above-specified data . Note that that definition only mentions " aeronautical articles " , which is very broad indeed and not limited to just engines , airframes or anything else . In the general aviation world , a very common usage of " overhaul " is in the context of piston engines , which have a <URL> ( TBO or TBOH ) set by the manufacturer . Once an engine reaches that number of hours , it needs to be overhauled . But even there , the term is n't precise and the FAA has a circular called Reciprocating Engine Overhaul Terminology and Standards that explains what it usually means : c. Overhaul . In the general aviation industry , the term engine overhaul has two identifications that make a distinction between the degrees of work on an engine : ( 1 ) Major Overhaul . A major overhaul consists of the complete disassembly of an engine . The overhaul facility inspects the engine , repairs it as necessary , reassembles , tests , and approves it for return to service within the fits and limits specified by the manufacturer 's overhaul data . This could be to new fits and limits or serviceable limits . The engine owner should clearly understand what fits and limits should be used when the engine is presented for overhaul . The owner should also be aware of any replaced parts , regardless of condition , as a result of a manufacturer 's overhaul data , SB , or an Airworthiness Directive ( AD ) . ( 2 ) Top Overhaul . Top overhaul consists of repair to parts outside of the crankcase , and can be accomplished without completely disassembling the entire engine . It can include the removal of cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinder walls , pistons , valve-operation mechanisms , valve guides , valve seats , and the replacement of piston and piston rings . All manufacturers do not recommend a top overhaul . Some manufacturers indicate that a powerplant requiring work to this extent should receive a complete overhaul . Apart from that usage , the term <URL> seems to be <URL> in the airline industry to describe maintenance facilities , but there is n't any specific definition that I could find . So there 's no single definition of " overhaul " . It just means that you 've very thoroughly inspected and tested something on an aircraft , whether it 's an engine or a wheel , and you 've verified that it 's fit to be used in flight , i.e. it 's airworthy . The reasons why it 's important are probably obvious ; they 're the same reasons that your car needs regular servicing to run safely , efficiently and reliably .
Most modern helicopters use two engines for added safety . This reduces the field of competing designs . Also , a good engineer will always leave proven details unchanged and focus on improving flawed designs . So it is hard to prove that a new design from an established helicopter company will truly be a clean-sheet design . The possible new designs from 1976 could be : <URL> : First flight 1974 , introduced 1975 . Note that the AS-355 is a two-turbine variant of the single-turbine AS-350 . <URL> : First flight 1975 , introduced 1979 . It has a single reciprocating engine and was indeed a clean-sheet design by Frank Robinson who started the <URL> in 1973 . He had worked previously at Bell Helicopter and Hughes Helicopters .
A listening squawk is a transponder code you set to indicate to an ATC controller that you are listening out on a particular frequency . Unlike squawk codes assigned by the controller , the listening squawk is not unique to your aircraft but is a set ( and published ) code for the particular area . In the UK it is commonly used in the uncontrolled airspace around a major airport 's terminal control area . Examples in the UK include the airspace surrounding Luton , Stansted , Leeds , and one dedicated to the narrow " low level corridor " allowing VFR flight between the class D airspaces of Manchester and Liverpool . The procedure is : after signing off from whatever facility you were previously in contact with , set your com radio to the assigned listening frequency and set your transponder to the published listening squawk . Do not contact the controller , instead listen out for any broadcast which may be intended for you ( eg the controller may ask the aircraft in a particular location to respond ) . They will know you are on frequency because of the code you are squawking . The controller will generally only attempt to contact you if you are about to violate controlled airspace or have a traffic conflict . Note that this should be treated as a backup only , the responsibilities for navigation and see-and-avoid remain as ever with the pilot . Once out of the area , or when you need to change frequency to your destination or next enroute contact , turn the transponder back to the VFR conspicuity code 7000 . If I recall correctly my instructor told me that this is a UK/CAA-specific initiative and is not found in other countries .
It is called guard because everybody is supposed to listen/guard the frequency just in case someone has a problem . Guard definitions : a state of caution , vigilance , or preparedness against adverse circumstances watch over in order to protect or control . The <URL> ( h ) ( 1 ) says ( emphasis mine ) : 121.5 MHz and 243.0 MHz . Both have a range generally limited to line of sight . 121.5 MHz is guarded by direction finding stations and some military and civil aircraft . 243.0 MHz is guarded by military aircraft . Both 121.5 MHz and 243.0 MHz are guarded by military towers , most civil towers , FSSs , and radar facilities . Normally ARTCC emergency frequency capability does not extend to radar coverage limits . If an ARTCC does not respond when called on 121.5 MHz or 243.0 MHz , call the nearest tower or FSS .
I 'm sure someone else will come along and give you a better answer with illustrations and everything , but until then , here goes :) Multi engine aircraft usually have their engines off to either side of the fuselage . This means that if one engine fails , the other engine will produce what 's called asymmetric thrust ( one engine is stronger than the other ) . This in turn , because it 's off to the side of the aircraft will cause it to yaw in the direction of the dead engine . Should the dead engine also have its prop windmilling , it 'll cause more drag than if the prop blades were turned parallel to the wind and thus aggravate the situation by not only not producing thrust but actually acting as a speed brake . To counteract this and continue flying straight you 'd have to apply the aircraft 's rudder . The rudder is an airfoil sticking out into the wind in order to yaw the aircraft , thus if the amount of air flowing over it is reduced , the effectiveness of the rudder is reduced . This has the effect that there 's a minimum airspeed ( i.e. minimum amount of airflow over the rudder ) that 's enough to allow the rudder to counteract the asymmetric thrust as well as some other properties like engine torque . This speed is called $ v _ { mc } $ , or minimum controllable airspeed ( there are actually two of these , one airborne and one on the ground ) . If speed drops below this airspeed , the plane will start to increase the yaw away from the live engine , to the point where eventually the outer wing produces more lift than the inner wing and the aircraft rolls over . That 's the $ v _ { mc } $ roll . Avoiding it is a matter of keeping the airspeed up to maintain rudder authority , and/or reducing thrust to the live engine while regaining airspeed . Further steps , like identifying the failed engine and feathering its prop , as well as flying with a slight bank towards the live engine should be undertaken as well as part of the recovery . Furthermore it 's advisable to never turn into the dead engine , as the live engine will make it harder to stop the turn . Turning into the live engine will make it harder to start the turn , but the engine will help you get out of it . Since the engines usually spin in the same direction , the effect of torque differs , the torque of one engine aggravates the situation , where the torque of the others alleviates it , thus $ v _ { mc } $ is specified as the minimum controllable speed if the latter ( known as the critical engine ) fails and the prop continues to windmill , i.e. the worst possible aerodynamic scenario in the case of a single engine failure barring an uncontained failure causing damage or otherwise changing the aerodynamic properties of the aircraft .
A monitored approach is a special kind of instrument approach involving added verbal call outs and increased monitoring of the airplane and is typically conducted when weather is below a certain threshold . For example , a crew may be required to fly a monitored approach if the weather is below 3/4 mile vis and the captain has less than 100 hours in type , or in any case with the weather below ILS Category I minimums . It is also specific to multi-crew aircraft and requires at least 2 pilots and in many cases an autopilot . In a crew environment , the pilots are typically designated as Pilot Flying ( PF ) and Pilot Not Flying ( PNF ) . In general the PF is flying and making commands of the PNF , and the PNF mans the radios and operates gear and flaps the command of the PF . More detail of this setup probably deserves its own question . To illustrate a monitored approach , I 'll describe on based on my companies procedures . The specific requirements can vary between operators based on crew training , aircraft equipment and approved opspecs . The monitored approach briefing We have identified the arrival airport current weather is 1200 RVR and obscured ceilings and we plan to fly the ILS to category II minimums . Myself and my first officer have both have current category 2 training , neither of us are high-minimums , and the aircraft has no MEL items effecting category 2 operations . We are legal to fly the approach , but company operations require we fly it as a monitored approach . Regardless of who has been PF and PNF up to this point , the first officer becomes the PF and the captain the PNF . The PF briefs the approach as normal except for : CAT II radar altitude minimums Low vis taxi routes if applicable The approach will be flown by the autopilot ( company specific ) Special autopilot considerations Required verbal call outs ( see below ) The monitored approach For my company , the autopilot had to be engaged in " CAT 2 " mode before glideslope intercept . This will vary by aircraft and company . For the approach , as noted earlier , the first officer is PF , captain is PNF . The PF duties are to monitor the autopilot and to execute the missed approach if the autopilot has problems . The PNF also monitors the autopilot . The pilots are monitoring the autopilot for performance and for indications it can not meet required tolerances for the approach . PF will call for gear and flaps as normal , except a non standard flap setting may be used for the approach ( e.g. we flew flaps 22 instead of 45 ) . Once configured for landing , the PF will call for " Landing checklist - to the line " ( company specific ) , this for us was the normal landing checklist with the caveat that the checklist is complete when the captain announces " Landing , I have the airplane " ( more on this in a moment ) . Nearing the Cat II decision height ( typically 100 ft RA ) , the PNF will announce " Going heads up " , discontinue monitoring the autopilot and look for the approach lighting system and the runway lights . The PF will continue to monitor the autopilot . The airplane will announce " Minimums " at the radar altitude DH and when the airplane reaches this height , the PNF will fly the missed approach . If the captain sees the required lighting to continue the approach , they will announce " Landing , I have the airplane " , and the FO will reply " you have the airplane , landing checklist complete . The Captain must disconnect the autopilot ( by 50 feet , no autoland for us ) , and would fly any aborted landing executed after taking control . Caveats Rules on autopilot usage , disconnect heights and autolanding will vary based on aircraft and company policies . My example assumes an Embraer-145 certified for Cat 2 approaches and no autothrottles or autoland capability . Checklist verbiage and flap configurations mentioned also would vary by aircraft and company . And finally , the specific callouts will vary by company . While it seems like there was a lot of Category II specific things in my example , the two concepts of reduced visibility ILS approaches and monitored approaches are intertwined , and you will almost always be flying a monitored approach because it is required to conduct the low weather approach by company policy .
The fenestron is a lot heavier than a free tail rotor . This is probably the main disadvantage ; helicopters are more sensitive to extra mass than aircraft . At the time <URL> was produced by joining Aerospatiale 's and MBB 's helicopter divisions in 1992 , a follow-on to the successful <URL> was under development . That was the <URL> . Immediately , development was stopped to implement a fenestron into the finished design in order to give all Eurocopter products a common , distinctive feature . This resulted in major structural changes and a heavier helicopter . The result is now known as the <URL> . From <URL> : The only significant drawback to ducted fans like the Fenestron is that the shroud adds weight that offsets at least some of the improvements in performance . As @Koyovis ' answer points out , the low position of the lateral thrust vector is also a clear disadvantage . See <URL> for more .
AFB , MCAS , NAS , CGAS/CGS , and AAF would always be military , yes . BUT the lack of that in the name does n't mean it 's not military ... Outside the US especially there 's often no such thing to indicate a military base from a civilian field ( though AB ( for AirBase ) is at times used ) . How do you know ? You 're supposed to know where you 're going when you 're flying , and that includes what 's off limits to you . <URL> shows the legend of a sectional ( ca n't inline the image , SO refuses to ) , which says clearly " All military airports are indicated by abbreviations AFB , NAS , AAF , etc. . For complete airport information consult DOD FLIP " . So how do you know ? The chart tells you by the name of the facility . It also shows a double ring instead of runway icons as indicating military , but on some charts I looked at that appears to not be consistently applied .
There is some link between the type of control and the design maneuverability of the aircraft . Consider a yoke . Imagine twisting it to bank . You are moving it with a twisting motion of one or both arms and in general , aircraft fitted with such yokes are capable of low to moderate roll rates . Big displacements are uncommon but small , rapid , alternating changes are common . Watch a wide body PF making control movements during a landing with any kind of xwind or turbulence . They are less sensitive and give more visual feedback as to the control positions . Now consider a stick , central to the pilot flying . This is moved with a movement of the arm , generally only one , and can be rapidly displaced easily . This is normally associated with aircraft with high rates of roll , especially in an aircraft designed to rapidly null out or reverse the roll . It is also physically easier to move a stick than a yoke under high-G as the arm movement gives a longer lever . A great example of this was the Vulcan which , despite it 's size , enormous wing area and large fin , was so rollable that it could out-maneuver the interceptors of it 's day . It has a control column rather than a yoke and the PF would throw it around at altitude as if it were a fighter . This would not be easy to do with a yoke . I 'm a bit long in the tooth and have n't flown fixed wing for many years . I am not familiar with the rationale behind side sticks which are fitted to both low and high performance aircraft . I am guessing they are fitted more for reasons of ergonomics than for performance .
end question
start question
How to check if ( small ) aircraft 's radio is working properly ?
Here are some things you can do , there are probably more . I 'm assuming you 're mainly interested in checking COM , not NAV . Controlled airport Check if you can hear the ATIS , Ground or Tower ; if you can , then at least you know you can receive . But you might as well just call Ground immediately and ask for a radio check . The <URL> is " how do you hear me ? " : Bowman Ground , N12345 , radio check please . How do you hear me ? Uncontrolled airport Listen to the AWOS , if there is one , to determine if you can receive . Ask UNICOM or another aircraft to give you a radio check . If none of those options are available then you can use a handheld airband transceiver to test . Tune it to the frequency you 're listening on and click transmit a few times , as if you 're turning on pilot-controlled lights ( PCL ) . If you hear the clicks in your headset , you can receive . To test transmission , do the opposite : click the transmit button on the yoke and listen on the handheld . Airborne You could call Approach , Center or FSS ; try activating the nearest PCL ( works best at night ) ; tune and identify a navaid ( that does n't verify COM works , but at least you know something 's working ) ; listen to 121.5 ( <URL> ) because there 's usually some bored pilot asking for sports scores on it and some other equally bored pilot yelling at him to " stop talking on <URL> " . Troubleshooting As always , if you have any problems with transmitting or receiving do some basic troubleshooting first : check you have the correct radio selected ; check you have the correct frequency ; check the volume controls on your headset and/or panel ; turn the squelch up/down/off ; check your headset is plugged in correctly ; if you have a right-seat passenger , see if they can hear/transmit ; and anything else you can think of .
<URL> ( <URL> and <URL> ) See here for the major points : <URL> Regarding your specific question : Would n't a single engine plane weigh less and thus can fly longer on a specific amount of fuel comparative to a twin engine plane ? Both airplanes above are powered by the same <URL> , so yes the twin will be heavier . But it can also lift more weight ( i.e. more fuel ) , and cruise at a higher speed for the same power setting , or cruise at the same speed for lower power setting . Either the higher speed or lower power , combined with the more fuel , gives the twin a longer range . In fact , double . 2,603 km compared to 1,333 km . If you wanted to compare the twin to a single with a 600 hp engine , then there is no weight advantage . Only the bigger engine is harder to maintain . On a technical note , weight is not a big issue in cruise . The power to overcome the induced drag from the lift ( which counters the weight ) , decreases with speed , i.e. , it takes less power to create lift in cruise , than at slow speeds . ( See graph below for the induced drag . ) Same fuel Twins are designed to fly on one engine , which means half the power potential is enough , which is helped by the bigger span wing . So the same fuel load will give the same or more range for the twin . Unless , you want 600 hp vs 2x300 hp , in that case the single will win because of its smaller form . Some numbers : For the two planes above , here are the gallons-per-hour and cruise speeds : As you can see , the higher fuel consumption is offset nicely by the speed , and note that the twin will reach the cruise altitude in less time as well . Sources : <URL> , <URL> If we <URL> then it wo n't be an apples-to-apples comparison , but the single-turbine plane will be faster , and will have longer range , but that 's mainly due to the different engine types ( combined with different cruise speeds ) . For the Cessna Caravan , the <URL> ( minus the accessories ) weighs as half as a single 300 hp piston engine , which can allow for 200-400 kg more fuel , but the turboprop engines are very , very expensive . So depending on the operation , a fuel saving here might be overdone by the initial cost . <URL> ( <URL> )
As DeltaLima said , it is kind of hard answering your question . After looking at the <URL> you might have found the answer already . Let me try to answer your specific question though : Assuming an airliner , let 's say the A320 , for some reason got into a spin , can it be recovered ? The general answer would be yes ! Here are some things to consider though : The FAA requires all single-engine normal category aircraft to demonstrate spin recovery in <URL> . It depends a lot on the center of gravity of the airplane whether it is recoverable from a spin or not . If the center of gravity is too far aft , it will not be recoverable from a spin . Gliders , being light , have an easy shiftable CG , and there is some that do n't enter spins at all or need extra weights in the back in order to make them spinnable ! Airliners are not required to do so as they are not as likely to get into a spin in the first place ! The structure of an airliner is designed for air flowing over it , not for being in a spin ! Centrifugal forces will be applied to the structure due to angular acceleration . Also , spins by airliner would be a lot faster then by little aircraft and more forces would be applied to the frame . If the recovery from the spin is made too fast or abrupt , it can overstress the airplane as well ! All Airbus I know are fly-by-wire , and Airbus is well known for its computer based controls . Most airliners have a lot of systems , which prevent them from even getting into a stall . There a incidents where these systems failed and it went back to the pilot doing the right thing . As a spin always always always requires a stall first , and pilots are trained to avoid stalls in the first place , it is very unlikely for an airliner to enter a spin , having the pilot and various systems working against entering a stall !
For the GA fleet , there is some historical precedent operating here . Years ago , engines were much less reliable than they are today . Dragging it in generally means that you can not glide it in if you have a complete power failure . This translates to saying in the event of an engine failure , you are landing off airport with limited selection of landing sites ( your altitude is low as you are now below pattern altitude ) . So if you are flying behind an old Curtis OX-5 in your Jenny , a gliding approach to landing was recommended back in the day . Engines are much more reliable today . After an analysis of landing accidents , the FAA determined that a stabilized approach to landing is less likely to result in an accident , and they changed their guidance accordingly . Stabilized approaches are partial power-on landings . Some old timers and some old time CFIs reject the FAA 's statistical analysis and still teach/fly glide-it-in landings . Properly executed , both approaches to landing are safe . It is just that the FAA thinks that stabilized approaches are safer given engines commonly in use today . It is also true that virtually all airlines require stabilized approaches in their operating specs , and that a go around is mandatory if the approach is not stabilized . With this in mind , flight schools that aspire to send their graduates to the majors will all teach stabilized approaches .
I have worked on large and small aircraft . You will find a 400hz power bus only on large aircraft . The reason is the greater quantity of poles in the generator and hence weight . Smaller aircraft use a 28v DC system for the avionics .
There is always a backup radio system as well as a several backup systems like for example a backup CWP ( controller worker position ) in case the primary fails . PANS-ATM ( ICAO doc 4444 ) in chapter mentions that Operational and technical issues to ensure that : [ ... ] communications , navigation , surveillance and other safety significant systems and equipment [ ... ] include adequate backup facilities and/or procedures in the event of a system failure or degradation . Emphasis is mine . Also there is a standby generator ( or even more than one ) that has to instantly take over in case of power supply failure but I ca n't find any regulations at the moment . As for the " what happens if the backup fails as well " question , we need to see the fuller picture that the document provides : d ) communications , navigation , surveillance and other safety significant systems and equipment : 1 ) are tested for normal operations on a routine basis ; 2 ) meet the required level of reliability and availability as defined by the appropriate authority ; 3 ) provide for the timely and appropriate detection and warning of system failures and degradations ; 4 ) include documentation on the consequences of system , subsystem and equipment failures and degradations ; 5 ) include measures to control the probability of failures and degradations ; and 6 ) include adequate backup facilities and/or procedures in the event of a system failure or degradation ; Emphasis is again mine As you can see backup is the last line of defense . An ATS unit should ensure that equipment is regularly maintained , it 's monitored , it 's tested and any failures should be prevented if possible and their impact being documented . If everything else fails , then you use the backup . And again the " include adequate backup " phrase can be translated as " if one thinks that a second backup is needed they should install one " . But the previous 5 clauses are there to eliminate that case .
The deviation detected on your VOR check is likely to be unrelated to the deviation of the glideslope . Whilst they use the same indicator instrument , the radio systems driving the instrument are typically separate . The VOR system works on a 108.00-117 .95 MHz , frequency &amp; amplitude modulated signal . The glideslope works on a 329.15-335 .0 MHz amplitude modulated signal . Both signals have different paths to the indicator instrument , and they use different needles on the indicator . Therefor it is unlikely that a systematic error causing a deviation in the VOR omni-bearing indicator will cause a deviation in the glide path indicator . There may be common error sources in both indications , but that depends really on the internal design of the receiver . For example if there is a voltage bias on some part of the system it may affect both systems . But you ca n't say anything about the maximum degree of deviation from the actual glide slope based on the observed deviation in the VOR receiver . The localizer receiver works on the same frequencies as the VOR , but the demodulation is different . In an analogue system with needles , they use the same needle . So for localizer there is a higher system commonality with VOR than in the glide path case , which increase the likelihood of a common source of error .
The compression ratio of the turbo machinery will not change with altitude as long as the speed of the compressor does not change ( excluding Reynolds number effects ) . This will lower the maximum pressure in parallel with the outside pressure . However , to create the same lift at altitude , the aircraft has to fly faster . In 10 km , where the air density is roughly 1/4 of sea level density , the airplane has to fly twice as fast . Also , air temperature drops with altitude , so the <URL> even more . And this Mach number determines how much <URL> happens ahead of and in the intake . Flying fast will increase the intake pressure level , which partially compensates for the lower atmospheric pressure . Since the pressure rises with the square of the Mach number , fast airplanes have a clear advantage here . Take the <URL> : Its <URL> had a compression ratio of measly 12 , but the precompression around the intake added another factor of 7 at Mach 2 , so the total pressure ratio between the peak pressure in the engine and outside air was over 80 ! Admittedly , this air pressure was only 76 mbar at the cruising altitude of the Concorde , so the absolute peak pressure in the engine was a much less impressive 6 bar . Typical compression ratios To answer the question about typical compression ratios : This correlates strongly with the age of the design : The first operational turbojet , the Junkers Jumo 004 of 1943 , had a compression ratio of just 3.2 using 7 compressor stages . The more recent <URL> of the Eurofighter achieves a compression ratio of around 26 with a similar size and weight using 8 compressed stages , but produces almost 7 times more thrust . The main difference is better aerodynamics . The <URL> achieve a pressure ratio of around 50 using 15 compressor stages . They can afford to compress the air more because they try to heat and accelerate the air as little as necessary during the combustion process . Since the maximum heat inside the engine is limited by the materials used , a higher compression in military engines would leave less thermal margin for combustion heating . The higher nozzle velocities of supersonic-capable engines are best achieved with less compression and more combustion heating . Here is a plot of the pressure ratio trends for commercial transport engines ( <URL> ) <URL>
During the 1990s I flew into countries on every continent except Antarctica . As an American English speaker flying U.S. registered airplanes , I never had a complaint that a controller had trouble understanding me , and I was always addressed in English by the controllers . Sometimes , though , I would have trouble understanding the controller 's accent and would have to ask them to repeat their instructions . As you mentioned , in some countries the controllers will address the pilots of that country in their native language . Personally , I always felt that compromised the smooth functioning of the system to a degree , because it denied a good bit of the overall picture of what was happening to the pilots who did n't speak that language . For example , if two airplanes preceding you are being rerouted for some reason , but you ca n't understand what they 've been given ( and which you 're probably going to be given ) , you 're not as prepared for the reroute when it comes through to you in English . Even if controllers spoke to you in English , they would typically pronounce place names and fixes as they are pronounced in the native language . My first flights in France were a real problem in this respect . The French controllers were speaking good and understandable English , but the French pronunciation of the place names did not match our English rendition of the names we were seeing ( and had never seen or heard before ) on the IFR maps ( no glass cockpits back then for us ) . In a couple of instances , we had to request that they spell the names , which did n't make us popular . On one occasion , when we made such a request , another pilot came on frequency and said , " He means ... " and gave us an English transliteration if you will of what the controller was saying . Interestingly , the worst time I ever had understanding a clearance was one from a nominally English speaking controller . We were talking to Scottish control , and received a reroute into Amsterdam from a controller with a very pronounced accent ( Glaswegian ? ) . All I was able to get was that at the end he was turning us over to Dutch control and the frequency . I went over to the Dutch , and asked for them to restate what our new clearance was , and I apologized , explaining that I had been unable to understand Scottish control . His first words were , " That 's okay , we ca n't understand them either . "
The registration number painted on the aircraft is required to match the aircraft 's registration certificate ( and airworthiness certificate ) . If the numbers do n't match the aircraft 's paperwork is n't in order , and it ca n't legally be flown . <URL> which is usually used to put a " special " ( reserved ) number on an aircraft : Send the FAA a letter requesting an N number change . ( It probably helps to have a good reason - like say United Airlines buying a used jet and wanting to re-register it with a tail number from their reserved block ) . Wait for the FAA to send you paperwork authorizing the N number change . You will get 3 copies of form 8050-64 - two for the FAA , one for you . Put the new N number on the plane . Usually you 'd do this by repainting the aircraft ( or the portion of the tail where the number is ) , but you could also do vinyl stickers or something similar ) One of the copies of form 8050-64 becomes your temporary registration certificate at this time , and you must carry that along with your original registration certificate showing the old registraton number . Within 5 days of applying the new N number return one of the copies of form 8050-64 to the FAA to obtain a new registration certificate with the new N number . Within 10 days of applying the new N number return the other copy of form 8050-64 to the FAA to obtain a new airworthiness certificate with the new N number . I expected to find something stating how long you have between the time the FAA grants the request to change registration numbers and when you must apply the new one to the plane , but as far as I can tell you can take your time doing this : there does n't seem to be an expiration on the authorization to change N numbers . As long as you comply with the requirements for the registration number change the aircraft is only " grounded " for as long as it takes to apply the new registration number ( if you 're repainting this could take a while ; if you apply a large sticker with the new number on it it could be done in less than a day ) .
Your puck ( GlobalSat BR355 ) runs on 5v and the UART line idles high ( it is pulled high when there is no traffic ) . The first thing you need to do is find the power lines that go to the gps puck -- connect wires to these lines ( 5v and gnd ) and run them to the spot where you want the button/led . Then make this circuit : <URL> The value for R1 should be 150 ohms ( which will yield under 20ma of current through the LED , assuming your led has a voltage drop of 2.1 v ( which the ones in the link I provided do have ) ) Here is a link to a transistor that will work for Q1 : <URL> Here is a resistor that will work for R1 : <URL> And here is a link to a selection of LEDs you can use ( all with voltage drop of 2.1 v ; Any of these should work ; just choose a color and form factor that works for your application ) : <URL> Here is a link to a selection of pushbuttons that should work -- just choose a form factor you like ( look at the datasheet for the ones with 4 pins -- these are just two pairs of pins ( each pair is connected ) for mounting ease -- two pins can be harder to mount on a circuit board ) : <URL> I personally recommend you use something like this for the button : <URL> For this button here is a picture and a schematic ( as you can see , the pins on either side of the flat side of the button are connected : <URL> <URL> And something like this for the led : <URL> Just wire these components up according to the picture and solder them together -- I 'll leave how to mount the switch and the LED up to you but make sure once you are done you cover all the exposed wire with glue and/or electrical tape and/or liquid electrical tape so they do n't accidentally short out . Also make sure no exposed wires within the circuit are touching where they should n't touch ( especially make sure you separate the pins of the transistor because if they accidentally touch the circuit will not work and you may damage your gps receiver -- long story short be careful in your wiring and make sure nothing is touching that should n't .
When related to a significant point , there is no difference between pass and cross . For altitude/FL only pass is used . The phraselogies used by ATC is described in ICAO <URL> ( Air Traffic Management / PANS-ATM ) , chapter 12 , phraseologies . The document explains the meaning for ATC , therefore to be understood and used by pilots . 12.3.1.2 LEVEL CHANGES , REPORTS AND RATES EXPEDITE CLIMB ( or DESCENT ) [ UNTIL PASSING ( level ) ] AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.1.4 TRANSFER OF CONTROL AND / OR FREQUENCY CHANGE AT ( or OVER ) ( time or place ) [ or WHEN ] [ PASSING/LEAVING/REACHING ( level ) ] CONTACT ( unit call sign ) ( frequency ) 12.3.1.10 ADDITIONAL REPORTS REPORT PASSING ( significant point ) REPORT PASSING ( three digits ) RADIAL ( name of VOR ) VOR 12.3.2.3 MAINTENANCE OF SPECIFIED LEVELS MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL PASSING ( significant point ) MAINTAIN ( level ) UNTIL ( minutes ) AFTER PASSING ( significant point ) 12.3.2.4 SPECIFICATION OF CRUISING LEVELS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE , or BELOW ) CROSS ( distance ) MILES , ( GNSS or DME ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( name of DME station ) OR ( distance ) [ ( direction ) ] OF ( significant point ) AT ( or ABOVE or BELOW ) ( level ) 12.3.2.8 SEPARATION INSTRUCTIONS CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time ) [ OR LATER ( or OR BEFORE ) ] ADVISE IF ABLE TO CROSS ( significant point ) AT ( time or level ) 12.3.3.1 DEPARTURE INSTRUCTIONS AFTER REACHING ( or PASSING ) ( level or significant point ) ( instructions ) 12.3.4.12 TURN OR CLIMB INSTRUCTIONS AFTER TAKE-OFF AFTER PASSING ( level ) ( instructions ) 12.4.2.3 PARALLEL APPROACHES YOU HAVE CROSSED THE LOCALIZER ( or GBAS/SBAS/MLS FINAL APPROACH COURSE ) If another wording is used in some country , the differences must be explained in the country AIP , at section GEN 1.7 . For USA ( <URL> ) , Doc 4444 differences are found at GEN 1.7-23 . There are none related .
Aspect ratio is the ratio based on the span and chord of an aircraft 's wings . The span is the length of the wings measured wingtip to wingtip ; the chord is the ' depth ' of the wing from the leading edge to the trailing edge , measured in a straight line . Because very few aircraft have constant chord planforms , this requires a not-very-fancy formula to calculate ( <URL> ) , so that we can effectively average the chord : $ $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ $ Where : $ AR = $ Aspect ratio $ B = $ Wingspan $ S = $ Wing 's area Math aside , aspect ratio is chosen based on an aircraft 's role or requirements . A need for agility dictates a low aspect ratio , as does a need for compactness . In both cases , fighter aircraft and bush aircraft benefit from agility and small size . High aspect ratios provide great cruise efficiency but can have poor landing characteristics ( high drag at low speeds or high angles of attack due to frontal area ) that are often offset by high-lift devices like flaps and slats . To the second half of your question : even when a high aspect ratio is desired , wings are not made as long as possible for two reasons . The first is structural ; the bending forces associated with wings of extreme length are , well , extreme , and the materials required are pretty space-age . See high-performance gliders , or at the crazy end , solar - or human-powered aircraft , for examples of this . It 's just hard to do at the size of an airliner . The second reason is more practical : space is expensive . An extremely high-aspect ratio wing takes up a ton of space relative to the rest of the aircraft . In an attempt to offset this , early 777s ( which had a larger span than 767s and 747s ) were offered with folding wingtips , but nobody bought that option and it got dropped .
I do n't know if this is only definition out there , but according to the <URL> : Shallow turns are those in which the bank ( less than approximately 20 ° ) is so shallow that the inherent lateral stability of the airplane is acting to level the wings unless some aileron is applied to maintain the bank . Medium turns are those resulting from a degree of bank ( approximately 20 ° to 45 ° ) at which the air - plane remains at a constant bank . Steep turns are those resulting from a degree of bank ( 45 ° or more ) at which the " overbanking tendency " of an airplane overcomes stability , and the bank increases unless aileron is applied to prevent it .
As Lnafziger says , a conventional landing is impossible for anything more than a tiny aircraft STOL aircraft ( Carrier ' runway ' length : 200m ) . As you state however , if it was an emergency , the aircraft carrier has a special net which it can fold up to stop planes , and since it can stop an F18 Hornet , it could probably take your Cessna as well :)
It depends if the AQP qualifies as a pilot proficiency check . Most likely the the outcome will be a pilot proficiency check . § 61.56 Flight review . ... ( d ) A person who has , within the period specified in paragraph ( c ) of this section , passed any of the following need not accomplish the flight review required by this section : ( 1 ) A pilot proficiency check or practical test conducted by an examiner , an approved pilot check airman , or a U.S. Armed Force , for a pilot certificate , rating , or operating privilege .
Keep in mind that during a D check , the parts on the plane are already owned . There will of course be a certain amount of parts replaced , but it will be much less than the manufacturer 's cost to buy/manufacture all of the parts . There will be thousands of hours of labor , which will be most of the cost of a D check . The cost of maintenance space and taking the plane out of revenue service may also be considered . According to <URL> : For a 15-year old Boeing 737-300 , a D check would likely cost \ $ 1.25 - \ $ 1.5 million , representing about 8-10 % of the cost of the aircraft . This book is now 15 years old along with the newest 737-300 's , so in today 's dollars this would be \ $ 1.73 - \ $ 2.08 million , not accounting for changes in the cost of maintenance . Larger aircraft will have larger costs . This seems to put the cost in the same range as <URL> .
A lot has changed since the Frank Abagnale / " Catch Me If You Can " days , and riding as a non-revenue passenger ( particularly in the cockpit jump seat ) is no longer not as simple as grabbing a passable captain 's uniform , polishing your shoes up , and smooth-talking the flight crew . Someone seeking a ride in an airplane jump seat would still have to pass through airport security and prove their identity &amp; authorization to occupy such a seat to the satisfaction of the crew operating the flight , which would likely include checking credentials that are at lease somewhat difficult to forge . So in short it 's possible -- if someone is particularly adept at <URL> , forgery , and has at least a working knowledge of airport &amp; airline security procedures they might get away with it -- but it 's extremely unlikely , and as has been pointed out the consequences if and when you get caught are particularly unpleasant these days .
In the US most General Aviation rentals are " Wet Hobbs Time " -- You are billed based on the actual clock time the engine was running ( in tenths of an hour ) , and fuel/oil are included in the rental price . This is attractive to renters because of the simplicity : You do n't have to pay the FBO separately for the fuel , oil , and aircraft , and you 're basically paying for the amount of " clock time " you spent in the plane . It 's easy to understand , especially for new students who may not quite grasp the concept of how the recording tachometer measures " time " . Hobbs billing is attractive to the FBO as well , for different reasons : Rentals are typically blocked out by clock hours ( " 10 AM to 2 PM " ) . Since booking is clock time billing based on clock time ( Hobbs hours ) makes sense . In practice the two numbers are usually close ( and when they 're not the error tends to favor the FBO ) . Let 's look at your " Tach vs. Hobbs " scenarios ( for the sake of simplicity let 's assume both flights are three " clock hours " chock-to-chock ) : Pattern Work Pattern work consists of three basic phases : Takeoff ( full throttle , high RPM - Tach runs faster than Hobbs ) Circuit ( low power , low RPM - Tach runs slower than Hobbs ) Descent &amp; Landing ( near idle power , very low RPM - Tach runs MUCH slower than Hobbs ) There might be a taxi in there for full-stop practice , but you 'll be close to idle there too . If we average this out over three hours of pattern work ( and assuming you and your instructor do n't commit suicide to break the monotony ) the Tach hour meter will be reading a number much lower than the Hobbs meter . In this scenario you might have 2.25 tach hours for your 3 Hobbs / Clock hours . 3-hour Cross Country A cross country consists of 5 phases : Takeoff/Climb ( full throttle , high RPM - Tach runs faster than Hobbs ) Cruise ( moderate throttle , moderate RPM - Tach and Hobbs run about the same speed ) Descent ( moderate-low throttle , moderate-low RPM - Tach may be a bit slower than Hobbs ) Circuit/Approach ( low power , low RPM - Tach runs slower than Hobbs ) Landing ( near idle power , very low RPM - Tach runs MUCH slower than Hobbs ) If we assume Phases 1 and 3 take about the same time they roughly cancel each other out . Phase 2 ( Cruise ) is a wash too , so we 're left with two brief periods where the tach is running noticeably slower than the Hobbs ( the pattern and landing at the destination ) . In this scenario you might have 2.85 Tach Hours for your 3 Hobbs / Clock hours . In both of these scenarios the FBO comes out ahead of the game -- they 're billing you for 3 hours of time , but their maintenance cycle is based on the tach . This might be enough to squeeze another day or two of profitable flying out of an airframe before it 's next annual or 100-hour inspection . There are scenarios where you can " beat " the Tach clock , but most of them involve being downright abusive to the aircraft/engine . For example if you flew that 3 hour cross country at low altitude and full throttle ( very high RPM ) you might rack up 3.3 tach hours for your 3 Hobbs hours . The FBO is basically stuck eating that maintenance expense . Along similar lines when renter pilots abuse an engine ( for example by leaving the mixture knob full rich for the whole flight ) the tach time does n't always tell the whole maintenance story - the mechanic 's time cleaning the plugs because the next renter could n't get through a runup has to be paid for somehow .
The door the passengers are loading through is obviously one route , back down the jetway or stairs . The door being " armed " does not affect whether it can be opened or not . When the door is armed , opening it will also automatically inflate the escape slide . When the door is disarmed , the slide will not inflate . Additionally , each door has a manual inflation handle for the escape slide which the crew can use to deploy the slide if needed . I could not find a non-copyrighted picture to include . <URL>
end question
start question
How am I supposed to track to KOSAX on the OLIVI 4W out of EDFM ?
The textual description for OLIVI 4W is : However , the remarks section holds the answer : Note " 3 . After 6.0 DME MND BRNAV equipment necessary . " BRNAV in this case means " Basic RNAV " , which is essentially a form of RNAV equipment , but with less stringent certification requirements compared to normal IFR RNAV equipment .
Air forces use special training rigs rather than real ejection seats . <URL> Plenty of pilots have survived ejection ( Wikipedia says " As of 20 June 2011 ... the number of lives saved by Martin-Baker products was 7,402 from 93 air forces " ) The types of injury are illustrated by <URL> The ejection seat has been responsible for saving the lives of thousands of pilots around the world since its introduction in the late 1940s . Typical survival rates quoted in the literature vary from 80 -- 97 % . It is generally accepted that radiographic evidence of vertebral fracture can be found in 30 % -- 70 % of aircrew after ejection The reason real ejection seats are not used is almost certainly the high risk of injury . Ejecting clear from a high speed jet requires a lot of acceleration .
When they first fall down they 'll be too high to reach your head , pulling on them will release a switch to activate the generator and release enough slack in the line to reach down to your chest comfortably ( for children ) . Some types are suspended by a cord connected to the switch : ( image source : <URL> ) Then you will just need to pull until the cord disconnects from the ceiling .
The textual description for OLIVI 4W is : However , the remarks section holds the answer : Note " 3 . After 6.0 DME MND BRNAV equipment necessary . " BRNAV in this case means " Basic RNAV " , which is essentially a form of RNAV equipment , but with less stringent certification requirements compared to normal IFR RNAV equipment .
The answer will differ a bit from airfield to airfield but here is a <URL> ( EGNX ) . The inspection is carried out first thing in the morning and last thing at night , then at 2 hour intervals throughout the day . It is carried out by a vehicle in co-ordination with ATC who might shut the runway down for a few minutes . The vehicle must get permission from ATC to enter the runway and must report on leaving . Approach will co-ordinate the arrivals , by extending them slightly , so that no-one has to hold or go around ( hopefully ) . It is also possible to do half the runway as a departing aircraft lines up , leave the runway at a turn off , wait for the departing aircraft , then complete the inspection before the next departure . There are several ways to do it without causing disruption . The vehicle enters the runway and drives the complete length visually checking the items on the inspection list . The document gives you a complete list of items to check but essentially it is : Clear of FOD . Markings and signs in good condition and visible . Lighting working and undamaged . Runway surface not damaged . Oil and fuel spills .
The optimum altitude depends on your aircraft , the engines and the weather . But most important is to decide what you are trying to achieve . If you would like to optimize your fuel consumption per distance travelled , the altitude you will fly at will be higher than if you try to optimize your fuel consumption per time unit . Fuel per distance travelled is usually better at altitude , while fuel flow per time unit is lower at lower altitudes . In other words , if you want to go far , fly high . If you want to keep flying long , fly low . Winds play an important role as well . If you have a strong headwind high up , you might go further staying low . There is quite some difference between reciprocating engines and jet / turbine engines here . The former perform better at lower altitudes , while the latter do just fine until much higher .
It is n't . The rudder is used . Yes , if there is asymmetry in thrust , the plane will yaw . And there is asymmetry in thrust . The engine thrust decreases slightly with wear and the engines are often worn out differently . There are effects like <URL> that shift the thrust axis depending on speed and attitude . And of course an engine may fail . So thrust asymmetry happens and needs to be compensated . And it is compensated by generating some sideways force with the rudder . Either by pilot pushing the pedal , or by applying trim . As @mins mentions , there are also effects that can cause asymmetry of drag , e.g. icing , and there are situations where the aircraft intentionally needs to fly somewhat sideways , e.g. cross-wind take-off and landing , so rudder is needed for many other things too . And when it 's there , it can compensate thrust asymmetry ( often , though , the engine failure dictates the minimum size of the vertical stabilizer and rudder ) . Note , that P-factor occurs in single-engine propeller aircraft too , so they also have some thrust asymmetry .
There are different ways of moving flaps . The trivial case where they rotate around a hinge point which lies within the airfoil contour does not increase wing area . Fowler-type , backward-moving flaps are possible in three general ways : Douglas flap : Here the flap rotates around a single hinge line which lies substantially below the airfoil contour . As the name suggests , this is used on many Douglas Commercial aircraft . <URL> Douglas flap , left : retracted ( <URL> ) ; right : extended ( <URL> ) . Their long and narrow supports make them easy to recognize . Four - or five-bar linkages : These are mechanically more complex , but enable a more compact mechanism . As their name suggests , four or five linkages are connected with bearings and enable a more complex movement . The drawing and the animated GIF below are taken from <URL> and show the mobility m which increases with the number of joints . This would be my recommendation for a Lego model ; just make sure that the forward bar is longer than the rear bar - this will give you a realistic movement of the flap . <URL> Above : Linkage mobility ( picture <URL> ) . Below : Four bar linkage ( picture <URL> ) <URL> Sliding block guide : Here you find real rails and rollers which move along them to enable the most complex and precise movement , even for multi-element flaps . While a four-bar linkage will have a continuously increasing ratio of deflection angle to backward shift , a sliding block guide makes it possible to set the deflection angle independent of the backward shift , and allows the biggest backward shift for a given size of the mechanism . See the Boeing 747 flap tracks below for an example . <URL> Boeing 747 flap tracks ( picture <URL> ) . Note that the upper block is supporting the first flap segment and the lower block the second . Actuation is via a spindle ; the linkage in the lower left corner is actually the mechanism for moving the flap fairing .
If I attempt to continue maintaining the flare , attempting to come to a stop , I will sink and if I do n't do anything about it , I will hit the ground . Why ? if you continue to maintain aft cyclic after the flare , you will hit the ground because some of the lift which is being generated will be used to fly the helicopter backwards , and you wo n't have enough power in to both maintain altitude and also maintain backwards flight ( which is what you are commanding with aft cyclic ) . This is why we level off after the flare : to use all the lift in the vertical direction . Its the exact opposite of take-off : if you are in a hover on the runway , and push the nose over to the 60KIAS nose-down attitude , you will descend into the runway . Although I have never tried it , I imagine that at the peak of the flare , if I add ( a lot ? ) of power without changing the attitude ( much :) , I will not descend into the runway , but rather I will start to fly backwards .
AOPA has a <URL> on this topic : You 're required to present pilot and medical certificates ( plus logbook if required for flight ) The inspector may not detain you The inspector may not board the aircraft without informing you But an inspector is authorized to check the following items : The airworthiness certificate The aircraft registration The operating handbook The weight and balance information The minimum equipment list ( if applicable ) Aeronautical charts ( if applicable ) The general airworthiness of the aircraft The ELT battery A VOR check The seats/safety belts . In general , saying as little as possible seems to be a good plan : If the ramp check is due to a possible violation , anything you say or do may be used against you . If you have enrolled in AOPA 's Legal Services Plan , call AOPA 's Pilot Information Center at 800/USA-AOPA immediately . The consequences for even minor infractions can be far more serious than you might think . As for a search warrant , a ramp check is an FAA administrative process , not a law enforcement action . The issue of law enforcement checking private aircraft is a <URL> currently and AOPA provides a <URL> in case you are stopped for search . Their recommendation is to refuse the search ( unless they have a warrant , of course ) but not interfere if they go ahead and do it anyway .
This depends on what exactly you want the aircraft to do : Immediately depart the hold and fly directly to another fix : N1234 cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Immediately depart the hold and fly an assigned heading : N1234 Cleared to ' clearance limit ' via radar vectors . Fly heading ' heading ' . Proceed to another fix after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 After ' holding fix ' , cleared to ' clearance limit ' via direct ' fix ' and then as previously filed . Fly the published approach after passing the holding point inbound : N1234 Maintain ' altitude ' until ' holding fix ' , cleared ' approach name ' . Altitude Lastly , add the altitude to any of the above clearances if it is different than the current altitude by adding a climb/descend and maintain ' altitude ' clearance .
Sure you can . Just request to fly the approach using either radar vectors or initial approach fixes , if available . The tower will usually comply and grant you the approach clearance , adding " maintain VFR " i.e. . The approach should be flown under visual flight rules and you can not use a view limiting device unless you have an appropriately rated safety pilot onboard with access to dual flight controls . For non towered airports , you will need to listen for traffic in the area on the CTAF and provide position reports often for the benefit of other pilots in the pattern . Flying practice instrument approaches in VFR is quite common and many pilots do this to maintain instrument proficiency . It is also common for instrument rated pilots to file a local IFR flight plan to practice as well .
As you 've mentioned , your tolerance will build up over time so a simple , partial answer is to be patient and fly in small doses . Two 20 minute flights with a break between is much much better than a single hour long flight . You 'll learn more , stay focused , and acclimate faster . Try not to move your head much during maneuvers . For a loop , I typically look at my left wing tip until I 'm about 3/8 's through the loop , then I transition to looking " up " to catch the horizon as I approach the top of the loop . Any more movement than that might be a problem . Bill Thomas 's classic book <URL> describes where to look for many of the basic maneuvers .
Not significantly . The aircraft flies in the air . The air moves over the earth and takes the plane with it . Of course wind is affected by the rotation of the earth , but there is little direct effect of Earth 's rotation on the motion of the plane . The <URL> have a negligible effect on the aircraft 's track . The Inmarsat satellite used is geostationary , so it rotates as fast around the earth as the earth around its axis . The nett effect is zero .
In the US , you would use " closed " . From the <URL> : CLOSED RUNWAY − A runway that is unusable for aircraft operations . Only the airport management / military operations office can close a runway And this is part of the example ATIS broadcast from the same document : Left approach in use , Runway Two Five Right closed , advise you have Alfa . I do n't know if ICAO uses a different term , but " closed " is probably going to be clear to most pilots ( and non-pilots , for that matter ) .
Your puck ( GlobalSat BR355 ) runs on 5v and the UART line idles high ( it is pulled high when there is no traffic ) . The first thing you need to do is find the power lines that go to the gps puck -- connect wires to these lines ( 5v and gnd ) and run them to the spot where you want the button/led . Then make this circuit : <URL> The value for R1 should be 150 ohms ( which will yield under 20ma of current through the LED , assuming your led has a voltage drop of 2.1 v ( which the ones in the link I provided do have ) ) Here is a link to a transistor that will work for Q1 : <URL> Here is a resistor that will work for R1 : <URL> And here is a link to a selection of LEDs you can use ( all with voltage drop of 2.1 v ; Any of these should work ; just choose a color and form factor that works for your application ) : <URL> Here is a link to a selection of pushbuttons that should work -- just choose a form factor you like ( look at the datasheet for the ones with 4 pins -- these are just two pairs of pins ( each pair is connected ) for mounting ease -- two pins can be harder to mount on a circuit board ) : <URL> I personally recommend you use something like this for the button : <URL> For this button here is a picture and a schematic ( as you can see , the pins on either side of the flat side of the button are connected : <URL> <URL> And something like this for the led : <URL> Just wire these components up according to the picture and solder them together -- I 'll leave how to mount the switch and the LED up to you but make sure once you are done you cover all the exposed wire with glue and/or electrical tape and/or liquid electrical tape so they do n't accidentally short out . Also make sure no exposed wires within the circuit are touching where they should n't touch ( especially make sure you separate the pins of the transistor because if they accidentally touch the circuit will not work and you may damage your gps receiver -- long story short be careful in your wiring and make sure nothing is touching that should n't .
The FAR section that you are looking for is available on the ecfr website : <URL> More specifically , it is <URL> The main regulations that apply are ( see the above link for the full text of the regulations ) : § 101.23 General operating limitations . ( a ) You must operate an amateur rocket in such a manner that it : ( 1 ) Is launched on a suborbital trajectory ; ( 2 ) When launched , must not cross into the territory of a foreign country unless an agreement is in place between the United States and the country of concern ; ( 3 ) Is unmanned ; and ( 4 ) Does not create a hazard to persons , property , or other aircraft . ( b ) The FAA may specify additional operating limitations necessary to ensure that air traffic is not adversely affected , and public safety is not jeopardized . § 101.25 Operating limitations for Class 2-High Power Rockets and Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets . When operating Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets , you must comply with the General Operating Limitations of § 101.23 . In addition , you must not operate Class 2-High Power Rockets or Class 3-Advanced High Power Rockets -- ( a ) At any altitude where clouds or obscuring phenomena of more than five-tenths coverage prevails ; ( b ) At any altitude where the horizontal visibility is less than five miles ; ( c ) Into any cloud ; ( d ) Between sunset and sunrise without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( e ) Within 9.26 kilometers ( 5 nautical miles ) of any airport boundary without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( f ) In controlled airspace without prior authorization from the FAA ; ( g ) Unless you observe the greater of the following separation distances from any person or property that is not associated with the operations : ( 1 ) Not less than one-quarter the maximum expected altitude ; ( 2 ) 457 meters ( 1,500 ft. ) ; ( h ) Unless a person at least eighteen years old is present , is charged with ensuring the safety of the operation , and has final approval authority for initiating high-power rocket flight ; and ( i ) Unless reasonable precautions are provided to report and control a fire caused by rocket activities . § 101.27 ATC notification for all launches . No person may operate an unmanned rocket other than a Class 1 -- Model Rocket unless that person gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility nearest to the place of intended operation no less than 24 hours before and no more than three days before beginning the operation : ... § 101.29 Information requirements . . ...
When ACARS communicates via INMARSAT satellite ( other options are VHF or HF to ground stations ) , the satellite can ping the receiver on the aircraft and determine the distance from the delay of the reply . The satellite is geostationary , meaning that it is a fixed point 35786 km above the earth . Based on the distance from the satellite you can calculate a circle where the aircraft must be on . This has been done for MH370 . <URL> Since the geostationary orbit is so high , a single satellite covers a large portion of the earth . Only a single satellite covered the MH370 flight .
<URL> has declared values for part shipments , including one with the 140N2139-4 , which is the assembly containing the seal , mid pane , and outer pane for the 737 NG . The declared value is 24,562 INR which is currently about 375 USD . A shipment of 20 also listed has a lower unit price . For searching purposes GKN has part numbers in <URL> You typically have to ask for a quote from suppliers .
On small aircraft many operators use portable ADS-B IN receivers which typically do not have the ability to sense suppression signals from their own transponder/UAT transmissions and so they will pick up their own signal . Most installed systems have that suppression functionality so this wo n't happen . The suppression is simply a wire between the two units that if the transmitter is transmitting , it goes high , which tells the receiver to ignore whatever it is receiving at the moment . So if you want to " receive " yourself , simply snip the suppression wire if you have one ...
end question
start question
Exactly what kind of radios are prohibited for passengers inside an aircraft ?
There is actually a simple answer , but it probably is n't exactly what you are looking for : Refer all questions about what is allowed to your specific airline . Each airline has to come up with their own list of allowable electronic devices , and submit that list to the FAA with appropriate documentation in order to gain approval to allow passengers to use them during flight . Some airlines allow almost everything as long as it can be put into a non transmitting mode ( airplane mode ) , while some still require ALL electronic devices to be completely powered down at all points during the flight . Because of this , every airline is a little different and you are required to follow their rules while on their flights . The GPS receiver would not cause problems , but this does n't mean that you are necessarily allowed to use it , and there are other things in your phone that could cause a problem though . In general , no electronic device that has a transmit function may be used because of possible interference though , unless specifically approved .
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
NIGHT WATCH / NAOC or is the program identifier for the USAF National Airborne Operations Center ( NAOC ) , including at least certain <URL> flights . ( used in flight ) : From <URL> : The term " NAOC " will not be a part of the call sign but may be used when the aircraft is airborne to indicate a request for special handling . FLYNET From <URL> : The code name " FLYNET " indicates that an aircraft is transporting a nuclear emergency team or a disaster control team to the location of a potential or actual nuclear accident or an accident involving chemical agents or hazardous materials . It is in the public interest that they reach their destination as rapidly as possible . GARDEN PLOT Classified . Related to <URL> . Presumably a callsign to be used by aircraft as part of that operation . SCOOT Term related to <URL> flights in evacuation of government VIPs . From <URL> : The term " SCOOT " will not be part of the call sign but may be used when the aircraft is airborne to indicate a request for special handling . OPEN SKIES Callsign for observation aircraft under the Treaty on Open Skies . The USAF aircraft used for this purpose is the <URL> . From Wikipedia 's <URL> : Observation/Demonstration flights are conducted under rigid guidelines outlined in the Treaty of OPEN SKIES that govern sensor usage , maximum flight distances , altitudes and priorities .
Is an ELT required on any type of aircraft carrying passengers over water ? Generally , commercial transport aircraft are not required to carry an ELT . how are aircraft planned to be located after an accident over the ocean ? I believe pilots are expected to use radio to inform controllers of any emergency . If ATC are unable to contact an aircraft for an extended time , they instigate S&amp;R based on the last known location of the aircraft . The FDR and CVR are required to include an underwater location beacon ( ULB ) , though this is only short range and has limited duration . It is expected that , sometime in the future , commercial transport aircraft will be required to have automated systems that report their position frequently ( perhaps every 15 minutes ) References : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
Yes , it 's true . Usually called approach or arrival briefing Details will vary according to aircraft and operator but a typical list is NATS : NOTAMs1 ATIS2 notes , chart briefing point by point , date , frequencies , courses , minimums and missed approach procedures . Terrain , minimum safety altitude , which route Special notes for arrival , taxiing , likely gate for arrival ? I noticed that you specifically asked about something going wrong . The following assumes a serviceable aircraft . According to operator , if the aircraft is not on a stabilised approach by 1,000 feet , a go around will be performed and the missed approach procedure ( MAP ) followed . The MAP is printed on the approach chart . The initial action is : to get the aircraft safely climbing away ( aviate ) to the altitude and heading defined in the MAP ( navigate ) then call ATC to let them know ( communicate ) . Aviate , navigate , communicate , always in that order . A stabilised approach might differ between operators but is essentially . The flight path is correct with only minor changes in pitch and heading needed to stay on it . No more than 20 kts above the approach reference speed briefed as above . Correctly configured for landing ( flaps , slats , gear , spoilers armed , autobrake set etc ) Checklists completed Rate of descent < = 1,000 fpm Power setting is appropriate There may be other special checks for some types of approaches which must have been briefed as above ) . The MAP might be something like : The MAP is unique for each approach so must be briefed in advance . 1 <URL> : Warn of recent changes , temporary restrictions , equipment malfunctions etc. . 2 <URL> : A continuous broadcast of airfield information such as weather , special precautions , runways in use etc. .
Yes , aircraft have fire-protection systems as well with many of the materials being of such a sort . From <URL> about the fire-resistant/fire-suppression systems on their aircraft . You can see that most of the aircraft is covered in these materials . Emphasis mine . Interior components of Boeing airplanes meet flammability requirements prescribed in Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations ( CFR ) Part 25 . These components include : For materials in areas not covered by the CFR requirements , Boeing design guidelines are used to identify additional flammability , smoke , and toxicity requirements . The standards for flammability of insulation blankets have improved over time . A recent requirement change calls for the enhancement of the fire-protective features of insulation blankets in the event of an in-flight or post-crash fire . The latest standard increases protection by minimizing the contribution of the insulation blankets to the propagation of a fire . Thermal/acoustic insulation installed behind cabin interior panels with the appropriate fire-resistant properties can delay the onset of fire into the cabin in the event of a crash ( see fig. 1 ) . The insulation blankets , along with the airplane skin , must be capable of resisting burn-through from a fuel-fed post-crash fire next to the bottom half of the fuselage for a minimum of four minutes to allow passengers to evacuate the airplane before burn-through can occur . You can also find out much more in that webpage about the various active and passive fire-suppression systems in aircraft . The FAA Regulation about these systems can be found <URL> in PDF format .
A QRH is a Quick Reference Handbook and is an approved ( by some overseeing entity ) document specific to an airplane and operator that contains checklists for just about anything the airplane can experience . At my airline we had copies in the airplane and also in our company flight manual ( CFM ) . The entry point into a QRH checklist is one of a few things Memory items EICAS message An abnormal event For option 1 , there are various checklists that must be memorized and performed at a moments notice with no reference to the checklist . Some of these are things like trim runaways , engine fire/severe damage , emergency descent . Once the memory part of the checklist is complete you refer to the printed version of the checklist in the QRH to verify and perform additional steps beyond the part you were required to memorize . For the other options , any time anything abnormal happens or an EICAS message is presented , there are indices by procedure name and also by EICAS message into a specific procedure in the QRH to follow . These procedures may reference other procedures . For example , If I were to experience a dual engine failure , I would pick up my QRH and find the procedure " DUAL ENGINE FAILURE " , this procedure says I should have the master warning light illuminated ( and an aural triple chime ) and I should see the EICAS message ( in red ) " ENG 1-2 OUT " . After verifying this presentation and verifying I am in the right procedure , I would perform :
Even if ATC ca n't legally give you permission to enter prohibited airspace ( they sometimes can for restricted airspace by the way ) , if you declare an emergency they will still coordinate with the controlling agency which will help to keep you safe . Squawk 7700 , fly as high as possible , turn on all your lights , broadcast your intentions on 121.5 if you are n't talking to ATC , and do n't make any sudden dives toward the ground/buildings , etc. . This will all help to show that you are n't trying to " sneak in under the radar " and can only improve your situation . Do n't be surprised if you get intercepted though , and make sure that you talk to them on 121.5 if you do . Know your <URL> and follow them exactly . They will most likely try to help you as much as possible . You will still face a lot of questions and probably even certificate action when you get on the ground though because , as you said , poor planning is no excuse ... Also , this applies in the US . Some other countries ( possibly Cuba , Iran , etc. ) tend to be far more sensitive to issues like this and may " shoot first and ask questions later " .
As soon as there 's a fire on board , the absolute top priority is getting everybody out as soon as possible . Aircraft are designed in such a way that , even after a crash landing ( or other serious malfunction ) , the passengers will have a minute or two to evacuate before conditions in the cabin become toxic ( fire , smoke , etc ) ; this is done by using flame-retardant material and burn-through protection , but in an intense fire these wo n't protect the cabin for long , and once they fail no-one will be able to survive inside the aircraft for much longer than that . Smoke inhalation and oxygen deprivation kill just as effectively as being burned . Therefore everyone has to be able to evacuate from the plane within 90 seconds , even assuming the plane is packed to the gills with passengers , and half the exits are inoperative . Given that the aircraft may be damaged after a rough/crash landing , some of the doors may be unusable ( due to fire or smoke just outside them ) , it may be dark in the cabin , and people may be injured and/or panicking , it 's vital that nothing slows down the evacuation . To get an idea of what a 90-second evacuation of a fully-loaded aircraft looks like , see the video of the <URL> - and these passengers were calm , uninjured , and prepared . If passengers take hand luggage with them this is slowed down : The time it takes to get it out of the overhead bins ( with everyone else crushing against you to get out ) . Carrying the luggage down the aisle ( without tripping , hurting yourself or anyone else - again , look at the A380 video , and imagine trying to do that with a suitcase ) . If you lose your luggage , everyone behind you will have to climb over it to get to the exit . Maneuvering your suitcase around the corner to the door , not getting it stuck on the door frame , with people behind you literally shoving you out the door . Plunging down a very steep slide the height of a two-storey building ( or more , in case of the A380 's upper deck ) at high speed , with your suitcase flailing around . At best it whacks you on the head , at worst it punctures and deflates the slide , which given the crush of passengers behind you will probably lead a few people to plummet from the aircraft doors straight to the ground . Assuming you 've made it to the ground , there is someone else plunging down the slide right behind you . If your suitcase slows you down even a little , they will plow right into you , and soon you 'll have a crush of people at the foot of the slide . In this specific case , the fire was fortunately not serious enough to defeat the cabin fire protection before the last passengers had evacuated - but as <URL> said , there are unfortunately other examples where the passengers were not so lucky . To illustrate the risk of fire after landing : <URL> ran off the runway at landing , and despite having little fuel on board , the resulting fire completely destroyed the aircraft ; luckily , everyone evacuated in time . Once there 's been a major malfunction , there is no way to tell how much time you have left to get out - fire can spread very very quickly - and so you have to get out as quickly as possible . Taking luggage with you endangers your life and that of your fellow passengers .
It is n't . The rudder is used . Yes , if there is asymmetry in thrust , the plane will yaw . And there is asymmetry in thrust . The engine thrust decreases slightly with wear and the engines are often worn out differently . There are effects like <URL> that shift the thrust axis depending on speed and attitude . And of course an engine may fail . So thrust asymmetry happens and needs to be compensated . And it is compensated by generating some sideways force with the rudder . Either by pilot pushing the pedal , or by applying trim . As @mins mentions , there are also effects that can cause asymmetry of drag , e.g. icing , and there are situations where the aircraft intentionally needs to fly somewhat sideways , e.g. cross-wind take-off and landing , so rudder is needed for many other things too . And when it 's there , it can compensate thrust asymmetry ( often , though , the engine failure dictates the minimum size of the vertical stabilizer and rudder ) . Note , that P-factor occurs in single-engine propeller aircraft too , so they also have some thrust asymmetry .
The MMEL and MEL list items that can be inop while still dispatching the aircraft , it also lists any required restrictions of that system being inop . I think <URL> , which is the preamble for all MMELs , gives some of the best information : First they set the basis of an MEL , that every system/function of the aircraft must be operation to dispatch . This restriction can be superseded by the MEL : The following is applicable for authorized certificate holders operating under Title 14 Code of Federal Regulations ( 14 CFR ) Parts 121 , 125 , 129 , 135 : 14 CFR require that all equipment installed on an aircraft in compliance with the Airworthiness Standards and the Operating Rules must be operative . However , the Rules also permit the publication of a Minimum Equipment List ( MEL ) where compliance with certain equipment requirements is not necessary in the interests of safety under all operating conditions . Then they tell you that MEL includes items that are allowed to be inoperative along with any limitations : The FAA approved MMEL includes those items of equipment related to airworthiness and operating regulations and other items of equipment which the Administrator finds may be inoperative and yet maintain an acceptable level of safety by appropriate conditions and limitations The individual operator 's MEL , when approved and authorized , permits operation of the aircraft with inoperative equipment . Equipment not required by the operation being conducted and equipment in excess of 14 CFR requirements are included in the MEL with appropriate conditions and limitations . The MEL must not deviate from the Aircraft Flight Manual Limitations , Emergency Procedures or with Airworthiness Directives . It is important to remember that all equipment related to the airworthiness and the operating regulations of the aircraft not listed on the MMEL must be operative . The image below is from the <URL> , as you can see it lists items that can be inoperative and the limitation . Some items carry many restrictions , such as anti-skid or a pack , others carry none , such as reading lights . The MMELs are available on the FAA 's website , so it can be an interesting read . <URL> I do not know why the terminology is backwards , I assume it comes from a time aircraft were much less complex and an list of required items was realistic . But if it only listed items that were required for flight , you could end up with hundreds of systems inop , with no direct requirement to repair them . PL-34 addresses this a little bit : The MEL is intended to permit operation with inoperative items of equipment for a period of time until repairs can be accomplished . It is important that repairs be accomplished at the earliest opportunity . In order to maintain an acceptable level of safety and reliability the MMEL establishes limitations on the duration of and conditions for operation with inoperative equipment . and Operators are responsible for exercising the necessary operational control to ensure that an acceptable level of safety is maintained . When operating with multiple inoperative items , the interrelationships between those items and the effect on aircraft operation and crew workload will be considered . Basically the take away from this is that an operator can not issue every MEL in the book and dispatch the aircraft . For example , it may be okay to MEL one AC pack or one AC pack temp control valve , but it would not be okay to MEL one pack and the temp control valve on the other pack .
No , these losses are well known and are called installation losses . Their reasons are : Intake losses . In a ground test the engine will be fitted with <URL> , but none of the long intake tubes which are common especially in supersonic aircraft . Generator loads : The <URL> to supply the aircraft with electricity . This can be simulated in a ground run , but often the generator load is higher in flight . Bleed air : Some of the compressed air inside the engine is piped to a <URL> for <URL> , or used for leading edge de-icing . Again , this can be simulated in the static test but sometimes bleed air losses are higher in flight . Interference between fuselage and power plant is only to be expected with fuselage-mounted engines . This can be both beneficial ( as in the <URL> and speed on the <URL> ) , or it can distort the flow when side-mounted intakes are operated at a high sideslip angle .
Briefly , " overhaul " is n't a strictly defined term but it 's generally used to refer to the intensive inspection , maintenance and repair of an aircraft component , frequently - but not exclusively - the engines . The word overhaul by itself is a general term that 's used in all sorts of places but it 's not defined in <URL> , for example . The most specific definition I could find is in <URL> between the FAA and EASA : " Overhaul " means a process that ensures the aeronautical article is in complete conformity with the applicable service tolerances specified in the type certificate holder 's , or equipment manufacturer 's instructions for continued airworthiness , or in the data which is approved or accepted by the Authority . No person may describe an article as being overhauled unless it has been at least disassembled , cleaned , inspected , repaired as necessary , reassembled and tested in accordance with the above-specified data . Note that that definition only mentions " aeronautical articles " , which is very broad indeed and not limited to just engines , airframes or anything else . In the general aviation world , a very common usage of " overhaul " is in the context of piston engines , which have a <URL> ( TBO or TBOH ) set by the manufacturer . Once an engine reaches that number of hours , it needs to be overhauled . But even there , the term is n't precise and the FAA has a circular called Reciprocating Engine Overhaul Terminology and Standards that explains what it usually means : c. Overhaul . In the general aviation industry , the term engine overhaul has two identifications that make a distinction between the degrees of work on an engine : ( 1 ) Major Overhaul . A major overhaul consists of the complete disassembly of an engine . The overhaul facility inspects the engine , repairs it as necessary , reassembles , tests , and approves it for return to service within the fits and limits specified by the manufacturer 's overhaul data . This could be to new fits and limits or serviceable limits . The engine owner should clearly understand what fits and limits should be used when the engine is presented for overhaul . The owner should also be aware of any replaced parts , regardless of condition , as a result of a manufacturer 's overhaul data , SB , or an Airworthiness Directive ( AD ) . ( 2 ) Top Overhaul . Top overhaul consists of repair to parts outside of the crankcase , and can be accomplished without completely disassembling the entire engine . It can include the removal of cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinders , inspection and repair to cylinder walls , pistons , valve-operation mechanisms , valve guides , valve seats , and the replacement of piston and piston rings . All manufacturers do not recommend a top overhaul . Some manufacturers indicate that a powerplant requiring work to this extent should receive a complete overhaul . Apart from that usage , the term <URL> seems to be <URL> in the airline industry to describe maintenance facilities , but there is n't any specific definition that I could find . So there 's no single definition of " overhaul " . It just means that you 've very thoroughly inspected and tested something on an aircraft , whether it 's an engine or a wheel , and you 've verified that it 's fit to be used in flight , i.e. it 's airworthy . The reasons why it 's important are probably obvious ; they 're the same reasons that your car needs regular servicing to run safely , efficiently and reliably .
Our Flight Environment First the basics : <URL> is mainly carbon dioxide and has an average temperature of -47 ° C and an average pressure of <URL> . The speed of sound in these conditions is <URL> , the dynamic viscosity $ \ nu $ is <URL> , and for my calculations I use an atmospheric density of 0.0234 kg/m ³ . Now I owe all you early upvoters an apology . The earlier answer used an unsuitable methodology ; now I have improved the answer with different results . Operating Point Next step : The electric power supply makes a propeller the right choice , and for propeller aircraft the minimum power to sustain flight can be achieved when the lift coefficient is $ $ c_L = \ sqrt { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ This makes your zero-lift drag the real sizing parameter : Make the aircraft a little more draggy , and you get punished with a big size increase . Therefore , we strive to keep the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ down to 0.008 in order to keep the aircraft small . This allows to get an idea which aspect ratio will be best : At minimum power the total drag is four times the zero-lift drag , and the lift coefficient should be as high as possible to keep the aircraft 's size small . Realistically , our flight $ c_l $ will not grow above 1.6 ( which is the best that <URL> can manage at a reasonable L/D ) , so the aspect ratio is $ $ \ Lambda = \ frac { c_l ^ 2 } { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ which yields an aspect ratio of 35.74 when $ \ epsilon $ is 0.95 . Available Power Now we can follow the procedure in <URL> to calculate power demands for your solar-electric propulsion . Solar radiation on Mars is a lot lower than on Earth , but very reliable as there are no clouds to obstruct the sun . Beware of <URL> , however ! Since you gave the Martian solar constant in your question , I will use it here : The wing will be covered to 80 % with solar cells , and each square meter of them will produce your optimistic 200 W ( 500 W radiation times 40 % efficiency ) . Per square meter of wing we can achieve 160 W , and with an electric efficiency of 96 % and a propeller efficiency of 85 % this translates into a propulsive power per square meter of 130.5 W. Matching Thrust to Drag Now we can equate the drag $ D$ and the available thrust $ T$ from the power $ P$ , like this : $ $ D = T = \ frac { P } { v } = > 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ frac { \ rho \ cdot v ^ 3 } { 2 } = 130.5 \ cdot S$ $ Luckily , wing area $ S$ can be canceled , and we get a result for the airspeed $ v $ at which the aircraft 's drag can just be supported by the power the wing can generate independent of wing area : $ $ v = \ sqrt [ 3 ] { \ frac { 130.5 } { 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ rho } } = 55.857 m/s $ $ Now for the real size : If we assume that the payload fraction is 25 % , the mass of the full aircraft will be 4 tons . To lift this at the dynamic pressure of 36.5 N/m ² which corresponds to the found flight speed we need a wing area of 254 m ² . This can create 40.65 kW of power , 33.17 of which are transformed into thrust . The wing span will be a whopping 95.28 m . How you get this to Mars I leave to your imagination - after all , this is just a tad less than the wingspan of the <URL> . If you can achieve a higher payload fraction , the wing will become smaller : At 30 % the full aircraft mass is only 3.333 tons , and the wing size will become 211.74 m ² large . Its wing span will be 87 m. With these dimensions I doubt that a higher payload fraction will be possible . The closest aircraft to this design was the <URL> , which had an empty mass of 3.6 tons ( with a propulsion system weighing close to the mass of Curiosity ) and a wing span of 61 m . Last Checks Mach number : 56 m/s is just Mach 0.2345 on Mars , so we should not run into compressibility effects which would limit the assumed lift coefficient . Reynolds number . The bigger wing has an average chord of 2.66 m and the smaller one still 2.43 m chord , and per meter the Reynolds number in -47 ° C cold carbon dioxide at 56 m/s is 4,900,000 - plenty enough to make the selected lift coefficient possible . Size helps here !
Most modern planes are made mostly of <URL> . Or at least are skinned in aluminum . The spars and cross members may be made of other materials but I am under the impression they are mainly aluminum as well . Generally high stress areas like wing/fuselage joints may be made of more rigid materials like steel . Aircraft Spruce provides a nice <URL> . This answer to a similar question <URL> . As the technology gets better and the facilities grow in both scale and ability , <URL> . Here is a break down for the 787 <URL> ( <URL> )
Traditionally , it was almost only movie projectors in the cabin , since Cathode Ray Tubes ( CRT ) were too bulky and impractical to fit . It was also very expensive . I think only with the arrival of LCD displays seatback displays that we know now were made possible . As for cockpit displays , the CRTs were widely used until LCDs were introduced and offered better performance . You can compare the 737 Classic with retrofitted CRT displays with those of the 737 Next Generation . Compare the 747-400 to the 747-8 which had LCD in place of CRT . I ca n't find pictures , but have been told that the old CRT modules were huge , very deep ( which you ca n't see ) and heavy , compare to the thin panel that now is available . You can still backwards order CRT for aircraft . I was flying with one airline that had done on a very new A320 to maintain commonality with the rest of the fleet . The pilots did n't appreciate it though , since it was bad for the eyes , needed to be dimmed and had ( I believe ) inferior resolution . Page 9 of <URL> gives some details on the display type tradeoff .
There are no language recommendations or requirements , other than what is sensible given the verification requirements in the various standards ( e.g. , DO-178B / C ) . For the highest design assurance levels , the generated code must be inspected down at the op-code level to ensure no known processor gotchas are invoked . You also end up having to test every part of every conditional , both the true and the false sides , and ensure that no jump instructions will take you someplace where you did n't expect it to go . For these reasons , the big three languages in use in embedded avionics today are : C++ ( as a better C . The OO nature is often used only sparingly . Things like polymorphism are just too expensive to verify ) Ada ( You may not like it , but a TON of current avionics are written in Ada , and are currently being maintained and updated with new features ) C - As close to the hardware as you want to get and still be highly productive ( not intending to offend anyone who is productive in something else ) Assembler is frequently used for specific needs , but it would not be used to a greater degree than one of the above-mentioned languages . What makes these languages ideal for avionics is that they are relatively close to the hardware and memory structure , not too abstract . Their tools are mature and well-known . People have years of experience certifying software written in them . And there are lots of programmers who can get up to speed in them quickly ( Yes , even Ada ) . Non-safety critical software , both on and off the aircraft , will be written in any of the big languages of the day : Java , C# , VB , C , C++ , Python , Perl , Ruby , etc. . iPads are becoming useful inside the cockpit and are approved in limited situations . iOS apps are written in Objective-C , C , C++ , and increasingly , Swift ( Apple 's new language ) .
In case of a total electrical failure , the aircraft can still be controlled using rudder pedals and manual pitch trim . The airbus EFCS ( Electronic flight control systems ) are configured as below : <URL> Airbus EFCS ; Image from <URL> From <URL> : MECHANICAL BACKUP In case of a complete loss of electrical flight control signals , the aircraft can be temporarily controlled by mechanical mode . Pitch control is achieved through the horizontal stabilizer by using the manual trim wheel . Lateral control is accomplished using the rudder pedals . Both controls require hydraulic power . The A340 also seems to have a similar system . From the <URL> : Mechanical back-up • To sustain the aircraft during a temporary complete loss of electrical power . • Longitudinal control of the aircraft through trim wheel . Elevators kept at zero deflection . • Lateral control from pedals . Roll damping is provided by the Back up Yaw Damper Unit ( BYDU ) . <URL> A340 mechanical Backup system ; image from <URL> Note that this is given only as a temporary measure . Also , See <URL> and <URL>
end question
start question
What is the safe speed to use highspeed turnoff ?
Please be careful applying a blanket figure during high speed turnoff . There are many variables which you should consider . These are : • Exact angle of the taxiway ( you 're turning onto ) : If it 's a very shallow angle off the runway and therefore does not require much turning , high-speed turnoffs are easier and manageable , and vice versa . • Rate of deceleration • Side load limitations on the CRJ • Tolerance of the nose gear • Traffic situation on taxiway Generally speaking you need both sets of eyes outside , especially if you are joining or crossing another Taxi Way .
As the US military primarily flies and trains in US airspace , they use the standard measures associated with the airspace . That is feet ( or flight levels ) , nautical miles and knots , inHg , and ° F. Though , using ° C is fairly common in the US now since weather reports shifted to the ICAO format . That said , the cockpit systems can be switched to HPa and meters for altitude and ° C for temp for when they fly in airspace where that is the standard . Speed and distance are always in nm and kts .
Engine placement was a tricky question when jets were introduced , and much has been learned since then . The initial idea was to mount them inside the fuselage or wing root . When they grew too big , they were closely mounted to the wing ( " underslung " position , like in the <URL> , the <URL> or the early <URL> ) . However , the underslung position has two disadvantages : More of the leading and trailing edges is obstructed , blocking space that would otherwise be used for slats and flaps . Consequently , an underslung position reduces maximum lift . The center of gravity of the engine is too far back . Moving it more forward helps to place the center of gravity of the wing ahead of its elastic line . Bending will now create an opposing inertial moment , which is very helpful to dampen flutter . Starting to move the engine downwards away from the wing initially increases drag , because now a narrow slot opens between both with a tendency to separated flow . Only when the engine is moved downwards enough , the drag of the wing-engine arrangement reaches its minimum . This placement was chosen in the next generation of jets like the <URL> or the <URL> . Moving it still further down makes the pylon longer and thus increases the total drag again . The big diameters of modern high-bypass ratio engines make it impractical to move it down enough to reach the drag minimum , but by moving it forward , the engine can again be lifted up , so a shorter landing gear becomes possible . Vortex generators are added if that pesky separation between engine and nacelle can not be avoided .
Many helicopters have different flight characteristics , but for general information you can always look in the <URL> , this is from <URL> : This is from a section on the four fundamentals of flight ( straight-and-level , turns , climbs , and descents ) : Anticipate the following characteristics during aggressive maneuvering flight , and adjust or lead with collective as necessary to maintain trim and torque : Left turns , torque increases ( more antitorque ) . This applies to most helicopters , but not all . Right turns , torque decreases ( less antitorque ) . This applies to most helicopters , but not all . So some ( most ) helicopters do require some torque pedal movement for aggressive maneuvering , but the pilot may have anticipated this and added the correction prior to beginning the turn . You may not have noticed as much pedal movement as you would in a coordinated turn for an airplane , or the helicopter you were riding in had different flight characteristics and was not maneuvering aggressively enough to need it . Many helicopters " wind vane " pretty well , that is that they stay aligned with the relative wind at high speed . It could be that the helicopter you were in was travelling at a high enough rate of speed that a large ( or any ) correction was not needed to maintain proper alignment . For an example of how speed cancels out the need for anti-torque control , see <URL> about a helicopter pilot that lost the tail rotor and continued to fly for half an hour to a proper landing site .
The first thing I would point out is that LAX is n't going to be running simultaneous approaches on 24L and 24R or 25L and 25R . They 'll select one of each of the parallel sets for the landing runways ( typically the outer runways ) , and one of each for departing runways ( typically the inner runways ) . For example , they might be landing on 25L and 24R and departing 25R and 24L . So , there 's quite a bit of distance between those runways , and very little risk in a go around situation . Here 's a diagram illustrating LAX 's typical arrival/departure runway usage to make it more visually apparent what I mean : The second part of your question about an aircraft taking off at the same time as a go-around certainly happens , and when it does , ATC needs to take action to ensure safety and separation . ATC separation requirements can be satisfied by altitude , distance , or divergence ( and , in some cases , visual contact ) . In the situation you described , divergence is the quickest and safest way to achieve separation . I believe the requirement is 30 ° , so tower would typically order a go-around and order a new heading at least 30 ° off of runway heading . The geography of the area , layout of the airspace , and the approach patterns would likely dictate the exact procedure used at each airport since their two primary goals , in order , are going to be 1 . safety , and 2 . getting them back in the approach sequence . In the LAX example , a go-around on 24R would most likely get a right turn , and 25L would most likely get left turn ( away from the airport ) so as not to conflict with other departing or arriving traffic . This is one of a few reasons the outer runways are preferred for landing .
A VNAV with localiser approach is normally a backup to a regular ILS should there be a glide slope unserviceability . The use of VNAV to manage the vertical portion of the approach would allow the use of APV minima which are normally lower than using a vertical speed mode . VNAV is a better mode when conducting non-precision approaches as the aircraft is still following a defined glideslope - albeit derived from a database - which is more accurate than trying to follow a tabled set of heights and distances using vertical speed .
It is possible but there are side effects . If both rudders would be deflected to opposite sides to cancel out each others yaw moments , their drag will act as an air brake . But since the top rudder is further from the center of gravity than the bottom rudder , the resulting roll moments of the rudders do n't cancel each other out . As a result the aircraft will start to roll . This can then be counteracted with the ailerons . Since the rudders do n't deflect as far as air brakes would , they would be less effective . If they would be designed to deflect more , the increased forces upon them and on the control system would require a heavier construction and thus add weight to the aircraft .
If you feel that you would need carb heat sitting on the ground , I 'd recommend taxing back and waiting for conditions to improve . If you are set on going , usually doing a run-up at the runway before take-off will tell you if you have carb ice or not . The other answer gave good reasons , sucking in some FOD ( foreign object debris ) , but there are some other things you would want to consider ... Forgetting to push the carb heat back in before takeoff - Especially important when taking off from short fields , you want all the power your engine has to offer , as carb heat robs your engine of some power . If you have carb ice , applying carb heat will cause your engine to make even less power ( hot air is less dense than cold air ) . 3/4 of the way down a 1200 foot runway is a bad time to realize the carb heat is still on , because it probably is n't on your takeoff checklist . Carb heat is not very effective on a cold engine - This is a real problem when you are at idle or especially gliding , the airflow over the engine components and the exhaust just does n't create enough heat to melt the ice in the carb ( at least not very quickly ) . This is why you may be instructed to " clear " the engine periodically during low power operations . This involves adding power and then carb heat to help melt any ice . That all being said , its not so much a rule as a recommendation . You 'll probably find that during your flight training you 'll end up leaving the carb heat on while on the ground for short periods . This happens a lot during landing operations when you are instructed to have carb heat on ( my instructor taught me mid-field downwind , " Seat Belts , Gear , Fuel Selector , Carb Heat , Mixture , Prop , Power " ) . You 'll end up leaving it on until you 've cleared the runway ( or set up for a touch-and-go ) and are running your " after landing " checklists .
If you know the pressure coefficient of the flow , the rest is easy . The equation for the pressure coefficient $ c_p $ is : $ $ c_p = \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } = 1 - \ left ( \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } \ right ) ^ 2 $ $ $ q _ { \ infty } $ is the dynamic pressure and contains air density $ \ rho $ and the flight speed $ v _ { \ infty } $ : $ $ q _ { \ infty } = \ frac { \ rho } { 2 } \ cdot v _ { \ infty } ^ 2 $ $ The equation for the local speed , relative to flight speed , is : $ $ \ frac { v } { v _ { \ infty } } = \ sqrt { 1 - \ frac { p - p _ { \ infty } } { q _ { \ infty } } } = \ sqrt { 1 - c_p } $ $ Now you need to know the pressure coefficient . At Mach 0.85 the local Mach number of the 747 wing , which has a wing sweep of 37.5 ° , is 0.674 . Since I do not have the airfoil of the 747-400 , I used one from the same family ( BACJ ) , found <URL> . If you are interested , many more can be found in Michael Selig 's <URL> . The plot is from a <URL> calculation of the 2D flow around BACJ at Mach 0.8 , so it needs to be taken with a grain of salt . Note that it shows a stagnation point , and , therefore , Mach = 0 at the leading edge . The leading edge of the 747 wing is swept by 45 ° , so it will only slow the orthogonal speed component to zero . Consequently , the 747 wing has a stagnation line where the lowest speed will still be Mach 0.6 . On the suction side , the airfoil reaches Mach = 1.2 quickly and even Mach 1.3 near the trailing edge . Modern , so called <URL> s can tolerate mildly supersonic speeds on their suction side , and the Boeing 747-400 makes use of them . However , since the wing sweep reduces Mach effects , the top speed will be Mach 1.2 or slightly lower , and the TSFOIL calculation shown here is not exactly correct for flight at Mach 0.85 , but gives a general idea what happens on the wing . To answer the many questions you posted directly : The shape of the airfoil is immensely important . Thicker airfoils need to displace more air , and higher flow speeds are created on both sides . Camber will increase the pressure ( and speed ) difference between both sides . Changing the angle of attack will add a roughly triangular difference , which is highest at the leading edge , to the difference between both sides . Lower side pressure is increased slightly , and upper side suction goes up by a lot at the nose . Good wing designs have a triangular lift distribution over wing span , with the highest lift at the root . Since the displacement effect of the fuselage is added to the flow effects , the highest speeds will be encountered at the wing root . Just look at the pretty pictures ...
In general , land based aircraft do not lend themselves well to carrier conversion . On the other hand , conversion in opposite direction is ( relatively ) easy , as shown by F-4 and F-18 . Conversion of aircraft to carrier use require a number of modifications : Tail hook has to added and rear fuselage reinforced for arrested landings . Landing gear has to be strengthened for high sink rate ( ~ 24 ft/s ) . Atleast in USN , the front landing gear and fuselage has to be strengthened for catapult launches . Also , it requires additional equipment , like th Carrier Landing system , redesigned refueling system ( pretty much everyone use a system different from USAF ) . Carrier based aircraft usually are expected to have better low speed capabilities as they have to fly slower approaches and wave-off ( go-around ) at lower speed compared to the land based aircraft . This dictates the wing loading , resulting in increased wing area and/or high lift devices . There are also issues in corrosion prevention etc. . The weight penalty due to these reasons can be non negligible . For example , the naval Rafale M version weighs nearly 500 kg more than the Air Force Rafale C variant ( which has ~ 10 ton empty weight ) . USN calculated that the NATF ( Naval Advanced Tactical Fighter ) will be around 1800 kg heavier than the Air force version ( ATF was supposed to weigh ~ 15 ton ) . Another thing is that the USAF and USN had different requirements , for example , the USAF wanting a single seater and USN wanting a double seater , requirement of different sensors ( for fleet defence ) etc. in the end , the aircraft proposed for the NATF looked nothing similar to the one that finally became the F-22 and the project was quietly buried . <URL> F-22 NATF proposal , image from aerospaceweb.org Note that the design has swing wings , as the aircraft was being proposed for replacing F-14 Tomcat . Another important result of the navalization of the aircraft is the reduction in the number of planform alignments , and their negative impact on the stealth characteristics . Carrier conversion of F-22 could have been done if it was considered early in design . Doing it now ( note that NATF was considered due to the insistence of Congress ; it is doubtful if USN ever wanted it ) . Doing so later in the design process will result in another F-111B fiasco . As for doing it now , it is better to design a new aircraft ( which was what the F-35 is ) .
No , no restrictions on using an afterburner . There are a few <URL> on the civil registration that must use the afterburner to take off . However , most countries forbid supersonic flight by non military operated aircraft in their airspace . The only time Concorde went supersonic was over the ocean .
is the speed reported in this story wrong ? No No it is not a misprint that the SR-72 is intended to be capable of Mach 6 From the <URL> : Envisioned as an unmanned aircraft , the SR-72 would fly at speeds up to Mach 6 , or six times the speed of sound . At this speed , the aircraft would be so fast , an adversary would have no time to react or hide . The SR-72 's design incorporates lessons learned from the HTV-2 , which flew to a top speed of Mach 20 , or 13,000 mph , with a surface temperature of 3500 ° F. Yes Yes it is not true that Mach 6 is necessarily 4567.2423 MPH From <URL> : <URL> Cmglee . License : CC by SA 3
Assuming that you 're asking about intercepting the glideslope from above rather than the localizer , the answer is that it is definitely NOT recommended . There are at least two significant problems if you do this . First , is the fact that at high vertical angles there can be false glideslopes . Looking at the diagram below , if you 're coming at the glideslope from above and the needle starts to move , are you intercepting the real 3 & deg ; glideslope or the false 9 & deg ; glideslope ? <URL> The diagram above is the best I could find , but it has one error . It shows a " Flag no signal " at 6 & deg ; . Actually what you 'll have there is another false glideslope , but one which has reverse sensing . You can , of course , do a reasonability check if you know your distance from the runway , or you could compare your vertical speed if following it with what you know your vertical speed should be , or on the 6 & deg ; line a command to go up when you know you should go down would be a hint , but it 's unwise in my opinion to put yourself in a situation that increases your work load that much during an instrument approach . You asked about GPWS warnings . None of the aircraft I flew that had GPWS would sound a GPWS warning just from receiving a false glide slope . However , all of them would have sounded the GPWS if you followed a false glideslope and were close to the ground because doing so would give you an excessive sink rate . A second problem with approaching from above is that the vertical angular width of the glideslope as measured from needle full down to needle full up is very small . As I remember only about one degree . Whatever it is , though , the point is that if you descend into the glideslope with a vertical speed of only a few hundred feet per minute greater than the glideslope itself is descending , the needle is going to go from full down to full up very quickly . Without working it out , I 'd guess that if you 're inside the outer marker you might well miss its movement if your instrument scan had you away from the needle more than a second . In the late 1970s a friend of mine was flying a charter in a Cessna 310 . He unwisely decided to intercept the glideslope at Salem , Oregon from above . The aircraft hit the ground in the vicinity of the outer marker , killing all aboard . During the accident investigation , the NTSB found from radar data that he had a descent rate greater than 1,000 fpm going through the glideslope .
The Boeing chart you reference appears to use for the approach speed column the Vref speed of the aircraft at its max landing weight in the landing configuration . This is the speed you want to be at or close to when you start the landing flare ( the two 747 carriers I flew for used Vref +5 ) . Absent charted speed limits , controller instructions , or company policy , there is no specific distance threshold along the approach path that you can not cross above that speed . The requirement is to be at the proper speed when you enter the landing flare . However , if you were , say , flying the classic stabilized approach , you would be in the landing configuration at this speed from the FAF ( final approach fix ) to the landing flare . The FAF is typically around 5 miles from the runway . Now , insofar as speed stages , the requirement is not one of specific distance points along your approach path ( again absent charted limits , etc. ) , but rather what you have to do speed wise while changing from a clean configuration to the landing configuration . You 're approaching the airport with the gear and flaps up . The critical element speed wise on the approach is the wing configuration . Given the 747-200 speed of 150 kts in that chart , if you slow to that speed with the flaps up , you will stall . The minimum safe speed would be around 80 kts greater than that . Go to flaps 1 ( which really does n't put the trailing edge flaps at 1 degree but rather puts out the leading edge flaps or slats as some call them ) . Once they 're out you can safely slow to Vref +60 . At flaps 5 you can slow to Vref +40 . At flaps 25 you 'll be able to safely slow to the Vref speed in normal operating conditions . Other aircraft have different flap settings and different speeds . The important thing to remember is that you 're changing the shape of the wing to be able to fly more slowly . Where you will be along your approach path when you do this is typically not determined by distance per se , but by time . Do it too soon and you burn more fuel . Do it too late , and the problem becomes one of not being at Vref when you need to be .
According to the Airbus website , Brake to Vacate is a feature installed on newer A-380s and also on the new A-350XWB that allows the pilot to select which runway exit s/he needs to use , and the system will brake hard enough , but just hard enough , to slow the plane to taxi speed by that turnoff . This minimizes time on the runway . The following quote is from the Airbus website . Brake to Vacate allows pilots to select the appropriate runway exit during the approach to landing , and regulates the aircraft 's deceleration after touchdown -- enabling it to reach any chosen exit at the correct speed under optimum conditions , no matter the weather and visibility . To my knowledge , Airbus is the only aircraft manufacturer to incorporate this feature - to date . This feature does not reduce the amount of runway the aircraft uses . Maximum Braking is still maximum braking . It does however , optimize the braking so that the aircraft gets to the taxiway intersection sooner ( does n't brake too hard too soon , keeping speed up ) and also prevents overshooting the intersection requiring a relatively slow taxi to the next turn off .
It looks like British Airways may still offer their <URL> , which Danny Beckett mentioned in <URL> . Another possible option would be to move to another ( probably non-Western ) country for a while . Southeast Asia in particular is experiencing a large amount of growth in airline traffic and seems to hire lots of American , Australian , and European pilots , so you might be more likely to find openings in a program there that would cover the cost . The Middle East might also be an option , given their current huge growth in airline traffic , though I 'm not sure what their hiring policies are like . Cathay Pacific is an example of such a program in Southeast Asia . Among <URL> is their <URL> . They hire people from all over and send them to a flight training school in Australia . I remember them even advertising this program on the plane the last time I flew with them ( a couple of years ago . ) Being a former British colony , someone from the U.K. would probably fit in well there . I think every pilot I had on my last trip with them was either American , British , or Australian . Seems like it would be a fun airline to fly for , too , if you were ok with moving to Hong Kong for at least whatever their commitment period is . With the vast majority of their flights being international on wide-bodies , you 'd likely get to heavy jets much more quickly than you would in Europe or , especially , the U.S. . One additional thing to note , though , as I mentioned in my comment earlier , if you do n't meet RAF 's requirements due to your eyesight , you may also have trouble getting the necessary medical certificate for an Airline Transport Pilot license , especially in Europe or the U.S. . It turns out the EASA 's requirement 's regarding color vision are pretty much identical to the ones I mentioned in my comment earlier regarding FAA standards . <URL> : ( a ) Applicants shall be required to demonstrate the ability to perceive readily the colours that are necessary for the safe performance of duties . ( b ) Examination ( 1 ) Applicants shall pass the Ishihara test for the initial issue of a medical certificate . ( 2 ) Applicants who fail to pass in the Ishihara test shall undergo further colour perception testing to establish whether they are colour safe . ( c ) In the case of class 1 medical certificates , applicants shall have normal perception of colours or be colour safe . Applicants who fail further colour perception testing shall be assessed as unfit . Applicants for a class 1 medical certificate shall be referred to the licensing authority .
Please be careful applying a blanket figure during high speed turnoff . There are many variables which you should consider . These are : • Exact angle of the taxiway ( you 're turning onto ) : If it 's a very shallow angle off the runway and therefore does not require much turning , high-speed turnoffs are easier and manageable , and vice versa . • Rate of deceleration • Side load limitations on the CRJ • Tolerance of the nose gear • Traffic situation on taxiway Generally speaking you need both sets of eyes outside , especially if you are joining or crossing another Taxi Way .
Yes , it is , at least for small pitch angles and low thrust . Here is how : $ $ L = m \ cdot g \ cdot n_z \ cdot \ cos \ gamma $ $ If thrust or pitch attitude become significant , you need to modify $ m \ cdot g $ by the vertical thrust component . Then the answer must be no , because the thrust information is missing : $ $ L = \ left ( m \ cdot g - T \ cdot \ sin ( \ Theta + \ sigma ) \ right ) \ cdot n_z \ cdot \ cos \ gamma $ $ $ L \ :\ :\ : $ lift $ m \ :\ : $ mass $ g \ :\ :\ : $ gravitational acceleration $ n_z \ :\ : $ load factor ( = 1 in horizontal , unaccelerated flight ) $ \ gamma \ :\ :\ : $ flight path angle , with $ \ gamma = asin \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) $ $ v_z \ :\ : $ vertical speed $ v \ :\ :\ : $ flight speed ( TAS ) $ T \ :\ : $ Thrust $ \ Theta \ :\ : $ pitch angle ( up is positive ) $ \ sigma \ :\ : $ thrust angle relative to airframe 's x axis Note that the altitude is only needed if you use the <URL> . Using the standard value will give you a negligible error . Please note also that lift > weight will result in an upward acceleration . In a quasi-stationary climb or sink the <URL> .
The tricky part is that a de facto rule is unlike a de jure rule , it 's hard to pinpoint its origin as it is not based in law . The more I dig , the more it seems it is indeed a de facto rule that found its way to Annex 11 . It would take a team of aviation historians hunting through countless meeting points to get to the bottom of it . However , I gathered some clues , mostly in reverse chronological order : For the 250 knots during climb I found : ICAO 's REVIEW OF NOISE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE RESEARCH &amp; DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS Target climb speeds are given as V2 plus , no attempt was made to specify the actual target speed as it is accepted that the segment is flown to the manufacturer 's specified safety speed . It just so happens 250 is a numerical rounding that matches most aircraft , except for heavies loaded up for long-haul flights . Numerous parties were involved : ... various parties , including universities , regulatory agencies , manufacturers , air carriers and airports . So everyone came together , and agreed to 250 knots . But that 's recent and has to do with noise . ICAO Journal TOWARDS A PERFORMANCE-BASED NAVIGATION SOLUTION Pilots should also avoid airspeeds of more than 250 knots below 10,000 feet above ground level ( AGL ) , especially at times of the year when birds are migrating . Aircraft speed is more critical than bird size ( body mass ) in causing collision damage . Someone should tell the geese to stop flying at <URL> . ( <URL> . ) Activities of the European Office from 1954 to 1958 ( <URL> ) They discussed the advent of the jet age , and how the prop aircraft speeds of 250 knots are being exceeded leading to research into the consequences . At that time , namely what affected the ATC and navigation systems because jet planes were relatively crossing sectors much faster . It 's not much but this section hints at the origin of 250 knots : ... significant increase in cruising speed of the jet-aircraft over the propeller-driven airline [ ... ] around 400 knots = 750 km/h versus 250 knots = 450 km/h ... REPORT OF THE EIGHTEENTH MEETING OF THE APANPIRG ATM/AIS/SAR SUB-GROUP Appendix 4 to Annex 11 speed limitations of 250 kt below 10 000 ft AMSL are required for certain airspace classes . Annex 11 history : In October 1945 , The Rules of the Air and Air Traffic Control ( RAC ) Division at its first session made recommendations for Standards , Practices and Procedures for Air Traffic Control . These were reviewed by the then Air Navigation Committee and approved by the Council on 25 February 1946 . They were published as Recommendations for Standards , Practices and Procedures -- Air Traffic Control in the second part of Doc 2010 , published in February 1946 . Chapter 2 2.6.3 The requirements for flights within each class of airspace shall be as shown in the table in Appendix 4 . Appendix 4 lists the now de facto limit . It does n't say why , so it 's most likely it 's what everyone agreed on at that convention and consequent meetings . 8 December 1959 is likely the date when an amendment was added to Annex 11 that detailed those figures in Appendix 4 we now know . That 's 8 years before the FAA . Check <URL> for the FAA 's side of the story if interested . Without access to meeting points , that 's the most I could find . Short version of the above : At numerous conventions and meetings beginning in the 50 's , many parties met again and again to discuss the jet-to-prop traffic separation , the noise impact of jet planes , and the dangers of bird strikes . They concluded V2 plus speeds should be used , but since civilian jet aircraft have the same performance more or less , the 250/10 ,000 rule found its way to the requirements of airspaces . It 's not hard evidence , but given what I found , it 's not far fetched to assume the above is correct . Over to you .
The stall speed is around 95-100 knots for the older F variant , and something like 90-95 knots for the newer J variants . A KC-130 can refuel between around 100 and 270 knots . The lower end of this is well within the maximum speed of many military helicopters , eg the Pave Hawk , Black Hawk , Chinoook or Sea Stallion . That leaves an " overlap " of around 20-40 knots , without having to approach too close to either the stall speed of the KC-130 ( around 90-95 knots ) or the VNE of the helicopter ( usually between 140 and 170 knots for a military helicopter ) . This is enough for aerial refuelling , which usually states a fairly tight bracket for the refuelling speed . As mentioned <URL> : The United States Marine Corps has chosen the KC-130J tanker to replace its aging KC-130F tanker fleet . The new KC-130J offers increased utility and much needed improvement in mission performance . As a force multiplier , the J tanker is capable of refueling both fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft as well as conducting rapid ground refueling . The refueling speed envelope has been widened from 100 to 270 knots indicated airspeed , offering more capability and flexibility .
end question
start question
What is a SAAAR / RNP AR instrument approach ?
First allow me to give a quick introduction to RNAV and RNP before geting to SAAAR / RNP AR . Area Navigation ( RNAV ) is a method of instrument flight rules ( IFR ) navigation that allows an aircraft to fly on any desired path within the coverage of referenced navigation beacons , rather than navigating directly to and from the beacons . In other words , waypoints can be defined at arbitrary locations and paths betweens those points ( and traditional navigation beacons as well ) can be defined . RNAV routes are coded into the navigation database by ARINC 424 path-terminators . Whilst RNAV routes can be designed in such a way that the lateral path is strictly described , in general the lateral path has a quite some freedom due to floating leg types ( e.g. turn at altitude , fly heading etc ) and wiggle room for the aircraft to negotiate the turns . When the route is described only by TF ( track to fix ) and RF ( radius to fix ) path terminators , the lateral path is fully fixed . These fixed lateral paths allow procedure designers , for example , to design approaches through mountain valleys down to the runway . RNAV defines a 95 % accuracy bounds . For example , RNAV 1 requires the aircraft to be within 1 NM from the path centreline 95 % of the time . The route designer will ensure a 2 NM obstacle free zone around the path in such a case . Note that RNAV provides no assurance against exceeding the 2 NM zone . There is no automated system monitoring required . Potentially causes of deviations between the path intended by the procedure designer and the actual flown path can be grouped into three categories : First , there is the Path Definition Error . This is caused by database coding mismatch with the original path design . Second , there is the Path Steering Error , caused by the combination of display inaccuracies on the Navigation Display and the inability of the pilot or the autoflight system to stay exactly on path ( Flight Technical Error ) . Third , there is Position Estimation Error , which is the difference between the position of the aircraft estimated by the navigation system and the true position . It is not unthinkable that while normally ( 95 % of the time ) the aircraft will fly within e.g. 1 NM of the intended centre line , there are cases that the aircraft will exceed the 1NM by far , possibly even busting the 2 NM obstacle free zone . That could potentially ruin your day if it happens in a mountain valley . This is where RNP comes in . RNP ( Required Navigation Performance ) is basically RNAV with added protection . For example , RNP 1 again defines a 1NM accuracy for 95 % of the time , but it also offers 99.999 % assurance that it will not exceed the 2NM . It will raise an alert if the 2 NM value will potentially be exceeded . So in addition to what RNAV offers , it includes a system monitoring function that will detect navigation errors and alerts for them . The RNP value alway gives the 95 % accuracy , the 99.999 % assurance ( integrity ) limit is always at twice that value . So RNP 0.3 means that the aircraft has to stay within 0.3 NM of the designed path centreline 95 % of the time . And if it exceeds the 0.6 NM threshold , an alert will be raised with 99.999 % certainty . RNP systems therefore require a system monitoring function . To ensure that the RNP values are met , each of the three error sources mentioned earlier must be under control . For RNP values down to 1 NM that is not much of a challenge . Standard procedures and equipment are deemed to be sufficient here . ( of course the required RNP values must be met by the Actual Navigation Performance ) If an approach requires tighter limits , such as RNP 0.3 or 0.15 , then special authorization is required . This is where SAAAR comes in ( Special Aircraft and Aircrew Authorization Required ) , now renamed to RNP AR ( RNP Authorization Required ) . RNP AR routes only make use of TF and RF leg types to fully fix the lateral path . RF legs are not supported by all navigation systems by default . To get authorization for RNP AR , the aircraft needs to comply with the applicable functional and performance requirements , the crew needs to be trained and lot 's of documentation must be maintained . Basically proof must be provided that all of the three error terms are under strict control . In a sense it is somewhat similar to ILS CAT III approval . References : <URL> describes a means of compliance for RNP AR <URL> gives a good explanation of RNAV and RNP
In the US , an appropriate instrument rating is needed to fly when WX conditions are below VFR minimums , and at night for SVFR . <URL> Additionally , one needs an appropriate instrument rating to fly under an IFR clearance when in controlled airspace , regardless of the WX . Notes : ATP and things like a category and class in an airship are exceptions . Also an airplane instrument rating works in gliders . Etc. . Addendum : Specific to the OP 's citing a NTSB report , the following comment is added : To rely on the mentioned NTSB report , it is important to read the findings , and understand that , a. ) the pilot intended to hit VFR conditions before 700AGL and upon entering controlled airspace , b. ) the pilot told people he was taking off despite qualified observers noting 200 ft clouds , c. ) the airport where approach was based said they were below IFR , which would leave the pilot few options if he needed to land nearby . Given that , it is easy to agree with the NTSB . Just because something is legal , does n't mean it is best practice , and in this case it is likely the pilot did not do as stated . One final point , IFR without a clearance in Class G is a decision which should not be taken lightly . Years ago , I routinely did it , and the airspace was uncontrolled at safe IFR enroute altitudes . Departing a Class G airport , with less than VFR conditions , and expecting VFR before hitting controlled airspace at 700AGL is dubious . The vest majority of my IFR flights in uncontrolled airspace , that were without benefit of clearances , were where there are large areas of uncontrolled airspace , and safe IFR altitudes could be flown enroute . Furthermore , while ATC did not issue clearances for flight in uncontrolled airspace , coordination with ATC where possible , and also with local FSS were done . That is different from popping off an airport that is likely IMC , and stating that one intends to climb into VFR weather before hitting 700AGL and controlled airspace . The frosting on the cake is having the field in the area be below IFR limits for approaches . Good judgment is hard to legislate .
The FAA has <URL> disturbances into four levels : Level 1 : Disruptive behavior - suspicious or threatening Level 2 : Physically abusive behavior Level 3 : Life-threatening behavior Level 4 : Attempted or actual breach of the flight deck These are also ICAO standard classifications from the restricted Doc 9811 , according to <URL> . I 'm not sure who came up with them first . That IATA document also provides sample things that might be considered to be each level .
At least in the U.S. , ILS is popular because it is popular . It 's relatively cheap to install and operate , the receivers share technology with VOR , and it is already installed everywhere . Momentum ( and cost of replacement ) has a lot to do with the failure and success of navigation systems . MLS requires new hardware on the ground and in aircraft . The FAA tried to roll it out in the U.S. in the 80s , with a goal of replacing ILS by 2010 , and utterly failed . The equipment was expensive for aircraft and ground facilities , and the cost of developing the approach procedures was high , as well as each approach needs tailored antenna programming ( ILS is reasonably standardized ) . The adoption rate was low and the benefits ( better arrival area guidance , better accuracy in some cases ) were duplicated by the much cheaper GPS . Precision GPS ( LPV or LNAV/VNAV approaches ) only appeared with the development of the Space Based Augmentation System ( SBAS ) , also known as the Wide Area Augmentation System ( WAAS ) . Augmented GPS has higher vertical precision and allows a single navigation system to be used for enroute , terminal , and precision approach guidance , a huge cost savings . The relatively new <URL> ( GBAS , originally called LAAS ) adds high precision approach capability bringing GPS approaches closer to ILS and MLS . PAR exists , but you may misunderstand what it is : it is a controller staring at a radar scope and issuing pilots instructions . It 's stressful for pilots and controllers and very time consuming . Outside of military facilities you would be hard pressed to find a place to practice a PAR these days , at least in my experience . In order of precision , high to low : MLS GPS with GBAS ( uncommon ) ILS GPS with WAAS ( common , aka LPV ) PAR In order of ( estimated ) total cost , high to low : MLS ( very expensive install + unique approach design + maintenance ) PAR ( relatively cheap install + costly workforce ; educated guess on my part , could be cheaper than ILS ? ) ILS ( expensive ? install + simple approach design + maintenance ) GPS with * ( no install , simple approach design , no obvious maintenance )
The ILS is <URL> . The ground based bits The vertical range is 1.4 ° ( 0.7 ° above glideslope , 0.7 ° below ) and the horizontal varies , but is a maximum of 6 ° wide . What this means in terms of how many feet or meters off the centerline an aircraft is varies depending on where the aircraft is on the approach , but it 's generally correct to say that the closer an aircraft gets to the ILS antennae , the more precise the system is . The specifications for a localizer antenna require that it be no less precise than ± 10.5 m - this is for a Cat I approach , and it gets correspondingly more precise as the category increases . There 's always the risk of interference with the transmitters ; as noted in the comments , accidents have been caused by airport vehicles parked in the ILS critical area , interfering with the signals , and as the equipment ages it can require recalibration . The airborne bits It 's possible for receivers to have issues that could affect precision ; antennas can get loose connections or become covered in ice , while pilots might interpret indications incorrectly , misread reverse sensing , or <URL> . Regarding accidents You 're correct - there are many accidents related to landing operations . That said , you may be including those which were n't flying an ILS approach - it 's hard to say since you are n't citing anything . Still , it 's possible that there 's confusion between navigation precision and safety of flight . Many ( not all ) of landing accidents involving instrument approaches do center around human error rather than equipment failure ; pilots tuning in the wrong frequency or incorrectly setting avionics and instruments ( reversing the inbound course on an HSI causes reverse sensing , that sort of thing ) , or people on the ground screwing up .
I 'll give the answer from an ATC perspective . A visual approach is the most preferred approach , since we can get aircraft to follow each other , and do n't have to worry as greatly about aircraft getting too close . The rules say we can compress under certain conditions to 2.5 miles on ILS or radar separation approaches , but timing wise , for the runway to be clear , you can often need less separation between aircraft to maximize its usage . With the visual approach , you 're vectoring to keep aircraft closer so they can see each other and follow in closely to each other to the runway . In most ATC facilities , the Tower decides what runway to use , and the approach control calls the type of approach generally on offer ( this can vary depending on facilities and how they agree to run things ) . A pilot can always request a different approach ... they might be delayed , sometimes significantly if they insist on something way out of the loop .
The clearest definition I could find is from <URL> ( of all places ) : The airplane is pitched up into a vertical or near-vertical climb . It then pauses , slips downward momentarily ( tail first ) , and then whips into a steep , nose-down attitude . The tail-first slip backwards seems to be the defining characteristic of a whip stall . Interestingly , Whip Stall and Tumble Awareness is included in the <URL> , but they are n't defined there either .
I believe what you are referring to is an acceptance flight , rather than a certification flight . Certification flights ( usually there many ) are flights which the manufacturer demonstrates to aviation authorities that a new design of an aircraft is safe . However , just because a design has been tested , does not mean a new aircraft is produced exactly to the design . Acceptance flight is a test flight which make sure the aircraft has been manufactured up to standard . Acceptance flights are also required after major maintenance work or avionics upgrades . Its purpose is to explore the entire flight envelope and ensure emergency / backup systems work as expected . During a normal flight , only a portion of the systems ' functions are used . A test flight is a complete evaluation of all conditions , such that malfunctions or deviations will not go unnoticed . Of course , the pilots will first examine critical systems ( e.g. engines , flight controls ) on the ground . Depending on the aircraft , the tests to be completed in the air include : Engine shutdown and restarts autopilot roll rates , flap extension speed , engine response etc. . Alternate gear extension Fuel jettison Over-speed warnings <URL> Ground Proximity Warning System ( GPWS ) Auxiliary Power Unit ( APU ) operation at high altitude Cabin service systems
Eurocontrol has an online repository of <URL> . You 'll need to register , but the basic service is free . By default , the application is JAVA applet based , which works not in the best way . After logging on , you can change the default behaviour to HTML based , which makes it more user friendly . Then clicking " Enter Application " will bring to the next level . Here you 'll find several reporting options , but what you are interested in is located under " PAMS Light [ AIP ] " Select the country you are interested in , " Charts " for AIP type and " AD " for Aerodrome and there you have the charts .
First , a caution : IFR procedures can ( and do ) vary between countries . It is incumbent on the pilot to study the respective authority 's Aeronautical Information Publication ( AIP ) to understand local procedures before flight . When asking questions about instrument flight procedures , it is helpful to know which countries you are specifically traveling through . While the vast majority of countries simply adopt ICAO procedures , many have significant deviations ( the United States included ) . <URL> , section 6.5.3 discusses instrument flight that terminates into a visual approach . Interestingly , the document is silent on what happens if the approach is aborted . In the United States , the FAA is more explicit . In the <URL> , section 5-4-23 visual approaches are specifically addressed . Paragraph ( e ) details what should happen if a visual approach is terminated : A visual approach is not an IAP and therefore has no missed approach segment . If a go around is necessary for any reason , aircraft operating at controlled airports will be issued an appropriate advisory/clearance/instruction by the tower . At uncontrolled airports , aircraft are expected to remain clear of clouds and complete a landing as soon as possible . If a landing can not be accomplished , the aircraft is expected to remain clear of clouds and contact ATC as soon as possible for further clearance . Separation from other IFR aircraft will be maintained under these circumstances .
Falstro 's referring to the european en-route IFR rating , not the UK IMC rating . The UK IMC rating ( I have one ) is a national rating which allows departures , approaches and flight in instrument meteorological conditions , albeit with higher minimums . It can only be used within the UK , not including the channel islands , which means once you leave UK airspace you are no longer allowed to use it . Training for it is a similar curriculum as any other instrument rating : NDB and VOR tracking Partial panel Unusual attitude recovery ILS , VOR , NDB , and Surveillance Radar approaches The reason for the UK rating is to give private pilots an attainable instrument rating option as the EASA one is aimed at commercial pilots and has a huge amount of unnecessary material and training requirements . This is supposedly being worked on but given it 's the EU I 'm not holding my breath .
RNP ( Required Navigation Performance ) is a standard which avionics manufacturers may choose to design/certify their products for . It guarantees a particular level of navigation performance that routes and procedures can be designed around , and not have to worry about how the navigation is being conducted , but only that it will meet requirements . A particular product may be certified to various levels such as RNP10 , RNP5 , RNP2 , RNP1 , RNP0 .3 , etc. ( accurate to within 10NM , 5NM , 2NM , 1NM , 0.3 NM , etc. ) . To see if a particular unit is certified for RNP , and to what level , you would need to look in the aircraft flight manual / supplement and see what it says ( note that this is installation specific too , as it involves antennas and " full system " performance , not just the capability of one piece of the puzzle ) . The FAA has an advisory circular caled <URL> if you want more technical information on it .
In aeronautics , a canard is a small wing that is located in front of the main wing of the aircraft . This is similar to the elevator , but is located in front of the wing , instead of behind it . The configuration , and in some cases , the aircraft itself may be called a canard . From Merriam - Webster dictionary : an airplane with horizontal stabilizing and control surfaces in front of supporting surfaces also : a small airfoil in front of the wing of an aircraft that can increase the aircraft 's performance The reason why it is called a canard ( French for duck ) has to do with the wing location . From Flying Magazine Jan 1982 : This is called a canard , from the French word for duck ; with its long neck , a duck appears to have set its wing towards the rear of the fuselage . The photo below shows the canard in front of the main wing of <URL> . <URL> Source : defence.pk The canards have been used in aircraft for a long time . infact , the first aircraft , the <URL> was a canard biplane . <URL> " <URL> " by Attributed to Wilbur Wright ( 1867 -- 1912 ) and/or Orville Wright ( 1871 -- 1948 ) . Most likely taken by Orville Wright . - <URL> ( itself from Library of Congress ) . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . The period from WWI to WWII saw the ' conventional ' configuration with horizontal tail dominate the aircraft design . The canard configuration was not revived until the jet age by the European manufacturers , starting with <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " by Alan Wilson - Saab AJS-37 Viggen ' 37098 / 52 ' ( SE-DXN ) Uploaded by <URL> . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via <URL> . The canard configuration is used in almost all European fighter Designs , as they have more or less exclusively turned towards tailless delta configurations . Also , a number of super-maneuverable aircraft use canards as the control authority is larger for unstable canard aircraft at high $ C _ { L } $ than for unstable aft-tail designs . The photo below shows the canards in <URL> <URL> Source : tom-clancys-hawx . wikia.com
Background The Sequenced Flashing Lights are part of some <URL> and are a row of strobe lights that flash in sequence to direct the pilots eyes to the runway . They are useful in conditions of bad weather , as they quickly catch the eye and help the pilot locate the runway threshold which might otherwise be hidden ; however , during normal operations they can actually be distracting . These lights appear to run towards the runway and are often called chasers , the rabbit , or the running rabbit . Kill the Wabbit Because these lights are very bright , and often distracting during normal operations in clear weather , it is not uncommon to hear pilots ask the controllers to kill the w/rabbit on their approach . I personally find them overkill , and have heard many other pilots asked them to be turned off as well . <URL> Photo credit <URL>
<URL> says ( my emphasis ) : ( g ) Logging instrument time . ( 1 ) A person may log instrument time only for that flight time when the person operates the aircraft solely by reference to instruments under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions . ( 2 ) An authorized instructor may log instrument time when conducting instrument flight instruction in actual instrument flight conditions . Based on that , the answers to your questions are : You 're in IMC ( i.e. you 're operating below the visual minimums in <URL> ) but as you said , that does n't mean you 're flying " solely by reference to instruments " If the conditions are IMC , yes ( 61.51 does n't require an instructor to operate the aircraft using only instruments ) Whether you 're wearing foggles or not , you can log instrument time only when you 're operating solely on instruments . Practically speaking , using foggles guarantees that you 're doing that and can therefore log the time . Without them , some or all of the time might be loggable , i.e. only the part that you really spend flying only on instruments . <URL> . According to <URL> : When weather conditions permit , regardless of whether an operation is conducted under instrument flight rules or visual flight rules , vigilance shall be maintained by each person operating an aircraft so as to see and avoid other aircraft . It 's very common to fly cross country under IFR without logging any instrument time , or logging very little , simply because you 're never solely on instruments .
( This is a US-based answer . ) There 's no statistical information that I could find out there about this , but aircraft type , total hours , hours in type , age , previous claims etc. are all factored into the premium as well , so it 's hard to make a simple comparison based on one variable . And as AOPA <URL> : Not all carriers have the same guidelines for when they will offer a premium reduction . But having said all that , it looks like an instrument rating is the key qualification to get . AOPA 's <URL> recommends it : Typical actions you can take to reduce your rates include : [ ... ] Obtain an instrument rating . I guess you could go through AOPA 's <URL> multiple times with different data to see what premiums come out , but just calling them is probably easier . <URL> is a well-known aviation insurer and they 're more specific . The wording is bit awkward but <URL> an instrument rating reduces your premium with them by 10 % : Q : Is there any type of additional training that would lower my premiums ? A : [ ... ] obtain an upgraded certificate or Instrument Rating and you become eligible for the full 10 % savings . They do n't say what an " upgraded certificate " means , but if you 're one of the few people who have a commercial certificate but no instrument rating then perhaps that would count . Other insurance companies also say that advanced ratings can reduce your rates ( <URL> , <URL> ) . Finally , I can add a couple of comments from personal experience . I have AOPA renter 's insurance and it 's flat rate : your certification and experience do n't matter at all . Second , when I was looking for life insurance , having an instrument rating cut my premiums a lot but it was a while ago and I ca n't remember the exact numbers . I do remember that they were reluctant to even consider me without it .
I have no practical experience with FAA RNP AR authorization but the guidelines for obtaining RNP AR authorization from the FAA are described in FAA Advisory Circular <URL> . The whole process to go through is described in that document . It specifically mentions Part 91 and Part 91K ( fractional ownership ) so it should be possible to obtain permission for individual pilots . However , it will not be easy for an individual pilot to meet the requirements . You will have to perform a high number of RNP AR approaches under a provisional authorization in VMC or increased minima before final authorization is granted . Luckily the FAA made provision for operators with a small fleet : NOTE : In unique situations where the completion of 100 successful approaches could take operators an unreasonably long period of time due to factors such as a small number of aircraft in the fleet , limited opportunity to use runways having appropriate procedures , etc. , consideration of a reduction in the required number of approaches will be on a case-by-case basis . The FSDO/CHDO will coordinate with FAA HQ in consideration of an operator 's request for reduced interim authorization requirements . You will need to arrange proper training : Initial training : With no prior RNP AR approach experience , each pilot must complete at least four RNP AR approach procedures : two as pilot flying and two as pilot monitoring.These four RNP AR approaches shall employ the uni que AR characteristics of the operator 's approved procedures ( i.e. , RF legs , RNP missed ) . You must fly two approaches to the DA and two approaches must result in an RNP missed approach procedure . Two of the above approaches will include interrupted approaches resulting in one approach with vectors to resume the approach and one approach resulting in a hold at an initial approach fix ( IAF ) or transition fix . And in addition to the a qualifying aircraft the operator must have a program to ensure data the navigation database stays up to date and is of sufficient quality . You will also need to implement a monitoring program to review your RNP AR approaches and detect any negative trends . Results from this program will need to be shared with the FAA on a monthly basis .
Even without instrument error , IAS does not equal CAS . This because there are two kinds of errors that make up the difference between Indicated Airspeed ( IAS ) and Calibrated Airspeed ( CAS ) Installation error Instrument error Installation error is basically a pressure error . Airspeed measurement is a measure of dynamic pressure of the undisturbed airflow . When the pitot tube is not placed directly into undisturbed airflow the IAS will not equal the CAS . Another source of installation error are leaks in the pitot system . Instrument error is the error introduced by ASI itself by transforming the pressure to a speed indication . For example calibration errors of the pressure sensor or excessive friction in the mechanical drive system of the dial fall into this category . The POH in your example assumes no Instrument error , but is corrected for installation error . An implicit assumption is made that there are no leaks in the system , so the POH corrects for airflow disturbances . That is why some aircraft have different tables for different configurations ; the configurations affect the airflow around the pitot tube . In aircraft equipped with electronic Air Data Computers ( ADC 's ) the installation error is sometimes automatically corrected by making use of angle of attack sensors , electronic configuration information and lookup tables .
<URL> gives the following limitations for A318 steep approaches : Maximum authorised Flight Path Angle : -5.5 ° MLW unchanged ( 57.5 t ) FWD and AFT CG limits unchanged Maximum altitude for landing : 2000ft Tailwind limit for landing : 5Kt Crosswind limit for landing : 26Kt gust included AUTOLAND is not allowed CATII and CATIII are not allowed All engines operative only
To be more general , a vortex generator is a small angled plate installed on an outer surface of an aerodynamic body . The angle of the plate causes the air to swirl , creating a vortex behind it . This effect allows the air flow to remain " attached " to the surface even at points where the flow without a vortex would separate from the surface . One of the most common uses of vortex generators is on aircraft wings forward of the ailerons . When the aircraft wing <URL> , the flow detaches from the wings . This means that the flow will detach before it reaches the ailerons , making them ineffective . The use of vortex generators helps the ailerons to provide control even if the rest of the wing is stalled . <URL> Of course , these also add drag , even when the wing is not stalling , so they are only added where needed . They are also used in other places , such as the engine , as in <URL> , and also <URL> .
end question
start question
Why do passenger embark on the left side of an aircraft ?
Why do passenger embark on the left side of an aircraft ? Because the cavewoman who invented the log-canoe was right-handed ? Note : I arrived at this answer by looking at a kind of etymology of the terms starboard &amp; port but that 's incidental . The answer to this question happened to be contained in an answer to a rather different question . Some groups of aviators may have dropped the archaic terms while still being subject to a continuation of an archaic habit/convention . People get on the left side of a jet airplane because Vikings ( etc ) steered their wooden boats with a steering board ( hence starboard ? ) held in their dominant right-hand . Since it was inconvenient to have your steering apparatus wedged against a quayside ( or earthen bank ) they docked at the port along their left side and therefore loaded and unloaded on the left . <URL> leads you to <URL> in English.se which I reproduce here for convenience Excerpt from <URL> : Port and starboard Port and starboard are shipboard terms for left and right , respectively . Confusing those two could cause a ship wreck . In Old England , the starboard was the steering paddle or rudder , and ships were always steered from the right side on the back of the vessel . Larboard referred to the left side , the side on which the ship was loaded . So how did larboard become port ? Shouted over the noise of the wind and the waves , larboard and starboard sounded too much alike . The word port means the opening in the " left " side of the ship from which cargo was unloaded . Sailors eventually started using the term to refer to that side of the ship . Use of the term " port " was officially adopted by the U.S. Navy by General Order , 18 February 1846 . So it 's a historical convention , many arbitrary choices are of this sort . Pioneers of a new form of transport adopt the terms ( port , startboard ) and habits of more ancient forms of transport . Ironically , since aircraft became able to carry substantial non-human cargo , the cargo entry has moved to the other side to reduce the chances of crushing the human cargo with the non-human cargo . Presumably also because having lots of large holes all in one side may be structurally disadvantageous .
They send it to the manufacturer ( or other lab ) who knows how to get the data out . Old black boxes stored the data on tape which they take out put in a reader and print out the data . Partially damaged tape can still be read , the result will be a data stream with holes in it . Newer black boxes use solid state storage ( like one of those 8gig memory cards ) . It will be put in a reader to read it out . The exact format of the data will be specific per manufacturer . Then the analysts will make nice graphs of it for the investigators .
In an aircraft the brake pedals control the respective side brakes . This allows for the pilot to turn the aircraft not only with the pivoting nose wheel ( if it has one ) but also with the brakes . This allows for a very tight turning radius . <URL> ( <URL> ) If each pedals controls different sets of wheels eg the left wheels and the right wheels of the main gear , is that not a safety flaw rather than measure given that at any point in time , It is by design to allow for the tight turning . Some smaller aircraft also do not have a steerable nose wheel so differential braking is the only option . it is impossible for the pilot to apply an equal amount of pressure to the brakes ? Pushing equally on each toe pedal will result in equal brake operation . Is n't ABS enough to the point that only one pedal is enough . The pedals allow for brake steering which a single pedal would prevent . <URL> but that simply prevents the tires from skidding . Finally do both captain and pilot step on the brakes at landing . IF not then why have two pedals ? Im not sure , when I fly with an instructor or co-pilot in smaller planes only one person operates the brakes .
I think you might have heard about the <URL> , which is deployed in case of some aircraft in case of loss of main electrical power supply . From <URL> : In case of total loss of all main generators , the RAT is automatically extended and drives the emergency generator via a hydraulic motor . The location of the ram air turbine varies with different aircraft and some of them ( like the popular A320 ) have them near the landing gear . The following image is from <URL> to another question . <URL> Location of Ram Air Turbines in different aircraft , image from <URL> Bombardier BD700-1A11 Global 5000 ( <URL> ) Airbus A320 Flight test ( <URL> ) Bombardier CRJ700 ( <URL> ) US Navy T-45A ( <URL> ) Airbus A330 ( <URL> ) Boeing B747-8 ( picture by Gregor Schläger , <URL> ) Boeing B777 , RAT extension switch ( <URL> )
First of all it depends on what type of " employee " and if the jumpseat is in the cockpit or the cabin . According to the answers to <URL> there are no regulations on who may sit in a cabin jumpseat as long as it meets the specifications set out in FAR § 121.211 for proper airline seats . So the airline is free to set policy for cabin jumpseats . As for jumpseats on the flight deck the restrictions are quite stringent . If the employee is a pilot FAR § 121.547 ( c ) ( 3 ) allows off-duty pilots to fly in a jumpseat on the flight deck , so there would be no need to make them an active crew member . FAR § 121.547 ( a ) ( 1 ) allows an on-duty flight attendant to fly in a jumpseat on the flight deck . The person would have to be a certified flight attendant , so you could n't just make any employee a crew member . Remember also that flight attendants have hours of service restrictions , so any time they are considered on-duty has to comply with the h.o.s. regulations . Certain other types of employees are allowed to fly in the flight deck , but they have to be performing a specific function on the flight that requires their presence in th cockpit . For example , a mechanic could fly in the cockpit if he 's there to monitor something on the aircraft . A flight dispatcher could be on the flight deck if they are observing flight operations as a part of training . Even some persons who may be given access to the cockpit for operational need , like air marshals or training personnel , still must have a seat available in the cabin . So they ca n't put someone in the cockpit just to transport them from place to place and they could n't just plop a salesman or a ticket agent there and say they are a " crew member . " There are regulations stipulating the minimum number of flight attendants on a flight but not a maximum number . So , technically they could make a flight attendant part of the crew , but if that person was just listed as a crew member and was n't actually performing any duties , the FAA would certainly interpret that as a violation .
The ROUTING is DHP 322 radial to WINCO . So that 's the course line that you 'd intercept when so instructed . There is no reason to actually start at DHP , and since you 'll be flying the heading off the runway , the leg from the field to DHP in the Garmin is immaterial . You can expect that they 'll either clear you to WINCO , or ( for a non-RNAV aircraft , most likely ) that they 'll clear you on a heading to intercept the DHP 322 radial to WINCO ( and thence as filed ) , so you 'd cycle the active leg from the { OPF to DHP } leg , to the next leg , which is { DHP to WINCO } ( which is the same as the DHP 322 radial ) , and then you 'd intercept that active leg . Nothing in those instructions is telling you to fly to DHP , nor should you expect that you 'd get a clearance to do so . To answer the question in the title , until you 're told otherwise , you fly the initial heading in the text instructions . You 're on vectors , so do n't turn until told to do so . If you go lost comm , then AVE-F would tell you that you 're on Vectors to WINCO , so get yourself there as best you can , probably by turning direct if you 're RNAV equipped , or flying the radial if not . EDIT : Note , though , that in the normal ( with comm ) case , the DP instruction is NOT to fly heading 273 to intercept the radial ; it is to fly that heading . That 's your only CLEARANCE . ATC will turn you to intercept on whatever heading they want you on . Only in the case of lost comm would you turn to WINCO upon reaching the 322 radial . In all other cases , follow ATC instructions .
The airjet openings are connected to a long duct running along the ceiling . Since the air volume inside the cabin is restricted , fresh air must be pumped into it constantly . It is bleed air from the compressor section of the engine , which is first cooled and then enters the cabin via those ducts which feed all the little vents or airjets , as you call them . Passengers can open or close them individually and direct the flow for best comfort . The general idea is that some vents will be closed , but enough are open during every flight so the needed recirculation of air can happen . If more are closed , the pressure in the duct will be higher , so the flow through the remaining vents will increase . The total weight of all the cabin ducting is a minor consideration , it 's only a few dozen gram per passenger .
how does it not immediately start spinning ? Physics , and engineering . But I guess that you would like a bit more detail , so let 's try dive in . wheel brakes They tend to have a stabilizing effect by shifting some of the weight on the front wheel and allowing the pilots to control the aircraft with more effectiveness . spoilers These are automatically controlled by the Fly-by-Wire system , so if required they would be retracted . thrust reversers If they are functioning properly , the resulting force will go through the vertical plane containing the C.o.G. ( but a bit below it ) , so they do not pose much of a problem . Another thing you have not mentioned , but I am going to add , is crabbed landings ( such as <URL> ) , since in these situations the aircraft DO tend to spin a little . In these cases , in the timeframe between touchdown and braking , 2 things help the aircraft remain on the runway : the vertical tail ( with the rudder ) , and the position of the main landing gear w.r.t. the center of gravity of the aircraft . As it can be seen in <URL> taken from the lecture notes of the course I followed ( the title translates to " Braking run in crabbed landing " ) , normal tricycle gear aircraft tend to be stabilized by their own landing gear in this situation , while the same can not be said for old school taildraggers . So , what really could cause a problem ? The answer is wind gusts ( especially if the wind is perpendicular to the runway ) , uneven conditions of the runway ( say , a puddle or a thin layer of ice on one side of the runway will cause one set of main gear to have less grip than its counterpart on the other side , causing a yawing towards the side with more grip ) , asymmetrical failures in the thrust reversers , excessive braking while also turning the aircraft to realign to the centerline ( particularly a problem if the distance between the two main gears is not sufficient ) . How does the aircraft remain on the runway despite these possible problems ? At high speeds , thanks to the vertical tail ; and at low speeds thanks to the front nose gear . At in-between speeds , the situation is slightly more complicated : the tail is not much useful anymore , while the front gear would risk breaking if used to correct too much . So , for example , a FbW system can help through the asymmetrical use of spoilers . An example of what could happen , but seen during a take-off , is illustrated <URL> ( video kindly provided by MichaelK in chat ) .
The fuselages are circular ( or nearly circular ) in shape for two <URL> : The main reason is that for a circular cross section , the pressure loads are resisted by tension , rather than by bending loads in non-circular sections . Also , the non-circular sections have stress concentrations when pressurized , which may lead to failure . In case of a circular design , the flow will not separate under small ( to moderate ) angles of attack and in sideslip . In case of non-pressurized aircraft , the fuselages are dictated by volume constraints and are usually rectangular in shape as it is more efficient in space utilization . <URL> Source : adg.stanford.edu In the case of pressurized aircraft , the best option structurally is to have a circular fuselage , but in order to have a useful internal space , an elliptical or ' double bubble ' design is used , with an outer circular section and divided internal sections , like the A380 . <URL>
When you have the thrust levers of , say , a 747 all the way back to idle , the airplane still has enough power to move . In fact , you will have to use the brakes to keep it from taxiing too fast . If you did n't use the brakes , it would finally accelerate to somewhere around 45 knots or so , far too fast for taxiing , but much too slow to take off . At the idle power setting , relatively little noise is produced by the engines . To take off , if the 747 were at max gross , you would have to accelerate to around 180 knots . That would require a power setting approaching the maximum , depending on the length of the runway . The noise produced by the engines is relative to the amount of power they 're producing . Hence , taxiing at idle produces little noise relatively speaking , on the runway taking off a whole lot of noise .
There are several advantages , here are a few : Design costs are lower for a family of aircraft ; major parts of the aircraft are the same in the family . A family of aircraft share the same type certificate . This means it is cheaper for the manufacturer to certify a family of aircraft . Within a family of aircraft , pilots can operate all aircraft with no or very little additional training required . This saves the airline a lot of money . Maintenance on a family of aircraft is cheaper since the majority of parts are common to all family members . This means having less spare parts in stock and less training for maintenance personnel . For an airline there is often a benefit in having some capacity diversity in a fleet . A new route often starts at low capacity . When the volume of passengers rises replacing the flight by a larger aircraft from the same family is not disruptive to crew schedules .
Why do passenger embark on the left side of an aircraft ? Because the cavewoman who invented the log-canoe was right-handed ? Note : I arrived at this answer by looking at a kind of etymology of the terms starboard &amp; port but that 's incidental . The answer to this question happened to be contained in an answer to a rather different question . Some groups of aviators may have dropped the archaic terms while still being subject to a continuation of an archaic habit/convention . People get on the left side of a jet airplane because Vikings ( etc ) steered their wooden boats with a steering board ( hence starboard ? ) held in their dominant right-hand . Since it was inconvenient to have your steering apparatus wedged against a quayside ( or earthen bank ) they docked at the port along their left side and therefore loaded and unloaded on the left . <URL> leads you to <URL> in English.se which I reproduce here for convenience Excerpt from <URL> : Port and starboard Port and starboard are shipboard terms for left and right , respectively . Confusing those two could cause a ship wreck . In Old England , the starboard was the steering paddle or rudder , and ships were always steered from the right side on the back of the vessel . Larboard referred to the left side , the side on which the ship was loaded . So how did larboard become port ? Shouted over the noise of the wind and the waves , larboard and starboard sounded too much alike . The word port means the opening in the " left " side of the ship from which cargo was unloaded . Sailors eventually started using the term to refer to that side of the ship . Use of the term " port " was officially adopted by the U.S. Navy by General Order , 18 February 1846 . So it 's a historical convention , many arbitrary choices are of this sort . Pioneers of a new form of transport adopt the terms ( port , startboard ) and habits of more ancient forms of transport . Ironically , since aircraft became able to carry substantial non-human cargo , the cargo entry has moved to the other side to reduce the chances of crushing the human cargo with the non-human cargo . Presumably also because having lots of large holes all in one side may be structurally disadvantageous .
The control forces are there by design . All airliners have artificial force feel from springs , dampers etc. . A B747 flies through the skies a lot faster than a Cessna 172 and bad things could happen if it were easy to deflect the flying controls at M 0.85 . The B737 elevator is a good case in point . It has <URL> ( artificial feel ) provided by a spring device , and the spring gradients stiffen up as a function of airspeed . At higher speeds it is quite hard to deflect the column by pushing/pulling and much easier to use the trim button to control the pitch . For Level D simulator control forces we measured the forces necessary to deflect the column fully when trimmed in mid position , which turned out to be a serious body-building exercise : About 200 N at zero airspeed About 500 N at 400 knots 20,000 ft. ( Measurement taken on ground with a pressure hose attached to the pitot tube , and aircraft on jacks with the landing gear retracted ) . By contrast , helicopter flying controls are light because helicopters are inherently unstable and a lot of stick action is necessary , particularly in the hover . In most helicopters the feel forces can be switched off completely with the trim button , resulting in a very light stick , perfectly OK with the relatively docile response of the helicopter . But a 747 is a stable airframe . A fast aircraft with large control deflections results in high accelerations , which can result in Pilot Induced Oscillations or structural damage to the airframe . The two measurements of B737 control column , digitised from the original plots and on the same scale : column position on the x-axis , force on the y-axis . By design , force required to deflect the column fully from about mid position is about 40 lbf at zero knots , 100 lbf at 400 knots . This is from an artificial q-feel system and the feel is implemented by design . The vertical distance between the sides of the curve is caused by friction . <URL> At 0 knots : Notice that around mid the spring gradient is very steep : the breakout , to indicate neutral position . Then between 0 and 5 inch a spring gradient of 4 lbf/inch . Beyond 5 inch a relatively flat gradient , to make it not too hard to deflect the column fully . <URL> At 400 knots : it is made hard to fully deflect the column . 100 lbf pull from a seated position is nothing to sneeze at .
It will vary widely from aircraft to aircraft , but I will try to give some general estimates . Time on the Ground Part of what you are referring to what is sometimes called <URL> . It 's not really directly related to my calculations for your overall question ( though it is certainly a factor for short-haul jets ) , but in <URL> , minimum turn times for the Boeing 757 was studied , and it was found that the estimated turn time for a 757-200 was 52.5 minutes , based on actual operations . The 757-300 , a stretched model with more seating , would take about 59 minutes . From <URL> , presented by United Airlines , they show a general guideline MSGT ( Minimum Scheduled Ground Time ) , that is a generalization depending on flight locations , field facilities , and airlines . Some times are : Boeing 747 : 80 minutes Boeing 777 : 70 minutes Boeing 767 : 60 minutes ( -300 model ) Boeing 737 : 35 minutes ( -300 model ) Airbus A320 : 40 minutes <URL> has a discussion of a number of airliner turn times , however none are from official sources . Most vary between 20-45 minutes , depending on if cleaning is required . So for a typical airliner we can say it takes about 45 minutes-1 hour for a typical servicing . Aircraft Lifetime Now as to how many times they fly , you can find their aircraft design cycle limit ( essentially , how many takeoffs and landings it can make in its lifetime ) in <URL> ( summarized <URL> ) . Some listed numbers : Boeing 747 : 20,000 cycles Boeing 777 : 40,000 cycles Boeing 767 : 50,000 cycles Airbus A320 : 48,000 cycles ( 60,000 hours ) Airbus A300 : 40,000 cycles So for a ' typical ' airliner we can say it can survive about 40,000 cycles in a lifetime You can find the average age of airliners in different places online . <URL> splits up by airline and aircraft , and most airliners have an average age of 12-15 years . But note that this is the active fleet . The average age at retirement for an airliner is now <URL> . You can find a related Aviation.SE question <URL> Aircraft Usage <URL> discusses the average cycles and flight hours per day . Long haul aircraft ( like the 747 , 777 , A380 ) tend to spend more hours in the air per flight , but also have less cycles per day . I ca n't find official sources , but the thread presents a couple example averages for peak usage rate : Delta Boeing 757 : 9.5 hours/4 .8 cycles United Boeing 747 : 13.2 hours/1 .6 cycles ( I find these probably accurate , as there have been some publicized accidents that have much higher usage , like <URL> , which flew 48,740 hours and 39,781 cycles in 15 years - about 7 flights/day ; short-haul jets like the one in the article end up with more cycles than long-haul , as I noted above ) . It is difficult to find hard numbers , but overall , the average flight length for a short-haul jet is about 2 hours , whereas a long-haul jetliner is around 6-7 hours . Again , there are a lot of variables in this question , but using the above data , we can estimate the answer to your question , using these estimated figures from above : 40,000 cycles ( ~ 20,000 flights ) 25 years 2 hours/flight This means approximately 40,000 flight hours for a typical short-haul jet ; over 25 years ( 219,000 hours ) , this works out to about 1 hour in flight for every 5 on the ground . Obviously this varies widely , but for a ballpark number , that 's the best I can do . The highest usage would be a heavily used long-haul jet used on the longest routes from a busy airline ( i.e. trans-Pacific ; Middle East to U.S. ) , whereas the lowest would be a moderate-length flight on a low-volume route . In general , you are probably looking at about 1:3 to 1:5 air : ground time .
Actually , for all but very long haul flights , airline aircraft only require two pilots , a Captain and a First Officer . For those long haul flights that exceed the duty time in a pilot seat , a relief pilot is also carried . Older aircraft often also had a flight engineer . Technically speaking the f.e. was n't usually required to be a pilot , but he was a very necessary crew member . You could say that airlines became more efficient crew-wise when they moved from 3-man cockpit crews to 2-man cockpit crews . For example , the 747-100/200 series uses 3-man crews , but the 747-400 uses 2-man crews . The change was made possible by using automation and instrumentation that was n't available when the first 747 models came out . Indirectly the increase in engine reliability also helped . If you lost an engine in an 3-man crew 747 , the typical manner of handling the loss was to have the first officer fly the airplane while the captain and the f.e. worked the problem . To illustrate the increase in automation , the 747-100/200 series had , typically , seven or nine fuel tanks , and there was a fuel burn schedule that had to be followed to keep the structural stresses and balances between different levels of the tanks within limits . The f.e. took care of that , doing it manually by throwing switches on his panel . The 747-400 and follow on models do that automatically by computer . Basically the number in the cockpit crew is determined by safety . There 's the basic consideration that if you had only one pilot , and that pilot died or otherwise was disabled , that might well be catastrophic . Beyond that , though , there 's the matter of what all has to be done and for how long . Pilots make mistakes , and the longer they 've on duty , the more mistakes they make . And if an emergency occurs , the work load can get very high . You ca n't reasonably compare an aircraft to a car for at least two reasons . First , a car is moving in only two dimensions , an aircraft in three . Second , a car can stop moving , an aircraft ca n't ; it has to keep moving . Let 's say your car loses power . Usually that wo n't result in anything more than inconvenience . If your aircraft loses power , you 've got a much more serious problem . Most airline aircraft have at least two engines . Losing one is n't going cause a crash in most two engine aircraft , losing all power will .
Military aircraft can and do fill up on civil Jet-A -- this is common at facilities where the extra expense of providing both Jet-A and JP-5 or JP-8 fuel is n't worthwhile . However , the military jet fuel types do provide some advantages over Jet-A : JP-5 has a high flash point , improving its handling properties over civilian jet fuels . This is important for fire safety in the close confines of an aircraft carrier . JP-8 is similar to civil jet fuel , but also has extra thermal stability additives in it . This allows for longer-term storage under harsh field conditions , and better resistance to deposit formation in places like afterburners and fueldraulic movable nozzles where the fuel is exposed to high temperatures even before it 's burned . It also may be specified for properties such as cetane rating that are essential for proper performance of diesel reciprocating engines run from JP-8 . ( I 'm omitting JP-4 from this discussion as it 's a wide-cut fuel , comparable to civil Jet-B . )
The primary reason is probably that it ensures there is no confusion between passengers , crew , or infants . Technically , " passengers " is the number of seats occupied , " crew " is both the pilots and flight attendants on duty . So any small children brought on as " lap children " will not be included in the " passengers " count , but should be included in the total number of people on board . I found another interesting point <URL> , which is that dead bodies are sometimes transported as well . In this case , some might consider these " people " as well . Also , in an incident , the bodies should not be confused with the regular passengers . So , " souls " effectively communicates the number of living humans on board . There may certainly be holdovers from the maritime influences on aviation as well .
FR24 relies for most of the tracks on ADS-B data . Part of the ADS-B transmissions is the position . There are three causes of the behaviour that you observe : 1 ) . Aircraft landing next to the runway The position source onboard the aircraft is not always GPS . Mainly older aircraft ( e.g. Fokker 100 ) have their Inertial Navigation System ( INS ) coupled to the ADS-B transmitter . The INS relies not on external radio measurements but only on measured acceleration and rotation to track its position . It is usually correct at take-off , but it develops biases over time and therefore the landing appears quite often next to the runway . I can assure you that this is mostly misleading . 2 ) . Short time track offset In most aircraft the ADS-B position is from GPS . When the GPS loses its position fix , the system falls back to INS . As described above , the INS position is slowing drifting from the truth during the flight , so the ADS-B track will shortly jump aside to the INS position until the GPS comes back . When short ( e.g. 1 position update ) the offsets appear as spikes . 3 ) . Long distance jumps ( 180 NM , 360 NM ) Due to the limited number of bits available in the ADS-B messages , position is encoded in a complex format called Compact Position Reporting . It requires at least two position messages to decode the first position of a track , from that point onward , every message will constitute a position update . When no proper verification algorithms are used in the software , it may occur that a receiver station initializes the track wrongly , usually causing a jump of 180 or 360 NM . Also note : When INS is used a the position source , the ADS-B data contains an indication that the data is not to be trusted , but that is silently ignored by FR24 .
To expand upon voretaq7 's answer , understanding the history and evolution of transponders can more deeply explain why this is the way it is ( for now ) . When Allied ( US/UK/Others ) WWII planes returned from combat missions over Germany and mainland Europe , the ( brand new technology ) radar controllers had no way of knowing " who " the aircraft were . To solve this problem , aircraft began carrying an electronic box that could transmit a radio signal automatically in order to identify themselves . This system was the original IFF ( Identification : Friend or Foe ) . This piece of electronic wizardry could be set on the ground by crew members , prior to departure , using an 8-position dial numbered from 0-7 . The box would receive a transmission signal from the ground , and then transmit a reply of two bursts of energy per cycle : the first signal was the " I 'm beginning my transmission " signal ( a slightly louder burst of energy ) , and the next signal was delayed a specific amount of nano-seconds to match the frequency wavelength ( and would be slightly lower in intensity ) . If the transmitter was set to 0 , the delay was nothing . That is , the second burst would be transmitted on the next " instance " following the begin-transmission burst . If set to 1 , then there was a 1-step delay after the start-signal ... all the way up to 7 , which would induce a 7-step delay . The rudimentary " computers " on the ground , co-located with the radar , would receive these transmissions . Based on the known radio frequency , the timing of these short bursts of energy onto the carrier wavelength could be interpreted back into a number . If the radio on the ground received something like : START-nothing-nothing-SIGNAL-nothing-nothing-nothing-nothing-nothing-START-nothing-nothing-SIGNAL-nothing-nothing-nothing-nothing-nothing ... then it could be calculated that the box onboard the aircraft was transmitting the " number 2 " . If the secret number for that day ( briefed to pilots before they left ) was " 2 " , then the plane was identified as a " FRIEND " in the IFF system . This was the very first transponder prototype . ( BTW : It is called a " transponder " because it does two things : it TRANSmits a resPONSE to a specific signal on a specific frequency . ) But the obvious first hurdle was the fact that there were only 8 numbers available , and so the transponder boxes were quickly upgraded to two settings ( 56 possible code combinations ) and then 4 settings ( 4,096 possible " code " combinations ) . But there was still a " problem " : the codes were set on the ground and could not be changed . Any mid-mission compromise of the number being used that day prevented aircraft already airborne from changing their codes . The next technological leap was to develop a panel-mounted system where the pilot could change each of the four dials manually . This technology eventually entered the civilian arena . To distinguish between different types of transponders and who was using them ( mostly a frequency issues - military freq vs. civilian freq ) , different categories came about , called " modes " . A " Mode 2 " transponder was the above described 4-digit , octal , set-on-the-ground-and-leave-it system . A " Mode 3 " transponder was the newer , pilot-sets-it-in-the-air version , but still using military frequencies . When the civilians began using the same technology on approved civilian frequencies , the designation was " Mode 3-A " , often just called a " Mode A " transponder . Combined with the advent of civilian air traffic surveillance radar , controllers could now distinguish " who was who " on their screens , by assigning each aircraft its own unique number . This was great for a while , but the only thing controllers could see was the " blip " and its assigned number . The radar computer could also calculate ground speed , but not altitude . So , the controllers relied on the pilot to report their altitude verbally . This led to the next technological leap forward in transponders . If that same radio could somehow be connected to the aircraft 's pressure system ( the same one that drives altimeters and vertical speed indicators ) , then it could probably somehow be configured to transmit that altitude data as well . That technology was thus invented , and the designation " Mode 3-A/C " was applied to the civilian versions ... commonly ( and still popular today ) called a " Mode C Transponder " . This ( finally ) gets us to the original question : Why do n't aircraft program their own registration numbers into the transponder ? Since there are only four octal digits available , there are three immediate problems : first , the numbers 8 and 9 are not usable ; second , no letters are available ; and third , with only 4096 possible combinations , and way more aircraft than that in the world , it is very highly possible that two aircraft in the same vicinity could possibly have the same number . The advent of " Mode S " transponders , with " current-day " technology , can now transmit ( as well as receive ) all kinds of information , including the ai
Each vessel , whether land , sea , or air , should ( might ) have a defined afterbody . The afterbody is <URL> as : The afterpart of a vehicle ; The part of a vessel abaft midships ; A companion body that trails a satellite or spacecraft ; A section or piece of a launch vehicle , rocket , or spacecraft that enters the atmosphere unprotected behind the nose cone or other body that is protected for entry and Merriam-Webster Online <URL> it as : : the after part of a body : such as a : the part of a ship abaft midships b : the bottom portion of a seaplane hull or float aft of the main step To show you , visually , an easy to see set of examples , consider the following pictures of floatplanes ( seaplanes ) : In the first and second images , the afterbody is that part of the aircraft behind the step , which is the little ' notch ' or , well , ' step ' just behind the main wheels . In the third picture , the afterbody is everything after the step , which is the more steeply angled section under the wings . The step is generally just aft of the center of gravity of the plane . Generally speaking , if one were to discuss the afterbody of a large airliners , such as the Airbus A380 , the afterbody would be the fuselage from the wings back , but not including the tail ( where the rudder and elevators are . ) I could not find any Airbus references to ' afterbody ' however . I did find some references to the afterbody of a Boeing 787 , being that part of the plane behind the pressurized cabin , which is the very back of the plane , including the tail . Not a very good solid definition where everyone agrees , sorry .
end question
start question
What liability concerns would drive an airplane homebuilder to scrap their plane ?
I understand that the aircraft owner had sought for some time to donate the aircraft . I would presume that he had come to a time in life where he was , or felt he was , no longer able to fly the aircraft , and so was seeking to rid himself of what may have become a burden ( hangar fees , etc. ) . To quote liberally from the builder/destroyer 's daughter who created and uploaded the YouTube video ( this is quoted from what she wrote in the video description ) : It took him two years to make this decision about his plane . He did actually try to donate it to a couple of aviation schools in the area and the schools politely refused the offer . He also tried to donate to a local museum and was also refused . He knew when he built the plane he might face this decision one day , but he hoped some of the laws would have changed by that time . [ ... ] Mr. Ron Rapp , author of the article " A Tragic Pile of Twisted Metal " and noted blogger on his website The House of Rapp. , highlights many reasons my Dad made this decision among others . A couple months before my dad made his final decision , a local fellow pilot was named in a lawsuit because he sold the plane he built to a man that later crashed and killed himself in the plane . The spouse of the buyer filed the suit and also named other companies who made parts used to build the plane . Many have commented that he should have used a limited liability entity , such as a LLC or a corporation to sell the plane . However , because the plane was not , at the time of manufacturing , owned in a properly capitalized limited liability entity with a legitimate business purpose and was , in fact , used purely for personal reason , courts would in almost all cases " pierce the corporate veil . " Therefore , this does not offer adequate ( or any ) protection . I do n't think I can add a whole lot to that . Apparently , he had decided that he was unwilling to take on the liability of letting someone else fly what he had built . In the absence of a party interested in the aircraft for anything other than flight , he chose to destroy it .
1 ) The software from various airline companies seems to be more or less of a standard . So they should work in a similar fashion . Which input is needed in order to make it work ( i.e. , altitude , lat/lon coordinates , temperature ) ? " Inputs " from the aircraft devices , like pitot , anemometer , gyro , etc. ? I do n't know . DeltaLima answered that for you . What you see on the screen is definately a software rendering , that means an operating system is running , and displays a frame on that screen device . The graphic is software-generated ( the map , the plane , its orientation , the text , the sun , the clouds , zooming , etc. ) So , at some point , the inputs signals ( altitude , cruise , heading ... ) has to be converted in computer bytes that will be handled by hardware devices of a computer , buffered in memory , then used by " some software " in the way they have been designed for . Option 1 : There 's a central Operating System ( OS ) that holds all the computable datas and feeds all onboard software on demand including FMS , IFE , etc. . Option 2 : There 's no central OS , but multiples ones , and a direct star-type ( tree ) data pipeline . Option 3 : IFE Software is a included in one OS that also run other softwares There are other Options , each one could be better called " onboard System " By the way , if , by " inputs " , you meant " how to make that tiny plane move along the map " , there are thousands of ways doing it , but the schemas is the same : draw a map ( use some gree/blue/brown color to make it look good enough ) draw a path using points locations on a X-Y ( invisible ) grid and line segments slam a top view of a plane on all of that at a precise X-Y location ( and do n't forget to rotate the plane icon in the correct heading or your passengers will start to panick ) No matter how beautiful the flightpath could be rendered , remember it 's a computer generated graphic , and does n't need to be accurate at all . For example , refreshing could be set at an interval of 5 seconds instead of real time ( 5 seconds is good enough even for steep turns on final ) The map resolution does n't require a milimetric precision . 1000ft or 500ft lateral precision could suffice , and even if the displayed ( text ) altitude is in feet , the 3D rendering does n't care about that at all : it uses a fraction of that altitude , then accordinly shifts the position of the aircraft model on the screen to give you the impression the aircraft is at an higher altitude ... That the logical way the flightpath software requires . Accuracy and physics computations are not required , unless you want to create a game or even better , a simulator ( in terms of reproducing nearly-real behaviour in a virtual world ) GoogleEart 's Flight game for example is n't as precise as many other games out there ( Lock On , X-Plane ... ) But for all of those , the " inputs " are all binary datas stored in memory and used as variables by the software . Turning a plane is n't dependent on a heading value . It 's one block of the software code that reads the heading variable , then rotate the object ( the plane ) by the corresponding angular value , then another block of the software code draws ( renders ) the object on a screen buffer . Finally , the screen buffer is passed to the displaying device ( your IFE screen ) and each pixel of that screen shows what has been calculated by the software for the human eyes . In the end , what you see on a screen - ANY screen wether it 's your TV , the IFE , your computer screen when you read this answer , your phone screen - is a series of slideshows pictures rendered by the screen device one image after another . But it 's done so fast that the human eyes ( or brain actually ) think what is shown is really moving . It 's not , but looks like . 2 ) Is it possible to acquire one version of this software and run it offline as a simulation , giving as input the needed information ? I tend to say yes ! but wait ! Good luck finding that software though . You should ask someone working for an IFE system provider for aircraft manufacturer . And note one thing : Such softwares could be packed in some hardware components having an inbuilt memory card , this preventing anyone from copying that very software while it is successfully loaded in the IFE OS just like any other software loaded from disk/CDs/USBs ... Of course you ca n't unplug the hardware device from the IFE hardware motherboard , and plug it on your computer motherbord , that wont make it . . Just like your phone ( wether android or iphone or whatever ) the firmware is burried deep in one hardware component . You ca n't easily copy a firmware from an iphone to a nexus . . :P But at one point , those softwares has to be created on a computer , then , have their " saved as files " state in the computers of the enterprises creating them . As you could have guessed , chances to get a copy of such software is pretty . . non existent , not because it 's nearly impossible , but because such software are copyrighted , and/or the ( hardware ) system supposed
Land normally . Check your POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) first to ensure you have enough runway including the extra needed for a tailwind . The only thing to watch out for is that winds tend to moderate as you get closer to the ground . In a headwind landing , the relative wind will decrease , In a tailwind landing the relative wind will increase , so there will be an increased tendency to float way down the runway . Be on speed for a short field landing technique .
The FAA Hierarchy is your typical government bureaucracy - you can escalate your way through it like most others : Local Level Your point of contact for all things FAA will typically be a local <URL> -- for most things you would start with the Flight Standards District Office ( FSDO ) unless you know specifically that your issue falls into the domain of another office ( like Aircraft Certification or Manufacturing ) . If you ca n't work out the issue with the local folks at your FSDO you can try moving laterally and contacting someone from the FAA Safety Team at the FSDO ( they may not be able to change anything , but they may be able to help get you a better explanation of why things are being interpreted the way they are , and give you a voice on the inside ) . Regional Level Each district office is contained within a region , and each region has a regional administrator . The regional administrator 's office would be your next point of escalation . As with the District Offices <URL> , and if you are able to convince the regional administrator 's office that the district office has made an error and their interpretation is inconsistent with published FAA guidance you may be able to get the local interpretation overruled . National Level Your next step would be the appropriate <URL> -- for most stuff it would be the Aviation Safety office ( AVS ) , and <URL> you probably want to avail yourself of the <URL> which exists to bring some standardization to what has traditionally been the the inside joke of " There 's nothing standard about Flight Standards ! " -- If a local FSDO is operating contrary to published guidance in <URL> or an Advisory Circular these folks can set them right . There are separate national offices that deal with Air Traffic and Airports which may also be useful contacts if you have incidents with those divisions . The Big Legal Hammer When all else fails and you need a legal interpretation to tell the entire FAA " This is what the language in 14CFR means , and this is how it must be interpreted . " your point of contact is <URL> . These are the folks you contact if you have a specific question about how to interpret the FARs that you ca n't answer concretely from an Advisory Circular , or when you have contradictory interpretations from different parts of the FAA ( dueling FSDOs ) that you ca n't resolve through the other channels . An interpretation by the counsel 's office is binding on the entire FAA organization , and as you climb the ladder there 's an increasing chance that the folks you talk to will involve the lawyers at the counsel 's office . In practice the regional level is often skipped - particularly given the Consistency and Standardization Initiative at the national level : It is often more efficient to escalate directly to a group solely charged with making sure the national standards are consistently applied . As you climb the bureaucratic ladder the chances of someone involving the FAA 's lawyers for a final legal interpretation increases : a motivated employee who thinks they 're right may refer the matter to the counsel 's office and copy you on the request ( or you could get fed up and do the same ) . Once you reach the point of an interpretation from the Office of the Chief Counsel you 've climbed as high in the bureaucracy as you can - an unfavorable interpretation by the FAA lawyers can only be challenged by bringing in lawyers of your own and hashing it out in court . Because the US court system has <URL> the chances of winning such a case are not good unless the interpretation of the agency is entirely unreasonable or the application can be proven " arbitrary and capricious " based on other similar cases .
The practice of naming aircraft probably comes from the days of the flying boat , and the naval tradition of naming ships - <URL> had many named aircraft , and <URL> . Other airlines of the period had similar naming practices ( I 'm not sure who started it , but Pan Am 's fleet was well known for it ) . As a marketing tool telling folks they 're flying on " Clipper Emerald Isle from New York to Dublin " may have been more attractive to passengers than " Pan Am Flight 12345 " or N880PA . Particularly before the commoditization of air travel , when flying was still a new and novel form of transportation , having a connection back to familiar " sailing " metaphors may have helped get passengers on board and could help differentiate your service from another airline . Modern airlines do n't seem to push their aircraft naming as much as historic carriers did , but <URL> - in fact Lufthansa paints their plane names onto the fuselage , though I 'm not sure if they announce them to passengers . A skilled marketing department could build a brand around ship names , but I 'm not aware of any airline doing so today .
The term " fast ailerons " is an informal term that generally refers to the response of the plane relative to the pilot 's input to the aileron controls on the stick or yolk . The faster the plane responds , the faster the ailerons ( or other controls ) . The roll rate is the speed at which a plane can complete a roll . This depends on a number of factors , including aileron size , maximum aileron deflection , wing length , and speed . Ailerons that can deflect a lot of air without disrupting the airflow over the wing too much are desirable in an aerobatic plane , so the roll rate can be increased and so the plane will have better roll control at lower speeds . While larger ailerons are desirable on an aerobatic plane , they are also more susceptible to flutter at high speeds , which is not desirable because it tends to rip them off the wing . There are several design techniques that can be used to mitigate this , such as gap seals , counterweights , countersurfaces , etc. .
Most smaller propeller planes have nothing . When you 're in you can fly away . This seems to be the same for those private jets and older Boeings . I do n't fly planes , but I 've seen that Airplane Repo program on Discovery , and they just get in and fly away . How this works with the newest planes - no idea .
The Bell Helicopter <URL> covers survivability in Appendix 1 . Specifically it refers to Redundant Fly-by-Wire Controls Redundant Electrical Power Redundant Hydraulics Swashplate Actuator Armor implying that this possibility has been engineered to a minimum . Nevertheless , the premise of your question is that it 's occurred , so further on in the same section we see V-22 crashworthiness is a function of design . Heavy components , such as the engines and transmissions , are located away from the cabin and cockpit area . The proprotors are designed to fray or " broomstraw " rather than splinter on impact with the ground . The energy-absorbing landing gear system is designed to attenuate most of the energy for hard landings up to 24 fps . The wing is constructed to fail outboard of the wing/fuselage attachment in a manner that absorbs kinetic energy and ensures the cabin area will not be crushed , thereby protecting the occupants . An anti-plow bulkhead prevents the nose from digging in on impact , and the fuselage provides a reinforced shell that is designed to maintain 85 % of its volume during a crash . Aircrew and embarked troops receive additional protection from crashworthy seats that stroke vertically to absorb energy ( my emphasis ) Since the aircraft is still flying , I 'd head for the nearest decently equipped airfield , conduct a normal fixed wing approach and land , trusting that the rotors will sweep a nice clean path along the runway instead of peppering the fuselage with shrapnel . I 'd probably take the precaution of cutting power early to reduce the kinetic energy in the rotors before they hit the ground .
Generally aircraft windows are made of what we colloquially call " plexiglass " of some kind ( Lexan polycarbonate is common in light General Aviation aircraft , acrylic plastics are also used ) . This material is light , relatively strong ( not shatter-proof , but it 'll take a moderate beating ) and has decent optical properties . Its major drawback is " crazing " -- hairline cracks on the surface of the material that form over time from dirt , stress , temperature , UV exposure , and the like . Bonus answer : The little hole serves a couple of purposes , but the biggie is pressure relief/equalization . <URL> and they 've covered it pretty thoroughly . Basically the hole ensures that the cabin pressure is pushing against the outer ( primary , usually thicker ) sheet of plexiglass , which is plug-wedged into the fuselage structure and ca n't go anywhere . Should the outer pane be damaged the hole will also theoretically bleed cabin pressure off at a controlled rate - though how successful that equalization is would depend on your altitude ( and thus the pressure differential between the cabin and the outside air ) and the degree of damage to the outer pane .
The FAA ETOPS certification requires a certain standards fromboth the airline ( the operator ) and the aircraft ( the manufacturer ) . As far as the manufacturers are concerned , the ETOPS certification is given for a particular aircraft-engine combination satisfying certain requirements . The <URL> Section A deals with the Airplane-Engine Type Design Approval . According to the document , the type approval involves a two step process : First , the FAA determines that airplane systems meet certain design standards for safe operations during an airplane diversion . Some of these requirements are , The aircraft should have at least three independent electrical generators . Auxiliary Power unit ( APU ) ( when required ) can start after the airplane has been cold-soaked for several hours and can run reliably for the remainder of the flight . System safety analyses have to show that expected system failures will not prevent safe landing at a diversion airport . Systems with time limited capabilities , which typically is cargo fire suppression , need to have the capacity to support a maximum length diversion , including a 15-minute allowance for a hold or go-around at the diversion airport The second part of the approval process is an evaluation of engine in - flight shutdowns and other significant airplane system failures that have occurred while the airplane-engine combination has been in service . The aircraft-engine combination should have at-least 250,000 engine-hours for evaluation , though this can be reduced with compensating factors . The airplane-engine combination should maintain a target IFSD ( In Flight Shut Down , defined as " When an engine ceases to function ( when the airplane is airborne ) and is shut down , however briefly , whether self induced , flightcrew initiated or caused by an external influence . " ) rate at or below 0.02 per 1,000 engine-hours for 180min ETOPS approval . The manufacturer should also demonstrate that flying with OEI does n't cause undue stresses to the aircrew and is safe for the airframe . The ETOPS design approval has to be applied for with FAA and obtained after the relevant processes . Thus , the same aircraft will not have ETOPS approval if the engine is different or even the same aircraft-engine combination wo n't have ETOPS approval if used by another airline or if no certification was sought . There is another method of getting ETOPS approval called the ' early ' ETOPS approval which ... takes a systems approach to the development of an airplane and engine . ... an applicant must demonstrate that the design flaws on previously designed airplanes are not present in the new airplane . The applicant must also consider how the maximum length flight and diversion affect the design and function of airplane systems to ensure that they have the capability and reliability for safe ETOPS flight . After ETOPS certified , the airplane-engine combination and the operator are under continuous monitoring with the certificate being withdrawn in case of lapses or IFSD goes above the target rate and the manufacturer 's corrective action does not eliminate the unsafe condition . As far as the LAX-Hawaii incident is concerned , according to <URL> , both aircrafts ( the ' correct ' ETOPS airplane , A321H and the wrong one sent , A321S ) had the same configuration , but There are two small differences in terms of equipment to allow ETOPS certification . Since you ca n't divert for medical [ on a Hawaii bound flight ] , you 're required to carry extra medical oxygen on board and an extra fire suppression canister There are also reports that the ( ETOPS certified ) A321H <URL> , which the ( non ETOPS certified ) A321S did n't have , though the AA spokesperson had said that the fuel tanks and range were the same .
Compliance with Airworthiness Directives ( ADs ) involves an appropriate logbook entry . Examine the aircraft logbooks , or have someone competent in the subject matter -- an aircraft mechanic , for example -- to determine if applicable ADs have been complied with . Each AD requires different compliance measures , ranging from a one-time inspection or parts replacement to recurring inspections . In each case , a logbook entry should be made to document compliance . Apart from the logbook entry , the aircraft or components concerned can often be inspected to confirm compliance , such as checking for a marked part ot that a placard installed . The details of what such an inspection could confirm would vary depending on what the AD requires . In some cases , such as <URL> , which deals with Cessna stall warning systems , the AD calls for a one-time inspection followed by installation of a placard . The placard calls for the pilot to test the stall-warning system as part of pre-flight . In such a case , compliance with the AD extends beyond the actions of maintenance personnel , and will include pilot compliance with aircraft limitations -- the placard . Now , you seem to be asking three questions , beyond the title question of Let me paraphrase these questions : How does one determine if ADs have been complied with ? How does one find ADs that apply to an aircraft ? How does one find " safety bulletins " for an aircraft ? The first question I have answered above . The second question is primarily the purview of aircraft mechanics , especially IAs where applicable . The site you linked is a good way to find applicable ADs . It sounds like you may have run into some difficulty in getting the site to work correctly . A search for " <URL> " returns 21 ADs . Since ADs list aircraft or component applicability by make , model , and serial number range , among other criteria , each AD will need to be examined to determine if it is applicable to any given aircraft . The third question is more difficult . Airframe , powerplant , and parts manufacturers may issue Service Bulletins and disseminate them at their choosing . Some manufacturers are easier to deal with in this regard than others . An exhaustive answer on this topic is beyond what is appropriate here , in part because it is constantly changing . If in doubt , contact the manufacturer for what you need .
There are plenty of great $ 20,000 aircraft out there - the hard part is finding them . " What to look for " is an incredibly broad question , and varies substantially between different types of aircraft : You would not look for the same things on a Piper Comanche as you would on a Cessna 182 . Accordingly the first thing you want to do is find a mechanic who is an expert in the particular type of aircraft to help you check it out and do a " pre-purchase inspection " . Finding those mechanics is actually pretty easy : Look for a " type club " that supports the aircraft you 're considering and ask them for recommendations ( e.g. for a Cessna <URL> , for a Cirrus <URL> , for most Piper aircraft <URL> , for Beechcraft <URL> , etc. . Talk to folks on those forums ( and to your mechanic ) about what you , as a buyer , should be looking at before you get the mechanic involved for the more detailed inspection . There are lots of things you as a pilot ( even a student pilot ) can determine just by looking at a plane ( and/or the logbooks ) . Some key items to look at before you go see the plane : NTSB Records <URL> go to the NTSB site ( or the equivalent if you 're not in the USA ) and search for accident records . Not every accident will show up in the database , but sometimes you 'll find out that the cream puff aircraft being advertised has actually been " substantially damaged " in an accident . The NTSB database search is free and there 's no reason not to do it . Logbooks All aircraft have logs , so if possible get a copy of them before you even go to look at the plane . Read through the logs ( yes , all of them ) : You 'll find all sorts of interesting things in there , but what you 're mainly looking for is good , consistent maintenance and regular use of the aircraft . As a secondary concern you 're looking for major repairs ( or significant minor ones ) that you might want to ask your mechanic about . FAA Records You can <URL> online for a small fee . This includes registration information and any records of major repairs/alterations ( " Form 337 " ) filed for the aircraft . It is generally an " interesting subset " of the logs . This is something you 'll want to have handy when your mechanic looks at the plane , though it 's not something you need to have before you go look at it yourself . Theoretically the owner should have all the documents that this record contains as part of their records/logbooks , but in practice paperwork sometimes gets " lost " . If all that looks good it 's time to look at the plane : How is the overall condition of the aircraft ? Cosmetics can lie , so do n't be dazzled by a shiny coat of paint and a nice interior : Is the on-board paperwork ( ARROW ) all in order ? Are the tires , hoses , and other rubber components in good condition ? Is the engine bay ( relatively ) clean ? Are there any leaks , drips , or other items of concern ? Are there obvious signs of damage ( skin patches , dents , fabric tears , etc. ) ? Are there obvious signs of corrosion ( bubbles under the paint , etc. ) ? Is the paint in overall good condition ( no major chips , no cracks , no flaking ) ? Is the aircraft itself clean ? ( As much as cosmetics lie , a plane that looks like it 's been neglected probably has been ... ) Does the aircraft pass a very thorough preflight ? Go through the preflight checklist with an eye for anything abnormal -- ask yourself " Would I fly this aircraft today ? " . If the answer is no , think carefully about why . If the answer is yes it may be time to test-fly with the current owner . Does the aircraft operate correctly on the test flight ? Do the engine and propeller operate properly ? Do all the instruments and avionics function correctly ? Does the aircraft fly well ? Can you trim for hands-off straight and level flight ? If the aircraft passes all your checks it 's time to turn your mechanic loose on it - they will inspect the aircraft for problems ( major and minor ) that you as a pilot might not notice which can wind up costing you a lot of money . This pre-purchase inspection ( and the ensuing negotiation based on what the mechanic finds ) is usually the last stop before handing over your money and taking the keys .
Two things : <URL> . This can be alleviated by carefully touching down , but you never know what exactly will happen in the next landing , so better do n't count on it to be smooth Deceleration distance : The higher mass requires a higher approach and touch down speed ( higher by the square root of the mass ratio between your actual mass and the maximum certified landing mass ) . Now you have more mass and more speed , but the landing strip and the airliner 's brakes are still the same . The risk is that you overshoot the runway with an airplane full of fuel or that you overheat the brakes ( which will result in their failure , and again an overshoot ) . Since the kinetic energy is proportional to mass times speed squared , the energy which needs to be absorbed by the brake goes up with the square of the mass increase . If the selected runway for your overweight landing is long enough and the weather is calm ( so a smooth landing is easier ) , an overweight landing is not such a problem . Now let 's look at the 777-300ER in detail . I use the figures from <URL> , because the <URL> is trying much harder to hide the relevant data . The MTOW ( maximum take-off weight , which is actually a mass ) is 351,534 kg , and the maximum landing weight is 251,290 kg , about 100 tons less . Now let 's assume that <URL> and returning to the airfield uses 5 tons of fuel , so the mass ratio is 1.379 . Therefore , the approach speed has to be 17.4 % higher and the total kinetic energy at touchdown is higher by a factor of 1.9 compared to the case at maximum allowable landing weight . If we now assume that speed is reduced linearly during the landing run and that the wheel brakes will just absorb as much energy over time as in the case at maximum landing weight , the deceleration needs to be lower by the mass ratio , so the aircraft decelerates with only 72.5 % of the deceleration at maximum landing weight . To shed its kinetic energy , the landing run will take longer by the increase in kinetic energy , i.e. 1.9 . Since the average speed is also higher by 17.4 % , the landing distance will be higher by a factor of 2.233 or 223 % of the landing distance at maximum landing weight . This neglects that the heating of the brakes is an instationary process , so you can not simply brake with the same intensity for more than twice the time they were designed for . But this little estimation should illuminate what impact a higher landing mass has on the energy and distance involved .
Generally absent a specific prohibition you can take a photo of anything you can see with your eyes from public property ( like a sidewalk ) . That includes airports , airplanes , bridges , tunnels , police officers , kittens , and unicorns . ( For more in-depth information check out <URL> and <URL> , or check out <URL> - they 've <URL> , though not in any real depth , and I 'm sure they have some street photographers well versed in the legal aspects of taking pictures . ) So what constitutes a " specific prohibition " on photography ? Generally a clearly visible sign that says ( the old Grumman facility in Bethpage had such signs on all of the fences where there was a decent view of the runway ) . Absent such a clear prohibition you 're free to take all the photos you want as long as you 're on public property while you 're doing it ( i.e. " not trespassing on airport property " ) , but be aware that some law enforcement officials may not see it that way , and you may have to have some uncomfortable interactions with them . In my experience most police officers are well versed in the law , though occasionally you 'll find one who is n't . You 're more likely to have trouble with a " rent-a-cop " security guard though . If you want really good photographs ( and you 're not photographing at a major airport like JFK or O'Hare ) you might want to speak to the airport management . At smaller airports someone - either airport personnel or a local pilot - might be able and willing to escort you airside where you can get some really great shots . It helps in this situation if you have a body of work you can show ( either published photos or art prints ) . The caveat is that many airports will also ask that you carry some kind of insurance while you 're photographing on their property ( and at larger airline fields that requirement can be substantial ) .
Solar Impulse has no flaps and a high aspect ratio wing . Therefore , the c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ of the wing should be no higher than 1.8 , most likely 1.6 . While a rigid airfoil can be designed with a higher c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ , it will not have an attractive L/D and a shorter wing would have a c $ _ { l _ { max } } $ below that of the airfoil . Since no fuel is consumed , mass is constant , which makes it very easy to give a lower bound for the minimum speed . <URL> has 269.5 m ² wing area to carry its 2.3 tons of mass . This is a wing loading of just 8.53 kg/m ² . If we assume standard day conditions at sea level ( density $ \ rho $ = 1.225 kg/m ³ ) , we find vor v $ _ { min } $ : $ $ v _ { min } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { c _ { l _ { max } } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho } } = 9.24 \ ; \ small { \ frac { m } { s } } \ ; \ text { or } \ ; 33.27 \ ; \ small { \ frac { km } { h } } $ $ For those of you from metrically challenged cultures : This is 18 knots or 20.67 mph .
Short Answer Batteries would need to be somewhere around 16.7 MJ/kg to give the same range and performance as liquid fuels , this is about 18.5 times the capacity of the best lithium-ion batteries . Price-wise it will cost about 30-35 % to charge your airplane as opposed to fill it with liquid fuels at today 's prices . Long Answer This is a good question which is hard to give an exact answer to , so this will be more of a Fermi Approximation . To answer this you need to look at the energy contained in the fuel and the efficiency of the engine used . Looking at the energy of the fuel I will use <URL> , which is the energy stored in a material per unit of mass . Specific Energy is related to <URL> , which is the amount of energy contained per unit of volume . Often the terms are interchanged . The specific energy of avgas and jet fuel is about 43 MJ/kg . The best lithium-ion batteries top out at about 0.9 MJ/kg ( the batteries in a Tesla are about 0.7 MJ/kg ) , so they have a fraction of the storage of liquid fuels . The best battery technology in theoretical development ( Lithium-air ) has a theoretical maximum of 41 MJ/kg , more realistically they 'll get 1/4 to 1/3 of that from the technology , which is still vast . Internal combustion engines are about 35 % efficient , the other 65 % is wasted whereas electric engines are much closer to 90 % efficient or more . There are other factors to consider : Weight : fuel tanks , piping and pumps take weight , and electric motors are much lighter than internal combustion engines . The batteries would need a storage structure but an electric system would probably be lighter overall Battery inconsistencies : avgas supplies a consistent amount of energy in every single drop whereas batteries will sag as they discharge ( this is regulated to give consistent power to the motor , however at some point levels will drop below what is regulatable , so not all the power in the batteries will be usable ) . Also , over time they lose capacity and become less efficient . Both these factors mean that you 'd want to build in extra battery capacity to compensate So I 'm going to assume these two will compensate for each other , the weight savings from going electric will be offset by the need for extra capacity to ensure consistency . Assuming that all other factors are equal ( propeller efficiency , etc ) we can extrapolate the actual efficiency of the systems to get an approximate figure of an internal combustion on avgas : 35 % of 43 MJ/kg = 15 MJ/kg of actual benefit . We can use that figure to determine what specific energy we would need from batteries to get the same amount by dividing by electric motor efficiency : 15 MJ/kg / 0.9 we get 16.7 MJ/kg . So batteries would need to store 16.7 MJ/kg to give us the same energy as liquid fuels , but how does it compare to existing battery tech ? Right now commercially available battery technology is about 0.9 MJ/kg , so it would need 18.56 times more storage capacity ( 16.7 / 0.9 = 18.56 ) to supply the same amount of energy . As for energy costs this is going to vary a lot depending on fuel and electricity prices over time and place ; we can use some of the same figures above to work the numbers . I 'll assume an airplane that holds 40 US Gallons ( 150 liters ) as the math is easy and it 's about the capacity of a Cessna 172 . I 'm going to do separate calculations for the US and UK to see how they compare : In the US : Avgas is about \ $ 5.20 per US gallon at the moment , that 's \ $ 208 to fill up your airplane of 40 gals . Avgas has about 34.2 MJ/liter of energy , multiply that by 150 liters for 5130 MJ of energy . Internal combustion engines are 35 % efficient and electric engines 90 % , so we can calculate that an electric airplane would need 5130 * 0.35 / 0.9 = 1995 MJ of electrical power to fill up . 1995 MJ is about 554 kWh , at somewhere around \ $ 0.135 per kWh it would cost you \ $ 75 to charge an airplane with the same amount of energy . In the UK : Avgas in the UK is about \ $ 2.23 per liter ( \ $ 8.47 per US Gallon ( ouch ! ) ) , so it would cost \ $ 334.50 to fill up an airplane . 554 kWh of electricity costs about \ $ 0.17 per kWh , so it would cost \ $ 94 to charge the airplane EDIT : I did consider the efficiency gain from weight loss as fuel is burned , i.e. a <URL> , I left it out of the answer as it is n't significant compared to the other factors in what is already an approximation . It has to do with the <URL> , which is the percentage of the aircraft weight that is fuel , which on a light piston single is comparatively low . A Cessna 172 carries about 40 gallons of fuel , 38 of which is usable , weighing about 228 pounds as opposed to a typical take-off weight of 2200-2300 lbs . In other words its fuel fraction is about 10 % , even on a long range flight using every bit of fuel you will only lose 10 % of your weight , and I would approximate that you 'd get around 5 % benefit from it . This was not enough of a factor compared to the other considerations , and it would probably be offset by regenerative desce
Greg covered this very well <URL> . The " miss by a surprising distance " bit is especially important here in the context of FAR 91.15 -- you would have to have a VERY large-scale paintball match for this to be viable , and some specific rules of engagement for the aircraft ( always firing " into " the arena area as you do n't want to miss and send a paintball into someone 's car or kitchen window as that would get some distinctly unfriendly attention from the FAA , and probably the local constabulary ) . Operationally , if we 're doing this with an airplane high-wing aircraft would obviously be the order of the day ( Cessna 152 ) , with a pilot ( whose sole job is to fly the airplane ) and a gunner/bombardier ( who is responsible for hitting targets on the ground ) . You really do n't want the pilot distracted by the game . Your weapons guy is going to have to be able to account for the aircraft 's speed and altitude in targeting ( which is pretty hard with an adjusted scope/bomb sight - doing it without one is going to be tough ) . As for shooting back at the plane , if we 're talking about a " regular " airplane ( something manned , like a Cessna 152 ) I would advise against allowing players to target the plane . At safe operating altitudes they 're unlikely to hit the plane , but if they do aircraft skin is very thin &amp; dent repair is very expensive : If someone is lucky enough to score a hit it could be a costly " death " . Now , as a paintball player myself I will tell you that I find the idea of death from above when I ca n't shoot back at the aircraft to be rather unsporting ! What I would suggest instead is to deploy <URL> . These can be had pretty cheaply and with some basic electronics skills they can be modified to carry/drop paint grenades ( think Squadbusters ) on your enemy . If you want to get really fancy add a GoPro or some other remote camera to help with targeting , or add a paintball gun to the thing <URL> . The FAA 's rules for " unmanned aerial systems " are still being written , but if you keep to the general rules for model aircraft ( below 400 feet , and not charging anyone money for the drone 's services ) I think you 'll be OK ( when the final rules come out you 'll have to review your drone for compliance ) . As a bonus if the drone is n't too large and you have an indoor arena with liberally-minded management you may even be able to use your drone during indoor games . ( Kill rules for the drone and its operator are left as an exercise for the players . )
Yes , there is an upper limit , but that upper limit might change with technological innovation . An airplane flies because of the lift coefficient $ L = \ frac12 \ rho v ^ 2 A C_L $ , with $ v $ the airspeed , which is a combination of the speed of the plane and the wind speed , $ \ rho \ approx 1 \ , \ text { kg m } ^ { -3 } $ at a theoretical mimimum of 5 km height ( remember that most planes reach 10 km , but I took this a little more extreme to show an upper limit ) , $ A$ the area , and $ C_L $ an coefficent with a typical value less than 2 , that might change with technological innovation . So the only factors we can influence are $ v $ and $ A$ . However , if we increase $ A$ , the mass $ m $ increases faster than the area $ A$ because there is more material needed to avoid the plane form breaking under the huge forces . Increasing $ A$ quadratically gives more than a quadratically in $ m $ , and hence in the needed $ L$ . If we increase $ v $ , we need more fuel . The amount of fuel per distance unit increases linearily in $ v $ , because it increases quadratically per unit of time in $ v $ . Hence $ L$ increases quadratically where $ m $ only increases linearily . This means that we might do something with increasing $ v $ . That means that airplanes have to go faster before liftoff , which will need drastically longer takeoff lanes . Note that we ca n't keep increasing $ v $ because we ca n't lose control . In summary , things we can improve are $ v $ , the speed , $ C_L $ , with technological innovations and $ \ rho $ by lowering flying height . However , it is not practical .
It is important to remember that it is often difficult to diagnose radio malfunction during flight . Therefore it is hard to know whether you have a malfunctioning transmitter , a malfunctioning receiver , or perhaps both . You also have the point-of-failure that is the headset you are using . For this reason it is quite usual to carry a spare headset and the first piece of diagnostics is to swap headsets . Many General aviation aircraft also have a handheld microphone and speakers integrated into the radio stack . Once you 've ascertained that its the actual transmitter and/or receiver that has failed it is common to set the transponder to 7600 . For landing , the relevant detail for the procedure to follow is contained within <URL> : Receiver Inoperative Remain outside class D airspace until the direction of air traffic can be ascertained Notify the tower your type , position , altitude , intention to land and request you are controlled with light signals At 3 -5 miles , advise the tower of your position and join the traffic pattern Watch the tower for light signals Continue to advise of position ( downwind , turning base , etc ) Transmitter inoperative Remain outside class D airspace until the direction of air traffic can be ascertained Monitor the primary local control frequency as depicted on sectional charts for landing or traffic info . Look out for light signals that may be directed to your aircraft During hours of daylight , acknowledge tower transmissions or light signals by rocking your wings At night , acknowledge by blinking landing of navigation lights Transmitter &amp; Receiver inoperative Remain outside class D airspace until the direction of air traffic can be ascertained Maintain visual contact with the tower and acknowledge light signals as above . The light signals used for an aircraft in flight are as follows <URL> : Steady green - Cleared to land Flashing green - Cleared to approach airport , or return to land Steady red - Continue circling , give way to other aircraft Flashing red - Airport unsafe , do not land Alternating red and green - Exercise extreme caution They can be seen in <URL> .
Do n't worry about it While snow can sometimes cause a delay , airports are really good at snow removal . ( Especially airports like Denver that are used to getting a lot of snow . ) According to <URL> DIA has 500 trained snow removal people and 270 pieces of equipment to clear 12.2 million square feet of runway , taxiways , etc. . To put that in perspective , a typical highway ( 2 lanes each way , with shoulders ) is around 38 feet wide each way , or 76 feet for both directions . If I 've done the math correctly , 12.2 million square feet is about 30 miles of road . <URL> . They use about 1500 drivers and 839 plows to handle 12,000 miles of road . To plow snow the way the Denver airport does it , they would need 200,000 drivers and 108,000 plows . Here 's <URL> that shows off some of Denver 's bigger snow removal tools . Chances are , if you can get to the airport you 'll be able to fly ( but perhaps not on time )
end question
start question
Why do jet engines sometimes spit out flames after ingesting birds ?
As <URL> , what happened in that video is a <URL> . This is not really an engine fire , but a temporary backfire . To understand what is happening , look at this diagram of a turbine engine : The air is compressed in the front of the engine , fuel is injected and ignited , and then everything flows out the turbine section and the exhaust nozzle . The only thing supporting the compression at the front of the engine is the rotation of the compressor blades . There are many different things that could cause the compression to fail . In the event of a bird strike , these blades can be damaged . When that happens , there is highly compressed air in the combustion section , and there is no longer enough compression to prevent it from exiting the front of the engine . This causes the air to exit both the front and rear of the engine . The disruption in air flow happens too quickly for the engine control systems to react . This means the engine is still pumping enough fuel to run the engine at normal thrust , but there is no longer enough air flow to burn all that fuel in the combustion section . The result is that the fuel burns through the turbine and exhaust section of the engine , and behind the engine . Once this compressed air has exited the engine , it will generally recover . The engine is not on fire , so once the excess fuel burns away , the flames are no longer visible . However , if the problem is still present ( and damage from a bird strike would not go away ) , then the engine surges over and over until it is shut down or set to a lower , more stable power setting . So this is not so much a safety feature as physics taking over , and there is no real fire of immediate danger to the airplane . The engine system will automatically shut down the engine if it senses there is anything potentially very dangerous or that completely prevents the engine from running . While compressor surges can eventually damage the engine , it 's not really a catastrophic event , and it is up to the pilots to assess the situation and shut the engine down if necessary . Reducing power to idle may sometimes be sufficient to stop the surges . During a compressor surge , the flames are confined within the engine . There should be nothing to burn here besides fuel , so cutting off fuel will stop the fire . Actual engine fires are generally caused by flammable fluids leaking into hot areas around the engine , or the hot engine gases escaping from the air flow sections into surrounding systems . There are detection systems to alert the pilots of this situation , and the engine area is designed to contain a fire until the pilots can use the fire extinguishing systems to put such a fire out or at least get the plane back on the ground .
Short answer Based on past observations and a study led by Patrick Minnis from NASA , contrails could result in increasing the temperature over the ground by 1 ° C every 30 years over the US . From a study by German researchers Ulrike Burkhardt and Bernd Kärcher , the effect of contrails is comparable in other areas with a similar level of air traffic . Because the air traffic is said to be <URL> , the effects of contrails on the temperature may increase too . Contrails and natural cirrus : So similar that studies are difficult Contrails are like cirrus , and actually some just become persistent cirrus . Sometime it 's difficult to tell which one is a condensation trail , which one is a natural cloud . This makes more difficult the study of contrails effects , and introduces many uncertainties that need to be reduced : ( <URL> ) The current studies take into account only the young contrail-cirrus , because they are still relatively easy to differentiate from natural cirrus , due to their linear shape . Most aged contrail-cirrus are not differentiable and are not counted as aircraft generated . This means the current results potentially under-estimate the effects of contrails . Pertaining to the discussion , contrail-cirrus as clouds : Induce a <URL> , i.e. the coupling between cloudiness and surface air temperature . Induce a <URL> , they increase the portion of the energy not re-emitted to space . The quantity is expressed in mW/m ² . Increasing the air temperature has a link with increasing ground or oceans temperature , but the two notions must n't be mixed . However cirrus are suspected to play a role in the global warming , because they could introduce a <URL> into this warming . Study : Coverage and effects of contrail-cirrus <URL> published in Nature in 2011 was a study to evaluate the contrail-cirrus coverage , and its impact . Conclusion : Aviation makes a significant contribution to anthropogenic climate forcing . The impacts arise from [ ... ] and from changes in cloudiness in the upper troposphere . An important but poorly understood component of this forcing is caused by ' contrail cirrus ' -- a type of cloud that consist of young line-shaped contrails and the older irregularly shaped contrails that arise from them . The estimated effect is depicted on this map ( mW/m ² ) from the study : Net effect of contrails ( CIC ) warming compared to other aviation factors of warming : ( <URL> ) Study : Effect of contrail-cirrus on US climate NASA conducted a study in 2004 : Patrick Minnis , J. Kirk Ayers , Rabindra Palikonda , and Dung Phan -- <URL> . This study was analyzed in Science Daily : <URL> : Using published results from NASA 's Goddard Institute for Space Studies ( New York ) general circulation model , Minnis and his colleagues estimated contrails and their resulting cirrus clouds would increase surface and lower atmospheric temperatures by 0.36 to 0.54 degrees Fahrenheit per decade . Aviation radiative forcing in 2000 : An update on IPCC ( 1999 ) This study was included in a new one by R. Sausen et al. in 2005 . It shown the radiative forcing by aircraft could have been slightly underestimated : <URL> <URL> : Aviation radiative forcing in 2000 : An update on IPCC ( 1999 ) - R. Sausen The US surface temperature is increasing by 1 ° C every 30 years : I would say this is very significant for plants , life , water cycle , oceanic currents , etc. . Also look at @Simon good answer about the increase of the difference between night and day temperatures , by more than 1 ° C , during the 3 days civil air traffic was forbidden on September 2001 . This increase seems to confirm contrail-cirrus limit cooling on night time .
FR24 relies for most of the tracks on ADS-B data . Part of the ADS-B transmissions is the position . There are three causes of the behaviour that you observe : 1 ) . Aircraft landing next to the runway The position source onboard the aircraft is not always GPS . Mainly older aircraft ( e.g. Fokker 100 ) have their Inertial Navigation System ( INS ) coupled to the ADS-B transmitter . The INS relies not on external radio measurements but only on measured acceleration and rotation to track its position . It is usually correct at take-off , but it develops biases over time and therefore the landing appears quite often next to the runway . I can assure you that this is mostly misleading . 2 ) . Short time track offset In most aircraft the ADS-B position is from GPS . When the GPS loses its position fix , the system falls back to INS . As described above , the INS position is slowing drifting from the truth during the flight , so the ADS-B track will shortly jump aside to the INS position until the GPS comes back . When short ( e.g. 1 position update ) the offsets appear as spikes . 3 ) . Long distance jumps ( 180 NM , 360 NM ) Due to the limited number of bits available in the ADS-B messages , position is encoded in a complex format called Compact Position Reporting . It requires at least two position messages to decode the first position of a track , from that point onward , every message will constitute a position update . When no proper verification algorithms are used in the software , it may occur that a receiver station initializes the track wrongly , usually causing a jump of 180 or 360 NM . Also note : When INS is used a the position source , the ADS-B data contains an indication that the data is not to be trusted , but that is silently ignored by FR24 .
As usual , it is a combination of measures : Flow speed at the start of the combustion chamber is the lowest in the whole engine , in the order of 30 m/s . High fuel pressure and many small fuel injector nozzles , such that the mean fuel droplet size is kept as small as possible Flame holders cause a pocket of stagnated , burning flow which helps to ignite the fuel-air mixture The combustion chamber is long enough to allow most of the combustion to happen inside , such that radiated heat from the burning gas ignites the fuel-air mixture upstream . In marginal conditions the ignitors are switched on to help speed up the ignition . Control of parameters , such that fuel starvation by rapid throttle changes can be avoided . Examples are fuel control units , where a centrifugal feedback valve would control fuel flow depending on the engine 's rotational speed , or electronic control ( <URL> ) . Much can be done by running the engine such that the risk of flameout is minimized . The operational measures to ensure a stable flame would be : Avoid fuel starvation ( empty tank , fuel pump failure , clogged pipes ) . This one is obvious , but I need to include it for the nitpickers . Avoid too low pressure for rapid combustion : <URL> speeds up the chemical reaction , and if the aircraft flies high and/or throttles down , the lowered pressure in the combustion chamber might cause a flame-out . High-altitude jet engines <URL> as a precaution . A compressor surge or disturbed inlet air flow can cause a sudden pressure loss in the combustion chamber and a consequent flame-out , the latter especially in supersonic fighters with their long intakes and high angle-of-attack capabilities . Avoid sudden cooling of the air inside the engine , e.g. by heavy rain . The additional water extracts energy when it evaporates and causes a temperature drop in the combustion chamber which can lead to a <URL> . Another possibility is too much fuel which has been ingested by the intake in a botched aerial refueling attempt . Avoid clogging of the inside of the engine by ingested dust , like gun smoke or <URL> .
If the aircraft can be economically repaired ( there is no major structural damage , and we 're not talking about an aircraft already scheduled to be retired ) then it 's likely the aircraft will be repaired and returned to service . When you spend several million on an aircraft you are n't going to throw it away for a few tens or hundred thousand dollars worth of damage , particularly as it 's probably insured . If the aircraft is structurally compromised to the point where repairs would not be economical ( or if we 're talking about an older aircraft which has given many years of service and is due for retirement ) it would probably be written off and scrapped for any salvageable parts ( either repairing it to a condition where it could be ferried to a " <URL> " or dismantled and cut up at the accident site - whichever option is less expensive for the airline ) . As one particularly famous datapoint , the <URL> had an off-airport landing with a nose gear collapse in 1983 . The aircraft was repaired , returned to service , and flew until 2008 ( a little under 25 years of additional service after its incident ) .
consider if you Google a flight number you can see the flight status , imagine if the number was from a past crash , you might for a moment think the one you 're looking up had crashed <URL>
The landing on carrier is indeed hard . The reason is not the deceleration ( which is handled by the hook ) , but the touch-down . Since the deck is short , the wires ca n't be spaced very far apart , so the aircraft must touch down very precisely . Since the precision is better at steeper angle , the aircraft landing on carrier do not flare . At all . So they hit the deck at more than twice the vertical speed compared to typical landing on decent runway .
As of now , there are no commercially available engine particle ingestion sensors , though a few are under development . One of the companies involved in development lays out the <URL> : As of today , no commercial off-the-shelf particulate sensor is in use because of the special design and difficult requirements for operation and performance in this harsh environment , according to Dr. Hai Lin of Hal Technology in Fontana , California . There are multiple sensors under development like the <URL> which is used to determine the particle ingestion by the <URL> , where dust and sand is a bigger problem , if anything . All of these sensors work on a similar principle - they measure the scattering of light by the particles using a optical sensor . The sensor detects light scattering from moving particles as optical pulsed signals whose amplitudes are proportional to size and whose number is proportional to concentration . This sensor technology can determine particle size , distribution , concentration and further be extended for composition . In future most of these systems are expected to available commercially , as While continuing to advance this technology for particulate composition determination , Hal Technology is pursuing a licensing agreement or partnership with sensor or engine manufacturers to have the sensor integrated into engine heath management systems of the future .
Induction ice can be a problem for jet engines . Other answers have explained how the ice forms . The air expands and cools in the inlet before entering the engine . The first stages of the compressor do not compress the air enough yet to warm it enough to prevent ice from forming . Low power settings can also make it easier for ice to form . Certain atmospheric conditions make ice more likely to form . The FAA released <URL> , which " provides guidance and acceptable methods , but not the only methods , for demonstrating compliance with the applicable engine induction system icing and engine ice ingestion requirements . " This describes different types of icing , and the effects it can have on engines . It also describes how engines should be tested to conform to the regulations for these conditions . Ice can form in various places : The fan or compressor blades themselves Vanes Sensors Bleed ducts This ice can cause various problems : The ice can come off and damage engine components downstream The ice will reduce the effectiveness of blades , making it harder for the engine to compress the air The ice can impede the flow of air in the engine The ice can block sensors , preventing the control system from correctly monitoring the engine , which can lead to power loss or instability One form of icing that has been an issue lately is ice crystal icing . This is caused by small ice crystals in the upper atmosphere , particularly above convective clouds . <URL> . This type of icing does not appear on radar due to its low reflectivity , and neither the airplane ice detector nor visual indications reliably indicate the presence of icing conditions . Therefore , it is often undetected by the flight crew . Flight in these conditions can cause ice crystals to accumulate in the core gas flow path of the engine . There were previous events on GE CF6-80 engines ( used on 747 , 767 , A310 , A330 , and others ) that the FAA looked into . In the events leading to those prior ADs , the ice has shed during throttle transients and in the descent phase of flight , causing temporary thrust loss . However , there have been <URL> which have been more serious . The new events that prompted this AD , however , have occurred during the cruise phase of flight and caused permanent damage ( beyond maintenance manual limits ) to the engine compressor . In all thrust loss events , data indicate that ice crystals entered and collected in the initial stages of the compressor . Engine temperature data indicate small ice accretions were shed through the core of the engine . The engine manufacturers are working to resolve the issues on the aircraft currently affected , and in the meantime <URL> to avoid weather conditions where ice crystals tend to form . More definitively , the AD includes immediate mitigating procedures for the affected aircraft which prohibit flight within 50nm of amber and red radar returns that are displayed below the aircraft 's flight path during operations at or above 30,000 ft , when approaching , or in , IMC or visible moisture . Note : Boeing has also published an updated Flight Crew Operations Manual Bulletin with specific operating procedures for flight crews .
For a quick explanation you need to know that Thrust is the difference between the entry impulse of the air entering the engine and the exit impulse of the heated fuel-air mixture leaving the engine . Impulse is mass times velocity , and expressed with a mass flow $ \ dot m $ , thrust T is $ $ T = \ dot m \ cdot ( v _ { exit } - v _ { entry } ) $ $ The exit impulse is increased by accelerating the airflow through the engine , and the acceleration is achieved by heating the air . Each gram of fuel heats up a given mass of air by a certain number of centigrades . The definition of the energy content of fuels is given as the capacity to <URL> . The definition of one <URL> is similar , but in metric units . Since the heat capacity of both water and air are almost constant at moderate temperatures , the starting temperature makes little difference to the absolute temperature increase when a given amount of energy is added . Thermal efficiency Thermal efficiency is the ratio between the mechanical work extracted as thrust and the heat energy spent on heating the air , and it is affected indirectly by the flight altitude . Please see the Wikipedia article on the <URL> . This and similar cycles describe the workings of all combustion engines in thermodynamic terms . Basically , it says that the efficiency of a combustion engine can not be greater than the temperature ratio between the temperature increase from ambient ( $ t _ { amb } $ ) to the maximum temperature $ t _ { max } $ of the process , divided by the maximum temperature . All temperatures must be expressed as total temperatures , where 0 ° means 0 K or -273.15 ° C. Operating in colder air makes the ratio bigger and improves efficiency . $ $ \ eta_t = \ frac { t _ { max } - t _ { amb } } { t _ { max } } $ $ If $ t _ { amb } $ is 290 K ( 16.85 ° C or 62 ° F ) and the fuel heats up the air to 1400 K ( 2060 ° F ) , the thermal efficiency according to the formula above is 79.3 % . At cruise altitude $ t _ { amb } $ is only 220 K ( -53.15 ° C or -63.7 ° F ) , and the same fuel flow relative to air flow will lift the maximum temperature only to 1320 K ( in reality even less ; for a more precise reasoning see below ) . Now the thermal efficiency is 83.33 % ! If the maximum temperature is maintained , both thrust and thermal efficiency will go up ; the latter to 84.3 % . In reality the total efficiency will be lower because we have not included <URL> , friction effects or power offtake by bleed air , pumps and generators . Propulsive efficiency describes <URL> is performed.Heating the fuel-air mixtureBurning a fuel-air mixture will add thermal energy to it , about <URL> ( if we assume complete combustion ) . The isobaric <URL> or <URL> ( close enough , the mixture has very little fuel but lots of air in it ) is 29 J per mol and per K , so those 43 MJ will heat 1000 mol of air by 1483 K . The heat capacity changes slightly with humidity and temperature , but litte enough that we can consider it constant for this purpose . If the air starts at 220 K , precompression in the intake will heat it to approx . 232 K , further compression in the engine will heat it up to approx . 600 K if we assume a compression ratio of 25 , and this is the temperature at the entry of the combustion chamber.Those <URL> , and adding a full kilo of fuel and burning the mixture will heat it to 2083 K . If you want more details about the parameters in a typical jet engine , please see the diagram in <URL> . Since the mixture picks up speed as it burns , the fuel mass is also heated and combustion is never complete , the maximum temperature given here will not be reached in reality.If we start on the ground with an air temperature of 290 K , the temperature in the intake would drop slightly because we will not be flying fast enough for any precompression to happen in the intake . Now the compressor will heat the air to 730 K , and again adding and burning that kilo of kerosene will heat 1000 mol of air to 2213 K. Ideally.In reality , the engine control will see that the limit temperatures are not exceeded , but here we can play with the numbers as we like . The exact values will certainly be slightly different ( more frictional heating in the compressor , heat loss to the outside , slight drift in specific heat with temperature ) , but the gist of the explanation is correct.Explanation in layman 's termsBurning the fuel-air mixture heats it and makes the gas expand . This happens at nearly constant pressure and in a restricted volume , so the only way to make room for this expansion is for the gas to flow faster . Nearly constant pressure means that the density of the gas must decrease . The density ratio between the heated and the unburnt gas is proportional to its temperature ratio , measured in absolute temperature.However , the amount of fuel burnt determines the absolute temperature increase , the difference in degrees between the burnt gas inside the combustion chamber and the unburnt gas at the intake . For a given amount of fuel , the temperature ratio which c
Well , first let 's clear up a few terms . When you say " rotary " engine I 'm assuming you 're referring to <URL> , a type of piston engine that used to be pretty common on aircraft . ( These days <URL> are what you typically find on piston-powered aircraft , <URL> are yet another design , but their usage died out around the end of World War I. ) The TU-95 is not actually a piston-powered aircraft - it 's a <URL> -- basically a turbine engine similar to what you 'd find in a jet , only rigged up to turn a propeller rather than produce " jet thrust " directly . From an efficiency standpoint , turbine engines are usually more fuel efficient than their piston counterparts , and jet fuel is produced in greater volume than aviation gasoline and is consequently cheaper for operators to procure . Turbine engines also offer more reliability than piston engines , and the maintenance on a turboprop engine is also largely similar to a jet engine with a few extra components , which is an advantage for a company operating a fleet of jet and propeller driven aircraft . The differences in operating efficiency and reliability are the major reason why gasoline-powered piston engines have basically disappeared from scheduled airline service . So why do n't we see more turboprops ? Actually we see a lot of them , if you look in the right places . Jets and Turboprops are good at different things -- broadly simplifying , a turboprop is more efficient at lower altitudes and airspeeds while a jet engine is more efficient at higher altitudes and airspeeds . As a result we see turboprop aircraft like <URL> in use for short-haul " commuter " service , but for trans-continental or trans-oceanic flights where they spend a long time cruising at high altitude jets dominate the sky . Since most people are flying to go relatively long distances there are comparatively more jets in scheduled airline service than turboprops . Noise is probably also a factor - fast turboprops like the Bear are LOUD not due to the engine , but due to the propeller . The tips of the spinning propeller on a TU-95 can approach supersonic speeds , which causes quite a bit of noise . The TU-95 's <URL> ( which help produce thrust more efficiently ) also contribute to a louder noise footprint . In the case of the TU-95 this does n't matter - it 's a military plane , and the Russian air force does n't care if people complain as the aircraft has a mission to complete and that 's more important than a few noise complaints . If United Airlines were to operate a TU-95 out of Kennedy departing over people 's houses I suspect they would quickly reconsider their choice of equipment when the noise complaints started coming in ...
<URL> has a great post today about <URL> . There are a few basic reasons . Reliability Having two sparks plugs is more reliable . If one spark plug becomes inoperative for some reason , there 's a second to provide the spark for the power stroke . It should also be noted that the spark plugs are usually powered by dual , independent magnetos or , in some cases , an electronic capacitor discharge ignition . The redundancy of the ignition system adds to the reliability . More Power Having two spark plugs means the flame ignites from two points leading to more power per power stroke . This point is demonstrated during run-up . When the magneto check is done the engine RPMs drop when running on a single mag and set of spark plugs . Even Combustion Two sparks plugs and a two flame front leads to a more even burn of the fuel air mixture for a smoother running engine . Prevent Fouling Aircraft engines burn leaded fuel which can lead to getting lead deposits on the spark plugs . Having dual plugs leads to a more complete burn which can prevent the deposits from forming .
Which means , roughly 5 times more passengers can be accommodated by compromising half of the top speed . So , why does speed loses out so much to capacity that it ultimately becomes unfeasible to operate a supersonic airliner ? I think you are asking , " why do supersonic aircraft have such low capacity " ? To travel faster than the speed of sound you need to have a very sharp nose and minimal area exposed to the forward direction , to minimize the generation of shockwaves . Shockwaves are bad for people on the ground ( the ' sonic boom ' effect ) and they are terrible for fuel efficiency . Second you really do not want to trap air on flat surfaces facing forwards , because the air will get squashed in the supersonic flow and heat up a lot ( like when you blow up a bicycle tyre or a football it is warm afterwards , or when the space shuttle re-enters the atmosphere ) . Again this is an enormous drag and having hot air flowing around your aircraft causes problems with the structure ( Concorde used to grow by 300 mm during flight because of the heat ) . Since you can not be wide and you can not be tall ( without being aerodynamically inefficient ) , you need to be very long if you want lots of people . And then you have other problems . The design and construction of Concorde was never a commercial project , it was funded by two governments almost as a vanity project , as a prototype or as an experiment . Then it was given for free to two airlines to use as they wanted . So unlike the A380 and the B747 , no one has ever said " now we try to maximize the economics and the capacity of our design " : that never happened . All they ever asked was " How do we make this work !? " Whereas the subsonic aircraft get a lot of time , money and thought spent on how to make them more economical to use by filling them with more passengers . For more information I recommend this interview with a former Concorde pilot : <URL> Also , Concorde was developed 40 years ago . Are some more efficient supersonic Airliners possible today ? I am sure that these days a far more fuel efficient supersonic engine could be built for passenger operations . And I do believe there would be a market for it on say LON-NYC or even maybe LON-DXB . But designing supersonic aircraft is quite different to designing subsonic ones ; and then you have all the difficulty of modern safety regulations without being able to demonstrate you are relying on old , proven designs ; and then there are very few routes where it could work profitably so you have very high development and maintenance costs spread over a small number of airframes . Basically , it is n't worth the risk to anyone to make it .
It happens when the airplane levels off after takeoff , usually either at the first assigned altitude or at a safe altitude where it will be accelerated in order to retract the flaps . The feeling is a result of negative vertical acceleration . It can also happen at other times during the flight , such as during turbulence or when starting a descent . Basically you and the airplane are both in a steady climb and when the aircraft levels off you continue to move up faster so it ( via the seatbelt ) keeps you at its same level and decelerates your own personal vertical climb . It is just like the feeling you get in a roller coaster . My wife calls it a wee-hill ! :-) EDIT : Another more familiar example happens anytime that you are traveling in a car : If you are in a car moving at a constant speed ( let 's say 55 MPH ) you are moving at the same speed along with it . When the brakes of the car are engaged , they slow the car down but your inertia tends to keep you moving in the direction that the car was going . This will be more noticeable as the brakes are applied harder and harder because the deceleration of the car is more extreme . You will notice this as pressure against the seat belt as the car holds you in place . You are still moving forward , but you are getting slower ( decelerating ) . In an airplane the exact same thing is happening only it is in a vertical direction instead of a horizontal direction like in the car . What you are feeling is your stomach floating up a little inside your body , because while the seat belt is holding you down , it does n't hold your stomach in place !
The noise within the engine will make all flow turbulent . There is not much liberty for the engine designer to choose the type of boundary layer . Generally , a laminar boundary layer is preferable as long as the flow is accelerated , because viscous drag will be lower , and a turbulent one is better when it is decelerated , so <URL> . Outside of boundary layer phenomena , turbulence is helpful for keeping the <URL> going in the combustor and especially in the afterburner . Ahead of the combustor all engines have a diffusor to <URL> , so it has time to mix with the fuel and burn as much of it as possible . Note that the diffusor only slows down the axial movement of the air , so radial velocities will not be affected and be relatively larger relative to the axial flow at the entry of the combustion chamber . This makes the flow more turbulent , which is helpful for better fuel-air mixing . In the afterburner , flame holders are needed to produce pockets of slow-moving , hot gas which can ignite the fuel-air mixture . Again , they cause more turbulence . <URL> Flame holder ( 10 ) with annular selectors ( 9 ) of an afterburner ( picture <URL> ) At the nozzle , turbulent mixing of the hot core flow and the bypass flow reduces noise . Engine nozzles use a <URL> to speed up the mixing process .
Short answer Fan : Aluminum , titanium , or stainless steel Compressor : Nickel - , cobalt - , or iron-based alloys . Additive are aluminum and/or titanium , chromium , as well as rare earth elements like yttrium . Combustion chamber : Superalloys with refractory metals such as tungsten , molybdenum , niobium , tantalum . Ceramics and ceramic-metal mixes . Turbine : Nickel-based superalloy , outside air is circulated through channels inside of the turbine blades . For lower pressure turbine blades iron-based superalloy or even stainless steel . The metals used for turbine blades are often grown as a single crystal . Exhaust nozzle : Nickel Inconel and stainless steel alloys . Casing : Aluminum or polymer matrix materials . The high-pressure turbine is , with the combustion chamber , very hot ( more than the exhaust nozzle ) . You may read this <URL> which has a short list of materials used for turbine blades ( with <URL> and cooling techniques ) . Engine structure ( turbofan ) <URL> ( source : <URL> ) ( To understand temperatures and pressures , remember the fan pushes about one ton of air per second in high power turbofans . ) All quotes are from <URL> , 2007 , except stated otherwise . In 1903 , the Wright brothers built an aluminum block engine because of its light weight compared to cast iron . Its melting point of 660 ° C was well above the engine 's operating temperature , so for them it was a good choice . However , aluminum could not be used in the hotter parts of a turbine engine where temperatures reach of 1800 ° C or more because it would melt . Fan This typically does not get very hot ( < 150 ° C ) so aluminum , titanium , or stainless steel are all suitable for the fan blades . Most engines use titanium because it has a high strength-to-weight ratio , is corrosion and fatigue resistant , and would be able to withstand the impact of a bird strike . Compressor section The pressure of the air can be raised up to 30 times and the temperature , depending on the number of stages in the compressor , can rise to 1000 ° C . Here the materials must have high strength at high temperatures ; must resist fatigue , cracking , and oxidation ; and also must resist " creep . " Creep is the tendency of a material to slowly change shape when stressed at high temperature . Since no single metal would have all the desired properties , an alloy ( a mixture of metals ) is used . Very high - temperature alloys are called superalloys and are generally nickel - , cobalt - , or iron-based alloys . Aluminum and/or titanium are added for strength , and chromium , as well as rare earth elements like yttrium , are added to improve corrosion resistance . Combustion chamber Temperatures can exceed 1800 ° C and again superalloys are used , but without the titanium or aluminum for strength because there are no moving parts . Instead , refractory metals are often added to a superalloy . These are metals of unusually high resistance to heat , corrosion , and wear such as tungsten , molybdenum , niobium , tantalum , and rhenium . They are used in alloys and not as pure metals because they are among the densest of all the elements , a negative property when it comes to aircraft that need to keep weight to a minimum . Ceramics and ceramic-metal mixes are also used here because of their high heat resistance . We are familiar with pottery , tile , crucibles , and fire bricks as types of ceramics . They have very high melting points and do n't require the cooling systems like those needed to keep metals from melting so they make for lighter , less complicated engine parts . The down side is that they tend to fracture under stress , so engineers seek to create new ceramics composites that incorporate other materials to improve properties . Turbine <URL> High-pressure turbine blade ( source : <URL> ) The first set of turbine blades are in the highest pressure , hottest part of the gas flow and are generally made of nickel-based superalloy or ceramic blades . Unheated outside air is circulated through channels inside of the turbine blades to keep them from melting in this extreme environment . Further down the engine lower pressure turbine blades often sit . Since the gases have somewhat cooled by this point , the blades can be made of iron-based superalloy or even stainless steel . It is interesting to note that for strength , the metals used for turbine blades are often grown as a single crystal . A close look at most metals and alloys show that they are composed of crystals ( also called " grains " ) , and the places where the crystals meet are called grain boundaries . A material is weaker at the grain boundaries than within the grains -- especially at high temperatures -- so turbine blades fashioned from metal formed as a single grain ( no boundaries ) are stronger . See <URL> ( known as monocrystalline material in electronics ) . Exhaust <URL> Exhaust from Boeing 787 engine ( GEnx , one of the world 's largest jet engine - <URL> ) From <
You can persuade a turbine engine to run on just about anything that can burn . So the decision of which fuel to actually use depends on the side factors including , but not limited to : availability cost emissions hot section temperature chemical reactions with engine parts Specific examples : Coal dust is rather difficult to pump around , and the rampies do n't like shovelling liquid hydrogen ( used in the Space Shuttle ) requires a lot of storage and has the nasty habit of freezing anything it touches , like rampies . ethylacetylenedecaborane is unpleasantly toxic ( rampies union again ) and the combustion byproducts were rather abrasive to the engine 's innards trimethylaluminum would reduce the engine complexity ( no igniters needed ) because it has the nasty habit of igniting instantly upon contact with air , so leaks are rather dangerous . natural gas is commonly used as a turbine fuel in pumping stations : it 's already there and thus is " free " . The required pressure vessels make it impractical to use as an aircraft fuel . So kerosene basically became the standard turbine fuel because it 's : cheap : kerosene makes up a rather large fraction of crude oil . When you measure your fuel load in tons a few cents per litre makes a difference . safe to handle : relatively non-toxic , does n't ignite all that easily storable and transportable in common structural metals does n't clog up the engine
To avoid shock waves on the compressor blades which would make the engine unusable both because of the very large pressure fluctuations that would cause fatigue and failure of blades , and because of the high level of drag that is developed in supersonic flows that would have the effect of slowing the blades down as they rotated . In fact the engine just would n't run with a supersonic flow going into it . Also the flow needs to be slowed down as much as possible to allow enough time in the combustion chamber for the fuel to burn completely . So ... a cone or ramp shape at the inlet is used to create a little shockwave in front of the engine slowing down the oncoming air to subsonic speeds and allowing the jet engine to operate efficiently . A ramjet is able to use the compressed air because it is designed to do so . An excellent case study is the SR-71 Blackbird , which had engine cones that moved forward and backward based on speed/altitude , to transition from a turbine to a ramjet mission profile . ( Fun fact : That plane is so darned fast that the limit to it 's speed comes not from engine power , but from MELTING THE PLANE because it is going so fast . ) The SR-71 had " Bypass doors " to close of the main turbine of the engine when operating on a ramjet profile . A ramjet , sometimes referred to as a flying stovepipe or an athodyd , is a form of airbreathing jet engine that uses the engine 's forward motion to compress incoming air without a rotary compressor . Ramjets can not produce thrust at zero airspeed ; they can not move an aircraft from a standstill . A ramjet powered vehicle , therefore , requires an assisted take off like a JATO to accelerate it to a speed where it begins to produce thrust . Ramjets work most efficiently at supersonic speeds around Mach 3 . This type of engine can operate up to speeds of Mach 6 . A scramjet is a variant of a ramjet airbreathing jet engine in which combustion takes place in supersonic airflow . As in ramjets , a scramjet relies on high vehicle speed to forcefully compress the incoming air before combustion , but a ramjet decelerates the air to subsonic velocities before combustion , while airflow in a scramjet is supersonic throughout the entire engine . This allows the scramjet to operate efficiently at extremely high speeds : theoretical projections place the top speed of a scramjet between Mach 12 and Mach 24 .
Rotating the propeller of the Cessna 441 Conquest II is to cool the <URL> engine in the aircraft . From <URL> On the Garrett TPE331 's we were trained to spin the props after shutdown to get cooling air flowing through the engine , this was done right after shutdown . Half an hour after we did the prop spins we had go back out to the aircraft and rotate the propellers one blade width . Moving the prop one blade width rotated the engine one half turn , this was to prevent the shaft from sagging as the engine cooled causing turbine blades to rub . The reason is given as : Direct drive turbo prop engines sometimes require this to remove residual heat from the engine because once the prop stops turning , so does the engine . When the pilot turns the prop , depending on the gear ratio , he is actually spinning the engine very fast . This helps move some of the heat out of the engine .
Maybe you mean the p-factor . If both engines are rotating clockwise , the plane yaws to the right . If one rotates clockwise , the other counter-clockwise , the effect cancelles out and the plane flys straight .
end question
start question
What is the difference between Assumed Temperature and Derate takeoff thrust ?
The difference is in the minimum control speeds ( $ V _ { mcg } $ and $ V _ { mca } $ ) . In Assumed Temperature takeoff thrust , the pilots are allowed to advance the thrust levers to full rated takeoff thrust . However , in Derated takeoff thrust , the levers should not be increased beyond the fixed decate limit , otherwise a engine failure may result in loss of directional control . From Boeing 737 FCTM ( my emphasis ) : The fixed derate is considered a limitation for takeoff . Takeoff speeds consider ground and in-air minimum control speeds ( VMCG and VMCA ) at the fixed derate level of thrust . Thrust levers should not be advanced beyond the fixed derate limit unless conditions are encountered during the takeoff where additional thrust is needed on both engines , such as windshear . A thrust increase , following an engine failure could result in loss of directional control . The minimum control speeds are calculated based on the full rated takeoff thrust . The rated thrust is lowered in Derated takeoff but not in Assumed Temperature takeoff . Therefore , by calculating the minimum speeds based on a lower engine rating , the pilots can be ensured that sufficient directional control can be maintained on a slippery runway , whereas there is no such guarantee for Assumed Temperature takeoff . On a dry and long runway , there is no operational difference between Assumed Temperature and Derated takeoff . From the Boeing 777 FCTM ( my emphasis ) : Reduced takeoff thrust ( ATM ) may be used for takeoff on a wet runway if approved takeoff performance data for a wet runway is used . However , reduced takeoff thrust ( ATM ) is not permitted for takeoff on a runway contaminated with standing water , slush , snow , or ice . And : Derated takeoff thrust ( fixed derate ) may be used for takeoff on a wet runway and on a runway contaminated with standing water , slush , snow , or ice . The Boeing 737 FCTM has a nearly identical description . The A330/A340 FCTM explains that the slower $ V _ { mcg } $ / $ V_1 $ can also allow increased MTOW on short runways : When taking off from short or contaminated runways where ASDA [ Accelerate-Stop Distance Available ] is the limiting factor , a reduction in the minimum control speeds may generate a take-off performance benefit and a higher MTOW .
The reported altimeter setting , QNH , is ' somewhat ' corrected for temperature , in that it corrects for temperature error at the aerodrome elevation . This is the main difference between the more-meteorologicaly-inclined QFF which does not contain this temperature correction . You will still get altimeter errors because of the high/low temperature while being above ( or below ) the aerodrome ( about 40 ft for each 1000ft for each 10 degrees C ) , but the actual temperature error at aerodrome level will be 0 .
Flight testing is the process ( usually involving a number of test flights ) by which the capabilities and performance of and aircraft ( usually a new one or one which is substantially modified ) are established . Test flight refers to an individual flight which is used for testing purpose . it can be used either as part of flight testing or as a standalone for testing some minor modification .
The climb gradient is the percentage of the rise over run ( 50 % if you are climbing at 45 degrees ) that your aircraft is climbing at while the rate of climb is the speed at which you are climbing based off the airspeed and climb gradient ( given in feet per minute ) .
From <URL> : Air carrier means a person who undertakes directly by lease , or other arrangement , to engage in air transportation . Commercial operator means a person who , for compensation or hire , engages in the carriage by aircraft in air commerce of persons or property , other than as an air carrier or foreign air carrier or under the authority of Part 375 of this title . Where it is doubtful that an operation is for " compensation or hire " , the test applied is whether the carriage by air is merely incidental to the person 's other business or is , in itself , a major enterprise for profit . To make this more clear <URL> says : 2-128 TYPES OF CERTIFICATES UNDER PART 119 . There are two , basic types of air operator certificates ( AOC ) issued to U.S. applicants who will conduct operations in common carriage . See Table 2-4 , Certification for a summary of certificate requirements . A . An Air Carrier Certificate . This certificate is issued to applicants that plan to conduct interstate , foreign , or overseas transportation , or to carry mail . B . An Operating Certificate . This certificate is issued to applicants that plan to conduct intrastate transportation . From your perspective it is n't a too important distinction . As a commercial pilot all that matters to you is that both air carriers and commercial operators need to have operating certificates . As a commercial pilot you can be hired by someone who has an operating certificate but you can not provide the same services on your own unless you yourself have an operating certificate ( e.g. a charter operator can hire you , but you can not operate a charter service ) . As a commercial pilot you can be paid to act as PIC and can engage in the commercial operations that are excepted from operating certificates in <URL> . You can not act as either an air carrier or a commercial operator without complying with 14 CFR 119 , which requires that you have an operating certificate .
What 's the difference between racetrack and holding pattern ? Are they only synonymous ? You are using pattern and not procedure , so yes they are quite synonymous . The actual difference is between holding procedure and racetrack procedure . Holding and racetrack patterns They are related , but not exact synonymous . Some terminology : Holding ( or flying a hold ) is a maneuver designed to delay an aircraft already in flight . A holding pattern is the pattern used to hold , regardless of the design of the pattern . A racetrack pattern is a specific design of holding pattern . From <URL> : A holding pattern for instrument flight rules ( IFR ) aircraft is usually a racetrack pattern based on a holding fix . Holding patterns are usually timed because aircraft have to remain within a given and limited protected space when flying the holding procedure . That was for the patterns , let 's look at the procedures where the differences are . Holding procedure ICAO definition from <URL> ( PANS-OPS ) : A predetermined maneuver which keeps an aircraft within a specified airspace while awaiting further clearance . It can be used to delay the aircraft , but also to change its altitude using a holding pattern and stack . <URL> <URL> . In holding , the holding pattern is usually a racetrack pattern , and racetrack and holding may be used interchangeably while talking about patterns . See this question specific to holding : <URL> Racetrack procedure ICAO makes a specific use of the phrase " racetrack procedure " in <URL> ( PANS-OPS ) : Racetrack procedure : A procedure designed to enable the aircraft to reduce altitude during the initial approach segment and/or establish the aircraft inbound when the entry into a reversal procedure is not practical . and A racetrack procedure consists of : a ) a turn from the inbound track through 180 ° from overhead the facility or fix on to the outbound track , for 1 , 2 or 3 minutes ; followed by b ) a 180 ° turn in the same direction to return to the inbound track . <URL> For ICAO , a racetrack procedure is a turn procedure , or course reversal procedure , in the instrument approach procedure , comparable to other procedural turns , and has nothing to do with delaying the aircraft : <URL> <URL> . On plates , racetrack turns are depicted using bold lines while holding patterns are depicted using regular lines : <URL> Adapted from <URL> .
Generally when GA pilots talk about climb performance we speak of two different airspeed values : Best Rate of Climb speed ( Vy ) gets you the most altitude per unit time ( feet per minute ) . When you want to get to cruise altitude quickly for maximum efficiency you 'll aim for the best rate of climb so you spend the least time at lower , less efficient altitudes . Best Angle of Climb speed ( Vx ) gets you the greatest altitude per unit of ground distance ( feet per mile ) . When you 've got a FAA-Standard 50-foot-tree at the departure end of the runway you 'll aim for the best angle of climb to ensure you do n't wind up in the tree . Those speeds are useful to us as pilots , but the exact rate of climb ( feet-per-minute ) for those speeds will vary : A fully loaded plane will climb more slowly than one that 's just got the pilot and a few gallons of fuel on board , and that 's where the " maximum rate of climb " enters into the discussion : Maximum rate of climb is the number of feet per minute you can get climbing at the " best rate of climb " airspeed . If someone is being sloppy in their usage " Maximum Rate of Climb " could mean " Best Rate of Climb " ( pitch for Vy and you get what you get ) , but if you 're being precise in your usage and really talking about the rate of climb it would mean <URL> in feet per minute based on the current conditions and aircraft weight . Maximum rate of climb under a given set of conditions is useful information to know if you need to clear terrain at some point on your flight path and want to be sure you can climb fast enough to do so : If you 're starting from sea level and need to clear a 5000 foot mountain that 's 5 minutes away but your plane ca n't manage more than 500 feet per minute at best-rate-of-climb speed under the current conditions you 'll need to reconsider your flight plan to either avoid the mountain or climb in a circle somewhere until you can clear it .
A shortcut is a deviation from the filed flightplan given to an aircraft by ATC during the flight , if traffic and other factors permit . A flight crew can not expect to get any shortcuts , so they can not plan for it . Routes in the RAD are flightplannable routes . If a direct route is available in the RAD , it can be used when filing the flightplan , prior to the flight . This allows airlines to plan for the shorter route , thus allowing them to bring less fuel and advertise a shorter flight time .
Based upon the terminology I have heard over the years , a compass swing is the alignment of the compass , normally using a compass rose painted on a surface . The compass is adjusted and a deviation card is created for cardinal points on the compass . A check swing , as I have heard it referred to , is the checking of the compass , and done with the aircraft running , and electrical loads on , similar to a compass swing , but without the adjustment . The deviation card is verified , but there is no intent of adjusting anything . This was typically done before we ferried aircraft over the ocean , where there would be extended dead-reckoning ( before GPS and LORAN ) , and where flights were close to the polar regions , and compass operation needed to be verified prior to the flight . Not that a compass is worth much near the poles ( grin ) . My guess is that check swing is merely a slang term , whereas compass swing is well understood and extensively documented .
According to the <URL> , this definition is in <URL> : ( d ) Commercial aircraft . A " commercial aircraft " is any aircraft transporting passengers and/or cargo for some payment or other consideration , including money or services rendered . [ ... ] ( h ) Private aircraft . A " private aircraft " is any aircraft engaged in a personal or business flight to or from the U.S. which is not : ( 1 ) Carrying passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ; ( 2 ) Leaving the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in order to lade passengers and/or cargo in a foreign area for commercial purposes ; or ( 3 ) Returning to the U.S. carrying neither passengers nor cargo in ballast after leaving with passengers and/or cargo for commercial purposes ;
From the manual for <URL> which seems to be similar to yours : PLANNED TRUE AIRSPEED This function is used to calculate true airspeed for preflight planning . It will compute the true airspeed in knots and Mach number and density altitude , given the pressure altitude , temperature , and calibrated airspeed in knots . and ACTUAL TRUE AIRSPEED This function calculates true airspeed , Mach number and density altitude given pressure altitude , indicated temperature in Celsius and calibrated airspeed . The manual does n't give any more information on the difference between the two calculations so we can only guess ... Both methods use pressure altitude and calibrated airspeed . One clue is that the " planned " version uses " temperature " , while the " actual " version uses " indicated temperature " . So my guess is : you use the " actual " version in flight , and it expects you to input <URL> ( TAT ) , read from the gauge in the airplane , which it then converts to Outside Air Temperature ( OAT ) to do the density altitude and true airspeed calculation . You use the " planned " version for flight planning , where the temperature you have available is the OAT . The TAT is the OAT plus the rise in temperature due to the air being brought to rest relative to the airplane . Since the TAT is a bit higher than the OAT , the " actual " version should give slightly lower density altitude and a slightly lower true airspeed .
The difference is in the minimum control speeds ( $ V _ { mcg } $ and $ V _ { mca } $ ) . In Assumed Temperature takeoff thrust , the pilots are allowed to advance the thrust levers to full rated takeoff thrust . However , in Derated takeoff thrust , the levers should not be increased beyond the fixed decate limit , otherwise a engine failure may result in loss of directional control . From Boeing 737 FCTM ( my emphasis ) : The fixed derate is considered a limitation for takeoff . Takeoff speeds consider ground and in-air minimum control speeds ( VMCG and VMCA ) at the fixed derate level of thrust . Thrust levers should not be advanced beyond the fixed derate limit unless conditions are encountered during the takeoff where additional thrust is needed on both engines , such as windshear . A thrust increase , following an engine failure could result in loss of directional control . The minimum control speeds are calculated based on the full rated takeoff thrust . The rated thrust is lowered in Derated takeoff but not in Assumed Temperature takeoff . Therefore , by calculating the minimum speeds based on a lower engine rating , the pilots can be ensured that sufficient directional control can be maintained on a slippery runway , whereas there is no such guarantee for Assumed Temperature takeoff . On a dry and long runway , there is no operational difference between Assumed Temperature and Derated takeoff . From the Boeing 777 FCTM ( my emphasis ) : Reduced takeoff thrust ( ATM ) may be used for takeoff on a wet runway if approved takeoff performance data for a wet runway is used . However , reduced takeoff thrust ( ATM ) is not permitted for takeoff on a runway contaminated with standing water , slush , snow , or ice . And : Derated takeoff thrust ( fixed derate ) may be used for takeoff on a wet runway and on a runway contaminated with standing water , slush , snow , or ice . The Boeing 737 FCTM has a nearly identical description . The A330/A340 FCTM explains that the slower $ V _ { mcg } $ / $ V_1 $ can also allow increased MTOW on short runways : When taking off from short or contaminated runways where ASDA [ Accelerate-Stop Distance Available ] is the limiting factor , a reduction in the minimum control speeds may generate a take-off performance benefit and a higher MTOW .
A monocoque fuselage has its skin holding the skeleton structure together while the semi-monocoque has both the skin and the skeleton holding together . Semi-monocoque also has " stringers " running horizontally down the plane to help hold the frame together . The monocoque fuselage also can not be used for airframes after a certain size ( small aircraft with single engine ) , but the semi-monocoque has been used from single piston engines to commercial airliners . A monocoque design would also have a safety risk involved if the skin was damaged because it is the load-bearing structure . <URL> Image and some text <URL>
Check out this <URL> it provides a nice overview of some of the basics and how some of the systems are set up . Does the auto-throttle send its command directly to the EEC or to the mechanical throttle ? This may vary from design to design but the <URL> that physically move the throttle levers . You can read up on the <URL> . Are the throttle levers customized/calibrated for an engine model , or are their output standardized ( assuming the output is an electric signal ) . Does the electronic engine control apply further adjustment to the throttle input ? It seems that <URL> instead of mechanically actuating anything . With that in mind Im sure there are older designs out there that are closer to or a complete direct linkage from lever to engine . Is this correction transmitted back to the throttle lever ? I dont think so , it seems that when say full throttle is applied the throttle control will remain at full and the FADEC unit will take care of spooling it up as need be . Likewise if an engine suddenly cuts out or fuel flow becomes restricted as far as I know the throttles will remain in place . Auto throttle units will however physically actuate the throttles as need be . As per the comments here it seems this is only the case in Boeing aircraft . Airbus throttles must be set to maximum setting auto-throttle is allowed to use .
The speed indicator in the cockpit shows indicated airspeed . Indicated airspeed is usually different than GPS speed , due to wind and aerodynamic effects . GPS speed is your speed with respect to the ground . If you are standing on terra firma it reads 0 . If it reads 100 knots you will be 100NM away from where you are now in one hour , so long as you keep flying in a straight line . Airspeed is the speed of the aircraft relative to the surrounding air . So if you are standing on terra firma with 20 knots wind blowing in your face , your airspeed will be 20 knots . If you travel at 100 knots airspeed against a 20 knots headwind wind , your ground speed is 80 knots . If you do 100 knots airspeed with 20 knots tailwind , your GPS speed reads 120 knots . But even in calm wind conditions the airspeed indicator will read differently than the GPS speed . This has to do with the way airspeed is measured . Airspeed is measured with a pitot tube . A pitot tube has two pressure measurement ports . One that measures the total pressure $ P_t $ . This port is facing the incoming airflow . The other measures the static pressure $ P$ and is placed perpendicular to the airflow . The difference between the two pressures is called impact pressure ( pressure rise do to the airflow impacting the pitot tube ) and is denoted $ q_c $ . The impact pressure is related to the speed of the airflow the pitot tube is exposed to . If the flow is considered incompressible ( which is an acceptable approximation for speeds up to 200 knots ) the impact pressure can be derived from Bernouilli 's equation . $ q_c = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } \ rho V ^ 2 $ $ q_c $ is the impact pressure in Pa $ \ rho $ is the density in kg/m3 $ V$ is the true airspeed in m/s The airspeed indicator is calibrated for standard sea level conditions , where $ \ rho $ is 1.225 kg/m3 . In reality the aircraft will fly at altitude and therefor the actual density of the air is lower . Therefor the indicated airspeed will be lower as well . For example if an aircraft flies 75 m/s ( about 146 knots ) at 6000 ft the density will be 1.02393 kg/m3 . $ q_c = \ frac { 1 } { 2 } 1.02393 \ cdot 75 ^ 2 = 2879.8 \ textrm { Pa } $ The equivalent airspeed at sea level for the same $ q_c $ is : $ V _ { EAS } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 q_c } { \ rho_0 } } = \ sqrt { \ frac { 2 \ cdot 2879.8 } { 1.225 } } = 68.6 \ textrm { m/s } $ Your airspeed indicator will read only 68.6 m/s ( 133 knots ) despite the fact that you are moving with 75 m/s ( 146 knots ) with respect to the air . Conversion of true airspeed to the equivalent airspeed can be done directly by : $ V _ { EAS } = V \ cdot \ sqrt { \ frac { \ rho } { \ rho_0 } } $ $ V _ { EAS } $ equivalent airspeed ( m/s ) $ V$ true airspeed ( m/s ) $ \ rho $ actual air density ( kg/m3 ) . $ \ rho_0 $ density at standard sea level conditions ( 1.225 kg/m3 ) The effects of the lower density on your aispeed indicator become more pronounced the higher you go . Once you go faster than about 100 m/s true airspeed the effects of compressibility can no longer be ignored and the above no longer applies . Airspeed indicators are corrected for effects of compressibility and therefore do n't use the equivalent airspeed but instead use calibrated airspeed for calibration . $ V _ { CAS } = a _ { 0 } \ sqrt { 5 \ left [ \ left ( \ frac { q_c } { P _ { 0 } } +1 \ right ) ^ \ frac { 2 } { 7 } -1 \ right ] } $ $ V _ { CAS } $ is calibrated airspeed $ a _ { 0 } $ is the speed of sound under standard sea level conditions ( 340.3 m/s ) $ P_0 $ is the static air pressure under standard sea level conditions ( 101325 Pa ) $ { q_c } $ is the impact pressure The impact pressure is also a bit more complex for compressible flow : $ \ ; q_c = P \ left [ \ left ( 1 +0.2 M ^ 2 \ right ) ^ \ tfrac { 7 } { 2 } -1 \ right ] $ $ P$ the static pressure $ M$ the Mach number Effectively , the higher and faster you get , the greater the difference between the indicated airspeed and the true airspeed . For example , Mach 0.8 at 40000 ft in no wind will result in a GPS speed of 489 knots , but a calibrated airspeed of only 242 knots , which is less than half . Therefore at high altitudes and speeds , the indicated airspeed will be lower than the ground speed / GPS speed , unless you have extreme headwind .
The wing fence is more or less what it is called - a fence . For swept wing aircraft , the local flow is not along the direction of flight , as there is a significant spanwise flow from the center towards the tips . It can be seen in the following figure . <URL> Image from <URL> The end result is that the boundary layer continues to grow ( thicken ) in this direction , with outboard regions more prone to stall than inboard ones . Basically , the wing fences stop the spanwise flow , with the result being a new ( thinner ) boundary layer starts on the other side of the fence . In case of a vortex generator , the VGs basically create a vortex which re-invigorates the boundary layer by mixing free stream air with that of the boundary layer , thereby preventing separation .
A positioning flight is a flight for the sole purpose of positioning the aircraft to conduct another flight from another airport . This is often done when the aircraft finishes its day in one city , but is needed in a different city the following day because another plane has broken down . A positioning flight is technically a type of ferry flight , however the latter is a more broad term . Examples of ferry flights include delivery from the manufacturer , or flying to a different city for heavy maintenance . Both flights are generally conducted without fare-paying passengers on board , but sometimes extra airline staff are carried .
Assuming we are speaking of axial compressors/turbines Compressor blades are generally thin and straight , and resemble a tiny rectangular wing with low camber thickness . Image <URL> Turbine blades are more curved , often in almost " U " shapes ( like the ones seen <URL> ) . In particularly large and recent engines , where efficiency is critical , turbine blades will often be full of tiny holes : Image <URL> To distinguish between high pressure and low pressure stages ( compressor or turbine does not matter ) , the length of the blade and its torsion ( i.e. how much the aerodynamic profile turns around the axis of the blade going from the root to the tip ) are key : shorter and more twisted blades will be high pressure ones , longer and straighter blades will be low pressure . Note that two blades of the same length could come one from a high pressure stage and the other from a low pressure one of a different engine : " short " and " long " are relative to the engine size . On the other hand , radial compressors and radial turbines are more difficult to distinguish .
While the true ' reason ' is probably buried in some engineering notebooks from 60 years ago , it basically boils down to a design decision by the team designing the engine controls . Both methods work , and both companies have a list of reasons why they think their solution is ' best ' . P&amp;W will tell you that EPR is a better indication of engine thrust , and they 're right . But it relies on pitot probes to measure the pressures within the engine . Flow stability means response can be slow or erratic and the probes can be clogged causing problems . OTOH , it can indicate problems ( unrelated to the probes ) due to engine damage . GE prefers to use N1 . This is a simple speed indication of the fan . It 's not a direct indication of thrust but is directly correlated . The big advantage is that it is extremely reliable and stable . A good explanation is available from <URL> .
<URL> ( Own work ) The FMC is part of the FMS . The FMC is a computer system that uses a large data base to allow routes to be pre-programmed and fed into the system by means of a data loader . The FMS encompasses : The Flight Management Computer ( FMC ) The Automatic Flight Control or Automatic Flight Guidance System ( AFCS or AFGS ) The Aircraft Navigation System An Electronic Flight Instrument System ( EFIS ) or equivalent electromechanical instrumentation . Further reading : <URL> ( SKYbrary )
end question
start question
How do airlines ensure each passenger has a life jacket before a flight ?
It 's essentially a manual check for many airlines , performed as part of the pre-flight checks . However , the airline I have worked for recently upgraded from manual checks to RFID tags on each lifejacket ( a sticky tag kind of <URL> ) . The RFID tags can be read from the aisle by a handheld reader . So the person who does the checks simply walks down the aisle with the reader and is able to tell if a seat is missing a jacket and also if the jacket needs to be replaced due to the expiry date fast approaching . In addition to a tag on the actual life jacket there are also security RFID tags across the life jacket holster under the seat . So the scanner is able to tell if the life jacket has been tampered with as the security tag would have been broken . As for the frequency of checks , different regions have different requirements . Usually life jackets are only needed at all if flying over a large body of water . I believe the USA requires a check before any flight which passes over the USA ( as well as water ) . Europe requires less frequent checks .
1 . Money Meals are available at different prices . Most US airlines know you are n't choosing them on the basis of cuisine and pick the lowest priced meal they can get away with . Other airlines eg Emirates , Singapore compete by offering high customer services and so invest more money in better food and service . 2 . Culture Airlines which are mostly flying a home market will adapt the food to the traditions of the country . EL-AL are n't going to be serving bacon cheese-burgers and Air India used to do very good veggie curries .
IATA issues duplicate airline codes to regional airlines where the codes are not likely to overlap , from <URL> : Controlled duplicates are issued to regional airlines whose destinations are not likely to overlap , so that the same code is shared by two airlines . This happens because IATA uses a 2-letter code for for airlines which has a limited range of available codes . Since NCA does n't operate a passenger service in the same region as Fika Salaama , it would be very unlikely to confuse the two .
Generally the planes are scrapped by a <URL> . The parts will either be removed and sold as spares , or chopped up and recycled or disposed of . So a lot will depend on how easy it is to remove the part , and how much of a market there is for it . Airplanes are disassembled to a large extent during heavy checks , which can provide an opportunity for substituting in spares . Engines : Probably the most valuable part of the airplane . These will be removed and either used as whole spares or for spare parts , depending on the condition and how many of the type are still in service . Cockpit instruments : These will be removed and used as spares as well , if there is enough of a market ( everyone wants those <URL> these days ) . Interiors : These may be removed as well , they can be used as spares . Control surfaces : These can be removed and used as spares as well . Windows : These can be removed and reused . Systems : Pumps , electronics , lights , actuators , etc. : Most of these can be removed and sold as spares . Landing gear : This can also be removed and reused , depending on the number of cycles it already has . Tires : The tires may be reused if not worn out . The <URL> may not be reused . Airframe : Although some parts may be able to be used , generally the effort and the fact that there are probably many cycles on the part will prevent much from being used as-is . The metal will be chopped up as scrap . They are already working on recycling major <URL> as well , since manufacturing scrap is already being created . <URL> , with modern recycling processes , the metal , plastic , wires/electronics , and carbon fiber composites are used for : 15 % High-grade industrial 50 % Low-grade industrial 35 % Landfill As it often is with business charts , it 's not clear if these are by weight , volume , or what . <URL> claims to recycle 90 % of the weight of an aircraft . There are of course cases like <URL> where the plane is donated to some institution , but this does n't happen to most planes . There are also ways that airplane parts find <URL> .
The number will vary depending on the aircraft type &amp; installed engines ( how much fuel it holds , and how much fuel it burns per hour at taxi speed ) , but the ballpark figure is " Much less than the range in flight " , because the specific fuel consumption figures ( how much power , and thus distance , you get per unit of fuel burned ) are less favorable during taxi than at cruise . To work an example I used the numbers for an A320 <URL> and not checked it burns 270-330kg / hr ( depending on the engines installed ) so let 's split the difference and say 300kg/hr as an average . The A320 can hold around 15,000 kg of fuel , so doing the division it could run its engines at taxi power for around 45 hours . If we assume a taxi speed of 20kts for 45 hours the aircraft could theoretically taxi 900 nautical miles ( 1036 statute miles , or 1667km ) , a little less than one-third of the range in flight .
I had this happen to me on my first license . I got in touch with the FAA Examiner and he had me contact the local Flight Standards Office ( FSDO ) who corrected it for me . If it was a mistake on the application , your Certifying Officer ( read : FAA Examainer ) can allow you to edit the information through IACRA ( <URL> ) and the license re-issued . If all of the information was correct , but it was misprinted , you would want to call your local FSDO . FSDO Search : <URL> Your local FSDO can help you with : Low-flying aircraft Accident Reporting Air carrier certification and operations Aircraft maintenance Aircraft operational issues Aircraft permits Airmen certification ( licensing ) for pilots , mechanics , repairmen , dispatchers , and parachute riggers Certification and modification issues Enforcement of Airmen &amp; Aircraft Regulations
You do not calculate indicated airspeed : It is an indicated value , you read it from the airspeed indicator . ( I suppose you can calculate it if you really want to , but I 've got no idea why you would want to do so in the context of flight planning . ) You determine what airspeed to use for flight planning purposes using your aircraft 's performance data ( from the POH or other manufacturer documents ) : There will usually be either a chart or a table giving true airspeed as a function of power setting and density altitude . ( True Airspeed is a more useful number for planning purposes as it saves you a calculation . ) <URL> <URL> When in flight you can calculate your true airspeed based on the indicated airspeed and density altitude . You can then compare this to your planned figures from the performance charts to determine if adjustments are necessary to your flight plan ( ETA , Fuel use , etc. )
Check out this plot ( taken <URL> ) , of the lift coefficient against angle of attack . During takeoff roll , lift will be increasing due to the speed increasing , however not enough ( in general ) for the plane to achieve takeoff without rotation . Once rotation starts , the lift increases dramatically , for ( a very rough ) example , consider a plane on takeoff roll , then rotating to 15 degrees angle of attack . By looking at the lift/AoA plot , we can see that the lift coefficient increases from roughly 0.55 to 1.7 , giving roughly 3 times as much lift as before rotation .
Yes , commercial airplanes have landed or crash landed in water many times . If I am not mistaken , you are asking about scenarios when the on-board <URL> and life raft are used . <URL> is a list of water landings . Examples when a life raft was used are ( in addition to <URL> ) : On 22 October 1962 , a Northwest Airlines DC-7C with 7 crew and 95 passengers made a successful water landing in Sitka Sound . ... The plane stayed afloat for 24 minutes after coming to rest in the water , giving the occupants ample time to evacuate into life-rafts . In 1993 , <URL> , a Boeing 747 -- 409 , ended up in water after it overran runway 13 ... All of the 396 occupants donned life-vests , boarded the eight slide/rafts and no fatalities resulted .
They still want to get into the low cost segment but want to market themselves differently for better penetration . You can only present so many images of a brand to customers : You ca n't show both the super-cheap prices with happy youth on them and posh first class at the same time . They do not want to tarnish a nice brand by mixing it with a low cost carrier and what that is perceived to entail . For instance , Germanwings got a somewhat infamous reputation recently , and Lufthansa is probably happy their name was not more frequently used in media . Low cost is also associated with less good customer service and hidden fees . Crew are often less well paid , and they are sometimes put under a separate working agreement and company to try to prevent conflicts . Some legacy carriers have very good pay which is difficult to reduce . Management does not want to be bound by these when expanding or adjusting their business . Each case is pretty specific depending on exactly they are trying to do and achieve . For many American Carriers and Lufthansa , the last one is probably the principle reason .
It has happened before . There are definite cases of light civilian aircraft landing on a carrier , the most well known was in April 1975 when South Vietnamese Air Force Major Buang Lee landed an O-1 Bird Dog on the deck of the USS Midway trying to escape with his wife and 5 children from the fall of Saigon to North Vietnamese forces . Landing aboard an aircraft carrier presents several difficulties , namely limited landing roll and available deck space . A Nimitz Class carrier is just shy of 1100 feet in total length and 250 ft at its widest point . The designated landing area or LA is approx 75 x 650 ft. The ship is capable of steaming at 30 + kts so it can develop quite a bit of wind over the flight deck reducing the effective unarrested landing roll . Then you need to stop the aircraft once it 's on the deck . Carrier based fixed wing jets use tailhooks designed to work with the arresting gear and reduce the landing roll to about 330 feet . The largest carrier aircraft in service were the Douglas A-3 and the Grumman C-2 and E-2 , each one about the size of a regional jet . The largest aircraft which I am aware of which made a successful unarrested landing was a Lockheed C-130 . Large commercial aircraft like a Boeing 747 or an Airbus A-380 simply can not fit on the deck without the wings clipping the island or other deck antennas , etc , not to mention requiring landing rolls of over 3000 ft even in the most extreme short field attempts . So HAS a carrier aided a civilian passenger flight via recovery operations ? Yes but only with small aircraft . COULD a carrier aid in recovering larger commercial aircraft ? Possible depending on the size of the aircraft , its loadout and fuel state and performance capabilities .
As denizhanedeer said , it was a circling approach . There is only one charted IFR approach to ESU . It comes in from the northwest and would line up for a straight-in approach to runway 16 . <URL> Depending on the wind the pilot may have needed runway 34 ( same runway from the opposite end ) so they would circle around to line up with it . This flight did just that . ( It might even be your actual flight , Easyjet 2039 on 5/17/2016 ) It did a short hold at the final approach fix to lose altitude then circled to land on runway 34 . It landed at 4:09 UTC . It did the first left turn at 4:06 and 1850 ft. The image here shows it during the second turn at 4:07 and 1475 feet . <URL> The altitudes given are MSL . The terrain rises pretty quickly there . I 'm guesstimating from some topo maps that at the area of the turns it rises to 175-200 feet . So 1475 ft MSL would be as low as 1275 ft above ground level .
We might speculate why the METAR is giving innaccurate data , but the question asks , " What should one do ... " I will take the liberty of inferring the question to be " what should one do if one is unable to obtain an altimeter setting for the airport from which he or she is preparing to depart ? " Note that this question could be asked due to an airport with a faulty weather reporting system ( as in the question above ) , an airport without weather reporting at all ( quite common , for example : <URL> or <URL> ) , or an aircraft that is not radio equipped . I will further take the liberty of answering from what I know : the FAA regulations . I will point out that it is the pilot 's responsibility to be familiar with all available information and this should include a thorough weather briefing whenever possible . Under the FAA 's jurisdiction , the relevant regulation is <URL> : ( a ) Each person operating an aircraft shall maintain the cruising altitude or flight level of that aircraft , as the case may be , by reference to an altimeter that is set , when operating -- ( 1 ) Below 18,000 feet MSL , to -- ( i ) The current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft ; ( ii ) If there is no station within the area prescribed in paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) ( i ) of this section , the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station ; or ( iii ) In the case of an aircraft not equipped with a radio , the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure ( Since all airports and terrain in the US are below 18,000 MSL , this applies to takeoff ; the rules governing flight above 18,000 -- <URL> -- do not apply to our question . " Operate " is defined in <URL> . ) We can go through this like a flowchart : If " the current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft " is available , use that . ( Note that this could include current reported altimeter settings obtained by radio ( ATC , flight service , or a nearby airport ) , phone call ( briefer or AWOS ) , internet , or any other method that would procure the needed data . ) If no such station is available , then use " the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station . " Now , if the aircraft in question is not equipped with a radio , then ( and I would read technically only then ) the pilot is permitted to set the altimeter to " the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure . " Now , that being said , if a pilot is in the middle of the Idaho backcountry at Wilson Bar <URL> , or on the face of an Alaskan glacier , with no cell reception and no real way to acquire a current reported altimeter setting despite being in a radio equipped aircraft , then actual practice will be to set the altimeter to field elevation and get on with it . However , the requirement to use a current reported altimeter setting remains , and should be acquired at the first available opportunity .
The overwhelming majority of major airlines do lease at least some of their aircraft . And most airlines who choose to buy do not end up paying that full price tag . In the case of Easyjet , around half their fleet is leased ( as of 2013 ) . Leasing allows airlines with weak balance sheets or with poor future prospects to increase capacity without locking capital . In fact , the largest aircraft owners are aircraft leasing companies . For example , GECAS ( General Electric Capital Aviation Services ) , the largest aircraft lessor , currently owns around 1,700 aircraft , being operated by 230 airlines around the world . There are other ( not state-owned and generally low cost ) airlines , such as Ryanair , who are fond of owing most of their aircraft . What Ryanair does is negotiate very good procurement deals with Boeing ( by buying large packs of planes , all being B-737s ) , use them for around 5 years , and then sell them before their price has gone down too low . This takes a burden on their debt levels , but seems to work for them so far on the long run . This aircraft resell value is an important aspect to consider when comparing leasing vs purchasing , as well as tax incentives derived from amortization . Legacy carriers ( many of them state owned ) , on the other hand , have a tendency to purchase most of their fleet , and keeping them around for the full lifespan of the machine ( around 30 years ) . The actual price a company pays for a given aircraft is not public ( understandably ) and most figures you would be able to find are related to " list prices " . However , in 2005 Ryanair was forced to disclose facts about one of the massive ( by the time ) purchases of Boeing aircraft . Apparently , they paid <URL> . More current data on the actual price airlines pay for Boeing planes can be found <URL> , where Javier Irastorza analyses the discounts Boeing is applying to their aircraft based on a balance sheet assessment .
There have been a couple of examples - the <URL> , for example , had a retractable pontoon below the hull ( and retractable wing floats ) , though it was an one-off experimental aircraft with a single flight to its credit . <URL> Blackburn B20 , image from <URL> As a more widespread example , the <URL> 's wing floats were retracted electrically after takeoff . <URL> Catalina 's retractable wing float ; image from <URL> Retractable floats have been used in other aircraft too - like the <URL> and the <URL> . Some designs like the <URL> featured retractable floats , which were later removed due to issues . A little more digging reveals that the German <URL> had retractable floats quite early - during WWI ! . However , I doubt it counts as the aircraft never went past taxiing stage . <URL> Ursinus WD 10 fighter seaplane , image from <URL>
In addition to repaints , aircraft are also periodically washed and treated to maintain the paint quality and reduce the build up of dust/grime/salt and other particulates . There are automated systems installed at some airports to clean airplanes as they taxi over these areas . Think of it as a drive through car wash , but for airplanes . The very first applications of these were actually for the US Navy because they have a requirement to wash aircraft due to their proximity to seawater . A company called tammermatic developed a system for the navy to clean airplanes directly on the field using a set of powerful jets . Images from the <URL> <URL> <URL> Then there is the <URL> ( PDF brochure ) , developed by PMW ( a company that makes concrete pumps ) to wash aircraft automatically . It was first used by Lufthansa in 1997 ( image cc : ARNE DEDERT / AFP ) : <URL>
The <URL> allows pilots to bypass the traditional <URL> flight review by completing a " phase " of the WINGS program . The program and requirements are detailed in FAA Advisory Circular 61-91 <URL> . The short version is that a " phase " of WINGS consists of three credits of " flight activities " and three credits of " knowledge activities " , which must be earned with a 12 calendar month period . Flight credits are earned by flying with an instructor and demonstrating safe &amp; proficient flying skills in specific areas of operation . For example , one " Basic WINGS " flight activity ( worth 1 credit ) is demonstrating basic air work - forward slips , steep turns , rectangular course , S-turns , and turns around a point - to Private Pilot practical test standards . When you have successfully completed a flight activity your instructor can log in to the FAA Safety / WINGS site and give you credit for completing the activity . Knowledge credits are earned by attending seminars and classes - these can be <URL> , or on-line webinars . Many of the <URL> qualify for WINGS credit . When you complete a phase of wings your flight review clock resets , and your flight review becomes due 24 calendar months from the date you completed that phase . Ultimately participating in the WINGS program probably means you will be spending more than the " bare minimum " 1 hour of ground time and 1 hour of flight time that FAR 61.56 requires . While you can often complete flight activities in an hour ( or much less if you 're proficient ) the knowledge topics often take longer : the webinars are typically 30-40 minutes each , and in-person seminars can easily last an hour or more . The major benefit to the WINGS program is increased safety through building your knowledge and proficiency - the seminars are actually informative ( and the in-person ones can even be fun , depending on who is running them ) , and the flight activities are pretty easy ( though there are certainly challenging ones available if you want to push yourself and really sharpen your skills ) . Resetting the flight review is an enticement to encourage all of us to participate .
DeltaLima is correct but there is a little more to the story which he hints at in his link . This topic is known as Freedoms of the Air . There are five official in total , each dictating in what way an airline may operate in a foreign country . What KLM has done is a : Normal stop for those getting off . Technical stop for the onward passengers . Both are less controversial than what would essentially be letting a foreign operator offer flights in your country , which would not help local carriers ( and which would constitute Cabotage as DeltaLima says ) . The technical stop is defined in the second freedom of the air : Second Freedom of the Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State or States to land in its territory for non-traffic purposes ( also known as a Second Freedom Right ) . The Third and Fourth Freedom states that the airline can load and unload passengers in a foreign country for transport to and from the carrier home country : Third Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to put down , in the territory of the first State , traffic coming from the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Third Freedom Right ) . Fourth Freedom of The Air - the right or privilege , in respect of scheduled international air services , granted by one State to another State to take on , in the territory of the first State , traffic destined for the home State of the carrier ( also known as a Fourth Freedom Right ) . ( Needless to say , 3 and 4 go hand-in-hand ) Source : <URL> See also this <URL> for easier reading . The other option , aside from not doing it for legal reasons , is that KLM can not justify the trouble and cost of doing it . Setting up more domestic presence ( websites , additional staff , pricing in regard to competition ) in a foreign country is a somewhat complicated business . There would be additional waiting time on the ground when stuff was loaded and paperwork sorted out . Furthermore , I imagine that KLM would like to block the free seats for the complete leg as long as possible ( which would generate the greatest revenue ) , so the actual number of available sub-segments for booking would not be that great .
All multi-engine airplanes , whether jet or prop driven have separate throttle controls for each engine . There are good reasons for this : If there is a problem with one engine you can separately control it for troubleshooting purposes If one engine is n't developing the right amount of power you can independently increase the other engine ( s ) to compensate If you have a control failure of some kind you can use differential thrust to steer the airplane , this has been done more than once , the example that comes immediately to mind is <URL>
While many times an upgrade is not economical for older airplanes , sometimes the new features make it worth the cost . Two examples I found were <URL> , and <URL> . The second article also mentions American and Icelandair 757 and 767 upgrades . The Southwest and Delta upgrades involve over 100 aircraft in each case , which probably helped to make the upgrades more economical . In both cases , a major factor mentioned was the ability to perform required navigation performance ( <URL> ) procedures with GPS and other modern features . As the FAA works to implement the <URL> ATC system in the US , these upgrades will offer more benefits for the operators . Also , I 'd like to comment on the following statement : Concorde was not properly maintained as its analogue flight deck had never been upgraded . Proper maintenance and technology upgrades are not always the same thing . Aircraft with older systems can be maintained just as well as newer planes . We have airplanes that are 50 years old or older , like the DC-3 , which are still flying . While technology upgrades certainly have benefits , aircraft with analog cockpits are still operating just fine around the world . They may not be the most modern machines out there , but proper maintenance is what has kept them flying this long .
end question
start question
At what point during a long flight do commercial airliners have the best gas mileage ?
There are a lot of things that go into determining the most efficient way to operate a jet , and minimizing fuel does not always make it cheaper to operate . Some general " rules " that are used are : There is an optimum speed to fly the airplane , which depends on several factors : Altitude Fuel savings by flying slower - vs - increased maintenance costs because you are taking longer to get there ( and putting more time on the airframe/engines ) . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude There is also an optimum altitude to fly the airplane : Aircraft weight The higher that you can fly , the better - until you do n't have enough power to maintain your optimum speed at the optimum power setting for the engines . Temperature at cruising altitude Winds at cruising altitude Altitudes that are available from ATC The amount of fuel and time that it takes to climb - vs - the amount of time that you will have at the high speed cruise Anything that makes the airplane heavier makes it unable to climb as high ( and lowers the optimum altitude for the current conditions ) , and makes it burn more fuel . This includes the fuel itself . Assuming a constant speed and constant weather conditions , you will always be more fuel efficient later in the flight . As fuel gets burned off , the amount of thrust required to maintain the optimum speed goes down and the optimum altitude goes up . Basically , we keep reducing the power to maintain speed until the optimum altitude increases to an altitude that ATC can let us climb to . This is known as a step climb . The speed will be controlled manually by the pilot , or can be controlled automatically by auto throttles . Today 's sophisticated flight planning software takes all of this into account and gives the pilot a very good plan on how to operate the airplane to be the most efficient !
I do n't know about a " long history " , but the Australian aviation authorities ( Jabiru is an Australian company ) did introduce <URL> because of what they considered to be a high rate of engine failures . Note that Jabiru makes their own engines , unlike most other aircraft manufacturers , and as well as using them in their own aircraft they sell them for use in <URL> . <URL> mentioned 45 incidents in one year : These precautionary limitations follow a high number of Jabiru engine failures and power loss incidents , some of which resulted in aircraft forced landings . More than 45 Jabiru engine failures or in-flight engine incidents have been reported in 2014 , with CASA recently becoming aware of incidents in previous years . Problems with Jabiru engines include failures of through bolts , flywheel bolts and valve train assemblies , as well as cylinder cracking . The failures affect a range of Jabiru engine models and have occurred in aircraft used in different flying activities , although many have been reported in aircraft used for flying training . By itself , the number 45 does n't mean much without considering more information about the number of aircraft , the number of hours flown , maintenance performed etc. and Wikipedia says that Jabiru did n't agree with CASA 's decision ( which is n't surprising ) . But presumably CASA did think about those things and still decided that there should be restrictions in place .
The answer : High heels ! The <URL> would punch a hole in the aluminium or composite flooring , and a carpet is the lightest way to distribute the loads such that the local pressure from high heels can be tolerated . This is the real reason . From <URL> On the floor of the fuselage also very high localized loads can occur , especially from small-heeled shoes . Therefore floors need a strong upper surface to withstand high local stresses . Other reasons are improved noise absorption and damping of vibrations . Nobody likes it when the floor panels start to resonate when excited by some engine or pump frequency . With composite panels now in widespread use for cabin interiors , manufacturing flaws need to be covered , and carpets serve this purpose well . From <URL> : Because sandwich panel facesheets are very thin , core print-through is common . Further , pinholes can form as phenolic resins outgas during reaction and cure . Therefore , panels visible to passengers typically are surfaced with some type of decorative material to cover surface flaws . Floor panels can be painted or covered with flame-retardant carpet .
The instrument shows the gas generator rpm in the engine . It think you are referring to this scene ( screenshot from youtube ) : <URL> The Bell 412 in the movie uses a pair of Pratt &amp; Whitney Canada PT6T-3BE Twin-Pac turboshafts , which are free turbine engines . The turboshafts used in helicopters consist of , Compressor Combustion chamber turbine and other components . The gas producer ( from which ' GAS PROD ' came ) forms part of the turbine . The gas generator forms the first stage that runs the compressor and makes the engine self sustaining . It also runs the oil and fuel pumps . As it is a free turbine , the gas generator stage is not mechanically connected to the next ( power turbine ) stage . From <URL> : The turbine section consists of a series of turbine wheels that are used to drive the compressor section and the rotor system . The first stage , which is usually referred to as the gas producer or N1 may consist of one or more turbine wheels . This stage drives the components necessary to complete the turbine cycle making the engine self-sustaining . Common components driven by the N1 stage are the compressor , oil pump , and fuel pump . The second stage , which may also consist of one or more wheels , is dedicated to driving the main rotor system and accessories from the engine gearbox . This is referred to as the power turbine ( N2 or Nr ) . In some cases , NG is used in place of N1 . The gas generator speed is measured in the PT6 engines using a tachometer-generator mounted on the engine . From <URL> : The tachometer-generator produces an electric current which is used in conjunction with a tachometer to indicate gas generator RPM . The tachometer-generator drive and mount pad are located at the 5 o’clock position on the accessory gearbox and is driven form the internal scavenge pump .
<URL> in 1998/2000 which was in reality not all that long ago . It should be noted that smoking on domestic flights under 2 hours was banned in 1988 and under 6 hours in 1990 . With that in mind we must remember that there are plenty of planes that are still in service and older than that , many were designed long before that time as well . In the view of the airlines its simply cheaper to leave the lights and switches there than put in a new interior panel in many cases . Also as mentioned in the comments planes are built for the global aircraft market and there are <URL> . This question is <URL> . But here in the US the main reason is because the FAA mandates the signs , For charter ( 135 ) operations <URL> ( a ) No person may conduct a scheduled flight on which smoking is prohibited by part 252 of this title unless the " No Smoking " passenger information signs are lighted during the entire flight , or one or more " No Smoking " placards meeting the requirements of § 25.1541 of this chapter are posted during the entire flight . If both the lighted signs and the placards are used , the signs must remain lighted during the entire flight segment . For scheduled commercial ( 121 ) operations <URL> ... ( c ) No person may operate an airplane on a flight on which smoking is prohibited by part 252 of this title unless either the " No Smoking " passenger information signs are lighted during the entire flight , or one or more " No Smoking " placards meeting the requirements of § 25.1541 of this chapter are posted during the entire flight segment . If both the lighted signs and the placards are used , the signs must remain lighted during the entire flight segment . The reason they are not lighted the entire time most likely stems from history . Since there is a switch to turn them on chances are there is a check list item to flip the switch . You will most likely see them go on and off when the pilot hits that item on the pre flight checklist that may occur at the gate or on the taxiway heading out for take off . The Piper Archer I fly still has ash trays ( there is even one in the pilots seat arm rest ) ...
<URL> ( <URL> ) Ground call horn . There 's a horn the pilots can sound to attract the attention of the ground engineer , so they can talk on the intercom ( by wearing a headset ) . It 's not loud enough to have any effect in the air -- or when the engines are running loudly . It 's more of an <URL> really . Taxi lights can be flashed on/off to attract the attention of ground crew , also opening a window and waving would work . <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> ( <URL> ) Ground crew member wearing a headset connected to the plane .
Initially , I would like to apologize for the not-so-good quality of the pictures ( there were taken into a busy enviroment ) . I tried to find some vector photos from the respective manuals but I could n't , that 's why I took them by myself . I am going to provide you with some information on each photo . It is very synoptic description in order to get the help you need for the development of your stuff , and to cover this question . In case that you need any further technical information please open another question . 1 ) Immediately after provide the a/c with power . <URL> 2 ) After 40s <URL> 3 ) After approximately 50s and before initialization of the ADIRS ( which is taking place at cockpit preparation after the preliminary cockpit preparation checklist . ) <URL> 4 ) Approximately 15s after the startup of the ADIRS , and during the " IR alignment in progress . " ( info * on ECAM ) <URL> 5 ) During IR alignment in progress . ( Only here the FDs are by default ON when the a/c is powering up , and the red FD symbol on the PFD during alignment is flashing , then manually FDs are switched off . ) <URL> 6 ) After IR alignment and before FMGS PERF PAGE preparation , ( and FDs still are OFF ) . <URL> 7 ) FDs are ON , FMGS preparation at PERF PAGE not completed yet , and ENGINES are OFF . <URL> 8 ) FMGS PERF PAGE data inserted , FDs ON , ENGINES OFF . <URL>
No . The dihedral effect depends on a flow asymmetry between left and right wing . Coordinated flight means that both wings have the same flow conditions , and the only asymmetry between both is caused by control deflections . You do have a flow asymmetry during a turn ( coordinated or not ) from the speed difference between the inner and the outer wing which grows with the turn rate and wing span . This does indeed cause more lift on the outer wing , but due to the difference in dynamic pressure , not due to dihedral . Since dihedral causes a side force component of lift , you can argue that the outer wing creates more side force which pushes the plane into the turn . But the pilot will compensate the difference in dynamic pressure with the ailerons to stop any rolling motion once the desired turn rate is stabilized . This will also equal the lift on both wings . Another asymmetry is caused by the location of the vertical tail aft of the center of gravity . Essentially , the tail swings around during the turn , which causes a sideslip condition at the vertical tail . The result is a side force which grows with turn rate and tail lever arm , and due to the high location of most vertical tails also causes a small rolling moment . But again the wing 's dihedral has nothing to do with that . Dihedral only comes into play if you build up a sideslip , and then the turn is not coordinated any longer . @Zeus is right with his point that dihedral stabilizes the aircraft and makes it easier to keep the turn a coordinated one . Now we can split hairs all day if flying in turbulence makes a perfectly coordinated turn impossible . When it comes to dynamic stability , a <URL> is highly recommended .
First , AF 447 was flying into the top of a tropical storm . The air was much more humid and warmer than that of the <URL> . Next , in the absence of seed crystals or nuclei , water vapour or liquid droplets stay in the air down to <URL> without freezing . From the linked article : Droplets of supercooled water often exist in stratiform and cumulus clouds . An aircraft flying through such a cloud sees an abrupt crystallization of these droplets , which can result in the formation of ice on the aircraft 's wings or blockage of its instruments and probes , unless the aircraft is equipped with an appropriate de-icing system . Freezing rain is also caused by supercooled droplets . So it was the impact with the probe which caused the supercooled droplets to freeze .
Stall warning systems generally function on the principle of measuring pressure distribution or angle of attack . As each aircraft will have a different type of stall warning system , the necessary test will vary by aircraft as well . Here , I will answer based on aircraft that I have experience with , but these concepts should cover the majority of light aircraft . Aural stall warning systems can generally be divided into two types , pneumatic and electric . Pneumatic Pneumatic stall warning systems are found in many light Cessna aircraft , including the 172 and 177 . The following system description is from the Cessna 177 Maintenance Manual : The system is composed of an adjustable plate on the left wing leading edge , connected to a reed type horn by means of plastic tubing . The horn is actuated approximately 5 to 10 miles per hour above stalling speed as a negative air pressure area at wing leading edge causes a reverse flow of air through horn . See this excerpt from Figure 15-6 in the C177 Maintenance Manual depicting the pneumatic stall warning system and it 's location in the aircraft : <URL> To test this type of system , air must be drawn out of the system through the leading edge scoop located in the left wing . The maintenance manual and <URL> call for a test procedure as follows : Prior to flight , test the pneumatic stall warning system and determine if it is functioning properly , [ ... ] by covering the opening in the left wing with a clean cloth , such as a handkerchief , and applying a slight suction by mouth to draw air through the horn . A properly functioning horn will provide a sound that is clearly audible . The sound is something like that from a kazoo . In actual practice , speaking personally and from my observations , the " clean cloth " is typically dispensed with . Alternately , a <URL> is available for a small price if you would rather not have to put your mouth on a strange airplane . Failure of these systems will typically be due to a problem either with the horn -- such as a loose reed , or with the leading edge scoop -- such as a cracked or misaligned scoop . Electric Electric systems operate on some of the same principles , but use a movable tab -- instead of pneumatic suction -- to sense the change pressure distribution . This type of system is found on aircraft such as the Cessna 182 , Piper Cherokee , and Beechcraft King Air . The system operation can be generalized as follows : pressure changes cause the tab to move up thereby sending an electrical signal which will sound a horn in the cockpit . In some cases the tab actuates a microswitch . In more complex systems the tab actuates a transducer which signals a stall warning computer . The simpler of these types of systems can typically be tested with aircraft electrical power on by manually lifting the tab and listening for the warning horn . With the more complex King Air system , testing is accomplished with a switch in the cockpit which tests the circuitry and horn . In this system , signals from the stall warning transducer are blocked out by a weight on wheels switch when on the ground , with the effect that lifting the tab will not allow for system testing . Flight Safety ( FSI ) offers the following system description in their King Air 200/B200 Pilot Training Manual : The stall warning system senses angle of attack through a lift transducer actuated by a vane mounted on the leading edge of the left wing ( Figure 15-10 ) . Angle of attack from the lift transducer and flap position signals are processed by the lift computer to sound the stall warning horn mounted on the copilot 's side of the cockpit . The horn sounds when the following conditions are present : Airspeed is 5 to 13 knots above stall , flaps are fully retracted . Airspeed is 5 to 12 knots above stall , flaps are in the APPROACH ( 40 % ) position . Airspeed is 8 to 14 knots above stall , flaps are fully extended . The system can be tested prior to flight by placing the STALL WARN TEST switch , located on the copilot 's left subpanel , in the TEST position . This simulates a stall condition and sounds the warning horn . <URL> Figure 15-10 from the FSI King Air 200/B200 Pilot Training Manual Other Systems Other types of systems exist with which I have no actual experience , either as a pilot or mechanic . I offer the following information without much real knowledge of it , but hopefully with good sources . Others more knowledgeable than I might be able to verify it . The Boeing 737 has a stick shaker type stall warning system to provide the required warning , rather than an aural warning system . The SmartCockpit.com <URL> document gives the following system description : Stall Warning System The stall warning " stick shaker " consists of two eccentric weight motors , one on each control column . They are designed to alert the pilots before a stall develops . The warning is given by vibrating both control columns . The system is armed in flig
Some Airbus aircraft have this characteristic , in the rear section of the cabin floor . You can see this in the following image . The rear passenger windows slope up following the floor slope . <URL> A340 line drawings ; image from <URL> This image of the upper cargo deck of A330 MRTT upper cargo deck ( which would be the cabin floor in the passenger version ) shows the upward slope . <URL> A330MRTT cabin floor ; image from <URL> Apparently , this is a common trait in A300/310/340 / 330 's to allow more containerized cargo in the rear .
There have been quite a few incidents . Here 's one , <URL> Google will find others . I ca n't find links , but do know that there have been incidents caused by different issues such as ground locks not in place , failed struts , WoW logic failures and so on where when hydraulic power was applied , the gear retracted or collapsed .
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
Most de-icers are run by the airport FBO so the people who work on de-icing in the winter work on other FBO duties such as refueling and the like when there is no de-icing to do . Some de-icers are just hired permanently for winter times .
<URL> ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , each required flight crewmember on flight deck duty must remain at the assigned duty station with seat belt fastened while the aircraft is taking off or landing , and while it is en route . ( b ) A required flight crewmember may leave the assigned duty station - ( 1 ) If the crewmember 's absence is necessary for the performance of duties in connection with the operation of the aircraft ; ( 2 ) If the crewmember 's absence is in connection with physiological needs ; or ( 3 ) If the crewmember is taking a rest period , and relief is provided - ( i ) In the case of the assigned pilot in command during the en route cruise portion of the flight , by a pilot who holds an airline transport pilot certificate not subject to the limitations in § 61.167 of this chapter and an appropriate type rating , is currently qualified as pilot in command or second in command , and is qualified as pilot in command of that aircraft during the en route cruise portion of the flight . A second in command qualified to act as a pilot in command en route need not have completed the following pilot in command requirements : The 6-month recurrent flight training required by § 121.433 ( c ) ( 1 ) ( iii ) ; the operating experience required by § 121.434 ; the takeoffs and landings required by § 121.439 ; the line check required by § 121.440 ; and the 6-month proficiency check or simulator training required by § 121.441 ( a ) ( 1 ) ; and ( ii ) In the case of the assigned second in command , by a pilot qualified to act as second in command of that aircraft during en route operations . However , the relief pilot need not meet the recent experience requirements of § 121.439 ( b ) . tl ; dr : You need at least one pilot at the controls at all times , unless completely necessary to operate the aircraft , or take care of physiological needs .
A fine beam is needed do draw patterns . A regular led would require a moving focusing mirror , something expensive . There is a non-standard warning : " Laser aperture , Max output < 1 mW " near the leds : <URL> As the leds are in the visible spectrum , this is equivalent in power to a <URL> laser . A Class 2 laser is considered to be safe because the blink reflex ( glare aversion response to bright lights ) will limit the exposure to no more than 0.25 seconds . ( <URL> ) . This image shows the effect of a 5 mW laser light . You may use it for a 1 mW laser light by dividing the distances by 5 : <URL> Adapted from original on <URL> or from the <URL> : A 0.99 mW Class 2 laser beam can temporarily flashblind a pilot or driver , causing afterimages , within 240 ft ( 73 m ) of the laser . It can cause glare , blocking a pilot or driver 's vision , within 1050 ft ( 320 m ) of the laser . It can cause distraction , being brighter than surrounding lights , within 2 miles ( 3.2 km ) of the laser . The above distances are for a tightly focused beam , which is probably not the case of an inexpensive laser device . The effects of a more diverged beam are weaker . More info : This <URL> . To sum up : Most countries have regulations for dazzling a pilot , regardless of the mean and power used , it 's the effect that is taken into account . A class 2 laser led could n't blind someone unless the person is at a few meters ( 15 m for temporary blindness and 3 m for eye damages , if the eye is forced to stay open ) . As the class is not mentioned on the label , I would be careful when seeing this item . There are actually 2 laser leds , a red and a green , is it 2x1 mW or 2x0 .5 mW ? In practical the lasers probably ca n't illuminate the same eye , due to the divergence of their beams . To draw a pattern a laser light must move , so the time of illumination of a point is reduced when the device is working correctly .
On the EMB-145 the passenger cabin was split into 5 zones and we were given passenger totals in each zone from the flight attendant prior to leaving the gate . If balance is off ( this happened quite rarely for us ) you would tell the flight attendant " I need 2 passengers from zone 5 moved to zone 1 " or " I need a passenger from zone 3 moved to zone 2 " or some other similar instruction . The flight attendant would solicit volunteers and if no one did , they would instruct someone to move . The move was only for takeoff and once airborne they could go back to their normal seat . After moving passengers we would re-calculate the weight and balance to verify we were in the envelope and set takeoff trim . Similar methods are used in larger airplanes with the cabin split into zones . The only time we would use ballast is when we had a full cabin and not enough bags in the cargo ( not common ) . In those cases we would ask ops for ballast and they would put something in the cargo . They would try to make it useful if an outstation needed something else they would just load 50 lb bags of sand .
The short answer is to use color in some way . I could n't find anything very detailed on this : there 's plenty of general checklist information out there from the FAA , NASA , universities and so on , but nothing that goes into specific details on how to use colors , fonts or the other things that you mentioned . There is <URL> called The Use and Design of Flightcrew Checklists and Manuals that was part of the response to the <URL> . Unfortunately it 's from 1991 so some content is already dated , and it 's aimed at part 121 and 135 operators with multiple crew members , but it 's an interesting report anyway . Their main recommendation on memory items was simply to reduce them as much as possible because memory is very unreliable compared to checklists , but again that 's in the context of multi-member crews . As for design , layout , formatting etc. , they did make some specific recommendations ( see section 4.1 and Appendix A ) and the most applicable one to your question seems to be the use of color-coding . They strongly recommended the use of color as a general method , e.g. headings in yellow for " abnormal " items and in red for " emergency " items . Interestingly , the report says that at that time ( 1991 ) airlines resisted using color because of the costs of printing , but today it <URL> to highlight critical checklists and items . However , each checklist provider has their own approach to coloring headers , text , blocks or even entire pages . I do n't think there 's any such thing as a standard ' style guide ' for checklists , so if you 're making your own then you can obviously do whatever you want that works for you . But the 1991 report noted that most checklist problems were caused by missing or inaccurate items , so make sure you get the content right before you break out your paintbrushes :-)
The system you 're asking about is called radar : ATC should monitor it to see what the plane is doing and ask what is going on when something unexpected happens . It 's hard to " automate " these kinds of alerts . For example , a sudden dive can also be cause by an uncontrolled control-surface hard-over ( like the <URL> that brought down 2 planes ) , or a loss of cabin pressurization ( which requires a rapid descent to an altitude where your passengers can breathe ) . The other option is having a second person in the cockpit who can wrest control away from the disobedient pilot ( or let people in the cockpit to help ) .
The rule I was always taught is to cross any ' step ' - up or down - at an angle with the elevator full back : It minimizes the chance of a prop strike , which is much more expensive than a wingtip strike When going ' up ' , you avoid having both wheels up against the step at the same time , which usually means you need a burst of power to get over it , which could lead to sudden acceleration and sharp braking When going ' down ' you avoid the aircraft dropping down suddenly , with the same risks of strikes or an increase in speed Lifting the elevator reduces the chance of it striking There may be some differences for specific aircraft types , but I 've always followed that advice and never had a problem . I 've also never seen an aircraft get close to a wingtip strike doing this , but I suppose it could happen if the step is large enough . Although in that case you might want to just find another taxi route .
end question
start question
Are there any programs to build a hydrogen powered airplane ?
Aviation is very energy-hungry . While hydrogen is quite efficient in terms of energy per mass ( <URL> ) , it is awful in terms of energy per volume . Aircraft today use their wings for fuel storage , which helps to reduce bending loads and uses a volume unsuitable to transport payload . This will not work for hydrogen . The biggest problem is <URL> , and none of the solutions is really attractive : Kryogenic : Storing the hydrogen at a temperature where it is liquid ( below 20 ° K ) greatly reduces volume demands , but now you need to add insulation , and even then the energy per volume is only a quarter compared to hydrocarbons . This is used in rockets , because they can rely on extensive ground support before launch and use up the stuff in a few minutes . Airliners , however , need to store their fuel over tens of hours , so their hydrogen tanks will be much heavier and bulkier than those of rockets . Compressed : This avoids the energy input for liquefaction , but now you need a strong and heavy pressure vessel . Current <URL> uses up to 700 bar pressure , but even then the volume demand is higher than that of kerosene for the same energy content . Hydrides : Some metals like magnesium or <URL> can bind hydrogen and release it when heated . However , even in the most efficient compounds like sodium tetrahydroaluminate , only 7.4 % of mass is useable hydrogen , making this exquisitely unsuitable for mass-critical applications like aviation . Currently a <URL> looks the most attractive and has been tested widely . The first ( partially ) hydrogen powered aircraft was the LZ-127 Zeppelin which used a mixture of gasses of equal mass per volume as air ( <URL> ) to power its engines . Tupolev designed and flew the <URL> , the first hydrogen-powered heavier-than-air aircraft , in 1988 . The results showed that the principle worked , but could not compete with kerosene . Currently , <URL> , but none with the hope of widespread application - as it stands , binding hydrogen chemically to carbon will still give the best way of storage ( liquid and unpressurized ) for aviation . Hydrogen becomes the best source of energy only when combustion speed is critical , such as in supersonic combustion ramjets ( <URL> ) .
Blades of wind turbines , airplanes and helicopters are essentially the same . They are all wings , roughly to do the same job . However , each one is designed or enhanced to do their special job . The differences can be : Number of revolutions Wing span Rate of flow Tip speed Density of medium Material Load Turbine blades are designed to move in large volumes of rather slow moving air ( usually 10-30 mph ) and not create turbulence that fouls the next blade . Aircraft propellers are designed to move high velocity air and avoid the turbulence by moving out of the way . Wind turbines use blade pitch to adjust the rotation speed and the generated power . Wind turbine 's control system adjusts the blade pitch to keep the rotor speed within operating limits as the wind speed changes . In aircraft , blade pitch is usually described as " coarse " for a coarser angle , and " fine " for a finer .
According to <URL> they used to be very customizable , but not very much interchangeable at least to the point that no one bothered to change them on second-hand aircraft . They are reducing it because it only causes confusion . Aircraft change owners and pilots change employers and it 's most useful if all aircraft of the same type have the same cockpit layout . As far as 787 goes , it has very similar flight deck to 777 , always , to the point it has <URL> .
The " special notices " are a section of the <URL> , but those notices paint a very incomplete picture . Both the FAA and the TSA have requirements regarding DCA . The very basics are that you must get authorization from both the FAA and TSA 24 hours in advance , you must have an armed security officer , and you must depart from a <URL> . The details are , well ... FAA Requirements Regulations require an arrival/departure slot to be reserved via the <URL> system during most hours , just like other airports designated as high-density airports . Flights to DCA must originate from within a 1250 mile perimeter ( with limited exceptions ) . TSA requirements The TSA requirements are referred to as the DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) . An overview is given on this <URL> ( scroll down to " DCA Access Standard Security Program " ) . Details can be found in the <URL> ... because calling the ruling both interim and final wo n't confuse anyone . Here is a summarization of that document : Section A. Aircraft Operator Requirements : Security Coordinators The aircraft operator ( company ) must have a designated security coordinator who is the point of contact for the TSA and is responsible for implementing the DASSP requirements . This person must undergo a TSA security threat assessment , and a fingerprint-based criminal history records check ( CHRC ) by the FBI . DCA Access Standard Security Program ( DASSP ) TSA will verify the operator 's status with the FAA before sending the DASSP document which contains " sensitive security information " which must be implemented , and the operator must notify TSA when all requirements have been implemented . Flightcrew Members Each flight crew member ( does not include flight attendants ) must undergo a fingerprint-based CHRC and an FAA record check . Almost any prior restricted airspace violation is an immediate disqualifier . Flight Approvals Each flight into or out of DCA requires a tentative slot reservation from the FAA ( see FAA reqirement # 1 above ) before applying for TSA authorization . The TSA application must be submitted at least 24 hours prior to aircraft departure . If TSA approves the application , they will transmit this to the FAA which will issue the final slot reservation , and TSA will notify the operator . The TSA only approves up to 48 applications for a given date . The application must include ( once per round-trip ) : The name , address , and citizen status of each passenger and crewmember ( includes flight attendants ) . The registration number of the aircraft . The flight plan . and ... " any other information required by TSA . " Operating Requirements Each flight must : be operated under instrument flight rules . not make any intermediate stops between the designated gateway airport and DCA . have the aircraft , crew , passengers , and property inspected by TSA prior to departure . have the cockpit door closed and locked for the duration of the flight ( if equipped ) . have at least one armed security officer who meets the armed security officer requirements . Costs TSA charges \ $ 15 for each crew member and passenger to conduct the security threat assessment . Additionally , they charge for the screening services at the airport which are " currently estimated at \ $ 296 per round trip into and out of DCA . " Protection of Sensitive Security Infonnation The specific security details described in the DASSP must only be shared on a need-to-know basis . Other Security Procedures This paragraph basically says TSA can make you do whatever they want ... as if that was n't obvious by this point in the list . Compliance TSA can perform any inspection or test it wants to verify the operators compliance with DASSP . Section B. Fixed Base Operator Requirements That 's right , there are two section B 's , one right after the other ... in case you were n't already convinced the TSA has strong attention to detail . This section just says there are FBO requirements for gateway airports . Here is a list of <URL> dated March 21 , 2013 . The list is always subject to change and seems to have more to do with whether there is an FBO at the airport who wants to put up the DASSP more than anything else . Section C. Armed Security Officer Requirements Armed security officers must be an active or retired law enforcement officer , or an individual approved by the TSA . This requires a similar background check as the security coordinator and law enforcement training which TSA finds acceptable . For more information , see the <URL> . Flying under Part 91 ? At first glance it does n't seem like there is any rule explicitly prohibiting Part 91 operations in <URL> , and <URL> says : ( a ) This part prescribes aviation security rules governing the following : ( 1 ) The operations of aircraft operators holding operating certificates under 14 CFR part 119 for scheduled passenger operations , public charter passenger operations , private charter passenger operations ; the operations of aircraft operators holding operating certificates under 14 CFR part
It depends on the aircraft , but in general the answer is that there are no regulatory age limitations , and indeed we have many aircraft flying that are 50 + years old . A notable exception is the Robinson line of piston helicopters . <URL> , whichever comes first , at which point the entire airframe must be completely overhauled . Some of the airframes are indeed rebuilt , but some are also scrapped , depending on level of wear and corrosion . Since the airframe lifetime is in the LIMITATIONS section of the POH , it is governed by : § 91.9 Civil aircraft flight manual , marking , and placard requirements . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( d ) of this section , no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual , markings , and placards , or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry .
There are quite a few 727 that actually had nose wheel braking , however they utilized it only for maximum braking power . ( Also they were proven to be ineffective and unreliable , so a service bulletin was written to remove the system ) . Saab Gripens use nose wheel brakes to stop as well , the main gear sits farther aft than most planes , so there is quite a bit of weight on the nose gear , which makes it effective for stopping .
<URL> Four sets of measured data can be seen in this plot , the difference caused by different Reynolds numbers during measurement . The figure is from Helicopter Performance , Stability and Control by Raymond Prouty . The book is still for sale and is a treasure cove of knowledge on all things sub-sonic . From page 426 onwards it has a section on representing airfoil data with equations , using NACA 0012 as example . <URL> This graph is from Theory Of Wing Sections by Abbott &amp; Von Doenhoff . Contains a chapter of compressibility effects . $ C_L $ and $ C_M $ are more extensively represented in the reference books than $ C_D $ , which is more generally lumped into considerations of Mach divergence number . The same two books will help you further . The NACA technical report server can be of help as well , a starting point there would be NACA TR 832 .
The first pressurized aircraft were piston powered , beginning as early as 1921 with a modified Airco DH .9 A containing a pressurized enclosure for the pilot . Throughout the 20s and 30s , pressurization systems developed in reciprocating powered aircraft with benchmarks like the <URL> being the first pressurized aircraft using bleed air from its super chargers to pressurize the cabin and the <URL> , the first pressurized airliner . World War II saw plenty of pressurized pistons like versions of the <URL> and the <URL> , as well as the <URL> . Postwar airliners were also pressurized like the <URL> , the <URL> and the <URL> were all good examples of this . With the introduction of jets , these quietly faded into obscurity . There are a few pressurized piston single and twins in operation today , though manufacturers did not make very many . Probably the most successful pressurized single is the <URL> series introduced in the 1980s and still in production today , in bother the form of the reciprocating PA-46-350 Mirage and the turbine powered PA-46-500 and -600 Meridian . In the late 70s and early 80s a number of manufacturers attempted to enter the pressurized entry cabin class single engine market . Cessna offered a Pressurized version of the <URL> called the P210 which is no longer produced but still popular with GA pilots today . Mooney , after finding marginal success with its pressurized <URL> from the 1960s , decided to produce a pressurized six seat cabin class airplane called the <URL> . It was stillborn due to financial pressures from Mooney 's new owners but the best technology from it was cannibalized in a ill-fated partnership with Aerospatiale ( now Daher Socata ) in Tarbes France to produce a single engine turbine airplane which eventually became the <URL> ( TBM stands for Tarbes Mooney ) . Even a few homebuilt piston singles have been pressurized . <URL> , <URL> , and piston versions of their <URL> are all pressurized and capable of nearly 300 KTAS at FL250 . More piston twins have been pressurized as well . Cessna produced a pressurized version of the <URL> called the P337G , as well as the <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Piper produced the <URL> . Beech produced the <URL> as well as a variant of the <URL> called the B88 . Rockwell produced the <URL> .
The FAA released a 70 page report back in 2003 titled <URL> which basically says that the overall accident rate of the two types of airplanes are almost the same . They found that the " available safety " of Technically Advanced Aircraft ( TAA ) is greater than non-TAA aircraft , however in emergency situations pilots often were not aware of the resources available . To offset this , they recommend ( among other things ) more training for pilots before flying TAA 's so that they actually have the safety related aspects available to them . Here were their official findings : Team Findings : The safety problems found in the accidents studied by the Team are typical of problems that occurred after previous introductions of new aircraft technology and all also reflect typical GA pilot judgment errors found in analysis of non-TAA accidents Previous safety problems similar to those identified in this Study have been remedied through a combination of improved training and , in the case of new aircraft capabilities , pilot screening ( i.e. , additional insurance company requirements of pilot experience ) . The predominant TAA-system-specific finding is that the steps required to call up information and program an approach in IFR-certified GPS navigators are numerous , and during high workload situations they can distract from the primary pilot duty of flying the aircraft . MFDs in the accident aircraft did not appear to present a complexity problem . The Team also believes that PFDs , while not installed in any of the accident aircraft and just now becoming available in TAAs , similarly are not likely to present a complexity problem . TAAs provide increased " available safety " , i.e. , a potential for increased safety . However , to actually obtain this available safety , pilots must receive additional training in the specific TAA systems in their aircraft that will enable them to exploit the opportunities and operate within the limitations inherent in their TAA systems . The template for securing this increased safety exists from the experiences with previous new technology introductions -- the current aircraft model-specific training and insurance requirements applicable to high-performance single and multi engine small airplanes . However , the existing training infrastructure currently is not able to provide the needed training in TAAs . Effective and feasible interventions have been identified , mostly recommending improvements in training , and effective implementation mechanisms for the recommended interventions exist . Therefore , TAA safety problems can be addressed , and the additional available safety of TAAs to address traditional causes of GA accidents can be realized as well . APOA has a nice <URL> .
1 ) The software from various airline companies seems to be more or less of a standard . So they should work in a similar fashion . Which input is needed in order to make it work ( i.e. , altitude , lat/lon coordinates , temperature ) ? " Inputs " from the aircraft devices , like pitot , anemometer , gyro , etc. ? I do n't know . DeltaLima answered that for you . What you see on the screen is definately a software rendering , that means an operating system is running , and displays a frame on that screen device . The graphic is software-generated ( the map , the plane , its orientation , the text , the sun , the clouds , zooming , etc. ) So , at some point , the inputs signals ( altitude , cruise , heading ... ) has to be converted in computer bytes that will be handled by hardware devices of a computer , buffered in memory , then used by " some software " in the way they have been designed for . Option 1 : There 's a central Operating System ( OS ) that holds all the computable datas and feeds all onboard software on demand including FMS , IFE , etc. . Option 2 : There 's no central OS , but multiples ones , and a direct star-type ( tree ) data pipeline . Option 3 : IFE Software is a included in one OS that also run other softwares There are other Options , each one could be better called " onboard System " By the way , if , by " inputs " , you meant " how to make that tiny plane move along the map " , there are thousands of ways doing it , but the schemas is the same : draw a map ( use some gree/blue/brown color to make it look good enough ) draw a path using points locations on a X-Y ( invisible ) grid and line segments slam a top view of a plane on all of that at a precise X-Y location ( and do n't forget to rotate the plane icon in the correct heading or your passengers will start to panick ) No matter how beautiful the flightpath could be rendered , remember it 's a computer generated graphic , and does n't need to be accurate at all . For example , refreshing could be set at an interval of 5 seconds instead of real time ( 5 seconds is good enough even for steep turns on final ) The map resolution does n't require a milimetric precision . 1000ft or 500ft lateral precision could suffice , and even if the displayed ( text ) altitude is in feet , the 3D rendering does n't care about that at all : it uses a fraction of that altitude , then accordinly shifts the position of the aircraft model on the screen to give you the impression the aircraft is at an higher altitude ... That the logical way the flightpath software requires . Accuracy and physics computations are not required , unless you want to create a game or even better , a simulator ( in terms of reproducing nearly-real behaviour in a virtual world ) GoogleEart 's Flight game for example is n't as precise as many other games out there ( Lock On , X-Plane ... ) But for all of those , the " inputs " are all binary datas stored in memory and used as variables by the software . Turning a plane is n't dependent on a heading value . It 's one block of the software code that reads the heading variable , then rotate the object ( the plane ) by the corresponding angular value , then another block of the software code draws ( renders ) the object on a screen buffer . Finally , the screen buffer is passed to the displaying device ( your IFE screen ) and each pixel of that screen shows what has been calculated by the software for the human eyes . In the end , what you see on a screen - ANY screen wether it 's your TV , the IFE , your computer screen when you read this answer , your phone screen - is a series of slideshows pictures rendered by the screen device one image after another . But it 's done so fast that the human eyes ( or brain actually ) think what is shown is really moving . It 's not , but looks like . 2 ) Is it possible to acquire one version of this software and run it offline as a simulation , giving as input the needed information ? I tend to say yes ! but wait ! Good luck finding that software though . You should ask someone working for an IFE system provider for aircraft manufacturer . And note one thing : Such softwares could be packed in some hardware components having an inbuilt memory card , this preventing anyone from copying that very software while it is successfully loaded in the IFE OS just like any other software loaded from disk/CDs/USBs ... Of course you ca n't unplug the hardware device from the IFE hardware motherboard , and plug it on your computer motherbord , that wont make it . . Just like your phone ( wether android or iphone or whatever ) the firmware is burried deep in one hardware component . You ca n't easily copy a firmware from an iphone to a nexus . . :P But at one point , those softwares has to be created on a computer , then , have their " saved as files " state in the computers of the enterprises creating them . As you could have guessed , chances to get a copy of such software is pretty . . non existent , not because it 's nearly impossible , but because such software are copyrighted , and/or the ( hardware ) system supposed
As in anything in aviation design , the use of wingtips has both advantages and disadvantages . In the end , the decision to use ( or not ) a winglet is based on the cost-benefit analysis of the winglet to be used in that particular aircraft . All winglets incur a drag and weight penalty - the question is whether they conserve fuel more than they increase it in the first place . One problem in winglet addition is that they are prone to flutter . Also , an <URL> is sometimes more effective and is less risky . Another thing to add is that most of the present aircraft using winglets ( A320s and B737s ) were not designed with winglets to begin with . They were retrofits . Most of the new aircraft are designed with plenty of aerodynamic experience and the engineers can take a call based on the data available as to whether to have ' conventional ' winglet or not ( See A350XWB Vs B787 ) . Coming to B777 , it should be noted that they have wingtip devices after all - raked wingtips . These act in the same manner as the winglets to reduce drag . <URL> Boeing 777 raked wingtip ; image from <URL> According to Boeing , Each wing on the Boeing 777-300ER ( extended range ) is being extended by 6.5 feet , and raked wingtips are being added to improve the overall aerodynamic efficiency . The raked wingtips help reduce takeoff field length , increase climb performance and reduce fuel burn . So basically , these act in the same manner as the conventional wingtips . Also , it is crucial to consider the tradeoff . B777 was designed when the advantages of the wingtips were well known , yet they decided to go without one anyway . From <URL> : Because winglets are a tradeoff : In the highly visible case of the 777 , an airplane with exceptionally long range , the wings grew so long that folding wingtips were offered to get into tight airport gates . Finally <URL> when they were first ordered , though that has not stopped Boeing from trying . Note that one main reason for offering folding wings is to fit into existing gates - else the wingspan would 've become too great . Boeing considered all the options before deciding to go with this option : Dave Akiyama , manager of aerodynamics engineering in Boeing product development , points out that designing winglets can be tricky-they have a tendency to flutter , for example . " We find that it really does n't matter what kind of wingtip device you use-they 're all like span , " he says . " The devil is in the details . Span extensions are the easiest and least risky . " And finally , <URL> , especially for the earlier versions , though nothing came out of that - so most probably they were of not much use in improving fuel burn . Note that 787 also has a similar ' raked ' wingtip instead of winglet . Note : The fuel burn can be reduced by other means than wingtip devices - Boeing <URL> for the Boeing 777 , <URL> by 1 % : ... for long-range 777s , with United , Continental , and Delta investing in modifying the outboard aileron droop and the environmental control system , making ram air improvements , and installing smaller wing vortex generators to yield a total of 1 percent fuel burn improvement .
<URL> has a list of historical routes both by <URL> and ( a few ) <URL> . Though it is not complete , it has a lot of data .
Serious discussion of removing passenger jet pilots ? No . Serious discussion of making pilotless VTOL aircraft ? Yes . <URL> Check out this quote from page 40 : To fast-forward to the safest possible operational state for VTOL vehicles , network operators will be interested in the path that realizes full autonomy as quickly as possible .
From a single spotting location , then yes by training . But for any location , then it 's very hard . <URL> when the sound reflects off the surrounding surfaces , e.g. , ground , buildings , etc. . And when the sound comes from above . Most mammals are adept at resolving the location of a sound source using interaural time differences and interaural level differences . However , no such time or level differences exist for sounds originating along the circumference of circular conical slices , where the cone 's axis lies along the line between the two ears . Consequently , sound waves originating at any point along a given circumference slant height will have ambiguous perceptual coordinates . That is to say , the listener will be incapable of determining whether the sound originated from the back , front , top , bottom or anywhere else along the circumference at the base of a cone at any given distance from the ear . Tilting your head might help though . So much so , airplane spotters in WWII judging only by sound <URL> and the entire Luftwaffe was sent looking in the wrong direction , only to realize the direction reported was incorrect and they had to land once they started running out of fuel . Göring freely admitted the laugh was on him , that he had sent the Luftwaffe on a mammoth tour of their own air space . But with computers it can be done using <URL> . Or good old <URL> : <URL> ( <URL> ) Chinese soldiers man a sound detector which directs the firing of 3-inch anti-aircraft guns , around the city of Chongqing , China , on May 2 , 1941 . P.S. Same problem arises when trying to figure out where an artillery fire is coming from or going to .
In case of air to air refueling , the ' receiver ' ( the aircraft being refueled ) should be careful about not getting into the wake of the tanker , which is usually much larger and heavy . For example , the NATO air-to-air refueling manual , <URL> : The area of extreme turbulence directly behind and slightly to the right of the tanker should be avoided . Blade stall and uncontrolled settling may be encountered if this area is entered . The receiving plane is usually flown below the wake turbulence of the tanker , in both the hose &amp; drogue and flying boom methods . Usually , the receiver is directly behind and around 10 ' below the tanker . For example , see <URL> In addition to turbulence , in case of close formation flying , there are other things to contend with , as explained in <URL> : In addition to the trailing air vortices the receiving aircraft must contend with downwash of airﬂow from the tanker . The affected local airﬂow typically exhibits a nose-down pitching moment on the receiver which , in turn , affects its speed and approach rate . Not only the receiver , the tanker should also be careful about flow disturbances . ... mostly between large transport aircraft , the lead aircraft experiences a change in its airﬂow caused by the bow wave , or upwash , from the receiver . This increases the angle of attack around the tanker 's tail which also results in a pitch-down motion . Under-running the tanker is particularly dangerous since the downwash effect will dissipate , resulting in the receiver pitching up . At the same time a tanker on altitude hold may instigate a nose-down pitch due to a perceived climb due to the decrease in pressure in the surrounding air , potentially leading to collision . The figure below shows some regions where disturbances would be encountered aft of a tanker . <URL> Typical spanwise airﬂow disturbances from a trailing tanker wake. ; image from <URL> by Peter . R. Thomas et . al. . In addition , the trailing aircraft should also be careful about the jet exhaust .
Global Starting from the top , we find the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) , which is a United Nations agency . ICAO was formed in 1944 when the Chicago Convention was signed , and initially had 52 member states . Today , 191 states worldwide are members of ICAO . The headquarter is in Montreal , Canada , and there are 7 regional offices . ICAO standards and other provisions are developed in the following forms : Standards and Recommended Practises ( SARPs ) : Technical specifications adopted by the Council of ICAO in order to achieve the highest practicable degree of uniformity in regulations , standards , procedures and organization within air navigation . Member states will conform to standards and will endeavour to conform to recommended practises . States are invited to inform ICAO of non-compliance . Procedures for Air Navigation Services ( PANS ) PANS comprise operating practises and material too detailed for SARPs . They are suitable for application on a worldwide basis . Member states are invited to publish differences between national procedures when considered important in the interest of safety . Regional Supplementary Procedures ( SUPPs ) SUPPs are supplementary procedures which are only valid within one of the ICAO regional office regions . For example , there are supplementary procedures published only valid within the European/North Atlantic region . Also worth mentioning are the International Telecommunication Union ( ITU ) and the World Meteorological Organization ( WMO ) , both of which function on an ( almost ) global level . Regional Below ICAO we have regional organisations . As an example , in Europe , the European Union ( EU ) provides legislations for its member states . Non-regulatory organisations , such as the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) , assist the EU in developing regulations ( but the EU , not EASA , is the regulatory authority ) . Some areas do not have regional regulators like the EU . In such areas , national regulations are handled directly by national regulators . Within the EU , countries also have national regulators -- but they are bound to base their regulations on EU regulations . National Below the regional level we have national regulators , commonly referred to as civil aviation administrations ( CAA ) . Each country will have their own CAA . One that you will often hear about is the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) , which is the national regulator in the USA . Generally speaking , a national regulator will be following framework regulations published by the national ministry of transport . The term ministry of transport is also sometimes applied to the departments or other government agencies administering transport in nations who do not employ ministers . The framework regulations from the ministry of transport are largely based on ICAO SARPs , PANS , SUPPs and any regional regulations ( such as EU regulations ) . The national regulator will publish detailed regulations , which are adapted by the air navigation service providers , as well as airlines , pilots , air traffic controllers , maintainence companies etc. etc. . The service providers , commonly referred to as ANSPs , are the organisations actually providing air navigation services , such as communication , navigation and surveillance equipment , meteorological services , air traffic management ( including ATC ) , aeronautical information and search and rescue . Most ANSPs operate within a single nation , but there are also multinational ANSPs , a few examples are ASCENA ( Africa and Madagascar ) , COCESNA ( Central America ) , EUROCONTROL ( Benelux ) and NUAC ( Sweden and Denmark ) . The service providers work together with the national regulators to develop detailed procedures , but do not ( usually ) have any regulatory authority .
The slide has to be removed from the aircraft completely ( generally ) and sent back to it 's manufacturer to be inspected and repacked , but yes , it can be reused . <URL> As a far as " how many times " , I would assume until it breaks ;) . Though honestly , I doubt a slide would ever be deployed more than once , maybe twice in it 's life span .
<URL> has a fleet of 83 Cessna 402s , some of which are involved in its Part 121 operation .
In flying you never trust your inner ear because it is easily deceived , you ca n't block out the inner ear inputs , you simply learn to ignore them in favor of your eyesight . When you first learn to fly it is in visual meteorological conditions using the horizon as a reference , then in instrument conditions ( if you choose to get an instrument rating ) using your instruments such as the <URL> and the <URL> .
Let 's do some quick math . Air has a density of about 1.3 g/L and hydrogen has a density of about 0.09 g/L . The best case for lifting force would be storing the hydrogen at the same pressure as the surrounding air . This means that every L of hydrogen can displace 1.21 g of air , reducing the density of the aircraft . The amount of air displaced by the aircraft ( and therefore the <URL> ) would not change , but the density of the aircraft in that space would decrease . This would decrease the lift needed , but let 's see by how much . The greatest amount of free volume in an aircraft ( that is n't part of the pressurized section of the fuselage ) is the fuel tanks . An A380 has a fuel capacity of about 323,000 L . If we consider filling half of that with hydrogen , this would result in a total reduction of about 190 kg . An A380 has a max takeoff weight of 575,000 kg . This change would help but would be very small compared to the total lift needed . As David Richerby points out , <URL> would need to be pressurized ( if not liquified ) to fit enough onboard . This would increase the density above that of any displaced air , which would instead add weight to the aircraft . Perhaps the hydrogen could be produced instead of stored . Newer aircraft do have something called an <URL> , or onboard inert gas generating system . This system generates nitrogen which is used to fill the space in fuel tanks after the fuel is used . Being an inert gas , nitrogen can lower the amount of oxygen in the space below what would be required for ignition of the fuel vapors . However , this system splits nitrogen out of air , considering that our atmosphere is mostly nitrogen . Hydrogen would have to come from somewhere else , usually water , which would add more weight . Another problem with hydrogen is that when added to air <URL> , which would make the situation even worse . Considering the minor benefit , this would not be a system worth installing on an airliner . Regarding the feasibility of a hydrogen powered aircraft , <URL> and decided that this is not a good source of power for an aircraft . <URL> to store even liquid hydrogen would be too much for the aircraft to be very useful .
end question
start question
Is a physical lapel pin awarded for FAA Safety Wings ?
Yes , the FAA currently offers a lapel pin at the completion of each phase of the <URL> . This " reward " is not automatically awarded or delivered , the WINGS participant must request it . Upon completion of each of a phase , for example Basic , Advanced , or Master , the FAA Safety Team will include the following notice : If you have not already done so , I encourage you to go to your My WINGS page at FAASafety.gov and claim your Team Member Reward -- a beautiful set of wings for your lapel . The pins are sponsored and distributed by AVEMCO , in <URL> with the FAA . The pins are available in at least three finishes : bronze , silver , and gold , and a special <URL> is apparently available . <URL> Source : own work
Yes . The first published results of measurements made by <URL> of the <URL> on a flat disk can be found in the collection <URL> ( PDF ! ) . He reported on a hysteresis in the angle of attack range between 39 ° and 42 ° , where the wing is either stalled or not , depending from which side this angle of attack range is approached . <URL> Lift and pitching moment coefficients of a flat disk , page 97 of Ergebnisse IV When <URL> tested disk-shaped wings with an <URL> section in the early 1930s in the NACA 7 x 10 ft wind tunnel , he called them circular airfoils . The results of this testing can be found in <URL> ( PDF ! ) from August 1935 . <URL> Figures 10 and 11 from the last page of NACA TN 539 <URL> collected the little data available on circular wings in his book <URL> ( page 17-8 ) and concluded : Disregarding any dreams of " flying saucers " , the athletic implement called discus seems to be the only practical application of a circular planform . However , Zimmerman went on to inspire the <URL> , the " flying pancake " of 1942 , from which the <URL> was developed . <URL> Vought V-173 in flight ( picture <URL> )
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
Check out <URL> published by the FAA which seems to be recent and some notes <URL> on the same topics . The full rules can be found in the FAR at <URL> They are required to do a preflight risk analysis as per § 135.617 but this is not really any different than what anyone should be doing before any flight however for them it is very specifically outlined . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting helicopter air ambulance operations must establish , and document in its operations manual , an FAA-approved preflight risk analysis that includes at least the following -- ( 1 ) Flight considerations , to include obstacles and terrain along the planned route of flight , landing zone conditions , and fuel requirements ; ( 2 ) Human factors , such as crew fatigue , life events , and other stressors ; ( 3 ) Weather , including departure , en route , destination , and forecasted ; ( 4 ) A procedure for determining whether another helicopter air ambulance operator has refused or rejected a flight request ; and ( 5 ) Strategies and procedures for mitigating identified risks , including procedures for obtaining and documenting approval of the certificate holder 's management personnel to release a flight when a risk exceeds a level predetermined by the certificate holder . ( b ) Each certificate holder must develop a preflight risk analysis worksheet to include , at a minimum , the items in paragraph ( a ) of this section . ( c ) Prior to the first leg of each helicopter air ambulance operation , the pilot in command must conduct a preflight risk analysis and complete the preflight risk analysis worksheet in accordance with the certificate holder 's FAA-approved procedures . The pilot in command must sign the preflight risk analysis worksheet and specify the date and time it was completed . ( d ) The certificate holder must retain the original or a copy of each completed preflight risk analysis worksheet at a location specified in its operations manual for at least 90 days from the date of the operation .
There are only a hand full of single pilot jets in production currently and the SJ30x seems to have the longest range by far . The other competitors in the space , the <URL> , The <URL> and the <URL> come in roughly in the 1300-1500 mile mark which is far less than the SJ30x . Depending on how far you are willing to stretch the planes you include many military fighters , <URL> ( which are generally single pilot planes ) have a range that competes with or exceeds the SJ30x . There is another caveat to this as well . All of these planes can in theory be fitted with ferry tanks which can greatly extend their range for a single mission . Its generally impractical to do this on a constant basis but it can be done in one off scenarios .
If you 're asking whether you can pay for one with an HSA or FSA , then yes , <URL> , though consult with your insurance provider first if they are covered by your plan . Physical Examination You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay for an annual physical examination and diagnostic tests by a physician . You do not have to be ill at the time of the examination . If you 're looking to add it to a list of itemized deductions , as Pondlife explained , it generally has to be <URL> . If you are a professional pilot , then this is deductible . What Can I Deduct ? To be deductible , a business expense must be both ordinary and necessary . An ordinary expense is one that is common and accepted in your industry . A necessary expense is one that is helpful and appropriate for your trade or business . An expense does not have to be indispensable to be considered necessary .
Good question . 14 CFR Part 139 requires FAA to issue airport operating certificates to airports that : Serve scheduled and unscheduled <URL> with more than 30 seats ; Serve scheduled air carrier operations in aircraft with more than 9 seats but less than 31 seats . Also : VFR charts depict airport 's hard and soft surface runways . Enroute charts depict airports having hard surface runways of at least 3000-foot in length . If your airport meets those criteria , you may contact the local Federal Aviation Administration , Airports District Office or Aeronautical Information Management , AJV-21 , at 1 - (866) 295-8236 to have your airport charted . That means for a private airstrip , it 's your call as the owner to have it placed on a chart . Pretty cool . More : <URL>
Difficulties and costs of maintaining the lock-wiring are obvious . My intuition says it only has to be used as a last resort when no other way is available . Nevertheless any aviation junk yard says my intuition is wrong . Lock-wires are everywhere in the old gas turbine engines . My question is : Do they now use other methods of bolted joints ` safety in gas turbine engines ( jam nuts and locking washers in particular ) ? Well , maintaining safety lockwire is n't as hard as you think it is : A pair of safety wire pliers will last you a lifetime , and they do about 80 % of the work for you ( all the maintenance monkey needs to do is cut an appropriate length of wire , hook up the pliers , and twist , making sure the wire is positioned so as to always tighten the fastener ) . It is easy to inspect , repairing is simple ( just replace the damaged wire ) , and cost for a spool of wire is minimal compared to using a new self-locking nut every time something needs to be taken apart ( safety wire earns its keep for temporary assembly too : You can wire the assembly when you 're done , rather than wearing the lock material on a self-locking nut ) . Other methods of securing fasteners are used on aircraft ( in engines and elsewhere ) , including cotter pins and self-locking nuts with nylon inserts to prevent them from slipping . The cotter pin is easy to verify ( like safety wire ) , and is widely used . Self locking nuts on the other hand can slip without much visual indication ( torque seal or similar products are often used to mark the nut and fastener to give a visual indication of slip ) . A disadvantage to self locking nuts is that they must be replaced any time the fastener is removed ( reused nuts will have a lower locking resistance , <URL> ) , and using them introduces a potential for human error in maintenance operations that does not exist with safety wire , which must be cut to remove it . ( There are even folks who try to reuse cotter pins , though normally they are cut to remove them and thus can not be reused . )
For the <URL> , I found this <URL> below , seems like it 's the opposite of a warning . E ) A SOLAR ECLIPSE WILL TAKE PLACE ON THE 20TH OF MARCH . SPECIAL ROUTES HAVE BEEN DEFINED FOR FLIGHTS PLANNING TO VIEW THE ECLIPSE . THE ROUTES ARE DEFINED AS FOLLOWS : ( ... ) ANY ADDITIONAL REQUESTS FOR A SOLAR ECLIPSE PROFILE SHALL BE SENT TO REYKJAVIK OACC SHIFT MANAGER , SEE CONTACT INFO BELOW . SOLAR ECLIPSE FLIGHTS WILL BE GIVEN PRIORITY DURING THE ECLIPSE . OTHER FLIGHTS MAY EXPECT A REROUTE AND OR LEVEL CHANGE FOR SEPARATION PURPOSES . Regarding the temperature drop , from <URL> : Because the patch of the shadow travels faster than the speed of sound , weather systems will only be affected very locally directly under the instantaneous footprint of the eclipse . The main effect is in the " radiant heating " component which goes away suddenly at the moment of eclipse and produces a very fast temperature decrease . If the wind is blowing , your body probably exaggerates , by evaporative cooling , how large the actual temperature swing actually is . Due to the Earth 's geometry , the shadow 's speed differs from location to location , <URL> equates to Mach 2.2 at 50,000 feet for an F-15 to fly along . Even for that F-15 in constant complete darkness , every instance is a new darkness . Some <URL> mention the drop at the surface being 3 ° C ( 5 ° F ) , but it looks like it 's not a thoroughly studied field ( impact of solar eclipses on local weather ) .
There 's no separate night rating or endorsement in the US , it 's included in the private pilot flight proficiency requirements ( <URL> ) and the specific required experience is in <URL> : ( 2 ) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part , 3 hours of night flight training in a single-engine airplane that includes -- ( i ) One cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance ; and ( ii ) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop ( with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern ) at an airport . Some very minimal instrument training is also required , which can be helpful at night : ( 3 ) 3 hours of flight training in a single-engine airplane on the control and maneuvering of an airplane solely by reference to instruments , including straight and level flight , constant airspeed climbs and descents , turns to a heading , recovery from unusual flight attitudes , radio communications , and the use of navigation systems/facilities and radar services appropriate to instrument flight ; That all applies to private pilots ; <URL> may not fly at night . And as David <URL> , there is an exception to the night requirements under <URL> for pilots in Alaska : they can skip the night training but if they do , they ca n't fly at night .
Like @mongo , I am not aware of a regulation and do n't recall seeing anything about it in the AIM . However , the Airplane Flying Handbook ( FAA-H-8083-3B ) says this about engine start : Prior to engine start , the pilot must ensure that the ramp area surrounding the airplane is clear of persons , equipment , and other hazards from coming into contact with the airplane or the propeller . Also , an awareness of what is behind the airplane prior to engine start is standard practice . A propeller or other engine thrust can produce substantial velocities , result in damage to property , and injure those on the ground . The hazard of debris being blown into persons or property must be mitigated by the pilot . At all times before engine start , the anti-collision lights should be turned on . For night operations , the position ( navigation ) lights should also be on . Finally , just prior to starter engagement , the pilot should always call " CLEAR " out of the side window and wait for a response from anyone who may be nearby before engaging the starter .
For the aircrew , at least in the aircraft that I 've flown , there is no defined checklist . You scan and then deal with anything that occurs ( inoperative equipment , pressurization issues , whatever you get ) with whatever checklists apply : if the lightning knocked out a hydraulic pump , run the checklist for the inop pump , etc. . Once you 're on the ground , maintenance has a HUGE checklist to work through , essentially checking every surface of the aircraft for damage and verifying that every piece of equipment still works . The more that the crew can tell them ( i.e. radios &amp; instruments unaffected , no equipment stopped working , pressurization normal , etc ) , the more of it they can sign off from the crew observation . But even then , it 's still pretty lengthy .
No . It has nothing to do with the configuration , but the structure , the engine and the fuel system of your aircraft . The SportCruiser is certified in the <URL> ( LSA ) category and is meant for flying right-side-up . For aerobatics , you need a fuel system than can still feed the engine when the <URL> , an engine which can still lubricate all moving parts when it is experiencing a negative load factor , and a structure which can tolerate higher load factors than what you can expect from cruising along at 115 kts max in fair weather . The wing location has no impact on aerobatic fitness . You might even argue that the unrestricted view up in a low wing aircraft helps to see better what is ahead in steep turns .
Autofeather is an automated feathering feature , common in a lot of turboprops , which automatically feathers the propeller on an engine if it loses power without having to either pull the power or propeller lever to feather the prop . It reduces crew workload in the event of an engine failure and , as a feathered propeller greatly reduces parasite drag on the side of the dead engine , reduces the asymmetrical thrust yaw moment about the vertical axis of the airplane . It is particularly useful during takeoff and landing operations where airspeed may be very close to minimum controllable airspeed on one engine .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
First , can a pilot without an HP endorsement act as safety pilot in an HP aircraft ? Since <URL> only requires a safety pilot to have category and class ratings , there 's no need to have any additional endorsements . That 's confirmed in <URL> : there is no regulatory requirement that a safety pilot have a high performance endorsement to act as safety pilot The same document says that safety pilots are " encouraged to be thoroughly familiar and current in the aircraft that is used " - which is great advice - but that 's it . As for the flight conditions ( IMC/VMC ) and rules ( IFR/VFR ) , I 'm not sure what you 're asking . Is either pilot IFR current ? If not , then the flight can only be VFR . <URL> might be relevant .
The short answer is to use color in some way . I could n't find anything very detailed on this : there 's plenty of general checklist information out there from the FAA , NASA , universities and so on , but nothing that goes into specific details on how to use colors , fonts or the other things that you mentioned . There is <URL> called The Use and Design of Flightcrew Checklists and Manuals that was part of the response to the <URL> . Unfortunately it 's from 1991 so some content is already dated , and it 's aimed at part 121 and 135 operators with multiple crew members , but it 's an interesting report anyway . Their main recommendation on memory items was simply to reduce them as much as possible because memory is very unreliable compared to checklists , but again that 's in the context of multi-member crews . As for design , layout , formatting etc. , they did make some specific recommendations ( see section 4.1 and Appendix A ) and the most applicable one to your question seems to be the use of color-coding . They strongly recommended the use of color as a general method , e.g. headings in yellow for " abnormal " items and in red for " emergency " items . Interestingly , the report says that at that time ( 1991 ) airlines resisted using color because of the costs of printing , but today it <URL> to highlight critical checklists and items . However , each checklist provider has their own approach to coloring headers , text , blocks or even entire pages . I do n't think there 's any such thing as a standard ' style guide ' for checklists , so if you 're making your own then you can obviously do whatever you want that works for you . But the 1991 report noted that most checklist problems were caused by missing or inaccurate items , so make sure you get the content right before you break out your paintbrushes :-)
Well , yes , bigger wings to provide better lift , but the also produce more induced drag in the process . The wings on an airliner are optimized for cruise in high subsonic and transonic flight where a slender , swept wing works well . While this is great for cruise flight , the trade-off is this style of wing requires a very high approach speed for landings which in turn require very long runways to accelerate the airplane on to reach rotation speed for takeoff or to decelerate the aircraft on once it has landed . The Boeing Company successfully addressed these problems in the early 1960 with the development of the 727 airplane as a regional airliner . It made use of a type of flaps called <URL> ( see Fig 1 ) in concert with leading edge extensions . Fowler flaps . These style of flaps consist of a series of segments attached to tracks or support linkages running chordwise , allowing the flaps segments to extend and retract by rolling along said tracks . <URL> Fig 1 . Typical Fowler flap installation When deployed these give the effect of changing the airfoil shape from a slender , slightly cambered airfoil into a wide airfoil with a large camber . Fowler flaps have an additional advantage to them in that partial deployment creates a large increase in lift with limited additional drag , very useful for takeoff , while when fully deployed they create a lot of drag in addition to higher lift .
The closest EASA equivalent would be the Design Organisation Approval ( DOA ) . According to <URL> : A Design Organisation Approval is the recognition that a Design Organisation complies with the requirements of Part 21 Subpart J. Privileges : A DOA holder can Perform design activities within the scope of approval Have compliance documents accepted by the Agency without further verification Perform activities independently from the Agency
It 's all about the ' effective ' Mach number that the wing sees . In essence , for a swept wing , the Mach number that the wing ' sees ' as far as compressibility effects are concerned is the Mach number of the component of the freestream normal to the wing chord : <URL> By sweeping the wing back , you can get closer to the speed of sound without getting supersonic flow over the wing ( remember , a wing generates lift by accelerating the air flowing over it , thereby decreasing the pressure - so you 'll get supersonic flow over the wing before the freestream is supersonic ) . Of course , once you fly supersonic , there 's really no getting around having shock waves over the wing - however , you can reduce their strength with wing sweep .
end question
start question
Is there a landing gear system that extends automatically to prevent belly landing ?
The simple fact is that an unintended gear deployment could be catastrophic , as it has a profound impact on the flight dynamics of the aircraft ( one of the reasons there are warnings for both retraction and extension ) . The benefits would be marginal as checking gear down is part of the bread-and-butter procedures for all retractable gear aircraft . Keep in mind adding some automation to an aircraft has far ranging impact , just off the top of my head adding automatic gear mechanism would require : Standardization of the automation Modification of procedures Training of pilots , and then re-certification of pilots Training of maintenance crews , and then re-certification of the crews Possible change to the maintenance schedule of aircraft Certification of the new system by the regulator and you would still need a backup / redundant system ; and now you are back to the manual controls . I can imagine this being implemented in remote piloted or autonomous aircraft though ; as an additional workload relief .
For the Boeing 727 that you see there , that whole procedure is impossible with a pickup truck . Given that the 727 is operating at its Operating Empty Weight , 102,900 lb <URL> for the 727-200 advanced , and the force on the nose gear is somewhere around 10 % at rest , that would put it way over the limit for that particular truck model ( Nissan Frontier at 4,690 to 5,816 lbs <URL> ) . That would be even less pretty for the truck since the force at touchdown on the nosegear should be higher . Also , according to <URL> , the maximum speed for that truck is about 95 mph . Assuming that <URL> is correct , the landing speed of a 727 is 130 to 150 knots ( 150 to 170 mph ) . This is way greater than the speed of any pickup truck . I had to make a response like this some time ago as well to the exact same video someone had a question about . However , you could <URL> if you had the right equipment . Nitpick on the video : if the plane 's nose gear did n't deploy all the way , then truck or no truck , it should have collapsed on impact .
When an aircraft has been given a clearance to land on a runway , that runway is exclusively reserved for the landing aircraft . ( Except for LAHSO and " land after " operations , where only part of the runway is reserved for the landing aircraft ) . That means that no other aircraft or vehicle should be on that runway . In this case , clearly something went unplanned . Either the crossing aircraft was not given permission to cross , the landing aircraft no clearance to land , or ATC mistakenly cleared both the landing aircraft and the crossing aircraft to access the runway . Pilots should always check if the runway they are accessing is safe , and in this case the crew of the landing aircraft did apparently observe the incursion and aborted their landing . The crew of the crossing aircraft noticed the landing aircraft a bit late , but you hear their engines spool up as well as they cross . The sound of the go-around thrust arrives second later due to the difference in distance . The crossing aircraft seems to be taxiing toward the rising sun so they may have been blinded and missed the fact that they were crossing a runway .
As you have intimated in the question , how hard you hit the ground is very dependent on a number of factors . When I did my training to jump using a classical tethered round chute we practiced landing from a platform of about 5 feet , so six is perhaps a hard landing . That 's , roughly , hitting the ground at 12mph . Folks like the Red Devils typically use an parafoil chute . Basically a self inflating wing . These can be steered and pitched upward to bring the trooper to a stall or even go up if they have enough forward velocity . So yes , you will often see them stop in mid-air and step down . This means this type of parachute has NO equivalent jump height . In fact if flown incorrectly you can crash into the ground at serious speeds . <URL> Regular " military style " parachutes provide no control over lift and only minor control over direction . With these your descent rate is totally dependent on size , weight and air quality . <URL> Interestingly , with a regular chute , what makes landings " harder " is not so much the effective height but the amount of horizontal velocity . You are trained to drop and roll when you hit the ground to absorb the impact . <URL> This works great if you have any horizontal velocity to help you initiate the roll . If however you are coming straight down it 's not so easy . . and your knees end up in your chest ... as I found out the one and only time I jumped out of an aging Cessna . Too much horizontal velocity and that roll gets rather violent .
The <URL> says : The system uses power from the engines , thus reducing their maximum performance . With the anti-ice system on , the highest altitude at which the overloaded aircraft could fly -- without stalling -- was reduced to 31,900 feet ( 9,700 m ) . The de-icing system on most turbine aircraft ( including MD-82 involved in that accident ) uses bleed air from the engines , that is it extracts some air from behind the ( low pressure stage of the ) compressor . This air is therefore not ejected from the nozzle and not producing thrust , so the thrust is reduced . Or fuel flow rate increased if thrust levers are advanced to compensate , provided the engines are still below their maximum permitted thrust setting . Either way fuel consumption per mile increases . Compressing air increases it 's temperature , so this pressurized air is simply blown through tubes under the critical surfaces . There are other uses of bleed air , mainly pressurization and air-conditioning , but turning on deicing increases it 's consumption significantly . And note that this switching de-icing off and on was part of the accident sequence . It was only because they turned de-icing off that they were able to climb to FL330 in the first place . It is also often not allowed to use de-icing when outside temperature is higher than some value because the heated surfaces could overheat .
There have been quite a few incidents . Here 's one , <URL> Google will find others . I ca n't find links , but do know that there have been incidents caused by different issues such as ground locks not in place , failed struts , WoW logic failures and so on where when hydraulic power was applied , the gear retracted or collapsed .
Imagine you have a 60 knot headwind . You have to fly an indicated airspeed of 60 knots and you can hover over the ground . If you want you can try it out in flight sim , it makes lots of fun . That 's called a STOL .
The short answer is extensive testing and backup/manual over ride systems . In reality there is not a whole lot that can go wrong , landing gear systems are fairly simple in design . This varies a bit by airframe but most landing gear systems are pretty much the same . Basically every aircraft out there , from a single engine Piper Retract all the way up through a 747 has some form of manual gear over ride system . <URL> So basically if the main system fails ( and it happens ) they have some kind of manual over ride to force the gear down . Granted there can be cases where the manual over ride also does not bring the gear down but you can only be so redundant . Some gear is also held in place positively , in other words there is pressure on the system holding it up so that should the hydrolics fail you dont need the pressure to get the gear down . Often the gear is oriented so that gravity and aerodynamics can deploy it . Fixed gear is generally not a great idea on anything bigger than a small trainer . Fixed gear adds drag at the cost of a simpler airplane . <URL> I dont think lighter gear is something they are looking into to solve the gear deploy issue . Generally speaking you want the gear to fall down in the event of a failure so a little extra weight is not the end of the world .
The answer is yes . One example was on April 2 , 2012 . Helen Collins , an 80-year old Grandmother was forced to take the controls of her husband 's CE-414 and land it at Door Country Cherryland Airport ( KSUE ) after her husband had a massive heart attack at the controls and died . She managed to circle the airfield and call 911 on a cell phone . The emergency dispatcher contacted the FAA who got in touch with ATC . A KSUE based private pilot named Robert Yuksonavich took off and joined her in formation , talking her through what was about to happen and flew her wing on several practice approaches prior to the landing attempt . On landing the Cessna 414 skidded off the runway and came to a stop in the grass , breaking the nose gear off . Helen survived with only minor injuries ; her husband was pronounced dead on the scene . A brief piece by the CBS morning news featuring commentary by Capt Chesly Sullenberger about the incident . This is the full ATC of the accident
Not feasible . A start of each engine can take 30-60 seconds or longer and would require the APU ( noisy ) . In some airplanes you lose the packs during start so you would impact pressurization . Additionally many engines have a required time at idle after start before significant thrust is applied . Lastly , with all engines offline , the airplane will be in some sort of essential power mode and many systems will be offline or unavailable . You might then ask that we land at idle but that can present issues with spool up time before thrust is available . One of the primary reason we land with a high flap setting is so that we have the drag to maintain approach speeds with the engines spooled up . This gives us near immediate power if we need it to go around . I 'm sure someone else can provide historical data from when idle approaches in jets were normal and specifics into why we do n't do this today .
Not just helicopters . It happens all the time in my neck of the woods ( Alaska ) in small planes with big bouncy tires . We probably have more " field landings " ( called bush landings , or " off airport operations " ) than landings at actual airports . OK , well maybe not quite that many - but enough that my local aviation college has an entire semester course dedicated to it for it 's professional piloting program . The first act is usually a low pass to inspect the conditions and determine the best landing direction ( if there is more than one option ) , assuming that the winds will allow it . If there are other aircraft in the area , which sometimes happens at popular hunting/fishing/floating drop-off locations or glacier tours , then self-announcing on frequency is done like at a non-towered airport . But , it 's usually remote enough that it 's not done . Quite frequently , it 's two planes for one party 's charter - one to carry the people , and one to carry their gear . In that case , they 're usually talking to each other the whole way , and know each other 's intentions anyway .
Short answer : No easy way . It may be possible for a crew to detect some drift by comparing the IRS mag heading to the magnetic compass . This does have problems though as the IRS does n't really ' measure ' mag heading . It works in true heading and calculates mag heading by applying a magvar correction from a table . Modern aircraft do not have free gyros that output data . They have inertial reference systems ( IRS ) . The IRS has multiple gyros and accelerometers and outputs a complete navigation solution . They also have an internal GPS ( or an input from an external GPS ) to improve their accuracy . So there 's not a lot of ' drift ' in the output solution . These units have internal integrity monitors and will report a fault to the crew if the nav solution exceeds limits . In some failure modes the IRS will revert to an attitude only mode ( ATT ) that just outputs raw rates and accelerations ( free-gyro mode ) . In this case , the crew can provide a heading update to set a heading . This will drift just like a stand-alone directional gyro . The crew will have to check it regularly against the mag compass and update as necessary ( ~ every 10 minutes ) .
From the <URL> referenced by mongo , Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.425 - 121.475 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 Frequencies ( MHz ) : 121.525 - 121.575 Use : Band Protection for 121.5 It seems that these frequencies exist only to be silent space around Guard/121 .5 . No one should transmit on them , and you should probably hear total silence there . I think these are an excellent place to look for quiet space .
I am going to assume that by " critical " , you mean survivable . I will also assume that the engine failure occurs at a height which will kill you . It 's not so much critical steps , it 's critical outcomes . The single most critical outcome is to preserve , or regain , rotor RPM . What steps are needed to do this will depend on what the aircraft is doing when the engine quits and , to a lesser extent , the type of the helicopter . I will generalise for an " average " helicopter in straight and level flight . The immediate action that is drilled into everyone from the very earliest hours as a student is to lower the collective . Doing this has three effects . It removes the positive pitch from the blades which removes most of the drag , it aligns the rotor thrust vector with the axis of rotor rotation therefore not using rotor energy for anything except lift and it causes a clutch to disengage the rotor from the engine allowing it to freewheel . From this point onwards , you are heading back towards earth . The second immediate action at the same time as lowering the collective ( assuming forward flight ) is to pull back on the cyclic to flare . This loads the disc which causes it to " cone " upwards which reduces the disc diameter . Therefore , the centre of gravity of the disc moves inwards and due to conservation of angular momentum , the rotor RPM increases . For quite complex reasons , the nose of the helicopter will also pitch down when the collective is lowered so pulling back counters that tendency . The third immediate action is to push in the pedal on the opposite side to the rotation of the blades . If the blades rotate counter clockwise ( to the left as the pilot sees it ) you push in right pedal to reduce the thrust which is produced by the tail rotor which is no longer countering the yaw caused by the drag from the powered rotor . This is less critical than the first two and although it can be dangerous and get you into an uncomfortable attitude , it is usually possible to recover from not pushing the pedal in immediately . If you 've got rotor RPM , then you can sort it out . Now you have successfully entered autorotation . From here , fly more or less normally to the next critical point which is about 50 ' off the ground . What you 've done is to ensure that the rotor has flying RPM and that you are managing energy by trading potential energy ( height ) for kinetic energy ( rotor RPM ) . The conversion is done by the airflow which now comes from under the disc and " drives " the rotor to maintain RPM . The pitch is neutral , or maybe even negative but , the relative airflow is now upwards through the disc and therefore , the blades have a positive angle of attack and generate some lift . This stops the helicopter from falling . There is some drag generated as a consequence of generating that lift , but it is easily overcome by the power which is now driving the rotor from that upward airflow . As long as you are descending , that conversion will happen and your RPM will be maintained . The controls are rigged such that with the collective fully down , RPM will remain in the normal range . Sometimes you have to tweak it a little with small amounts of collective , flares and turns but in general , you just fly towards your landing spot . The allowed RPM range is greater in autorotation . For example ( and from memory ) , the R22 has a range of 97-103 % in normal flight and 90-110 % in autorotation . You are now descending with a high rate of descent and usually , significant forward speed . You need to reduce both of those to get to a safe arrival . To do this , there are three more critical steps . Starting at about 50 feet ( depending on lots of factors but let 's stick with the average helicopter which entered autorotation from straight and level with significant altitude ) , you flare the aircraft by pulling back on the cyclic . This will immediately begin to slow the aircraft . It will also begin to increase RPM ( you are now converting speed into rotor kinetic energy ) . At the same time , you increase collective to reduce the rate of descent by increasing the lift generated . This will rapidly increase the drag , but now the energy needed to maintain the RPM is coming from the flare which is converting speed into RPM . You also need to put in pedal to stop the aircraft from yawing as the drag increases on the rotor . Providing you get the entry right and your flare reduces the speed and rate of descent to something survivable , then you will walk away . You might wreck the helicopter and break some bones , but arrive at 10 feet with only 20 knots and 150 feet per minute rate and you 'll get away with it . If you are well trained and in practice , then you will land safely and smoothly with no damage to machine or people . In summary , critical steps : Entry . Lever down , cyclic back , pedal in . Arrival . Cyclic back , lever up , pedal in .
The value will obviously vary for different aircraft models ( and also with the loading , c.g. location etc ) , but the usual range can be found in the airport planning document for the particular airliner , where the values for ground clearance for the aircraft at the OEW ( max . value ) and MTW ( min . value ) would be given . The difference should give you the compression . For example , for Boeing 737-800 , the quoted value is around 15 cm ( plus or minus 7cm ) . <URL> Image from <URL> document Note that the different parts of the aircraft ' sink ' different amounts - the fuselage sinks around 15cm , while the engines ( mounted on the wings ) sink more - by 16cm due to the fuel in the wings . Another ' typical ' aircraft , the A320neo sinks by about 10cm . <URL> Image from <URL> document Note that the values are given here for max . ramp weight .
As long as the vertical tail surface sits above the centerline ( more precisely the longitudinal axis of inertia - for now we can assume both fall together ) , any side force will also create a rolling moment . This is undesirable because now a yaw command will not only create the intended yawing moment , but also a rolling moment . If you want to yaw in order to turn , the vertical tail above the centerline will even roll the aircraft in the wrong direction , so you need more coordinated aileron command than with a symmetrical vertical tail . So the short answer to your question is : Terry is right : Extending the vertical tail below is clearly a benefit . This can be seen by the widespread use of ventral fins in combat aircraft . Adding area below the centerline helps to reduce the roll contribution of the vertical tail in a sideslip , which improves handling characteristics ( more directional stability AND lower yaw-induced roll ) . See the picture below for an example where the effects of additional vertical tail area are compared to the effects of a ventral fin of the same area . At supersonic speeds , the low aspect ratio ventral fin has a nearly constant contribution to directional stability , whereas the wing-like vertical tail loses effectivity in proportion to the Prandtl-Glauert factor $ \ frac { 1 } { \ sqrt { Ma ^ 2-1 } } $ . The small ventral fin of the F-104 raised directional stability by 30 % at Mach 2 . At high angles of attack , the vertical tail is in the wake of the fuselage which reduces local dynamic pressure and , consequently , effectivity . The ventral fin then is in ideal flow conditions , so it can help to stabilize the aircraft at high angle of attack , just when the fuselage contribution to instability is largest .
First off , the thud and deceleration may be more related to the conditions as well as the runway length than pilot skill , but lets discuss some of your questions . 1 ) Please elaborate on the stress tolerances built into various parts of the landing gear of common commercial aircraft , such as the Airbus A320 and Boeing 737 ? This is a complex question to answer simply as airplane gear sees lost of loads and some compromises are made for simplicity of operation . For one the rubber used on the tires is quite thick since some of it does wear away on every landing since the gear is not spinning when the plane touches down ( you can <URL> ) The tradeoff here is weight ( you need to haul the tires around with you ) but they can be used for many cycles . The vertical load is generally handled by an <URL> these allow for a margin of error but they ( or the gear system ) can be bottomed out and a <URL> . The last serious load that gear sees is usually side loads when a crosswind landing is made . These are tough to mitigate and its generally the job of the pilot to reduce these loads they will manifest them selves as tire wear and mechanical wear . Perhaps the coolest solution to this was the B-52 's full rotating gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) One of the more interesting non Oleo designs for GA gear is the rubber disks used on Mooneys . These are said to require less maintenance and are easier to replace but are far less forgiving than Oleo struts . <URL> ( <URL> ) Some of the vertical force is absorbed by the tire its self when the plane touches down the tire does ballon out a bit . As such it is of vital importance that the tire pressure is within a small margin since low pressure can cause excessive ballooning which would lead to side wear depending on gear design . 2 ) What kind of stress testing is done on crucial parts of the landing gear , such as tyres , wheels , axles and hydraulic parts ? These parts are generally made by different manufactures and are designed to comply with the aircrafts specs as set fourth by the builder ( Boeing etc ) . Like everything else on a plane these parts have a cycle life ( TO/LD ) and are replaced when necessary . Since they are high impact I would assume the life is on the shorter side generally speaking . Here is <URL> on how to care and maintain tires for aircrafts . Heres some good info on <URL> as well . 3 ) What are the backups and fail-safe measures designed into such landing gear ? This depends on the plane , bigger planes generally need to spread the load out over more axles/tires which gives them greater redundancy a plane like a 747 has 2 sets of twin axle main gear on each side of the plane so you could lose an axle and still be ok ( relatively speaking ) <URL> ( <URL> ) compare this with a 737 and you will see that the main gear is less redundant as its a single axle only system . In this case losing one of two tires would be less catastrophic than losing all the gear . <URL> ( <URL> ) Compare this all to a smaller GA plane where you generally have a single wheel situation <URL> ( <URL> ) The one thing all these planes have in common is that the nose wheel is the most delicate part of the landing gear . Hard landings on the nose wheel can collapse the gear or cause porpoising both of which are bad . This is what happens if the gear does not <URL> in other words that nose gear saw complete side loads . Planes have be successfully landed with collapsed nose gear or nose gear that wont come down . Its a sight but generally speaking its not the worst thing to happen . Sensors : The only sensor I know of on the gear ( and this is plane dependent ) is the <URL> which is a simple on off for being on the ground or not . The FDR will record 3-axis acceleration but that will be of the airframe which is behind the Oleo struts so the gear its self may see higher loads .
" We know that most of the plane accidents and deaths result from the explosion of fuel tanks in the planes " This is a fallacy . Most deaths do n't happen because of explosions , but because of impact damage , fire , and inhalation of toxic fumes ( in no particular order ) . Next to that , many people tend to get killed because they are crushed by fellow passengers during evacuations . And some die on the ground being run over by emergency vehicles or from environmental conditions ( heat , cold , wildlife ) . Ratchet Freak correctly points out why your " solutions " wo n't work ( in fact one of them will make the problems worse ) . And yes , research is being done and has been done . Modern jet fuel has a much higher flame point and vapour pressure than does regular gasoline as a result . Fuel tanks are fitted with baffles and sometimes coolers to keep the fuel liquid so it does n't explode easily . This is in part a result of what happened to TWA800 , one of the very few accidents to be caused by a fuel tank explosion ( and there the explosion was itself only possible due to a combination of rare circumstances and chance events , made worse by maintenance problems with the aircraft ) . The image of aircraft ( and cars , trains , ships , buildings , anything really ) blowing up in a wall of flame at the least trouble is one created and perpetuated by Hollywood and has no reflection in reality whatsoever .
For larger aircraft , likely no . Worst case they can carry enough fuel to return to their origin . If range does became an issue ( e.g. Atlanta - > Anchorage ) you would just schedule a technical stop somewhere like Yellowknife . Alaska has a ton of small airfields so short-range aircraft would have many alternatives . Wether the alternate has any services is another question . As the question asks about US airports only , mainland - > Hawaii would be a possibility . Hawaiian Air 's 717 planes already need extra tanks in the fuselage to get to the mainland , so a return flight would be weather-dependent . If you take off from Seattle and several airports close for bad weather after you pass the no-return point your options are rather limited . If the weather is bad enough to close every airport in the islands then channeling Sullenberger wo n't help much . Unlikely any sane pilot would take off with that kind of forecast , and Hawaii 's weather is usually pretty good .
As far as I can find , the FAA does n't define the term landing so it could be argued either way . The " typical " <URL> is : 1 : an act or process of one that lands ; especially : a going or bringing to a surface ( as land or shore ) after a voyage or flight That definition does n't say that it has to be " controlled " or that the airplane has to be usable again ! Even if you decide that it was n't a " successful landing " , you could always get your third landing later if you are still allowed to fly , and then carry the passengers . So this brings us to the second part of your question : Are you allowed to fly after an accident ? Since you had an accident ( as defined by <URL> ) you must immediately notify the NTSB of the accident . Once you do that , you have 10 days to file the required report . At this point , you still have a valid pilot license and can legally fly another airplane . Chances are however , that you will be receiving a certified letter from the local FSDO requiring a reexamination in order to keep your license because your competence has been called into question . If you do n't call them to make an appointment , they will start the process to suspend your certificate . During this time , you can also continue to fly because you still have a valid license . The FAA can also use their emergency authority to immediately suspend your license if they feel that it is warranted . This can be appealed to the NTSB board if you feel that it is n't justified , and they have up to five days to respond . At this point you are not allowed to fly pending the response from the board . This , and a lot more information can be found on <URL> .
end question
start question
How do you report reckless pilots ?
The FAA provides an <URL> I would say it falls under " aviation concern " . In your description if you include tail number and time they should be able to figure out who was flying ( or in the cockpit if its a 2 man situation ) . You can also contact your <URL> and report the tail number and time of incident . Aircraft owners/renters ( the people the tail number will trace back to ) will more than likely know who was flying a given tail number at a certain time so as long as you know when it happened you should be ok its not necessarily on you to know who was flying but the tail number and incident time is key .
Aerobatic pilots typically use " aerobatic practice areas " when they practice . Many of the Part 91 rules which would need to be broken in order to practice aerobatics are waived within these aerobatic practice areas ( such as the 1,500 ft. " floor " for normal aerobatics in <URL> ( e ) ) . The FAA has to approve them , and <URL> includes a good description : 4 . AEROBATIC PRACTICE AREAS . Aerobatic competition pilots , airshow pilots , and others who wish to practice aerobatic maneuvers not necessary for normal flight and below an altitude of 1,500 feet above ground level ( AGL ) must use a waivered aerobatic practice area . These areas are not to be considered airshow sites . The aviation community uses these practice areas to establish and maintain proficiency as well as enhance competitive skills in all the recognized aerobatic maneuvers . They are established by the waiver applicant in conjunction with the local FSDO and may have dimensions of several miles in various directions or be as small as a contest box ; i.e. , a cubic box with a dimension of 3,300 feet on all sides . Inspectors should be receptive to the establishment of these areas , consistent with safety and the efficient use of the NAS . It is imperative that the safety of all nonparticipating aircraft be considered when issuing a Certificate of Waiver or Authorization for an aerobatic practice area . An aerobatic practice area may be established over an airport if coordinated with airport management , and can be used to practice landings like those that Bob Hoover does . Besides the special rules in these areas , it is also a good way to warn other traffic that aerobatics could be taking place because they are listed in the A/FD and a NOTAM is issued whenever they are hot .
There is something called the " <URL> " - it is basically how you choose between speed and fuel economy . Company dispatchers , after knowing that a flight has been delayed , will calculate this value , and the pilots simply input the updated value into the FMC ( Flight Management Computer ) . That will instruct the autopilot to output more thrust , i.e. fly faster , but less fuel efficient .
On the first flight of the day , after every refueling , and if you have flown through precipitation or the plane is left in the rain , you check the fuel for water and to make sure you have the right kind of fuel . Since water is heavier than fuel , if there is just a little bit of water in the fuel it could cause the engine to stop . You ca n't pull over to the side of the road like you can in a car , so you need to immediately deal with the problem . The most likely place for this to occur is on takeoff . If you think fast and switch tanks , you might get lucky and only have water in one tank so you can continue your takeoff . If not , you may need to find a place to land . In 17 years of flying , I have only found water in the fuel once , and it was n't even my airplane . But since it was on Catalina Island , a stopped engine would not have been pretty . The other reason to check the fuel is that airplanes designed for 100LL do not burn Jet Fuel . Jet fuel is denser than 100LL so it will sink to the bottom of the tank . It is straw colored and somewhat greasy so you can tell if you plane has accidentally been filled with it , but you really have to be paying attention . It would be easy to miss if you just topped off . There have been incidents when twin-engine planes have mistakenly been filled with Jet A and have either crashed or had expensive fuel system cleaning required . In this article , <URL> describes his experiences . After the <URL> of a Cessna 421s someone did a <URL> to see how easy it is to identify a combination of Jet A and Avgas . It 's fairly hard using standard pre-flight practices . That 's why many people recommend watching the fuel truck if you have a twin-engine plane or one that prominently says " Turbo " on the side . Many aircraft have rubber bladders to hold the fuel . Most older Cessnas have them . Water can get trapped in the folds of the bladder and get into the engine later when the fuel is sloshed around . Even if the fuel source is free of water , a tank that is not full can have water condense in it . Most autogas has some ethanol in it . Water will dissolve in a gas-ethanol mixture and so a slug of water wo n't get into the engine like it will in an aircraft engine . Contamination is less of an issue and is one that is really hard for a GA pilot to determine . You really ca n't tell if the fuel is contaminated with other petroleum products just by looking at it .
Historically , a runaway airship can not be caught or entered . Eventually it will come down - they all did so far . Only in one case did a Zeppelin fragment of a ship which broke up in a storm make a soft landing so the crew aboard could survive . In all other cases both ship and crew perished or were never seen again . While the Zeppelins had vertical shafts which allowed the crew to climb to the top of the hull , a blimp can only be entered below the hull . Trying to lower someone James-Bond-style from above will fail , because the big hull will shield the entry points of the gondola very effectively . <URL> Defensive gunner position on a Zeppelin . Note the square hatch at the bottom which leads down to the bottom of the ship . Also , shooting it down will be an exercise in futility . All it will do is to increase the rate of helium loss , so the flight will be some hours shorter . Helium is inert and will not burn , and those small holes will be tiny relative to the big surface of the hull . At 15,000 ft it will be hard to try to catch one of the lines most likely hanging from the blimp with a helicopter . Remember that the blimp floats , so the helicopter has to hover at this altitude . Very few are able to do so . Towing will only be possible with another blimp or a helicopter ; an airplane will not be able to fly fast enough with a blimp in tow . The next trick depends on the color of the hull : If it is dark , covering it with something highly reflective will cool it and reduce the blimp 's buoyancy . I have , however , no idea how to get a big blanket on that thing . The same will happen when night falls , but first the air will cool and the blimp , which will cool down more slowly , will go up . Later in the night and early in the morning it will sink again . The wet parts of rain clouds will mostly be below 15,000 ft ( water content is proportional to air density , after all ) , so a shower which drenches the hull and makes it heavier is highly unlikely . There is no obvious way how this thing will come down fast . Except , that is , it climbs further and the hull bursts . This will change the dynamics of this escape in a dramatic way . The chase planes will help ATC to route traffic around the blimp , and all that can be done is to watch it . With luck the landing will be soft enough that it is not a complete write-off .
Pilots do encounter UFOs all the time . I just want to emphasize that UFO means " Unidentified Flying Object " - something which is flying , and which the pilot can not identify . It does not mean an alien craft . The guidelines for pilots are as follows ( <URL> ) : 7-6-4 . Unidentified Flying Object ( UFO ) Reports a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO/unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such as Bigelow Aerospace Advanced Space Studies ( BAASS ) ( voice : 1-877-979-7444 or e-mail : Reporting@baass.org ) , the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . Air traffic controllers have the following guidance under <URL> : 9-8-1 . GENERAL a. Persons wanting to report UFO/unexplained phenomena activity should contact a UFO / unexplained phenomena reporting data collection center , such the National UFO Reporting Center , etc. . b . If concern is expressed that life or property might be endangered , report the activity to the local law enforcement department . The question " Was it of the E.T. kind " is beyond the scope of this site . This subject is , let 's just say , suitably covered by other sites on the Internet at large . One notable example of a UFO report is the <URL> . For other examples , a Google search for " <URL> " offers some decent results . " <URL> " even links to some recordings of pilot UFO reports to ATC . Some objects commonly reported ( genuinely ) as UFOs are spacecraft , fast or high-flying military aircraft like the U-2 or the SR-71 when it was in service , rocket launches , weather balloons , kites , errant helium balloons from kids ' birthday parties , flocks of birds , con trails , and lightning storms . Any of these and more can easily look , under the right circumstances , to a pilot like a " UFO . " The closest experience I 've had in my flying history to a " UFO " happened at night , during a landing approach in the midwest U.S. I was on a downwind leg when a very bright light appeared above me in the center of the windscreen , and rapidly moved downward toward the horizon . It scared me half to death ; my instinctual thought was that it was the landing light of another plane descending on top of me . It turned out to be a meteorite . It only took me a second or two to figure it out , but boy did it get my adrenaline up ! There was no need to report it though . Culturally , pilots are generally apprehensive about reporting UFOs , out of fear of sounding like a lunatic or unhinged conspiracy theorist and being laughed at . Nonetheless , reports are not uncommon .
The other answers are good , but do n't touch on one key method ... Prevention . Small aircraft like a Cessna 172 have a limited cruise time , about 4 hours maximum . They are small enough that they get relatively uncomfortable after 2-3 hours , and if flying in turbulence or challenging conditions , flights can be relatively short . The best way I 've found to avoid the problem is to make sure to use the facilities as close to departure time as possible and to limit my intake of fluids in the hour or so leading up to a flight . The other option you have is to land and use the " facilities " . Many unmanned airports that have terminals ( like <URL> ) have a keypad access and facilities inside . Airports are pretty common and you usually are n't more than 30 minutes away from an airport with a bathroom . Just as a personal account of this , I was doing night training at my local field ( Class C ) and it was late ( 10:00 PM or so ) . One gentleman came on the radio and asked the tower if the FBO was open so he could use the facilities . The controller responded that the FBO was closed but he could taxi him to a quiet corner of the airfield for a few minutes . The pilot gladly took him up on the offer .
It depends . Some instructions are really simple and with a little practice , are very easy to remember . Other ones will be so common , they are just remembered : But this is where the danger creeps in . It is possible , and has happened , that the crew think they heard something but actually , the instruction was different today . The prudent crew will write it down . <URL> , or boards clipped to the control column on which to write taxi clearances , complex airways clearances and so on . In some large aircraft , many light aircraft and in helicopters , pilots might wear a kneeboard to write instructions on . It is a minor advantage to me that I am left handed and as a helicopter pilot , this means that my kneeboard is on my left leg where I can easily write without taking my hand off the cyclic and having it right next to the collective . <URL> Most instructions come in the same order , every flight . For example , here is a simplified list . This happens every time so the crew know what 's coming next , what it will likely contain , and how to respond : Clearance for the flight plan . Permission to start and push back . Taxi instructions . Departure instructions . Take off clearance . Hand-off from departure controller to area controller . etc etc. . Note that any instruction which will cause the aircraft to change it 's configuration or location must be repeated . The controller then also gets to check they 've got it right . This includes things like speed , direction or altitude changes , taxi and departure instructions , frequency and squawk changes etc. . There are also some words which are only ever used at certain times , e.g. " takeoff " is only ever said when an aircraft is cleared to take off . For example , " ready for departure " tells the controller that the aircraft is prepared to take off immediately . The crew should not say " ready for takeoff " . You can sometimes hear a pilot receiving a long instruction , start to read it back , pause , then ask for a repeat . Very frustrating when you are sitting there waiting to get your request in . You just know they thought they could remember it , but did n't . Write it down if it 's anything except a simple instruction or clearance . Here 's an example of a complex one . SuperAir 123 , cleared to Barcelona via vector departure , fly runway track , climb altitude 5000ft , after passing 2000ft turn right direct Hamm VOR , route as filed , squawk 1234 , information Alpha current , startup approved The crew might write it down like this . Each pilot develops their own preferred shorthand : VD RWY TRK 5000 / 2000 + RT HMM / SQ1234 ALPHA / SU Very brief since they know what each part is and the order they come in . Since it contains instructions , the crew will then read it back . Cleared Barcelona via vector departure , runway track 5000ft , after passing 2000ft right direct Hamm , squawk 1234 , Alpha on-board , startup approved . SuperAir 123 . Finally , a good reason to write stuff down is because sometimes ( and we 've all been there ) , you think you remember , then turn round to your co-pilot 2 minutes later and ask " what was that altitude ? " . Here 's a great <URL> and an approach to writing down clearances .
Can a sextant be used while flying ? Yes it can . Some aircraft like 747 for example had a sextant port to allow celestial navigation . How accurate/reliable is a sextant , both standing still and at 500 + mph ? Sextant is not accurate . At least not accurate enough for today 's navigation purposes . You can not perform a RNP-RNAV approach with a sextant . Per wikipedia , the best accuracy you can get with a sextant is between a tenth to a quarter of nautical mile . But it is a very good alternative if everything else fails . Are sextants found in any cockpits today ? As for sextants in modern cockpits , my best guess is you wo n't find any , at least in the form of one " left in a drawer " . See that image of a sextant being operated on a VC-10 . It 's more like a submarine periscope than a traditional naval sextant . <URL> Retrieved from <URL> unknown copyright owner . Finally , as KRyan notes and as voretaq7 wrote <URL> , pilots do n't need to know , but they can attend training in order to know .
The required GPS accuracy depends mainly on the application . En-route requirements are more lenient than the accuracy requirements for non precision approaches . The GPS accuracy is the result of inaccuracies in the signal combined with a factor based on the geometry of the satellites . Within the receiver the position error is thus estimated by looking at The geometry of the satellites contributing to the position fix The estimated user equivalent ranging error ( UERE ) caused by various disturbances From the geometry of the satellites , the ( Geometric ) Dilution of Precision ( <URL> ) is calculated . This is a number that expresses how the geometry of the satellites used to calculate the position influences the accuracy of the position solution . In an ideal situation , $ DOP = 1 $ , any value less than $ 4 $ is considered good . The DOP can be split up in three components , the horizontal ( HDOP ) , the vertical ( VDOP ) and the time ( TDOP ) . For horizontal position accuracy HDOP is used . The second factor in the accuracy estimation is the User Equivalent Ranging Error ( UERE ) . In the illustration above , this is the width of ranging bands . UERE is composed of various factors : Ephemeris data - Errors in the transmitted location of the satellite Satellite clock - Errors in the transmitted clock . Ionosphere - Errors in pseudorange measurements caused by ionospheric effects Troposphere - Errors in pseudorange measurements caused by tropospheric effects Multipath - Errors caused by reflected signals entering the receiver antenna Receiver - Errors in the receiver 's measurement of range caused by various internal factors . The effect of the ephemeris data error is in the order of 2 meters ( standard deviation ) . The accuracy of the satellite clock used to be intentionally degraded under the Selective Availability programme . SA was turned of in May 2000 , drastically improving the GPS accuracy . Receivers developed before that date are unaware of this change and will estimate a worse accuracy than they actually achieve . . The residual clock error after SA was turned of is equivalent to about 2.5 meters ( standard deviation ) . The GPS signal includes parameters for an ionospheric model which can be used to correct ionospheric effects . The residual error cause by signal delay in the ionosphere is in the order of 5 meter ( standard deviation ) . It is the most significant contribution to the UERE . Tropospheric effects are much less than the ionospheric effect . The effect is about 0.5 m ( standard deviation ) . Multipath effects ( caused by reflections of signals ) are very much depending on the environment . In a city the effects are worse than in the air . For airborne applications multipath can be cause by reflections of the signal from the wings . The effect is very limited . On the airport surface there can be significant effects especially near buildings . Receiver errors caused by unstable oscillators ( thermal noise ) , quantization and rounding errors , software errors etc. . This contribution can be reduced by improving the design of the antenna and receiver ; which all comes at cost . Let 's estimate the contributions to UERE about 3 meters . The UERE is the root mean square of all these contributions . $ $ UERE = \ sqrt { 2 ^ 2 +2.5 ^ 2 +5 ^ 2 +0.5 ^ 2 +1 ^ 2 +3 ^ 2 } \ approx6 .75 meters $ $ The 95 % accuracy is then estimated by $ 2 \ times { UERE } \ times { HDOP } $ . For a HDOP of $ 2 $ , the position would be estimated to be within 27 meters 95 % of the time . Typical accuracy is better , because the UERE factors are estimated quite conservatively . Augmentation systems such as WAAS and GBAS can improve the GPS accuracy by sending correction signals . The GNS 430 ( without the ' W ' ) does not use these signals . If the DOP is greater than $ 4 $ , the GNS 430 will display a message " Degraded accuracy " . You can find the DOP on the Satellite status page . This page also shows the estimated position error . Note that all the calculations to estimate the position error assume that GPS is working as it should , i.e. a fault free condition . Faults can occur in the satellites , in the transmission of data to the receiver and in the receiver itself . Fault detection is part of the RAIM function .
There are a couple of options for you . Carlos ' answer above is absolutely correct . The FARs are helpful , as is AC 90-66A . You should take a look at both of those . AC 90-66A is informative , but not regulatory , and Part 91.113 , 91.126 are regulatory but not particularly informative . 91.103 says you have to know everything about everything , which is true , but again , not helpful . First the rules : Be safe , be alert and then proceed . FAR 91.113 ( c ) governs your low fuel question . If you are below minimum fuel , and are in distress you have the right of way . There is a difference between a fuel emergency , which is " I 'm going to run out of gas unless I land now " and a minimum fuel advisory/situation which means , I got just enough gas to get where I 'm going and get myself safely on the ground . If your fuel status is in doubt , it 's an emergency . Better to fill out that paperwork than the NTSB paperwork . The other pertinent part of 91.113 is Aircraft , while on final approach to land or while landing have the right-of-way over other aircraft in flight or operating on the surface , except that they shall not take advantage of this rule to force an aircraft off the runway surface ... So , this means that the airplane on the final segment does have the right of way , over everybody but the emergency , but ca n't abuse the privilege . So , if someone wants to disrupt a busy pattern with a long straight in final , it 's legal , and traffic in the circuit do have to give way and turn the base behind him . Next , FAR 91.126 ( b ) ( 1 ) which says all turns shall be left hand in the traffic pattern , so plan left traffic unless the AFD ( US ) advises the traffic pattern is right hand turns . AC 90-66A tells us to play nice in the pattern . " It says Landing and takeoff should be accomplished on the operating runway most nearly aligned into the wind . However , if a secondary runway is used , pilots using the secondary runway should avoid the flow of traffic to the runway most nearly aligned into the wind . " ( AC90-66A 8 . Recommended Standard Traffic Pattern , ( f ) ) . 8 a. of the AC states , " Prior to entering the traffic pattern at an airport without an operating control tower , aircraft should avoid the flow of traffic until established on the entry leg . " I have seen pilots arrive at an airport with a busy stream of departures call and declare they were landing on the opposite direction of the departure runway . They only have the right of way , if they are on final , but it does n't strike me as a a nice thing ( or safe thing ) to do . In a busy pattern , it is generally best to follow the AIM recommendations in the US , which is , unless otherwise noted , cross overhead the field and plan a 45 degree left downwind entry to join the traffic flow , watching traffic for spacing . If in doubt , break off and try again . Announce your intentions and position on the CTAF at all times , but be vigilant , as there may be some airplanes that do not have radios . Which also means they will not be seen on TCAS/ADS-B or whatever . It 's probably a good idea to get an ads-b in receiver if you do n't have one . There 's a homebrew one based on a raspberry pi that can be put together cheaply and mostly works . Do n't assume it will see all airplanes at all times . Finally , once in the pattern go with the flow . If the pattern is too full for your comfort , the general rule is to remain at least 500 ft above the pattern altitude and move away from the flow of traffic , but there may be others doing the same , so watch and listen . Depending on the situation , you might want to divert to an alternate , nearby airport , buy some gas aand hope the pattern traffic is more to your liking when you come back . Turn your base only after the next airplane in line has crossed abeam you and adjust your pattern accordingly . You might want to practice with an instructor who has some experience in high density traffic areas before you go on your own .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
Most aircraft compasses include compensating magnets to correct for installation error ( due to natural magnetic fields in an aircraft from steel parts and electrical equipment ) . When installing a new compass or performing significant electrical work on an aircraft the compass may need to be re-calibrated and the compensating magnets adjusted ( typically by turning small screws , like the ones shown below ) . <URL> There are several ways to calibrate ( or " swing " ) an aircraft compass - the use of a properly-surveyed compass rose constructed to applicable FAA standards and marked on an airport is one of them , and ensures the compass swing is being performed in an area free of magnetic disturbances which should result in an accurate calibration . The basic procedure is to taxi the aircraft to the compass rose and align it with the compass directions using a combination of the ground markings and a " gunsight " compass . A full description of the procedure can be found in <URL> , Chapter 12-37 ( " Compass Swing " ) , but the quick-and-dirty version is : Taxi out to the compass rose and align the aircraft so it is pointing toward Magnetic North . Adjust the compass compensating magnets so that the compass reads North . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic East ( 090 ) . Adjust the compass compensating magnets so that the compass reads East . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic South ( 180 ) . Adjust the compass compensating magnets to remove one half of the " South " error . Turn the airplane so it is pointing toward Magnetic West ( 270 ) Adjust the compass compensating magnets to remove one half of the " West " error . Once the compensating magnets have been adjusted a Compass Deviation Card is prepared to inform the pilot of the remaining compass error . Beginning with Magnetic West ( 270 ) turn the aircraft to align with each of the 30-degree lines on the compass rose ( 270 , 300 , 330 , North , 30 , 60 , 90 , 120 , 150 , 180 , 210 , 240 ) , and the error is recorded on a compass deviation card similar to the one shown below . <URL> A compass reading within ± 10 degrees on each 30-degree heading marker is considered acceptable per AC 43-13 , and better results are usually achieved . The compass swing is typically performed with the engine and electrical accessories ( radios ) running per AC 43-13 . Some mechanics may also perform a second swing with radios off , and include an alternate deviation card for that configuration .
For the first step try <URL> . Line of sight is an imaginary line that exists between two objects . Radio transmissions require a clear path between antennas known as radio line of sight . Formula : Line of Sight = √ ( 2 * height1 ) + √ ( 2 * height2 ) in Miles
As late as possible to still meet your company 's specific stabilized approach guidelines ( mine were 500 ft VMC , 1000 ft IMC ) . If you need the drag , then use them earlier . In the EMB-145 in still wind or a headwind you could cross the FAF at 250 kts and clean and be on speed and configured by 1000 ' if you dropped the gear at the FAF ( and opened the speed brakes and the first notch of flaps all at once ) . Normally though , I 'd drop the gear around 1000 ' . Acronyms : VMC = visual meteorological conditions IMC = instrument meteorological conditions FAF = final approach fix EMB-145 is the type designator for the Embraer 145 regional jet
Jessica Cox explains it herself in this video : <URL> She 's using her legs in place of hands ( I.e , using her feet to manipulate the controls , throttle etc ) and she specifically flies an Ercoupe which has no rudder pedals .
Once you 've lined up nicely on the runway , you only need the rudder pedals as they do provide enough nose gear steering for the takeoff roll even at low speed . Rudder pedal steering is available during takeoff , landing , and taxiing when small directional changes are required . Full deflection of the rudder pedals produces about 7 degrees of nose wheel steering . -- <URL> The 7 degrees figure quoted above will vary by plane . Tiller is used when tight turns are needed . Remember most airliners do n't have a tiller on the first officer 's side , yet they do takeoff without the captain steering for them . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the linked video we see the captain let go of the tiller as soon as he is lined up on the runway . Also notice the tiller move on its own afterward , which indicates that the rudder pedal [ nose wheel ] steering is being used .
Generally you do not notify the FAA , you notify the NTSB ( the relevant regulations are in 49CFR , specifically <URL> ) . If you notify the FAA they will contact the NTSB , because the NTSB is the agency charged with investigating aircraft accidents . If you crash in a cornfield somewhere and notify the NTSB they will probably ask the nearest FSDO to send an investigation team ( unless you 're a major airline or a fairly high-profile incident ) . So ultimately it does n't much matter which agency you call , but you should be calling the NTSB . With the administrative stuff out of the way , the reporting requirements are also in that same section of 49CFR . Basically they say : You are required to notify the NTSB " immediately , and by the most expeditious means available " of any aircraft accident , which is defined as : ... an occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight and all such persons have disembarked , and in which any person suffers death or serious injury , or in which the aircraft receives substantial damage . You are also required to notify the NTSB ( again , " immediately , and by the most expeditious means available " of any incident ( something that 's not an accident as defined above ) which meets the following criteria : Flight control system malfunction or failure ; Inability of any required flight crewmember to perform normal flight duties as a result of injury or illness ; Failure of any internal turbine engine component that results in the escape of debris other than out the exhaust path ; In-flight fire ; Aircraft collision in flight ; Damage to property , other than the aircraft , estimated to exceed $ 25,000 for repair ( including materials and labor ) or fair market value in the event of total loss , whichever is less . Specific requirements for aircraft with a takeoff weight above 12,500 pounds Release of all or a portion of a propeller blade from an aircraft , excluding release caused solely by ground contact ; Specific requirements for " glass cockpit " displays . Specific requirements for TCAS advisories . Damage to helicopter tail or main rotor blades , including ground damage , that requires major repair or replacement of the blade ( s ) ; Specific requirements for air carrier blunders like landing on the wrong runway . " Immediately and by the most expeditious means available " basically means pick up the telephone and call them : They do n't want you dispatching a letter via Pony Express that 's going to take a week to get to the NTSB 's headquarters while the aircraft is sitting in a field exposed to the elements with evidence literally washing away in the rain .
It varies . Some airports charge by landing , others by operation ( a series of landings if training ) . Some charge through the FBO , who may waive the fee with fuel purchase . Expect that multiple landings at BOS or JFK will result in multiple fees , often billed to the registered owner . It was a while ago , but I did a series ( about 12 ) of landings at BOS one night , and the owner/operator paid 25 dollars each . Someone told me recently that the fee was more like $ 65 now for a Cessna P210 . To be clear , call the airport and ask them , or check their web page , which may have their charges and rules on it . And/or check with an FBO or two at the field .
They are n't " almost uniformly sheepskin " , but they are absolutely uniformly flame-resistant ( or self-extinguishing ) as required for aircraft certification . Sheepskin ( and other natural wool fabrics ) are both flame resistant and self-extinguishing ( which is why <URL> are often made of wool ) , and sheepskin tends to wear well , so it 's a good choice for the two seats that will absolutely always be occupied when an aircraft is being operated . In terms of comfort , sheepskin covers also breathe well ( so the pilots are n't sweating profusely while operating the aircraft - one of the reasons they 're popular accessories for cars ) . Other popular fabric choices are natural leather , flame-resistant synthetic leather ( vinyl ) , and various other textiles which pass the FAA " burn test " requirements ( test procedures are described in <URL> for light aircraft , <URL> for transport category aircraft ) .
end question
start question
Could I use a powered parachute to fly around New York City ?
Pretty simple , powered parachutes fall under the ultralight vehicle category , which is <URL> : <URL> : No person may operate an ultralight vehicle over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons . And Also : <URL> No person may operate an ultralight vehicle within Class A , Class B , Class C , or Class D airspace or within the lateral boundaries of the surface area of Class E airspace designated for an airport unless that person has prior authorization from the ATC facility having jurisdiction over that airspace . It is highly unlikely that you would get a waiver to fly your PPC in the Manhattan Class-B , even if 103.15 did n't preclude it in the first place . You can fly in Class-B in certain areas , but you do need to be talking to ATC .
As a frequent flyer to uncharted airports , I simply use a VOR radial and distance when filing . Usually the approach controllers are familiar with local airports , even infrequent use ones . When in an area where there is no approach facility the center controller may be less familiar with the airport . I normally provide the owner 's phone as a destination contact . While one could use a lat/long coordinate , a radial and dme is easier to communicate . Depending upon what I am doing , sometimes 20 % of my landings are at uncharted airports . One can file VFR and IFR flight plans to them . This does n't specifically address your use of X-plane 11 , but it is intended to describe operations in general aviation in North America , and my less limited experience in South America .
You asked for legal opinion , so the main " legal " reason would be that a radio must be type-accepted for the service for which you want to use it . So unless Icom A-24 is MURS type accepted , and it is not , then it 's illegal to use it . You do n't need a special FCC license . FCC says this about licensing : MURS is licensed by rule . This means an individual license is not required for an entity to operate a MURS transmitter if it is not a representative of a foreign government and if it uses the transmitter only in accordance with Section 95.1309 . There is no age restriction regarding who may operate an MURS transmitter . But the transmitter itself must be marked as MURS transmitter . FCC has this to say about that : A MURS transmitter must be certified by the FCC . A certified MURS transmitter has an identifying label placed on it by the manufacturer . There is technical reason as well which makes it impossible to use it on higher VHF frequencies : Above 137 MHz , the traditional modulation type is FM . Aviation VHF is AM . So even if you wanted to talk to MURS users , you would n't be able to do so normally due to different modulation types used . Another technical issue is frequency coverage . A-24 can transmit 118.000 MHz to 136.975 MHz . I do n't know if it 's possible to unlock it for extra coverage ( but I 'd be surprised is that was possible , due to use case ) , but with default frequency coverage you ca n't go high enough to reach MURS frequencies . UPDATE : I just checked and it seems that AM is actually allowed on MURS . So it is , and you can somehow unlock the A-24 to operate on those frequencies , you could technically speak to other AM MURS users , but again it would n't be legal due to licensing system used for MURS .
Aviation is very energy-hungry . While hydrogen is quite efficient in terms of energy per mass ( <URL> ) , it is awful in terms of energy per volume . Aircraft today use their wings for fuel storage , which helps to reduce bending loads and uses a volume unsuitable to transport payload . This will not work for hydrogen . The biggest problem is <URL> , and none of the solutions is really attractive : Kryogenic : Storing the hydrogen at a temperature where it is liquid ( below 20 ° K ) greatly reduces volume demands , but now you need to add insulation , and even then the energy per volume is only a quarter compared to hydrocarbons . This is used in rockets , because they can rely on extensive ground support before launch and use up the stuff in a few minutes . Airliners , however , need to store their fuel over tens of hours , so their hydrogen tanks will be much heavier and bulkier than those of rockets . Compressed : This avoids the energy input for liquefaction , but now you need a strong and heavy pressure vessel . Current <URL> uses up to 700 bar pressure , but even then the volume demand is higher than that of kerosene for the same energy content . Hydrides : Some metals like magnesium or <URL> can bind hydrogen and release it when heated . However , even in the most efficient compounds like sodium tetrahydroaluminate , only 7.4 % of mass is useable hydrogen , making this exquisitely unsuitable for mass-critical applications like aviation . Currently a <URL> looks the most attractive and has been tested widely . The first ( partially ) hydrogen powered aircraft was the LZ-127 Zeppelin which used a mixture of gasses of equal mass per volume as air ( <URL> ) to power its engines . Tupolev designed and flew the <URL> , the first hydrogen-powered heavier-than-air aircraft , in 1988 . The results showed that the principle worked , but could not compete with kerosene . Currently , <URL> , but none with the hope of widespread application - as it stands , binding hydrogen chemically to carbon will still give the best way of storage ( liquid and unpressurized ) for aviation . Hydrogen becomes the best source of energy only when combustion speed is critical , such as in supersonic combustion ramjets ( <URL> ) .
Here it is : <URL> . At about 8 p.m. British Airways Flight 112 , traveling from John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City to Heathrow Airport in London , diverted to Bangor after smoke was discovered in the cockpit . Story was published on June 10th , 2004 . Article says Wednesday night , so it should have happened on June 9th . Both the <URL> and the NTSB do n't have any reports . It must have been a minor issue . Just a <URL> , fuel leak on departing Heathrow .
No . A ( pure ) glider can not make a go-around in the way a powered machine can . The glide path can be influenced by airbrakes , flaps , chutes or slipping , but mostly those are for reducing your L/D , i.e. steepening the approach ( you win again , gravity ! ) . Gaining height without updraft is only possible by converting kinetic energy ( speed ) , and that gain is limited by the stall speed . So while you can get up a few meters by pulling up from landing airspeed , you will find yourself way too high above the runway at minimum speed and hoping for the best . The <URL> is achieved by starting with really high ( unlandable ) speed which is then converted into height and shortly followed by the inevitable landing ** . For some older ( mostly wooden ) gliders , even this is not a very good idea because they combine a lower VNE with lower L/D ratios , leaving you low and slow after pulling up from redline speeds . In a glider , you get one chance for a smooth landing ( freak thermals excluding ) . But this is one of the most important points in training , and you get used to the concept very quickly . A proper landing procedure together with brakes , flaps , etc. will bring you down safely . * but not necessarily safe or recommended ** lest you catch a proper thermal or dynamic updraft .
Pretty simple , powered parachutes fall under the ultralight vehicle category , which is <URL> : <URL> : No person may operate an ultralight vehicle over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons . And Also : <URL> No person may operate an ultralight vehicle within Class A , Class B , Class C , or Class D airspace or within the lateral boundaries of the surface area of Class E airspace designated for an airport unless that person has prior authorization from the ATC facility having jurisdiction over that airspace . It is highly unlikely that you would get a waiver to fly your PPC in the Manhattan Class-B , even if 103.15 did n't preclude it in the first place . You can fly in Class-B in certain areas , but you do need to be talking to ATC .
If your parachute fails to open entirely you are almost certainly extremely dead no matter where you land , however occasionally people do survive . A partial failure of a chute is much more survivable . You will be coming down much faster than you would with a good chute , and you are going to get injured , probably badly . Think broken legs and arms with neck or back trauma . You may sustain a concussion as well , and you will certainly go into shock . If you come down in the water you will be injured and unable to keep yourself afloat , and it will be much harder to rescue you . On land help will be much closer and , and as <URL> , you ca n't drown on land . Land has features which may help you survive : trees , vegetation , hay bales , crops , snow , and many other things may cushion your impact enough to make the difference between life and death . Water is the same wherever you go , and does n't have nearly enough give to cushion an impact .
The EASA issued LAPL ( A ) is limited to 2to MTOM , 3 passengers max and only valid in European countries . A PPL ( A ) issued by an EASA country does not have these restrictions , but can be subject to local restrictions in the non-European country you want to flyin , e.g. you can not use the EASA PPL ( A ) to fly in the US without further paperwork . For more information , see the <URL> . Your LAPL ( A ) is a lifetime licence that contains SEP ( land ) and/or TMG privileges restricted to non-complex EASA aeroplanes with a maximum take off mass of 2 metric tonnes and a maximum of four people on board . You can fly more complex aeroplanes within the privileges if you have ' differences training ' signed off in your log book by a suitable instructor . The LAPL is also valid on non-EASA UK registered aircraft in the UK . The LAPL requires an in-date EASA Part-Med Medical Certificate , at LAPL level , but Class One or Class Two certificates can also be used . A valid JAA Class One or Two medical certificate is also acceptable . But you can not use your LAPL with an NPPL medical declaration . The SEP ( land ) or TMG endorsement on this type of licence is not issued as a rating . So there is no rating expiry date . Instead you must follow self-validity checks on your own flying history for the past 2 years to ensure currency on the day of your planned flight . Further Reading from the UK CAA : <URL> <URL>
First , a caution : IFR procedures can ( and do ) vary between countries . It is incumbent on the pilot to study the respective authority 's Aeronautical Information Publication ( AIP ) to understand local procedures before flight . When asking questions about instrument flight procedures , it is helpful to know which countries you are specifically traveling through . While the vast majority of countries simply adopt ICAO procedures , many have significant deviations ( the United States included ) . <URL> , section 6.5.3 discusses instrument flight that terminates into a visual approach . Interestingly , the document is silent on what happens if the approach is aborted . In the United States , the FAA is more explicit . In the <URL> , section 5-4-23 visual approaches are specifically addressed . Paragraph ( e ) details what should happen if a visual approach is terminated : A visual approach is not an IAP and therefore has no missed approach segment . If a go around is necessary for any reason , aircraft operating at controlled airports will be issued an appropriate advisory/clearance/instruction by the tower . At uncontrolled airports , aircraft are expected to remain clear of clouds and complete a landing as soon as possible . If a landing can not be accomplished , the aircraft is expected to remain clear of clouds and contact ATC as soon as possible for further clearance . Separation from other IFR aircraft will be maintained under these circumstances .
No , you still have to monitor the underlying NAVAID . You just have to read further in that same section of the AIM . Reference the most recent edition of the AIM , which has Change 3 dated April 27 , 2017 . In section 1-2-3-c-5 it says : Use of a suitable RNAV system as a means to navigate on the final approach segment of an instrument approach procedure based on a VOR , TACAN or NDB signal , is allowable . The underlying NAVAID must be operational and the NAVAID monitored for final segment course alignment . That last sentence in the quote above is the important part .
<URL> Using two counter-rotating props does indeed eliminate torque issues . The co-axial configuration has been around for a while , like the successful <URL> . The thrust , power and propeller disk issues are a bit complicated , let 's start with a qualitative discussion . Two 2-blade co-axial rotors compared with a single 4-blade rotor of the same size . To generate a given thrust , two counter-rotating 2-bladed propellers use less power than a single 4-bladed propeller of the same size - if they are mounted far enough away from each other . Separating the two propellers helps in reducing power : the closer together they are , the less the power advantage . Separate them 20 % of the rotor radius , and you still have a 7 % power advantage over a single 4-blade propeller , as computed by Kamov <URL> . Further away results in less power required . Note that the 7 % power advantage may not account for losses from the dual gearing trains required . Co-axial 2-bladed propeller compared with two 2-bladed separate propellers of the same size . Momentum theory predicts a power penalty of $ \ sqrt { 2 } $ = 41 % when two rotors are placed co-axially without separation , compared with the two identical rotors being operated in isolation . Test results have indicated that that is an overestimation : 20 % is more realistic . We 're limited to commercially available sizes and pitches and are using fixed pitch . That means that we can not optimise for the exact circumstances . My recommendations for the design process would be as follows : From your link I see that there are 40 " and 49 " blades available . Go for the 40 " props . Your link gives an output RPM of 3500 . With a 40 " prop , the tip speed becomes ( 3500 RPM * $ 2 \ pi $ rad * 0.5 m / 60 sec ) = 183.3 m/s , about Mach 0.55 . Forward velocity is around 20 m/s . The velocity triangle at the tip has an angle of tan $ ^ { -1 } $ 20/183 = 6.2 ° A typical symmetrical profile such as NACA 0012 has a maximum L/D at angle of attack = 4 ° at M = 0.6 ( <URL> ) . <URL> Add this to the velocity triangle and you end up with a blade tip angle of 10 ° . That equates to a blade pitch of 22 inch for the forward propeller . Select the standard pitch closest to 22 inch ( 24 " ? ) . The next one up to 22 " should be the best choice , because the aft propeller will be pulling in air and add to the free stream velocity . The aft propeller runs the accelerated air from the forward propeller and must have a higher blade pitch than the forward propeller . Select the next available pitch up ( 28 " ? ) . Naturally , one propeller must be clockwise and one must be counter-clockwise . Both propellers should be 2-bladed . That will result in four blades in total , more than enough for this application . Adding more blades will cost horsepower and not result in any useful thrust increase . For the thrust per propeller , if I compute that from a $ C_L $ of 0.55 and integrate that over the blade radius from 5 cm to 48 cm ( to account for tip losses ) , I get : $ $ T = C_L \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ int _ { 0.05 } ^ { 0.48 } \ omega \ cdot r \ cdot dr $ $ $ $ = C_L \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A \ cdot \ frac { \ omega ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot ( 0.48 ^ 2 - 0.05 ^ 2 ) $ $ $ $ = 0.55 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 0.05 \ cdot \ frac { 366 ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot ( 0.2304 - 0.0025 ) $ $ With $ C_L $ = 0.55 $ \ rho $ = 1.225 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ at sea level A = blade area is about 0.05 m $ ^ 2 $ $ \ omega $ = 3500 * 2 $ \ pi $ / 60 = 366 rad/sec = 514 N per propeller . Note that there are assumptions on propeller profile and blade area in there . $ \ alpha $ may not be exactly 4 ° so lets take a 10 % lower value of 450N per propeller = 900 N total . Power required to generate this thrust is the blade profile power plus the induced power from thrust generation . When I look up the $ C_T $ and $ C_P $ factors of the propeller disks , I get a $ C_P $ of 0.001 , resulting in a power P of $ $ P = C_P \ cdot \ rho \ cdot A _ { disk } \ cdot { V _ { tip } } ^ 3 = 0.001 \ cdot 1.225 \ cdot 0.785 \ cdot 183 ^ 3 = 5.9 kW $ $ So for two propellers with a penalty of 20 % , that would be 14.4 kW = about 20 hp . There are some estimates in here and all depends on the pitch size and if my assumptions of blade profile and blade area are correct , but it seems to be in the ballpark . The product would need to be tested for actual thrust and power consumption of course . If your counter-rotating setup and gearing works , the main selling points would be absence of torque and a low tip speed resulting in low noise . Update Some of the comments are on using larger propellers and one 3-bladed and a 2-bladed , and there is a question on using a spreadsheet for single propellers . The single propeller spreadsheet may be a compilation of experience on using one single propeller . However , you will be driving two propellers . A main selling point for your set-up is elimination of torque . Use one 3-bladed and one 2-bladed propeller , and the difference in drag will re-introduce torque . You have 4 blades in total already , no need to add a 5th or more for any purpose . A larger propeller uses more horsepower than a smaller propeller , and you ' re
Unlike Space Shuttle , Buran could cary <URL> jet engines . The testing version had four such engines and used to take off and then fly under own power during the tests . Hence it so should have been capable of go-around . The powered landing increased the safety of Buran in comparison to Space Shuttle ( <URL> ) . <URL> it is possible to find the description of the jet engine system of Buran . This source names the engines as АЛ-31Ф ( Su-33 has the same ) . It says two engines were foreseen for the space going version , and this would have not been sufficient to take off under own power . Each engine had the maximal thrust of 7770 <URL> ( afterburners were removed ) . The two extra engines of the take of - capable prototype were more powerful ( 12500 kgf ) . The source also says jet that engines were not installed during the only space flight 15 November 1988 while there were non-functional engine controls in the cockpit . The engines were not ready yet . Hence most likely the sources OP references talk about some go-around of the mentioned four - engine testing prototype , not about the go-around of the Buran returning from space . The space going version of the Buran space shuttle was not capable of go around maneuver .
It depends how big the balloon or kite is . Balloons and kites are governed by <URL> , but specific regulations only apply above a certain size . 101.1 says : a ) This part prescribes rules governing the operation in the United States , of the following : ( 1 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any balloon that is moored to the surface of the earth or an object thereon and that has a diameter of more than 6 feet or a gas capacity of more than 115 cubic feet . ( 2 ) Except as provided for in § 101.7 , any kite that weighs more than 5 pounds and is intended to be flown at the end of a rope or cable . However , note the reference to 101.7 , which says ( in part ) : No person may operate any moored balloon , kite , amateur rocket , or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons , or their property . That means , if your balloon or kite is too small to be governed by part 101 then there are no specific restrictions on how you operate it , but you still ca n't fly it in a way that puts other people in danger . If part 101 does apply to you , then you have to follow the rules in 101.13 and 101.15 : § 101.13 Operating limitations . ( a ) Except as provided in paragraph ( b ) of this section , no person may operate a moored balloon or kite -- ( 1 ) Less than 500 feet from the base of any cloud ; ( 2 ) More than 500 feet above the surface of the earth ; ( 3 ) From an area where the ground visibility is less than three miles ; or ( 4 ) Within five miles of the boundary of any airport . ( b ) Paragraph ( a ) of this section does not apply to the operation of a balloon or kite below the top of any structure and within 250 feet of it , if that shielded operation does not obscure any lighting on the structure . § 101.15 Notice requirements . No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless , at least 24 hours before beginning the operation , he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation : [ contact details , time , altitude etc. ] There are more requirements in 101.17 and 101.19 .
The optimum altitude depends on your aircraft , the engines and the weather . But most important is to decide what you are trying to achieve . If you would like to optimize your fuel consumption per distance travelled , the altitude you will fly at will be higher than if you try to optimize your fuel consumption per time unit . Fuel per distance travelled is usually better at altitude , while fuel flow per time unit is lower at lower altitudes . In other words , if you want to go far , fly high . If you want to keep flying long , fly low . Winds play an important role as well . If you have a strong headwind high up , you might go further staying low . There is quite some difference between reciprocating engines and jet / turbine engines here . The former perform better at lower altitudes , while the latter do just fine until much higher .
This actually varies from country to country . You can use it in the US ( but I cant promise people wont look at you funny ) . In the UK its actually illegal to do so you can see a full discussion <URL> . If you intend on doing this I would advise checking the local laws on what you can and cant do .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
Yes , that is correct procedure , except that if you 're flying an instrument approach , switching to destination altimeter should be part of your approach setup " chart briefing " ( which likely happens before you get handed off to the tower ) . From <URL> ( emphasis mine ) : [ Set the altimeter ] to the current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 NM of the aircraft , or if there is no station within this area , the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station . When an aircraft is en route on an instrument flight plan , air traffic controllers will furnish this information to the pilot at least once while the aircraft is in the controllers area of jurisdiction . In the case of an aircraft not equipped with a radio , set to the elevation of the departure airport or use an appropriate altimeter setting available prior to departure . Unfortunately the AIM text does n't directly address destination altimeter settings , but <URL> alludes to the fact that controllers must verify you have the best destination altimeter setting , either by telling you or by having you report that you have the current ATIS or the AWOS/ASOS broadcast ( " the numbers " for the latter ) : a. Numerous approach control facilities have established programs for arriving VFR aircraft to contact approach control for landing information . This information includes : wind , runway , and altimeter setting at the airport of intended landing . This information may be omitted if contained in the Automatic Terminal Information Service ( ATIS ) broadcast and the pilot states the appropriate ATIS code . b . Such information will be furnished upon initial contact with concerned approach control facility . The pilot will be requested to change to the tower frequency at a predetermined time or point , to receive further landing information . For instrument approaches under IFR , setting and checking the altimeter to the destination 's setting should be part of your approach briefing checklist . My personal " checklist " includes the altimeter setting as part of the weather information when I get to the bottom of the chart and check ATIS/ASOS/AWOS numbers against the approach minimums . Interestly enough , the FAA 's <URL> does n't have much to say on altimeter settings at all ( except for mentioning that keeping the setting up to date is important and that bad things can happen if you do n't ) .
The speed at which the shadow of the Moon crosses the Earth varies according to time of day and latitude . However , 1500mph is a good starting point . The only supersonic commercial aircraft to enter service was Concorde , top speed around 1350mph . And , of course , Concorde is now out of service . Flying something subsonic along the path of totality will give a longer view , but most airliners top out at around 600mph . You 've really no chance of keeping up with it . You 're probably better off finding a spot with a good view and enjoying your 2.5 minutes ! Nasa have a range of materials dedicated to this . If you fancy a little mental gymnastics take a look at <URL> . In particular , download the PDF worksheet and do the maths !
Say you are flying on a route that requires an even level , but you would like an odd level such as FL350 . The phraseology to use would be Request FL350 The rest is up to ATC . Depending on local agreements and the current situation , we may be able to grant you the level right away , maybe we need to pick up the phone and talk to downstream sectors or maybe we ca n't offer the level at all . In any case , there is no harm in asking . Regarding the part of your question that mentions weather , if you are requesting a level change because of extreme weather ( such as moderate/severe turbulence or icing ) , state so in your request . We will then handle your request with higher priority , and you are more likely to get the different level . Request FL350 due to moderate icing
end question
start question
Is a safety pilot required to share costs ?
This actually came up <URL> recently -- the answer ( if only the two pilots are on board ) is a qualified " No " , not because the time is n't " compensation " but because the safety pilot is a required crewmember for simulated instrument flight . Since both pilots are required crewmembers the safety pilot is not acting as a PIC of a flight carrying passengers <URL> . ( Note however that while neither pilot is in simulated instrument conditions the safety pilot is not required crew , and therefore someone is PIC of a flight carrying at least one passenger - so log your time carefully and try to wrap your head around a " pro rata share " of that mess . ) This is further addressed ( more directly ) in <URL> . Note that if we 're talking about a flight with more than the two pilots on board ( carrying someone who is NOT a required crewmember , like a friend in the back seat ) then the whole thing goes out the window : No matter who is acting as the Legal PIC for the flight they 're " PIC of a flight carrying passengers " , and you 're back to <URL> territory .
An assumed temperature takeoff ( also known as " flex " on Airbus/Fokker aircraft ) is where the engine thrust is reduced to match the performance on a higher-temperature day , up to either the maximum thrust reduction allowed or the maximum assumed temperature that meets takeoff distance requirements . Unlike a derate , assumed temperature takeoffs do not reduce the minimum control speed used for calculating takeoff speeds ( $ V _ { MCG } $ for $ V_1 $ , $ V _ { MCA } $ for $ V_2 $ ) . The minimum selectable temperature is the lowest temperature beyond the flat rating temperature range ( the range of temperatures where maximum thrust is achievable , limited by an engine control unit ) , and the highest temperature is the temperature at which the maximum thrust reduction allowed will be met . Except with specific certification and approval ( such as 40 % flex on the A340 ) , such a procedure must not reduce the thrust beyond 25 % of the nominal takeoff thrust ( either full rate or a takeoff derate ) . For example , the range of assumed temperatures permitted is 30-75 ° C ( flat rated to $ ISA +15 $ , thrust at 75 ° C is 75 % of normal rating ) . The main reason for performing an assumed temperature takeoff is to conserve engine life , therefore reducing maintenance costs . According to Boeing , engine wear exponentially increases with the takeoff thrust used -- with engines costing about 10 million USD each , this has the potential to save a lot of money for airlines . If you are taking off using assumed temperature , you may ( but are not required to ) add thrust to TOGA in the case of an emergency , however if you are using a takeoff derate , you must not increase the thrust beyond the derated N1 , as this could cause a loss of control ( higher thrust = higher actual $ V _ { MCG } $ ) . Not all aircraft allow assumed temperature in conjunction with derates . For example , you can only select a derate or a flex temperature on all Airbus aircraft ( if a derate option is offered ) . NOTE : do not attempt to " copy the jet jocks " in a piston aircraft and attempt a reduced throttle takeoff : only at takeoff throttle levels is extra fuel injected for cooling and reduction beyond this point could result in CHT levels rising to unacceptable levels , increasing the risk of engine damage .
An overview of ATC related avionics can be found on the <URL> . There are a couple of things changing in 2015 . The list below includes change to ATC related avionics requirements in 2015 . In addition other avionic requirements not related to ATC are imposed , but that is outside my field of expertise . Surveillance <URL> <URL> ADS-B ADS-B ( 1090ES ) will be mandated from 7 January 2017 for aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts with an individual certificate of airworthiness first issued on or after 8 June 2016 . For aircraft certified before 8 June 2016 with the same MTOM and max cruise speed class ADS-B will be mandated after 7 June 2020 . Applies to all IFR flights in the European Civil Aviation Conference ( ECAC ) airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Elementary Surveillance ( ELS ) Mode S ELS will be mandated for all aircraft operating according to Instrument Flight Rules from 8 January 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Mode-S Enhanced Surveillance ( EHS ) Mode S EHS will be mandated for new aircraft with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts from 8 January 2015 . For existing aircraft in the same MTOM and max cruise speed class Mode S EHS will be mandated after 7 December 2017 . Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Communication <URL> Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications ( CPDLC ) CPDLC ( VDL Mode 2 ) is mandated above FL285 from 5 February 2015 Applies to all IFR flights in the ECAC airspace , excluding oversea territories . Safety Enhancements <URL> TCAS From 1 December 2015 TCAS II version 7.1 will be mandated for all aircraft build before March 2012 with MTOM > 5700 kg and Max cruise TAS > 250 Kts operating in EU airspace . Aircraft first certified after 1 March 2012 already need to operate with TCAS II version 7.1 . Outside EU airspace , but within ECAC airspace , TCAS version 7.0 is still allowed .
For your specific example , <URL> ( Personnel Licensing ) , section 2.2.4 covers " Validation and Conversion of Foreign Licenses and Ratings . " It states that a holder of a license from a " Contracting State in accordance with ICAO Annex 1 " ( this includes the United States ) is eligible for " validation " of their foreign license . The validation process involves presenting the appropriate documentation of your license , ratings and logbook . For more than just PPL privileges , you must also pass a " skill test " and demonstrate the required knowledge and ability . The conversion ( " validation certificate " ) gives you the same ratings you had on your US license and is valid for 1 year . The FAA has a very similar policy for foreign-to-US license conversion , covered in <URL> . As in the Philippines , the FAA does not require a skills test for private pilot privileges , but a written knowledge test is required for conversion of an instrument rating . <URL> discusses conversion from EASA ( Europe ) to FAA ( US ) . Most other ICAO states recognize each other 's licenses in a similar manner . In all cases you have to present your license and proof of experience , and in some cases pass a written test and/or checkride . I have n't look up the exact regulations for , say , EASA ( Europe ) or CAAC ( China ) but I 'm sure they are n't far off from the examples above . In reality diplomatic considerations probably also come into play : a holder of an Iranian license would probably run into problems attempting to convert/validate their license in Israel , even though both are ICAO-contracting states , since they are n't on very good political terms to say the least . But this will likely be the exception rather than the rule . ( There are only 3 <URL> : Dominica , Liechtenstein and Tuvalu . )
Plan for unexpected weather amid limited options for dealing with it . I 've flown a number of times between Newark ( EWR ) and Halifax NS ( YHZ ) , Moncton NB ( YQM ) , and St Johns , NL ( YYT ) . It can be quite foggy and windy and in the cold months braking action can become a factor . A lack of options can be problematic . When we flew EWR-YHZ we often chose EWR as an alternate and I 've turned around as late as talking to Halifax approach as braking action become NIL and we did n't have gas to wait it out . Going out to YYT we 'd only have enough gas to get to Gander ( YQX ) if we could n't get a good approach in at St Johns . I flew a capable jet under IFR with Cat II approach capabilities so your concerns will be slightly different down low and VFR . Although you are VFR , I 'd play by IFR rules as alternates and fuel is concerned . Plan enroute alternates and carry enough gas to get to your destination and get to your second choice with some gas to spare . The weather can turn quickly and the fog in any of the maritime airports can be thick enough to turn even IFR GA planes away . Have a plan to be able to get on the ground somewhere else . Also consider how fatigue will play into your decision making once you are out there .
As @fooot mentions in the comments it means <URL> , it is not a reference between the difference of <URL> and <URL> as many watch brands commonly reference now . This is a regulation that is intended to clarify the difference between a second hand that references the main dial and one that is on a sub dial . Historically planes may have <URL> where the large second hand is for the chronometer and not the elapsed time clock . <URL> ( <URL> ) You can find what looks like one of the <URL> . It references FAR 91.33 ( which seems to no longer be in place ) <URL> . I can not find any FAA legal interpretation that further defines " sweeping seconds " . On a bit of a side note , <URL> .
You 're right that two airports can share the same 3-letter code , but they 're not necessarily IATA codes ( they could actually be <URL> , or just locally assigned codes ) . In implementing <URL> in <URL> , for commands like , I needed to find a way to reliably convert IATA codes to ICAO codes . I ended up using the same source as you linked to , and imported the columns we needed into MySQL . A quick query shows 65 ( i.e. > = 130 ) duplicates : The problem is , that IATA <URL> several thousand dollars for access to their list . So OurAirports attempts to collect all the known IATA codes , but it is user-editable , like Wikipedia . So there are inaccuracies in their database ; and as I mentioned , there is some overlap between IATA/FAA/local . The actual IATA codes <URL> ( although <URL> ) .
For any <URL> , the event must have a probability of 50 % at least ( that is more than playing playing heads or tails ) . Related US <URL> for AIRMET Z : AIRMETs are issued every 6 hours , where there is a 50 % probability that any of the following en-route weather phenomena will cover an area of 3000 square miles or greater . Phenomena for AIRMET Z are : Icing : Areas of moderate airframe icing , other than convectively induced , including the areal extent . Freezing Level information is included after AIRMETs for moderate icing or statements indicating that no significant icing is expected . Freezing level is defined as : The lowest freezing level above the ground or at the SFC as appropriate . Freezing levels are delineated using high altitude VOR locations describing the location of the lowest freezing level above the ground or SFC as appropriate . Freezing levels above the ground are delineated at 4000 feet intervals above mean sea level ( AMSL ) . Multiple freezing levels above the ground are delineated using " BOUNDED BY " followed by high altitude VOR locations . The range of freezing levels across the forecast area is also included . G-AIRMETs , the graphical version , are issued every 3 hours ( but still describe the next 6 hours ) .
Special VFR is used to leave or enter a control zone coming from or continuing the flight in airspace G ( Golf ) , when the weather minima for VFR flight are not met within the control zone , but would be met in airspace G. Example : Airspace G ( Golf ) requires a visibility of 1.5 km and aircraft need to remain clear of clouds . Airspace D ( Delta ) requires a visibility of 5km and 1000ft vertical and 1.5 km horizontal separation to clouds . If the weather report would show a visibility of 4km/4000m and a cloud base of 1400ft , the flight would be allowed in airspace G but not in airspace D. Requesting Special VFR within a control zone will drop the VFR weather requirements to the values required for airspace G , so flight may enter or leave the controlzone . The lower visibility requirements are compensated for in the control zone by stricter separation requirements between aircraft . SVFR is separated to SVFR and IFR traffic .
This one I found in the FAA Helicopter Instructor 's Handbook In the United States , <URL> covers this . For the Flight Crew , you are required to obtain either a commercial or airline transport pilot certificate - rotorcraft helicopter with additional ratings for external load carriage . This rating can be obtained only at the behest of the chief pilot licensed for external loads and under the employ of an operator holding an external loads certificate and requires both a knowledge test and a practical test as prescribed in Part 133 . The helicopter in question must hold a valid restricted category airworthiness certificate and must have been designated for the carriage of external loads on its type certificate or by STC per Parts 21 , 27 and 29 . The operator must hold a current Rotorcraft Helicopter External Load operator 's certificate which must be renewed every 24 calendar months .
It is possible to drive the two rotors of the V-22 Osprey from a single engine using a segmented driveshaft connecting both engine shafts via gearboxes : <URL> The drive shaft is depicted in blue in the left wing . <URL> Each engine drives its own rotor and the connecting shaft . If one fails the same rotation speed is maintained , but each rotor receives now half the power of the remaining engine . A similar mechanism is also used on the CH-47 Chinook family : <URL> <URL> This is a CH-47 Chinook green drive shaft : <URL> <URL> On aircraft with two distant rotors , it is vital to have both rotating , as if one slows or stops the aircraft is unbalanced to the extend it crashes .
The <URL> says yes granted the cockpit is approved and the required additional equipment is met ( refer to EASA AFM ) . Minimum Flight Crew : One pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) plus additional equipment as specified in the Limitations Section of the EASA Approved Airplane Flight Manual The related note : Approval for operation with a minimum crew of one pilot ( in the left pilot seat ) is based upon the cockpit equipment installation and arrangement evaluated during ANAC certification testing . No significant changes may be made to the installed cockpit equipment or arrangement ( EFIS , autopilot , avionics , etc. ) , except as permitted by the approved MMEL , without prior approval from the responsible Aircraft Certification Office .
First , can a pilot without an HP endorsement act as safety pilot in an HP aircraft ? Since <URL> only requires a safety pilot to have category and class ratings , there 's no need to have any additional endorsements . That 's confirmed in <URL> : there is no regulatory requirement that a safety pilot have a high performance endorsement to act as safety pilot The same document says that safety pilots are " encouraged to be thoroughly familiar and current in the aircraft that is used " - which is great advice - but that 's it . As for the flight conditions ( IMC/VMC ) and rules ( IFR/VFR ) , I 'm not sure what you 're asking . Is either pilot IFR current ? If not , then the flight can only be VFR . <URL> might be relevant .
The requirements are in <URL> , Chief instructor qualifications . They 're too long to quote here in full and the exact requirements depend on the type of instruction , but in summary : Hold a commercial or ATP certificate Hold a CFI certificate Pass knowledge and proficiency tests Meet minimum flight time requirements ( depending on the type of instruction , e.g. 1000 hrs PIC time is required for private pilot instruction ) Meet minimum flight training time requirements For training pilots for an instrument rating , the chief instructor also needs an instrument rating , instrument flight time and instrument training experience .
<URL> , is a broadcast of the aircraft 's position and other information . The position is determined by a GPS receiver . It is possible to use another qualified position source , but today it is <URL> . Other GNSS ( Galileo , GLONASS , Bei-Dou ) are other likely candidates in the future , but as far as I know , none have been certified for ADS-B yet . The broadcast is usually by the Mode S transponder but can also be done by a dedicated transmitter / transceiver in the Mode S format and frequency ( 1090 MHz ) . In the USA below 18 000 ft , in addition to the Mode S based ADS-B , a system based on Universal Access Transceiver ( UAT ) is used . This operates on 978 MHz A third broadcast system was VDL mode 4 , it was never rolled out on large scale . So ADS-B uses GPS to determine the position and it operates either on 1090 MHz ( a frequency also used by Mode S ) or 978 MHz to broadcast information .
None of the avionics systems I 've worked on have used Linux or any consumer-type operating system . There are a few main issues . First is the practical . Most safety-critical avionics involve a control loop and thus have a real-time requirement . That means it 's not just important to run a process and get an answer , you need to get the answer within a tightly-controlled time constraint . Every critical software process on an aircraft is scheduled to ensure that you have a stable control loop . To do that , you need a real-time OS and Linux is n't one . Second is the need for certification . Software used on an aircraft has to be developed to meet the appropriate development assurance level ( DAL ) for the associated hazard level . Safety critical systems are required to meet DAL level " A " . Any OS you use has to meet the same DAL as the function running on it . These requirements are defined in RTCA <URL> . Linux was n't developed to this standard . There are only a few OS/software development platforms that are capable of being certified . Green Hills , Wind River , and LynxOS are the few systems I 'm familiar with that meet the requirements . There is also one other constraint in that certification requires very stringent version control . Avionics will exist in the field for many years and any changes to it have to be certified as well . Generally , there 's no valid reason to update the OS on an old unit , and in many cases you could n't without upgrading hardware ( which is a bigger expense no one wants ) . So in updating an old unit I have to build the ' new ' software to run on the whatever version of OS currently exists in the product . That could be a 15 or 20 years old ( or older ) platform . A rapidly evolving OS such as Linux would have a negative impact on long term product support .
For many medium and large sized jets the maximum gross takeoff weight is higher than the maximum landing weight . If the airplane has an emergency that requires an air return or other landing in the early part of flight , it is very likely overweight for landing . The plane has 3 options at this point : Land overweight Dump fuel ( if able ) Fly around at low altitude and high power to burn fuel For some airplanes , option 2 is not available . This includes airplanes that are not equipped to dump fuel ( not all airplanes have this capability or have the capability under MEL ) or are not approved to dump fuel at their current location and altitude . For these airplanes , only option 1 and 3 are available . The choice between option 1 and 2/3 comes down to what kind of emergency it is . If you have to be on the ground now , you wo n't care about being overweight , and will just put it down . If you have time and landing now is n't a priority , then you would choose to dump or burn fuel . If an airplane chooses to dump , they will generally choose one of two values of remaining fuel : fuel such that they land at the maximum landing weight absolute minimum safe fuel to land This choice comes down to how likely the landing will end in an accident . If you are sure the landing will be a non-event ( e.g. air return for anti-ice failure ) then you 'll likely just dump until landing wont be overweight . Conversely , if you have a control issue or something that may end badly , you want minimum fuel to lessen the potential for fire . In these cases the ARFF crew will spray the runway with foam to assist in reducing the fire potential .
There are a few stages where ice prevention or mitigation is relevant . <URL> Very broadly speaking De-Icing activated when airframe ice is noticed . Anti-Ice is activated when a Pilot believes they may enter icing conditions . Ground based De-Ice is applied when icing conditions prevail in the area . Before Takeoff Most , if not all commercial airports offer de-ice facilities if geographically relevant . After the crash of <URL> the FAA took a bit of a harder stance on De-Ice and now stresses the need for mobile De-Ice units to allow planes to be De-Iced without leaving the taxi queue as well as permanent stations as they have always had . A lot of their suggestions are covered in <URL> as well as <URL> . In this case both airline procedure and FAA regulations will dictate the need for De-Ice . Strictly speaking according to <URL> a dispatcher can hold an aircraft if they feel it is not correctly De-Iced . However by the same law a pilot can hold their own departure for the same reason . En Route Once in the air there are a few ways things happen , but generally its ultimately up to the pilot to activate the De-Ice system . On one hand the aircraft POH will more than likely have guidance on when to do this , however , airlines may implement further ( and more strict ) procedures . Some aircraft are equipped with systems that automatically activate in the presence of ice build up . Once in route there are <URL> , Anti Ice : prevents the build up of ice in the first place , heated leading edges etc. . These are activated before entering icing conditions . De-Ice systems : like boots these systems remove ice once its built up . In this case you need to actually enter the conditions and allow the ice to build up first . <URL> The temperature depends on the cloud type but generally speaking low temperature and higher moisture content will create worse issues . <URL> ( <URL> ) Pilots will be alerted to <URL> . These are often quite broad area AIRMET 's . If a pilot believes they are potentially flying into icing conditions they should keep an eye on the airframe for structural icing build up . Many airplanes have icing lights to help at night with this . A pilot can activate the De-Ice system at any point if they feel it is needed .
To obtain approval to fly to Cuba you must first sumbit an application for an OFAC ( Office of Foreign Assets Control ) License through their <URL> website or by mail : Office of Foreign Assets Control U.S. Department of the Treasury Treasury Annex 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue , NW Washington , DC 20220 Once you have your OFAC license , that completes your US legal requirements , as far as I 'm aware . * There are other requirements that you have to fulfill to receive a Cuban visa upon entering , but since you have asked about obtaining US approval I have n't looked into that in detail . For the record , this is the same method that anyone would use to travel to Cuba . Pilots flying to Cuba must ensure that all their passengers also have their own individual OFAC license . * I am not a lawyer . Please do not consider this to be legal advice . I would recommend calling OFAC and inquiring for further help with the process . Sources : <URL> <URL>
Yes , the " competent observer " is a required crewmember in that situation , by definition . According to <URL> : Crewmember means a person assigned to perform duty in an aircraft during flight time . Clearly , a " competent observer " operating as such under § 91.109 ( c ) ( 2 ) is a person assigned to perform a duty in an aircraft during flight time ; such an observer is therefore a crewmember . The operator is required to operate the aircraft with that observer performing their observation duties , and that person is therefore a required crewmember . There are no other requirements as to who this person may or may not be other than the qualifying term " competent " . The aircraft operator bears the burden of determining the observer 's competency . One might argue that a certified pilot would be a competent observer . An implied question here might be , is this competent observer a required crewmember that is able to log time for the performance of their duties ? To this I would say , no , there is no provision in 14 CFR 61 for the logging of flight time for a person designated as an " observer " , competent or otherwise . EDIT to further explain the above paragraph in consideration of discussion in the comments : <URL> allows pilots to log PIC and SIC time for flight in , among other conditions , " aircraft for which more than one pilot is required under the [ ... ] regulations under which the flight is conducted " . The " qualified observer " is indeed required in the situation in question , but need not be a pilot , and -- unless otherwise qualified -- is not acting as one of the required pilots in an " aircraft for which more than one pilot is required under the [ ... ] regulations under which the flight is conducted " . Obviously , if the person fulfilling the duties of a " competent observer " is otherwise also a required pilot , then the pilot may log the flight time as the required pilot .
end question
start question
Are all the engines on a multi-engine plane the same ?
Generally yes , but not always . If you include the <URL> as an engine , the answer would need to be different , but I understand your question concerns just the engines used for propulsion . For jets , the direction of rotation does n't make much of a difference , so the same engines can be used on all stations . However , with propellers the swirl does influence flying characteristics , especially at low speed , so special left - and right turning versions of turboprop and piston engines are available . Maintenance and logistics become much simpler if only one type of engine is used . In the past , not so much emphasis was placed on this , so some airplanes used different types of engines . Examples were : <URL> , which combined piston and jet engines in the same airframe <URL> , which used a Junkers L88 inboard and a Junkers L8 outboard . Later , the outboard engines were also changed to the L88 . This can be seen from the number of propeller blades : If the outer engines drive a two-bladed propeller , it is the earlier version with the L8 . <URL> , which was almost a four-engined jet , because it had a small , tail-mounted RB-162 engine in addition to the three tail-mounted RB-163 Spey to provide thrust on takeoff . <URL> , which used a bigger front and a smaller rear engine .
It is called " inboard aileron " or " high-speed aileron " and is actually a flaperon . It will deflect with the flaps but not extend backwards . At high speed , the outboard ailerons are locked and all roll control is achieved by deflecting the inboard ailerons ( and spoilers , if needed ) . This helps to reduce wing torsion and twist . Background : Since the trailing edge 's sweep angle has a break at the wing station of the engine , and since in Boeing aircraft the flaps extend perpendicularly to the hinge line , there must be a gap between inboard and outboard flaps , otherwise they would collide during extension . This gap is best placed in the station of the engine blast , and is filled with a simple hinged flap . Note that Airbus aircraft have rear-sliding flaps , which stay at a constant span location and can be adjacent to each other even at the wing station of the sweep change . Boeing 767 from below . Picture by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) The picture is of a Boeing 767 , but shows the flap arrangement nicely . Note the offset of the forward and rear part of the Küchemann bodies which house the flap tracks .
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau did a report titled : <URL> This report specifically covers this and found that the accident rate was three times higher in kit built - vs - similar factory build aircraft : What did this report do The ATSB investigated the safety history of amateur-built aircraft in Australia through analysis of accident data held in the ATSB 's occurrence database from 1988 to 2010 . Comparisons were made between accidents involving amateur-built aircraft and those involving similar factory-built aircraft to help identify whether the rate and types of accidents differed between these two groups of aircraft . What the ATSB found Amateur-built aircraft had an accident rate three times higher than comparable factory-built certified aircraft conducting similar flight operations between 1988 and 2010 . The fatal and serious injury accident rate was over five times higher in amateur-built aircraft , in particular due to relatively more serious injury accidents . The pilots of amateur-built aircraft involved in accidents were significantly more experienced overall than factory-built aircraft accident pilots . However , they were significantly less experienced on the aircraft type that they were flying at the time of the accident . Over half of the accidents were precipitated by mechanical events , which were mainly complete or partial engine failures . Following the amateur-built phase one test period , mechanical failures were still significantly more common when compared with factory-built aircraft . A quarter of accidents were from loss of aircraft control . Structural failures were not common precursors in amateur-built aircraft . Collision with terrain and forced landing accidents were more frequent in amateur-built aircraft . Collisions with terrain , hard landings , and runway excursions were more likely to result in a serious injury from an amateur-built aircraft accident than for factory-built accidents . On the other hand , the EAA says that homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate of less than 1 % higher than the general aviation fleet in their <URL> , but this did n't compare homebuilt to factory built in similar models : How Safe Are Amateur-Built/Homebuilt Aircraft ? Studies by FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board ( NTSB ) show that Amateur-Built/Homebuilt aircraft have an accident rate less than one percentage point higher than the general aviation fleet . In fact , the accident rate for Amateur-Built/homebuilt aircraft is dropping . The total number of registered homebuilt aircraft is increasing by about 1,000 per year , while the total number of accidents has stayed virtually the same . Another good barometer of safety is insurance rates . Companies that insure both homebuilts and production aircraft charge about the same rates for owners of either type of airplane . That indicates a similar level of risk .
In the light aircraft world there are a few trade-offs to consider . The short version : Single-Engine Pros : Simplicity One engine means fewer controls , a simpler fuel system , simpler vacuum system , simpler electrical system , etc. . Operational cost Only one engine to feed , so you spend less on - fuel &amp; oil per flight . Maintenance cost Only one engine to maintain - One set of spark plugs &amp; cylinders , One engine to overhaul . Single-Engine Cons : No redundancy : You have one engine , if it fails you 're a glider . Singles generally tend to have less spacious cabins than twins . Twin-Engine pros : Redundancy If you lose an engine the other will give you a chance to get to a landing site . Cabin space If you step up beyond " twin trainers " you can get a very nice cabin in a piston twin . Equipment Again , if you step up beyond the " twin trainers " twin-engine planes tend to be " traveling aircraft " , so they often come with nice features like deice/anti-ice equipment . Twin-Engine cons : Operating costs Two engines to feed ( fuel &amp; oil costs double ) . Maintenance costs Two engines mean twice the cylinders , twice the spark plugs , etc. . Complexity The redundancy you can get in a twin comes at a price : Synchronizing the propellers , a more complex fuel system ( crossfeed ) , paralleling alternators , vacuum system failover , etc. . Short and Soft field performance can be lacking . Failure of an engine <URL> . In addition to the operational considerations there are some other practical items to consider : twin-engine aircraft require a multi-engine rating ( which means more training time ) . Twins will also generally be more expensive to purchase/rent ( and may be more difficult to rent when away from home ) , and will likely cost more to insure ( particularly for low-time pilots ) .
Note <URL> : ( c ) Aircraft category , class , and type ratings : Limitations on the carriage of persons , or operating for compensation or hire . Unless a person holds a category , class , and type rating ( if a class and type rating is required ) that applies to the aircraft , that person may not act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying another person , or is operated for compensation or hire . That person also may not act as pilot in command of that aircraft for compensation or hire . Since you will have the Category and Class rating , then you may carry another person . Your old license says : Your new license will say : You may fly under part 91 ASEL , AMEL , and IFR You may fly part 119 or 135 ( or other commercial operations ) AMEL and IFR1 . You may NOT fly part 119 or 135 or any commercial operations ASEL . If you want to fly ASEL in a commercial operation , you will need to upgrade your ASEL by passing another commercial checkride in an ASEL . This is the back of my certificate . I took the ASES checkride when I had a Private certificate . 1 . Assuming you have the correct medical and any other checkouts you may need
DAL started in the software world with DO-178 , but it has been extended to the entire development process . This is documented in <URL> Guidelines For Development Of Civil Aircraft and Systems and <URL> Guidelines and Methods for Conducting the Safety Assessment Process on Civil Airborne Systems and Equipment . But to the direct question , <URL> Safety Analysis , describes the safety levels required for the engine . Matching the wording there ( 3 ) The applicant must show that hazardous engine effects are predicted to occur at a rate not in excess of that defined as extremely remote ( probability range of 10 − 7 to 10 − 9 per engine flight hour ) . with ARP4761 , it is describing DAL B . So I would have to agree with the speaker . But I will offer one point of personal experience which is that one FAA certification officer insisted the DAL for the FADEC software should be DAL A . The argument is that a common mode fault in the FADEC software could result in simultaneous loss of both engines . One other fine point of certification is that complying with Part 33 allows you to get a Type Certificate for the engine . That does n't mean it meets all the requirements necessary to allow an aircraft with that engine installed receive an aircraft Type Certificate ( under Parts 23 or 25 ) .
This situation is due to usually 2 + sectors being worked . Each sector will use its own frequency when split . When these sectors get combined , one of 2 things will happen . 1 ) The controller will just work with both sectors frequencies keyed up and be listening on both and transmitting on both and have everyone go to the approrpriate frequency for the sector they 're in or near . 2 ) The controller wants everyone on one frequency and has everyone going into those sector 's that they are working to be on just one frequency . Frequency congestion and capability ( if the transmitters/receivers are different locations for the different frequencies ) are also factors .
Since the pilot wo n't check-in their flight bag , the booking will be cancelled ( no-show ) . They wo n't board with the passengers , so they wo n't be counted , same end result . Answer is no . Many airlines now prohibit active duty ( including relief ) flight-crew from mingling with the passengers . Long gone are the days of the pilot walking up and down the plane . That would be the most expensive shower in the history of showers . A first-class Emirates long haul flight is easily $ 24,000 ( SFO-DXB ) . <URL> are beds for a reason , a shower goes against the idea of sleeping ( may not be a universal thing though ) . But I would n't want to see my flight-crew in a robe going to bed after a nice warm shower . Unless the robe comes with epaulets .
AVTUR stands for AViation TURbine Fuel and is equivalent to JP-1 , at least in the UK and in as much as JP-1 no longer exists . I believe that the US military equivalent is JP8 which is Jet-A1 with additional additives , which differs from commercial Jet-A only by a lower freezing point . <URL> for Avtur with is the same defstan as for Jet-A1 . <URL> to an Exxon document gives a great deal of information for various aviation fuel oils . [ EDIT ] <URL> JP-8 is the military equivalent of Jet A-1 with the addition of corrosion inhibitor and anti-icing additives ; it meets the requirements of the U.S. Military Specification MIL-T-83188D . It is the dominant military jet fuel grade for NATO airforces . The UK also have a specification for this grade namely DEF STAN 91-87 AVTUR/FSII ( formerly DERD 2453 ) . NATO Code F-34 .
Yes <URL> <URL> ( 2002 ) <URL> ( 2002 ) JetBlue Airways is the first U.S. carrier to get approval from the Federal Aviation Administration to install video cameras on all its airplanes . JetBlue is a successful start-up carrier based at New York 's John F. International Kennedy airport . Soon after the Sept. 11 hijackings , the airline installed bullet-proof cockpit doors on all its planes . And it was the first carrier to match all luggage to passengers . The airline has outfitted one plane with the video surveillance system , and plans to have its 23 other jets equipped with the miniature cameras within the next few months . The cameras are positioned to cover the entire cabin . Some are visible , others are hidden so they can not be tampered with <URL> ( 2008 ) The European Union 's Security of Aircraft in the Future European Environment ( SAFEE ) project uses a camera in every passenger 's seat , with six wide-angle cameras to survey the aisles . Software then analyses the footage to detect developing terrorist activity or " air-rage " incidents , by tracking passengers ' facial expressions . <URL> ( 2012/2013 ? ) KID-Systeme has been selected to supply cabin surveillance equipment for the Airbus A350 XWB family of aircraft . The integrated solution will include both a cockpit door surveillance system ( CDSS ) and a cabin video monitoring system ( CVMS ) . The CDSS provides pilots with a clear view of anyone in the area of the cockpit door , enabling them to take the appropriate action when entry to the cockpit is requested . The CVMS allows both the pilots and the cabin crew to view passengers .
The primary reason is probably that it ensures there is no confusion between passengers , crew , or infants . Technically , " passengers " is the number of seats occupied , " crew " is both the pilots and flight attendants on duty . So any small children brought on as " lap children " will not be included in the " passengers " count , but should be included in the total number of people on board . I found another interesting point <URL> , which is that dead bodies are sometimes transported as well . In this case , some might consider these " people " as well . Also , in an incident , the bodies should not be confused with the regular passengers . So , " souls " effectively communicates the number of living humans on board . There may certainly be holdovers from the maritime influences on aviation as well .
Engine placement was a tricky question when jets were introduced , and much has been learned since then . The initial idea was to mount them inside the fuselage or wing root . When they grew too big , they were closely mounted to the wing ( " underslung " position , like in the <URL> , the <URL> or the early <URL> ) . However , the underslung position has two disadvantages : More of the leading and trailing edges is obstructed , blocking space that would otherwise be used for slats and flaps . Consequently , an underslung position reduces maximum lift . The center of gravity of the engine is too far back . Moving it more forward helps to place the center of gravity of the wing ahead of its elastic line . Bending will now create an opposing inertial moment , which is very helpful to dampen flutter . Starting to move the engine downwards away from the wing initially increases drag , because now a narrow slot opens between both with a tendency to separated flow . Only when the engine is moved downwards enough , the drag of the wing-engine arrangement reaches its minimum . This placement was chosen in the next generation of jets like the <URL> or the <URL> . Moving it still further down makes the pylon longer and thus increases the total drag again . The big diameters of modern high-bypass ratio engines make it impractical to move it down enough to reach the drag minimum , but by moving it forward , the engine can again be lifted up , so a shorter landing gear becomes possible . Vortex generators are added if that pesky separation between engine and nacelle can not be avoided .
Long story short is that the manufacturers instructions take precedence over all . <URL> requires that at each annual and 100 hr the compression be checked and that if there is " weak " compression further inspection of condition and tolerances of the engine have to be made . Now the term " weak " is kind of broad . <URL> states : If a cylinder has less than a 60/80 reading on the differential test gauges on a hot engine , and procedures in paragraphs 8-14b ( 5 ) ( i ) and ( j ) fail to raise the compression reading , the cylinder must be removed and inspected . However , it also states : This advisory circular ( AC ) contains methods , techniques , and practices acceptable to the Administrator for the inspection and repair of nonpressurized areas of civil aircraft , only when there are no manufacturer repair or maintenance instructions . So the gist of it seems to be that if the compression is below 60/80 on a hot engine IN GENERAL , then yes it needs to be removed and inspected , UNLESS the manufacturers instructions state otherwise . Keep in mind Advisory Circulars are guidelines and not regulatory in nature although they are usually used as best practice guides . There is a great AVweb article <URL> that has more in depth analysis .
I get this question a lot from people who are apprehensive about flying with a private pilot . I 'm afraid I wo n't be reducing these fears in any way . Let 's review some general statistics during 2008 . Note - these stats are n't specific to light or single engine aircraft : <URL> reported there were 1.21 fatalities per 100,000 flight hours for private aircraft ( Part 91 operators ) . <URL> reported there were 1.26 fatalities per 100 million miles travelled by automobile We can equate that to about 2 million hours ( estimating an average speed of 50mph ) . This gives us 0.063 fatalities per 100,000 driving hours . Private aircraft have a fatality rate about 19 times greater than driving . It is also true that a majority of the accidents that occur are pilot error ( 71 % ) and could have been prevented . There are risks involved when taking to the sky as a private pilot and understanding these risks is part of the continual learning process . The key to safety is performing careful planning , keeping current and proficient , knowing when to cancel flights or turn around and not to exceed your capabilities or the capabilities of your aircraft .
The differences are surprisingly small , and the implications of two versus four engines are not very great as far as design of the wing is concerned . Weight implications The wing is an immensely strong structure - after all , it 's able to bear the weight of the entire aircraft , including of course the engines . Engines are heavy , but only a small fraction of the weight of the whole aircraft . A similar aircraft with four engines rather than two will have smaller engines , so the total weight difference will not be large . Space implications You need more space to fit two engines on each side , but not a vast amount . For example , the <URL> has four remarkably small <URL> engines . What 's more , four small engines can be easier to mount , because they need less ground clearance . Same wings , more engines In practice , it 's not very difficult to add engines to a wing ( for aircraft companies , that is ; I do n't think I 'd be able to do it without seeing someone do it first at least once ) . For example , <URL> - obviously , this engine is just being carried , not used , but it shows that simply placing the engine there does n't present insurmountable aerodynamic or other engineering difficulties . And then we have the Airbus <URL> / <URL> , designed and built in parallel , which are essentially the same aircraft - same fuselage and same wing - one with two engines and one with four . ( Actually the -500 and -600 A340 variants do have slightly longer wings , but that 's because they are heavier , and nothing to do with the additional engines . ) That 's not to say that there are no implications in having additional engines . In this case , wing flutter caused by the outboard engines of the A340 required some stiffening . And of course , additional engines will require additional fuel and control lines . However , these are n't part of the structure of the wing itself , and are not in themselves likely to have implications for it .
Actually , it does n't matter whether you are a Private pilot or an ATP , the requirements for a type rating are in the <URL> , which apply regardless of the aircraft type . In the PTS , it says : Practical Test Book Description This practical test book contains the Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards -- Airplane . The Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards -- Airplane includes Areas of Operation and Tasks for the initial issuance of an airline transport pilot certificate and for the addition of category , class , and aircraft type ratings to an airline transport pilot certificate . These Areas of Operation and Tasks also apply for the issuance of an airplane type rating to a private or commercial pilot certificate . You basically cover everything needed for the ATP . The differences between the different airplanes come out during the practical test just like they do for any other checkride . The examiner ( who will be typed in the airplane ) asks you about the things that are specific to each airplane , but this is n't really a lot different than him asking you questions specific to a Cessna or a Piper during your private pilot checkride . The PTS specifies general Areas of Operation 's instead of saying exactly what needs to be tested for every aircraft type . Here they are for a type rating : Section 1 : Preflight Preparation Areas of Operation I. Preflight Preparation Task A : Equipment Examination Task B : Performance and Limitations Task C : Water and Seaplane Characteristics ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Seaplane Bases , Maritime Rules , and Aids to Marine Navigation ( AMES/ASES ) Section 2 : Preflight Procedures , Inflight Maneuvers , and Postflight Procedures Areas of Operation II . Preflight Procedures Task A : Preflight Inspection Task B : Powerplant Start Task C : TAXIING Task D : Sailing ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Seaplane Base/Water Landing Site Markings and Lighting ( AMES , ASES ) Task F : Pre-Takeoff Checks III . Takeoff and Departure Phase Task A : Normal and Crosswind Takeoff Task B : Glassy Water Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task C : Rough Water Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Confined-Area Takeoff and Climb ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Instrument Takeoff Task F : Powerplant Failure during Takeoff Task G : Rejected Takeoff Task H : Departure Procedures IV . Inflight Maneuvers Task A : Steep Turns Task B : Approaches to Stalls and Stall Recovery Task C : Powerplant Failure -- Multiengine Airplane Task D : Powerplant Failure -- Single -- Engine Airplane Task E : Specific Flight Characteristics Task F : Recovery from Unusual Attitudes V. Instrument Procedures Task A : Standard Terminal Arrival/Flight Management System Procedures Task B : Holding Task C : Precision Approaches ( PA ) Task D : Nonprecision Approaches ( NPA ) Task E : Circling Approach Task F : Missed Approach VI . Landings and Approaches to Landings Task A : Normal and Crosswind Approaches and Landings Task B : Landing from a Precision Approach Task C : Approach and Landing with ( Simulated ) Powerplant Failure -- Multiengine Airplane Task D : Landing From a Circling Approach Task E : Rough Water Approach and Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task F : Glassy Water Approach And Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task G : Confined-Area Approach and Landing ( AMES/ASES ) Task H : Rejected Landing Task I : Landing from a No Flap or a Nonstandard Flap Approach VII . Normal and Abnormal Procedures Task A : Normal and Abnormal Procedures VIII . Emergency Procedures Task A : Emergency Procedures IX . Postflight Procedures Task A : After-Landing Procedures Task B : Anchoring ( AMES/ASES ) Task C : Docking and Mooring ( AMES/ASES ) Task D : Beaching ( AMES/ASES ) Task E : Ramping ( AMES/ASES ) Task F : Parking and Securing
You have confused a turboprop engine with a turbocharged engine . They are very different and have very little in common . A turboprop engine is powered by a turbine engine geared to a propeller . Turbine engines have less power available at higher altitudes so answer " A " is correct . A turbocharged engine is a piston engine which is fitted with a small compressor driven by exhaust gas pressure . The compressor ( turbocharger ) can increase manifold pressure to restore sea level power at altitude . ( Turbo-normalized ) A turbo charger can also supply greater than sea level manifold pressure for more power . ( turbo-supercharged ) Both types of turbocharged piston engines can maintain full rated power as they climb , but they will eventually reach a limit where full power can no longer be maintained .
I would n't worry to much about the mass of the engine . That 's actually not the biggest problem . Instead , I 'd be scared far more by the angular momentum . That turbine has a large moment of inertia and also a higher angular velocity.To flip it , you have to reverse the angular velocity . It 's essentially flipping a gyroscope , but this is a gyroscope weighing several tons .
For subsonic aircraft , the nacelle lips need to be blunt and well rounded to accommodate the different flow regimes encountered during flight . At take-off ( right side of the image below ) , the engine will suck in surrounding air , so the stagnation line of the intake flow is well outside of the center of the lip , whereas in cruise ( left side of the image below ) only the center stream tube of oncoming air is ingested , and much of the air flowing towards the nacelle is spilled over the sides . Accordingly , the stagnation line is well inside of the lip 's center . A sharper lip contour would lead to flow separation due to the small radius ( and hence the rapid change in direction ) the flow would have to endure . <URL> Image from Aerodynamic Design of Transport Aircraft by Ed Obert , 2009 Added to this is the influence of angle of attack , which will shift the stagnation line up or down on the lip . Sideslip will shift it left and right . Nacelles are mounted far ahead of the wing not only for flutter suppression , but also to reduce the wing 's influence on the intake flow . I doubt that the added variations of sideslip would be stronger than those of angle of attack , so I agree with @fooot that more bluntness on the side is unusual . Earlier designs used less blunt lips and had problems with flow separation in the intake at low speed , which led to the addition of <URL> . Today , the intake is optimized with <URL> and this means that the radius may be continuously changing over the circumference , due to the influence of wing and fuselage on the flow around the nacelle . Here I have to disagree with @fooot , because accessories are mounted close to the engine , and intake lips are quite a bit ahead of the engine face in order to equalize the flow . The flow speed at the engine face is around Mach 0.4 to 0.5 , so the intake has to accelerate or decelerate the flow quite a bit , without separation or much cross flow . A lot of that happens already outside of the intake , but still needs some intake length , and most accessories are so far away from the intake lip that they do not influence it 's thickness .
The Suntan project needed all fuselage space to hold three tanks for liquid hydrogen , so the engines had to be placed somewhere else . Placing them near the fuselage would put them in the range of the fuselage 's shock waves . Putting them out on the wing would help with wing bending relief and ensure a clean intake flow . Once they are so far out , you can as well put them on the wingtips , so that they do not cause a pitch-up moment . On the SR-71 , the engines were also placed outside the fuselage and into the wing 's plane , much for the same reasons . Keeping the intake flow uniform is paramount for the undisturbed operation of supersonic intakes , and I assume that Kelly Johnson wanted to make sure that the engines would not suffer an unstart when flying reconnaissance missions over hostile territory . With the little experience in supersonic flight in 1955 it was prudent to avoid built-in pitching moments - after all , the supersonic L/D likely was in the single digits , so an out-of-plane engine placement would had produced more moment than on subsonic aircraft . Hydrogen was selected to achieve the highest possible flight altitude , so the aircraft would be safe from surface-to-air missiles for as long as possible . I initially thought that the wingtip location would enable to cool the hot wing structure by heating up the hydrogen on its way to the engine , but heating was planned to be done with bleed air in a special heat exchanger . Quoting <URL> : The CL-400 design divided the hydrogen tankage into three sections ; the forward tank had a capacity of 67 000 liters ; aft , 54 000 ; and center ( sump ) , 15 000 . The two main tanks were kept at 2.3 atmospheres pressure and the sump tank slightly lower for fuel transfer . In the sump was a booster pump , built by Pesco Products , that supplied liquid hydrogen to the engines at a pressure of 4.4 atmospheres . The engines were mounted at the wing tips , which meant that the liquid hydrogen had to pass through a hot wing with surface temperatures up to 436 K . The design provided a vacuum-jacketed , insulated line for this purpose . Regarding the perceived danger of using hydrogen , <URL> says : Tests were devised in which tanks containing liquid hydrogen under pressure were ruptured . In many cases , the hydrogen quickly escaped without ignition . The experimenters then provided a rocket squib ( a small powder charge ) to ignite the escaping , hydrogen . The resulting fireball quickly dissipated because of the rapid flame speed of hydrogen and its low density . Containers of hydrogen and gasoline were placed side by side and ruptured . When the hydrogen can was ruptured and ignited , the flame quickly dissipated - , but when the same thing was done with gasoline , the gasoline and flame stayed near the container and did much more damage . The gasoline fire was an order of magnitude more severe than the hydrogen fire . The experimenters tried to induce hydrogen to explode , with limited success . In 61 attempts , only two explosions occurred and in both , they had to mix oxygen with the hydrogen . Their largest explosion was produced by mixing a half liter of liquid oxygen with a similar volume of liquid hydrogen . Johnson and Rich were convinced that , with proper care , liquid hydrogen could be handled quite safely and was a practical fuel-a conclusion that was amply verified by the space program in the 1960s . At the time , however , Johnson and Rich filmed their fire and explosion experiments to convince doubters . When work on Suntan started , liquid hydrogen was a laboratory curiosity . Preparing the infrastructure needed for operating the CL-400 , the Suntan project led to the building of large-scale liquid hydrogen plants . Their availability paved the way for the cryogenic rockets of the Apollo program ! Interestingly , a similar engine location was selected by the Russian design bureaus <URL> and <URL> supersonic bomber in the mid-50s . It was started after news of the US Weapon System 110 ( which later led to the XB-70 ) reached Russia and was similarly cancelled after two prototypes had been built and only one aircraft had flown . <URL> M-50 during display in 1961 at Tushino airshow ( picture <URL> ) . Note the similarity of the Mig-21 and M-50 planform - both originated from the same work done at <URL> . Placing the outer engines below the wing would had caused ground contact on rotation . Speaking of rotation : The M-50 had two central gears and the bomb bay between them , and the main gear had to be placed so far aft that the M-50 could not be rotated the usual way with the elevator . So the engineers devised what they called the " galloping bicycle " . When the aircraft reached 300 km/h , the forward gear rapidly extended to rotate it to 10 ° . Placing the outer engines B-58-like below the wing would had required an even longer gear .
end question
start question
What is required for a pilot to fly in another country ?
For your specific example , <URL> ( Personnel Licensing ) , section 2.2.4 covers " Validation and Conversion of Foreign Licenses and Ratings . " It states that a holder of a license from a " Contracting State in accordance with ICAO Annex 1 " ( this includes the United States ) is eligible for " validation " of their foreign license . The validation process involves presenting the appropriate documentation of your license , ratings and logbook . For more than just PPL privileges , you must also pass a " skill test " and demonstrate the required knowledge and ability . The conversion ( " validation certificate " ) gives you the same ratings you had on your US license and is valid for 1 year . The FAA has a very similar policy for foreign-to-US license conversion , covered in <URL> . As in the Philippines , the FAA does not require a skills test for private pilot privileges , but a written knowledge test is required for conversion of an instrument rating . <URL> discusses conversion from EASA ( Europe ) to FAA ( US ) . Most other ICAO states recognize each other 's licenses in a similar manner . In all cases you have to present your license and proof of experience , and in some cases pass a written test and/or checkride . I have n't look up the exact regulations for , say , EASA ( Europe ) or CAAC ( China ) but I 'm sure they are n't far off from the examples above . In reality diplomatic considerations probably also come into play : a holder of an Iranian license would probably run into problems attempting to convert/validate their license in Israel , even though both are ICAO-contracting states , since they are n't on very good political terms to say the least . But this will likely be the exception rather than the rule . ( There are only 3 <URL> : Dominica , Liechtenstein and Tuvalu . )
For a foreigner to come to USA to learn to fly , one would need an <URL> or <URL> visa . <URL> provides some information . You can get more information on <URL> 1 . Also , you can look at this meta question : <URL> Update : It appears that you are already in the US on <URL> visa ( it was n't mentioned in the question ) , you need to go through the security clearances mentioned in <URL> ( official version on <URL> ) . AOPA has put together the related information ( <URL> ) . I also found about <URL> 1 which has outlined the process . If you search on Google about Alien Flight Student Program , you will find a ton of information . 1 : Disclaimer I am not advertising any flight school .
Airbus fly-by-wire aircraft have what is called envelope protection which is to prevent pilot inputs from exceeding structural limits as well as keep them from getting the aircraft into an upset flight regime ( stall , overbank , etc. ) . The philosophy behind it is that , if the pilots need to perform an extreme maneuver they can be as aggressive with the controls as they want , confident that they wo n't break the plane . Boeing generally disagrees with this approach saying that , in an emergency , the pilot needs to have all possible force at his disposal , even if it breaks the plane . See the <URL> Federico linked to in comments for more on this . Of course , the Airbus system can only provide these protections when systems are all functioning properly . If part of the system is not working the protections are removed . Examples : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , As far as AA587 , the A-300 is not a fly-by-wire aircraft and does n't have envelope protections . It 's debatable , though , if envelope protection would have helped in that situation . None of the rudder inputs by itself was outside of the structural limitations of the aircraft so the computer would probably not have prevented them . The failure was due to the inputs being made in quick succession which quickly fatigued the composite material of the rudder . The computer can be programmed to know , for instance , how much g-force the structure can take . But it would be difficult to determine what complex combinations of inputs might exceed the strength of the design .
I 'm not sure if you 're asking about general export regulations , in which case <URL> is useful , or the more specific licensing question . But regarding licensing it 's clear that you may not fly a US aircraft from the US to Brazil with only a Brazilian license . <URL> says : ( a ) Required pilot certificate for operating a civil aircraft of the United States . No person may serve as a required pilot flight crewmember of a civil aircraft of the United States , unless that person : ( 1 ) Has in the person 's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft when exercising the privileges of that pilot certificate or authorization -- ( i ) A pilot certificate issued under this part and in accordance with § 61.19 ; ( ii ) A special purpose pilot authorization issued under § 61.77 ; ( iii ) A temporary certificate issued under § 61.17 ; ( iv ) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airmen Certification Branch under § 61.29 ( e ) ; or ( v ) When operating an aircraft within a foreign country , a pilot license issued by that country may be used . In other words , you can use your Brazilian license to fly a US aircraft in Brazil ( see 61.3 ( a ) ( 1 ) ( v ) above ) but otherwise you need a US license or a special authorization ( <URL> covers leasing and commercial operations so it almost certainly wo n't apply to you ) . I know very little about this , but at least in theory it looks like your options are : Get a US license yourself , perhaps a foreign-based license based on your Brazilian one ( see <URL> ) Get some special permission from the FAA Pay a <URL> company to fly or transport the aircraft to Brazil Register the aircraft as Brazilian before it leaves the US ( this may not even be possible ) And those are only the FAA/aviation issues , you have to think about customs and general import/export regulations too , both in the US and Brazil . I would look for some specialized help with this .
Your certificate level determines the type of operations you can conduct * , not the type of airplanes you can fly . The types of airplanes you can fly are determined by your category , class and type ratings . If you have a Private Pilot certificate with an instrument rating ( not sure if this is required , but you 'll want it either way ) and an airplane multi-engine land category and class and a B777 type rating , then yes , that person can operate the aircraft privately . He will also need an SIC and he will only be able to collect the pro-rata share of operating expenses from people he carries . He will also want to be careful in who he lets on his plane to avoid operations that are regulated under 14 CFR 119 . An example of such a pilot is John Travolta , who has a private pilot certificate with the following ratings : * Private pilots may only collect pro-rata operating expenses , Commercial pilots may be paid to act as PIC and ATPs may act as PIC in 14 CFR 121 operations .
The maximum altitude you can operate your RC plane or copter vertically without any clearance from ATC or another government body is the upper limit of class G airspace in Germany , which is the first available airspace from to the lower vertical limit of controlled airspace C/D/E , which can be 1 , or , depending on surrounding airspace and airports in the vicinity . You can register at the website of the <URL> to obtain the ICAO charts for your area and take a look at the airspace structure near you . The actual ceiling of airspace G can be significantly lower in the vicinity of larger airports , where the controlled airspace C/D/E has been lowered . The below picture shows how the dark green section around Frankfurt Airport has an airspace C with the vertical limits . The airspace E in that area ( not visible in this picture ) has a vertical limit of . Some areas within that section already have an elevation of , which leaves less than of airspace G before the overlying airspace C begins . If you want to get your RC plane or copter into class C/D/E airspace , which is controlled airspace , you will need to obtain a clearance through the ATC unit in control of the sector or the FIS sector responsible , as postulated in <URL> § 16a LuftVO Besondere Benutzung des kontrollierten Luftraums ( 1 ) Bei Inanspruchnahme des kontrollierten Luftraums ist von der zuständigen Flugverkehrskontrollstelle eine Flugverkehrskontrollfreigabe einzuholen für 1 . Fallschirmsprünge und den Abwurf von Gegenständen an Fallschirmen ; 2 . Aufstiege von Flugmodellen und anderen fern - oder ungesteuerten Flugkörpern mit Eigenantrieb ; 3 . Aufstiege von unbemannten Freiballonen mit einer Gesamtmasse von Ballonhülle und Ballast von mehr als 0,5 kg sowie Aufstiege von gebündelten unbemannten Freiballonen und Massenaufstiege von unbemannten Freiballonen . Please also mind <URL> , which dictactes that any RC plane or UAV needs to remain within the visbility range of the controller , so the maximum altitude can vary depending on the size of your RC plane or copter , the weather minima at your location and your own eyesight : ( 3 ) Der Betrieb von unbemannten Luftfahrtsystemen ist verboten , wenn 1 . er außerhalb der Sichtweite des Steuerers erfolgt oder 2 . die Gesamtmasse des Geräts mehr als 25 Kilogramm beträgt . 1 : AGL = Above Ground Level 2 : MSL = Mean Sea Level
<URL> , a model aircraft is defined as : any ' Small Unmanned Aircraft ( SUA ) ' ( 0-20 kg ) used for sporting and recreational purposes and a ' large model aircraft ' is defined as any ' Unmanned Aircraft ' ( over 20 kg ) used for sporting and recreational purposes . The following rule applies to all " small unmanned aircraft " , i.e. up to 20kg : ( 3 ) The person in charge of a small unmanned aircraft must maintain direct , unaided visual contact with the aircraft sufficient to monitor its flight path in relation to other aircraft , persons , vehicles , vessels and structures for the purpose of avoiding collisions . The following rule applies between 7kg and 20kg only : The person in charge of a small unmanned aircraft which has a mass of more than 7 kg excluding its fuel but including any articles or equipment installed in or attached to the aircraft at the commencement of its flight , must not fly the aircraft : ( a ) in Class A , C , D or E airspace unless the permission of the appropriate air traffic control unit has been obtained ; ( b ) within an aerodrome traffic zone during the notified hours of watch of the air traffic control unit ( if any ) at that aerodrome unless the permission of any such air traffic control unit has been obtained ; or ( c ) at a height of more than 400 feet above the surface unless it is flying in airspace described in sub-paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) and in accordance with the requirements for that airspace So in theory , a model aircraft weighing less than 7kg could be flown to any altitude , with the only limitation being the requirement to keep in it sight . From 7kg to 20kg the altitude is 400ft , unless you meet the airspace requirements . In practical terms , the requirement to keep the aircraft in sight " unaided " is the main limitation and that restricts the altitude of smaller models in particular . If it 's over 20kg , the model aircraft is subject to all the regular UK aviation rules but in practice a written exemption is required : Large model aircraft having a mass between 20 kg and 150 kg are subject to all of the Rules or Articles of the Air Navigation Order . As many of these Rules are practically impossible for the model operator to meet , the modeller must request a specific written Exemption to allow the model to be flown The CAA homepage for model aircraft is <URL> .
No , the airport would n't be closed , and the # 1 aircraft does n't need to go around nor be sent around . The risk of him shutting down the runway is very slight , and is probably of the same magnitude of risk that sending him around to hold until # 2 has landed &amp; the runway has been checked and reopened , would put him into a low-fuel emergency state . If they are both about the same distance ( actually , time ) away , then the emergency aircraft has priority ( assuming that he does n't decide to hold in order to troubleshoot , burn down fuel , prepare for the landing , etc ) , but essentially closing the airport from the time that the emergency has been declared until the emergency aircraft lands , is n't something I 've ever seen or heard of . The runway is often closed following an emergency landing until it can be checked by an airport vehicle , to ensure that it is clear of debris , spilled fuel/oil/hydraulic fluid/etc . And if the emergency aircraft ca n't clear the runway under its own power , it takes time to get it towed off , possibly pinning the landing gear ( to prevent unintended retraction ) first . Plus there may be an evacuation after the landing . So closing the runway for some time after the emergency aircraft lands , is entirely possible . But if the airport has planes in the pattern &amp; the emergency aircraft is 50 miles out , it 'd be better to let those who want/need to land , do so , rather than risk them running low on fuel airborne while awaiting the runway 's reopening . Same basic logic applies in the # 1 / # 2 scenario posed above . If aircraft regularly had their gear collapse &amp; shut down runways unexpectedly , that would be a different story . But that 's exceedingly rare , so that is n't the contingency that all planning is based on .
As you pointed out in your question , no book is a substitute for actual instruction in an aircraft with a flight instructor . That being said , doing your homework and knowing what your instructor is going to expect goes a long way toward completing your training in a timely manner . The books here are all great reference texts to be combined with a flight instruction curriculum . FAA Publications / Books for initial training A surprising number of new student pilots are not aware of the wealth of information the FAA has compiled and published to help people learn to fly . There is a whole series of <URL> that you can take advantage of which are available from the FAA as well as from a variety of publishers like <URL> . While all of the regulatory information is geared toward US/FAA regulations much of the technique information , signs &amp; markings , etc. will be universal , in conformance with ICAO rules . I list a whole bunch of them here , but you can find a wealth of information by googling what you want to do and the words " FAA Handbook " . Books on Flying the aircraft - maneuvers , etc. . Quite simply if it flies the FAA probably has a book about how you should fly it . These books cover basic flying technique and the maneuvers the FAA expects pilots to be able to demonstrate . The popular ones include : <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-3A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-21A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-13A ) <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-11A ) Books on " essential aviation knowledge " - Airport signs &amp; markings , " rules of the air " , etc. . <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-25A ) is the starting point here . <URL> is another key resource ( you will often find this as a combined " FAR/AIM " printed publication ) . Books for the more advanced stuff - Instrument ratings and beyond <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-15B ) and <URL> ( FAA-H-8083-16 ) are excellent references for pilots pursuing an instrument rating .
What I assume you are talking about is the drivers license medical loop here in the US that allows you to fly LSA aircraft with only holding a Drivers License ( in lieu of a medical certificate ) . You can find the <URL> but there are a few things you should know . First off you need to see what your local state requires ( since drivers licenses are issued by states not a federal body like pilots licenses ) . If your state has color blind restrictions on drivers licenses you may have an issue ( i ) Comply with each restriction and limitation imposed by that person 's U.S. driver 's license and any judicial or administrative order applying to the operation of a motor vehicle ; If you are stepping down from larger planes into LSA planes you can not use the drivers license if you have ever lost a medical cert ( iii ) Not have had his or her most recently issued medical certificate ( if the person has held a medical certificate ) suspended or revoked or most recent Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate withdrawn ; and The catch all clause that may make the colorblind condition an issue is the last requirement in the FAR ( iv ) Not know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make that person unable to operate a light-sport aircraft in a safe manner . There are lots of light signals used in aviation that a red/green color blind person would have issues with . According to <URL> color blind LSA pilots are restricted from flying into where color light signals may be used ( these signals include but are not limited to tower light signals and ground based warning lights like those in the DC area ) . If your state issues you a color blind restriction on your drivers license it holds here as well , Of course , any limitations placed on the driver 's license would also apply to flying , and a person must always be physically able to perform the flight safely . Furthermore it seems that according to <URL> you can have the restrictions lifted if you can pass a color blind test ( I assume this applies to both the LSA restrictions as well as the regular PPL restrictions )
It is a company specific rule found in the Flight Operations Manual so is airline specific . There is usually a statement that goes along with it which also says to avoid foods with a higher than typical rate of food poisoning , such as raw fish before and during the Flight . In the US , the FOM is submitted to , and accepted by the FAA so the procedures become required .
Ground based radio navigation ( VOR , VORTAC , LORAN , NDB ) by necessity have ground stations to handle generation , amplification and broadcasting the signals used for navigation . Here is an example of what a VOR station looks like : " Table Rock VOR " by ZabMilenko - Own work . Licensed under CC BY 3.0 via Wikimedia Commons - <URL> Waypoints that represent these stations will have ground facilities underneath them , but they are the minority of waypoints . Most waypoints are defined as a distance along a radial from one of these stations , so there will be no ground station below them . Other waypoints are lat/lon fixes provided by GPS , so there are no stations below them . Keep in mind , no matter if there is a ground station or not below a waypoint , their presence is not important to how navigation is performed . Waypoint passage will be noted by needles , to/from indicators , DME mileage changing , or by a points along a magenta line on a map display . VOR stations are often named by their location e.g. the VORTAC in San Antonio , TX is named " San Antonio ( SAT ) " . Others are named for regional things , e.g. " Ranger ( FUZ ) " , " Cowboy ( CVE ) " and " Maverick ( TTT ) " all located in Dallas , TX named after their major sports teams ( baseball , football and basketball respectively )
This regulation does not apply to an ILS approach . You are right is saying that " the VOR system of radio navigation " refers to actual VORs . If the flight is conducted using GPS to an ILS approach then you are n't using VOR for navigation . It does not matter that ILS uses the same instrument display . Intuitively , though ILS and VOR use the same display and frequency band , they are functionally different . The VOR beacon sends out a omnidirectional signal , from which a bearing ( 0-359 degrees ) is calculated . The ILS sends out a focused , directional signal , which the receiver centers on .
In Canada , you are required to have 40 hours of ground school instruction . See <URL> : completed a minimum of 40 hours private pilot aeroplane ground school instruction on the following subjects ... Ground school instruction is defined as ( <URL> ) : classroom-type instruction generally given to one or more persons and covering an organized program of lectures , homework or self-paced study that adheres to an approved training program . So , you can learn by self-study , but it needs to be an approved training program . This would mean that a flight instructor would need to sign off on the self-study program . <URL> : If you are unable to attend a ground school , the self-study method can be satisfactory , provided you obtain the proper study materials and devote a reasonable amount of time to study . The regulation is at <URL> : Received an endorsement , if required by this part , from an authorized instructor certifying that the applicant accomplished the appropriate ground-training or a home-study course required by this part for the certificate or rating sought and is prepared for the knowledge test ... Because in both cases an instructor must sign off on your preparedness for the examination , and passing the examination demonstrates that you meet the standard , in my opinion , the only thing that would make self-study a bad idea is if self-study is not an effective learning method for you , which could delay your training .
This depends on how the systems are plumbed , and while this is likely an exception , for some airplanes like the EMB-145 , the answer is yes . The EMB-145 has 2 hydraulic systems . System # 1 serviced the outboard brakes and system # 2 serviced the inboard brakes and the parking brake . The parking brake actuated all of the brakes and this let you transfer fluid between the systems through the outboard brakes . This is n't a normal procedure , but one maintenance would walk you through if you had low fluid in one system and more than you needed in the other to balance the systems if you were out somewhere without the ability to service the hydraulic fluid . The procedure was either Depress and hold toe brakes Set parking brake Release toe brakes Release parking brake or the opposite , depending on which way you wanted to transfer fluid . This works in flight or on the ground ( <URL> )
It looks like British Airways may still offer their <URL> , which Danny Beckett mentioned in <URL> . Another possible option would be to move to another ( probably non-Western ) country for a while . Southeast Asia in particular is experiencing a large amount of growth in airline traffic and seems to hire lots of American , Australian , and European pilots , so you might be more likely to find openings in a program there that would cover the cost . The Middle East might also be an option , given their current huge growth in airline traffic , though I 'm not sure what their hiring policies are like . Cathay Pacific is an example of such a program in Southeast Asia . Among <URL> is their <URL> . They hire people from all over and send them to a flight training school in Australia . I remember them even advertising this program on the plane the last time I flew with them ( a couple of years ago . ) Being a former British colony , someone from the U.K. would probably fit in well there . I think every pilot I had on my last trip with them was either American , British , or Australian . Seems like it would be a fun airline to fly for , too , if you were ok with moving to Hong Kong for at least whatever their commitment period is . With the vast majority of their flights being international on wide-bodies , you 'd likely get to heavy jets much more quickly than you would in Europe or , especially , the U.S. . One additional thing to note , though , as I mentioned in my comment earlier , if you do n't meet RAF 's requirements due to your eyesight , you may also have trouble getting the necessary medical certificate for an Airline Transport Pilot license , especially in Europe or the U.S. . It turns out the EASA 's requirement 's regarding color vision are pretty much identical to the ones I mentioned in my comment earlier regarding FAA standards . <URL> : ( a ) Applicants shall be required to demonstrate the ability to perceive readily the colours that are necessary for the safe performance of duties . ( b ) Examination ( 1 ) Applicants shall pass the Ishihara test for the initial issue of a medical certificate . ( 2 ) Applicants who fail to pass in the Ishihara test shall undergo further colour perception testing to establish whether they are colour safe . ( c ) In the case of class 1 medical certificates , applicants shall have normal perception of colours or be colour safe . Applicants who fail further colour perception testing shall be assessed as unfit . Applicants for a class 1 medical certificate shall be referred to the licensing authority .
You did n't mention which country or jurisdiction you 're asking about , but in the US <URL> says : When weather conditions permit , regardless of whether an operation is conducted under instrument flight rules or visual flight rules , vigilance shall be maintained by each person operating an aircraft so as to see and avoid other aircraft I assume other countries have similar regulations but even if they do n't , it 's still common sense and good piloting to keep a visual lookout whenever possible .
I work in this area and , to my knowledge , I never heard about any special aid to help the pilot . They know precisely which are the wind speed limitations to do the work safely , the rest is basically skill . What they do install in helicopters , is the so called Wire Strike Protection System ( WSPS ) , which should cut the cable if the helicopter strikes it , avoiding damages on the main rotor ( see the picture <URL> that Bell has two WSPS , one over the cabin another underneath the avionics bay ) . But this is more important on power line inspection , which is made at around 60-80 km/h with cameras and LiDARs . When the helicopter is hovering by the cables this does n't bring much aid . But this is a risky job anyway and if you search , you will find plenty of accidents which happened with helicopters and power lines .
After looking through the FAR 's , the answer is no , the rear passenger seat can not be occupied by somebody claiming to be a " safety pilot " . <URL> : ( c ) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless -- ( 1 ) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least a private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown . ( 2 ) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft , or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot ; and ( Emphasis Mine ) So the safety pilot basically has to be able to access the controls and have vision that supplements the pilot , meaning must be able to see as well as the pilot position would .
An assumed temperature takeoff ( also known as " flex " on Airbus/Fokker aircraft ) is where the engine thrust is reduced to match the performance on a higher-temperature day , up to either the maximum thrust reduction allowed or the maximum assumed temperature that meets takeoff distance requirements . Unlike a derate , assumed temperature takeoffs do not reduce the minimum control speed used for calculating takeoff speeds ( $ V _ { MCG } $ for $ V_1 $ , $ V _ { MCA } $ for $ V_2 $ ) . The minimum selectable temperature is the lowest temperature beyond the flat rating temperature range ( the range of temperatures where maximum thrust is achievable , limited by an engine control unit ) , and the highest temperature is the temperature at which the maximum thrust reduction allowed will be met . Except with specific certification and approval ( such as 40 % flex on the A340 ) , such a procedure must not reduce the thrust beyond 25 % of the nominal takeoff thrust ( either full rate or a takeoff derate ) . For example , the range of assumed temperatures permitted is 30-75 ° C ( flat rated to $ ISA +15 $ , thrust at 75 ° C is 75 % of normal rating ) . The main reason for performing an assumed temperature takeoff is to conserve engine life , therefore reducing maintenance costs . According to Boeing , engine wear exponentially increases with the takeoff thrust used -- with engines costing about 10 million USD each , this has the potential to save a lot of money for airlines . If you are taking off using assumed temperature , you may ( but are not required to ) add thrust to TOGA in the case of an emergency , however if you are using a takeoff derate , you must not increase the thrust beyond the derated N1 , as this could cause a loss of control ( higher thrust = higher actual $ V _ { MCG } $ ) . Not all aircraft allow assumed temperature in conjunction with derates . For example , you can only select a derate or a flex temperature on all Airbus aircraft ( if a derate option is offered ) . NOTE : do not attempt to " copy the jet jocks " in a piston aircraft and attempt a reduced throttle takeoff : only at takeoff throttle levels is extra fuel injected for cooling and reduction beyond this point could result in CHT levels rising to unacceptable levels , increasing the risk of engine damage .
end question
start question
Why do n't we have helicopter airlines ?
They do in fact exist , though they often use smaller helicopters . A Google search on the term " heli taxi " yields thousands of results , and while a lot are probably irrelevant , the first few pages give hundreds of operators around the world , ranging from companies ferrying passengers between airports and major cities to companies servicing oil platforms at sea , islands too small to have airfields , etc. .
Yes , but only under highly unlikely circumstances . An airplane contains all sorts of materials that float , from fuel to seat cushions to the plastic cups in the galley . In order to sink without leaving any floating wreckage , all of that material would need to be trapped within the airplane while it fills with water . In order for this to happen , the airplane needs to land intact on the water . As any number of ditchings indicate , this is n't going to happen -- even US Airways 1549 had the rear of the fuselage tear open on landing . More often , the engines or wings will tear off , leaving oil and fuel slicks .
If you take out the political angle ( which is by far , the most important ) , there are a number of reasons for this . Basically , the Russians have a serious image problem . Russian ( and Soviet ) aircraft have a reputation for poor quality , reliability and safety issues . This will take a long time to fix . In contrast , Japanese have no such problems ( In fact , the MRJ boasts of ' <URL> ' ) It is not easy to make airlines switch from an existing aircraft . Most airlines have a huge system built around the aircraft they operate ( In fact , quite a few regional carriers operate only a single aircraft type ) . It would take enormous amount of investment in time and money to shift to a new aircraft and it would take a large incentive for them to put their eggs in a new basket . US is probably the most important market at present and operating there gives other airlines a lot of confidence to buy the jet . If you see the orders for MRJ , most are from US ( In fact , almost all orders are from either US or Japan ) . The Superjet , in contrast , has n't even applied for FAA certification as far as I know . Promising and delivering lower costs are completely different things . Airlines are more prone to believe companies that have a proven track record of manufacturing civil aircraft than a newcomer . The Superjet is the first airliner to be developed in Russia since the end of cold war . As such there are questions about its industrial capability and quality control processes . Mitsubishi , on the other hand is engaged in a number of aircraft projects ( it makes more than a third of 787 structure ) . Sukhoi has to build a supply chain and support system from scratch ( Superjet has a number of foreign components ) . Again , in the extremely cost sensitive airline industry with tight schedules , there is a perception that the Russian aircraft will not be supported as well as their western counterparts ( For example , Boeing boasts of a <URL> for 737 )
Winglets on wings help because they increase the volume of air on which the wing can act . <URL> , but when span is restricted or the maximum wing bending moment is limited , winglets bring a small improvement in efficiency at high lift coefficients . <URL> , however , the winglets would run through air which is already affected by the tips of the propeller . No additional air will be involved , so no efficiency increase will be possible . Please note that propulsive efficiency is increased by accelerating more air by a smaller amount . The formula for the propulsive efficiency $ \ eta_p $ of an air breathing engine is $ $ \ eta_p = \ frac { v _ { \ infty } } { v _ { \ infty } + \ frac { \ Delta v } { 2 } } $ $ where $ v _ { \ infty } $ is the speed of the inflowing air and $ \ Delta v $ the speed increase of the air affected by the propeller disc . A smaller $ \ Delta v $ acting on a higher mass flow makes the engine more efficient . This effect is most pronounced when $ v _ { \ infty } $ is low . The prop tip winglets would operate in a region of high dynamic pressure and generate more friction drag without contributing to the prop 's efficiency . By the way : Whoever tells you that winglets reduce induced drag quite a bit has something to sell to you , but I digress .
Aircraft , fixed-wing or rotorcraft , have limited capability to produce a sideways force , so they simply ca n't throw you out . It is a matter of physics . Inertial forces ( gravity and centrifugal force ) act on you and the aircraft the same , so they wo n't make you move relative to the aircraft . The only force between you and the seat is caused by the aerodynamic forces . And the wing or rotor can only produce significant force vertically , and some torque with help of control surfaces . But for lateral force there is only drag of the fuselage and the vertical stabilizer and , in most helicopters , anti-torque rotor , which do n't produce that much force unless there is really bad turbulence or in some cases if the handling is really bad . When aircraft turns , it banks to be able to produce the necessary side force , so the resulting force is still mostly straight to the floor . Of course the other reason is that all aircraft and helicopters have seat-belts and the people sitting by open door usually have them on -- except for skydivers , who have the parachute on already , and rescue divers who are tied to the winch instead .
I found this on <URL> " Some call signs are less obviously associated with a particular airline than others . This might be for historic reasons ( South African Airways uses the callsign " Springbok " , hearkening back to the airline 's old livery which featured a springbok ) , or possibly to avoid confusion with a call sign used by an established airline . Companies ' assigned names may change as a result of mergers , acquisitions , or change in company name or status ; British Airways uses BOAC 's old callsign ( " Speedbird " ) , as British Airways was formed by a merger of BOAC and British European Airways . Country names can also change over time and new call signs may be agreed in substitution for traditional ones . " Before America West bought US Airways , their callsigns were Cactus ( associated with the deserts of the American West ) and USAir . After the merger , the combined airline kept the better-known ( airline ) name , and the other airline 's callsign . Now , after the acquisition/merger of American Airlines , they 're using that airline 's name and callsign . Leading to more than a few radio calls recently ( late spring / early summer 2015 ) along the lines of
Tilting the rotor does n't do much , in fact the body will be tilting more than the rotor . The gyroscopic effect will work against you . The cyclic increases lift on one side of the rotor which will tilt the rotor . Which will then move the craft in the correct direction . In other words the cyclic system gives a more direct response to input .
The pilots also need to use oxygen in case of smoke , fumes , or fire in the aircraft . Thus , they need enough oxygen to be able to get down and land in a fire scenario , which is much more than a decompression ! Fire procedures have the crew on 100 % oxygen at positive pressure to prevent them from breathing in smoke and fumes , while in a decompression , their masks mix oxygen with cabin air , in much the same way the cabin masks do . This is also why the cabin masks are not used in smoke/fumes scenarios .
The multiple methods of braking help to stop an aircraft faster , both through providing different means of braking and complementing each other . The wheel brakes are the primary method of braking on the aircraft . They work at any speed and can provide good braking force depending on the amount of friction between the tires and ground . Brakes convert the aircraft 's kinetic energy into heat , and have a limited ability to dissipate that heat . Aircraft may be delayed from taking off to allow brakes to cool down after a rejected takeoff or a short turnaround . Brakes wear down over time and must be replaced . Aircraft that are light and slow may be fine with only wheel brakes , as the other methods are less effective in this case and would add complexity and weight . Speed brakes or spoilers usually extend from the top surface of the wing . This both increases drag and reduces the lift produced by the wings , and are most effective at higher speeds . Reduced lift means more weight on the wheels , increasing their friction and the effectiveness of brakes . Airliners will typically extend the spoilers immediately after touchdown to increase braking and control effectiveness as they slow down . Aircraft are required to be able to demonstrate a rejected takeoff and stop using only brakes and spoilers on a dry runway . Techniques such as keeping the nose high as long as possible or just holding up elevator can also add aerodynamic braking . Reverse thrust redirects some of the engine 's thrust forward . This provides a braking force and for engines under the wing also helps interrupt airflow over the wing , reducing lift . Jet engines redirect core and/or fan air forward , propellers may change pitch to push the air forward . This can be particularly important on contaminated runways were low friction limits the effectiveness of the brakes . Reverse thrust is generally only used at higher speeds to reduce the risk the debris or exhaust being ingested . These are the primary methods available on airliners . Brakes are the most versatile but require friction and must be replaced . Speed brakes and reverse thrust use aerodynamic forces at higher speeds to help slow down , and increase effectiveness of brakes . Speed brakes are basically " free " , reverse thrust is relatively cheap and effective . Reducing the load placed on wheel brakes reduces temperature and wear ; steel brakes deteriorate much more at higher temperatures . Having multiple methods provides some redundancy as well , but when runway friction is poor it 's important that they are all used effectively to stop the aircraft . Drag chutes are another option to slow down . Upon landing , the parachute is released and uses drag to slow an aircraft down . The parachute provides large amounts of drag but must be collected and re-packed after every landing . This is useful for aircraft with high landing speeds where cost is less of an issue , such as fighter jets or the space shuttle . Tail hooks grab cables on the ground , and the cable provides the braking force to the aircraft . This can stop the aircraft quickly but requires an aircraft designed with a hook that can withstand the braking forces . Hooks are useful on aircraft carriers where space is at a premium , but this requires pilot skill to touch down in the right place for the hook to catch the cable . Hooks can also be used on regular runways for emergencies , where the extended hook will catch the cable as the aircraft rolls past .
They do in fact exist , though they often use smaller helicopters . A Google search on the term " heli taxi " yields thousands of results , and while a lot are probably irrelevant , the first few pages give hundreds of operators around the world , ranging from companies ferrying passengers between airports and major cities to companies servicing oil platforms at sea , islands too small to have airfields , etc. .
First you need a wing that is representative of a flightworthy article . Next , you need to collect the significant load cases . The most obvious one is that of maximum lift , but sometimes wings have failed even when they were strong enough to support the maximum bending moment . Torsion from aileron deflections and flutter are important , as is the in-plane bending moment from lift at high angle of attack . Normally , the wing is <URL> and computer-controlled hydraulic jacks are used to pull on it , but this can be made much simpler . Below you see the ultimate strength test on the <URL> wing : Discarded soda bottles were collected , filled with a pre-calculated amount of water and hung from the main spar while the center of the inverted wing was lifted up by a forklift . <URL> Load test on Dedalus wing . Yes , the guy with the Dedalus shirt is <URL> . Own work . Besides the maximum strength tests , fatigue tests are of equal importance . Here a statistical load distribution ( frequent low loads , infrequent high loads ) is applied to the wing over thousands of hours . These tests stretch into the early operational phase of a design , such that the structure is cleared for more hours as the test progresses .
FlightRadar and similar websites use <URL> for aircraft detection , most commonly they use <URL> . Not all General Aviation aircraft , to which helicopters would count normally , are equipped with transponders that are capable of emitting ADS-B data , so they would not show via regular means on FlightRadar . The primary technology that Flightradar24 use to receive flight information is called automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast ( ADS-B ) . ADS-B is a relatively new technology under development which means that today it 's rarely used by Air Traffic Control ( ATC ) . Our estimations show that roughly 65 % of all commercial passenger aircraft ( 75 % in Europe , 35 % in the US ) are equipped with an ADS-B transponder . For general aviation this number is probably below 20 % . But this percentage is steadily increasing as ADS-B will become mandatory for most aircraft in most airspaces around the world , by year 2020 . When mandatory , ADS-B will replace primary radar as the primary surveillance method used by ATC . Flightradar24 has a network of more than 4,000 ADS-B receivers around the world that receives plane and flight information from aircraft with ADS-B transponders and sends this information to our servers . Due to the high frequency used ( 1090 MHz ) the coverage from each receiver is limited to about 250-400 km ( 150-250 miles ) in all directions depending on location . The farther away from the receiver an aircraft is flying , the higher it must fly to be covered by the receiver . The distance limit makes it very hard to get ADS-B coverage over oceans . About 99 % of Europe is covered with ADS-B receivers . There is also good ADS-B coverage in USA , Canada , Mexico , Caribbean , Brazil , Russia , Middle East , India , Japan , Thailand , Malaysia , Indonesia , Australia and New Zealand . In other parts of the world the ADS-B coverage varies . The other option is to receive the regular Mode-S transponder signal by a technique called <URL> , however the FlightRadar website states that this is something that only works reliably at high altitude , at least 5 000 to 10 000 ft. In some regions with coverage from several FR24-receivers we also calculate positions of non-ADS-B equipped aircraft with the help of Multilateration ( MLAT ) , by using a method known as Time Difference of Arrival ( TDOA ) . By measuring the difference in time to receive the signal from aircraft with an older ModeS-transponder , it 's possible to calculate the position of these aircraft . Four FR24-receivers or more , receiving signals from the same aircraft , are needed to make MLAT work . That means that MLAT coverage can only be achieved above about 5,000-10 ,000 feet as the probability that signal can be received by four or more receivers increases with increased altitude . Most parts of Europe are today covered with MLAT above about 5,000-10 ,000 feet . There is also some MLAT coverage in North America , Mexico , Australia and Brazil . More areas will get MLAT coverage during 2014 and 2015 . For more information , check <URL> page .
Airspeed is critical for pilots , because it is what the airplane " feels " when it 's flying . Too little airspeed and the wings wo n't generate enough lift to fly , too much and the plane can be damaged . ( And you 're right , the pitot tube , along with the " static port " is what allows airspeed to be measured . ) Groundspeed is how quickly you 're getting where you 're going . This is also important , because the engine ( or engines ) consumes an certain amount of fuel per hour . If you are flying between two airports that are 400 miles apart in a plane that goes 100MPH , with no wind your trip will take 4 hours . If you have a 20MPH headwind your airspeed will still be 100MPH but your groundspeed will be reduced to 80MPH , and your trip will take 5 hours instead of 4 . If you 've only got 4.5 hours worth of fuel , you 're going to need to make a stop . It 's really good to know this before you leave ! So airspeed is how fast the plane is flying through the air and groundspeed is , as you observed , how fast you 're getting where you 're going . Both are important !
There is nothing " special " about an aircraft engine that requires lead in the fuel -- Engines do n't much care about the lead in tetraethyl lead , nor do they much care for it ( it gets everywhere , fouling sparkplugs and contaminating the oil ) . What they care about is the octane ( anti-knock ) rating of the fuel . Many " low performance " aircraft engines run just fine on unleaded fuels with a lower octane rating ( among them the Lycoming O-320 and O-360 family that power a good chunk of the GA fleet ) , but high-performance aircraft engines ( e.g. the IO-520 you 'll find in Beech Bonanzas ) require a 100 octane fuel . The approved specification for 100 octane aviation gasoline ( <URL> ) lists tetraethyl lead as the octane booster of choice . It 's also worth noting that some of the octane boosting techniques used in automotive gasoline are not acceptable for aircraft engines ( the most common in the US being the addition of ethanol , which has two undesirable effects : reducing the energy content of the fuel , and damaging aviation fuel system seals and other components ) . So why do we still make 100LL , and why do n't we offer the other unleaded options at every airport ? Aviation gasoline is a minuscule slice of the gasoline market , so it does n't make sense to have 5 tanks with 5 different grades of fuel at every airport : All aircraft engines will run on 100LL , so 100LL ( leaded ) aviation gasoline is still produced because it is a " single fuel " solution to piston aviation 's needs . If leaded avgas were to disappear tomorrow the engines that require it would be left without an approved fuel , which would result in those aircraft being grounded until such time as an alternative fuel could be developed or the engine manufacturers develop a procedure for derating the engines ( operating them at reduced power ) . For obvious reasons neither of these options is attractive , particularly to folks who own higher-power engines which were presumably purchased for the performance ... Changing the avgas specification is quite a bit of work - it requires ensuring that the new fuel is a " drop-in replacement " for 100LL -- one which can be mixed with 100LL in any proportion , and will work correctly in any engine designed for 100LL fuel . <URL> ( a Google search for also produces useful results ) , and hopefully a universal unleaded aviation fuel specification and one or more products will come out of those efforts .
The " wop wop " , usually known as blade slap , is heard when the tip of the blade passes through the vortex created by the previous one . It can be avoided . The most common flight regime when this happens is a shallow descent but still with quite a lot of power - e.g. fast and shallow . The vortex starts to move down as soon as it leaves the tip of the blade so in level flight , the following blade passes over it . In a shallow descent with high pitch angle , the following blade can literally " slap " into the previous vortex . The vortices of the two blades now interact and can cause local , transient supersonic flow . To avoid it , simply lower the pitch to establish a more positive descent or pull back on the cyclic to increase disc loading and flatten the attitude . The blade tips do not go supersonic . In fact , in nearly all helicopter designs , the rotor rotates within a very narrow range of speeds , typically between 90 % and 110 % of the normal speed . In most flight regimes , the rotor is rotating at 100 % , + / - a few percent , whether you are climbing , descending or cruising . Only during auto-rotation and aggressive manoeuvring does the range vary by 10 % or more . It depends on the type of helicopter but absolute limits would be something like 85 % ( panic time , risk of complete stall ) and 115 % ( smaller panic , risk of damage to the machine , especially in the tail rotor drive shaft ) . In normal operations , and design aims to achieve this , the rotor tips do not go supersonic since when they do , there is a sudden and large decrease in performance with more power required , higher blade loads , vibration and noise . Think about a helicopter flying forwards . The advancing blade at its most perpendicular position experiences a relative airflow which is equal ( ignoring all kinds of minor side effects ) to the forward speed plus the speed of the blade . The retreating blade is experiencing a relative airflow equal to the speed of the blade minus the speed of the helicopter . If the blades rotate so fast that the tips are supersonic , then the main lift generating part of the retreating blade , the outer two thirds of the span , would experience such a low airspeed , for some of the span it will even be negative , that the blades will stall causing a catastrophic roll into that side . It is this phenomenon which ultimately limits the rotational speed of the blades and the maximum speed of the helicopter . Let 's look at the R22 as an example . The following figures are approximate . The rotor tip speed is about 670 fps ( feet per second ) . The speed of sound at ground level on a standard day is about 1100 fps . The R22 is flying at close to VNE , let 's say 100kts which is about 170 fps . The tip on the advancing side , at it 's fastest , is therefore flying relative to the airflow at 840 fps and on the retreating side , at it 's slowest , at 500 fps . The blade length is about 11 feet , so the middle portion of the blade on the retreating side is only flying at 190 fps ( half of 670 minus the airspeed ) . When you get to about 4 feet out from the blade root , it 's now only 50 fps and not much further in from that , becomes zero , then negative . Remember that lift is proportional to the square of the speed . You can now see the huge discrepancy between lift on either side as airspeed increases . To answer your question directly , the R22 would need to fly at 530 fps to approach supersonic tip speed which equates to about 330 kts which it ca n't get anywhere near achieving . PS . The R22 POH speaks in Imperial measures . When I get some time , I 'll redo the figures in metric which I , and most of the world , prefer .
Every blade will create its own boundary layer and its own vortex sheet . It is more efficient to use fewer blades with deeper chord , because the forward part of a boundary layer contributes most to friction drag . To keep the lift coefficient on the propeller blade sections in a reasonable range ( 0.6 to 1.0 ) for efficiency means that blade chord will be reduced , which will make them less stiff . Again , it will be better to reduce blade count to arrive at a more viable design . All the thrust the propeller creates is pulling on those skinny blades , and they must be strong enough to withstand this force . Only when the propeller disc loading increases do more blades begin to make sense : When engine power increases , the propeller disc area should also grow , but this growth is limited by the resulting speed of the blade tips . Once the flow speed there becomes supersonic , the drag at this section of the blade increases without a corresponding increase in thrust . To avoid that the next best option is to increase the solidity ratio of the propeller , called also the <URL> . Make no mistake , this is bad for efficiency . But if there is enough power available , adding more blades is the best way out . You are right , a lower prop speed allows to increase its diameter , but while tip speed will drop by less than the reduction in prop speed ( after all , flight speed should not change ) , the available thrust from this propeller will drop by the square of the speed reduction , since thrust is proportional to the dynamic pressure on the blades . And thrust you get only from the circumferential fraction of the local speed at the blade ; flight speed does not count here and does not help to mitigate the reduction .
Aircraft rarely collide with any objects . Cameras would only be helpful if the extent of the damage is visible from the outside . Instruments , on the other hand , can be used to diagnostic the problem even if the system fails " internally " . E.g. . Many hydraulic lines and cables run across the wing . If these is damage on the leading edge , is it the slats ? A hydraulic leak on system A ? system B ? Is the de-ice working ? You need instruments to get a better picture . Some aircraft indeed come with cameras . The Boeing 777 has cameras on the bottom of the fuselage and the tail to aid pilots during taxi operations ( the 777 , especially the 777-300 variant , is really long ... ) The Airbus A380 also has a tail mounted camera . Passengers can enjoy a spectacular view of the clouds , the high speed takeoffs and landings : As for mirrors , pilots do n't overtake other planes or back off like drivers do . There really is no need to know what is behind the aircraft . Pushback is accomplished by the tug on the ground , who has a much better view of the area than the pilots .
Per <URL> , yes . That said , you ca n't just find an open field-there may be local/state regulations regarding helicopter operations . 14 CFR 91.119 : ( 1 ) A helicopter may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) of this section , provided each person operating the helicopter complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for helicopters by the FAA
No , stacking more propellers will reduce efficiency . The case with two is an exception because the second propeller benefits from operating in the slipstream of the first . In total , both propellers accelerate the air backwards without adding swirl losses . However , <URL> goes down with increasing flow speed ahead of the propeller . This means that every other propeller operating in the accelerated flow of a preceding propeller will have lower efficiency . Generally , it will be better to spread the propellers out sideways than to put them in line . Note that contra-rotating props are the exclusive realm of <URL> with very high <URL> . The most recent designs prefer to use more blades and avoid the heavy gearbox , but the <URL> than that of propellers with lower disk loading and fewer blades . In a way , the efficiency of the eight-bladed propellers below is similar to that of four two-bladed propellers in sequence , but it is much easier to build with all blades and their pitch mechanism in one hub . <URL> T-56 engines with Hamilton-Sundstrand NP2000 propellers on an LC-130 . Photograph by Robyn Waserman , National Science Foundation ( Date Taken : November 21 , 2008 )
First let 's and define what " too many cases " means in terms of cold , hard , unfeeling numbers ( as best we can ) : <URL> . There are 16 crashes listed . I 'll further add Air France 447 ( which took " a long time " to find ) , and MH370 ( which is currently unrecovered ) , bringing the total to 18 . As Wikipedia admits their list is incomplete I 'll double-and-round that in the name of being pessimistically conservative and say that since 1965 there have been 50 cases where it has taken " a long time " to recover the flight recorders ( or they were never recovered ) . <URL> . Even if we assume the CVR/FDR data would n't be useful for all of them there are still many hundreds ( if not thousands ) of incidents since 1965 where the cockpit voice recorder and/or flight data recorders have been recovered along with other wreckage or damaged airframes - often within a matter of days or hours ( as soon as investigators can get to the wreckage ) . That 's a pretty good track record . One could certainly argue ( legitimately ) that " one unrecovered flight recorder is too many " , and indeed the goal is to always find the recorders and analyze their contents . If we 're being realistic about this though we 're going to have to accept the fact that sometimes you 're just not going to recover the recorders : Aircraft crashes are messy , high-energy affairs and often involve inhospitable recovery environments like " the bottom of the ocean " . If someone has better statistics close at hand I would love to review them and update this answer . Otherwise , it should be obvious that the above is an extremely rough off-the-cuff estimate , and should not be taken for any research or investigative purposes . In case it 's not obvious - well I just said it . Now , to the meat of your question : Theoretically you could include a locator beacon in the CVR or FDR - incorporating a <URL> into the black box design is possible ( you could even add a GPS to encode the device 's location , though it would be of limited additional value with the inherent location accuracy of the 406MHz locator signal and satellite search system ) . So why do n't we do it ? As <URL> , airliners are already required to carry emergency locator transmitters - in any case where such a beacon would function including one in the CVR/FDR would be redundant with existing equipment in the aircraft . Further practical problems arise when you consider <URL> -- These things need to survive a crash ( up to 3400 Gs ) , crush forces , fire , and immersion in water under pressure . Your typical distress beacon requires an antenna and a view of the sky , both of which would be in serious doubt after a crash : The black box may be inside or under wreckage , required external antennas may have been torn off or burned away , and distress beacon signals are unlikely to be received if the recorder is under water ( this is why current generation recorders have sonar " pingers " to assist in locating them ) . To easily illustrate the sort of problem radio devices have with " stuff " between them and the sky , try this experiment : Take your cell phone , wrap it in aluminum foil to simulate the skin of a plane , put it in a zip-lock bag , and take it to the bottom of a pool . I bet you wo n't be able to get a call on that phone . Given the numerous failure modes ( all of which are fairly high-probability in a real-world crash scenario ) , and the fact that we usually have a pretty good idea of where an aircraft is when a crash does happen , there is n't much to be gained by including additional locator technology in the CVR/FDR designs at this time - it just adds more components that would need periodic testing and recertification to ensure they are functioning properly and would activate appropriately in the event of a crash , while not appreciably improving our odds of finding the recorders .
end question
start question
What ATC entities does a commercial airliner communicate with ?
This answer details the procedures used in the US . Other countries will be similar , possibly with different names for some positions . When preparing for a flight , after their flight plan has been filed , the pilots will first talk to the clearance delivery controller . This controller clears their planned route and altitude . At larger airports this may be done via text rather than voice . The pilots may also call their company dispatch to get the route or fix any problems . If there are significant delays in effect at the airport , the pilots may have to talk to the metering controller . This controller is responsible for holding aircraft at their gates . Weather at departure or arrival airports may reduce the number of aircraft the airport can handle . There is no sense in sending the aircraft onto the busy taxiways if they will just have to sit there and wait for weather or traffic before they can depart . The metering controller will eventually hand the pilots off to the next controller when the aircraft is finally cleared for departure . Again at larger airports , the next contact will be with the ramp controller . This controller is responsible for a ramp area near the terminals . The controller will let the pilots know when it 's safe to push back , and which way they should turn at the end of the push back . After starting their engines , the pilots will receive instructions for exiting the ramp . Once pilots reach the edge of the ramp area , they will call the ground controller . This controller is responsible for managing traffic on most of the taxiways . The pilots will receive instructions for taxiing to their departure runway . If this route takes them across an active runway , the ground controller will have to clear this with the tower controller , or possibly have the pilots switch to the tower controller for permission to cross the runway . At small airports , the ground controller handles all of the previous positions as well . Upon reaching their departure runway , the pilots will switch to the tower controller . The tower controller is responsible for the active runways . Busy airports may have multiple tower controllers managing different runways . The tower will clear the pilots for takeoff , ensuring proper separation between any other arriving/departing aircraft . Shortly after the aircraft starts climbing , the tower will hand the pilots off to the departure controller . Depending on the location and traffic levels , this could be the same controller and frequency as the approach controller . This position is part of the <URL> ( Terminal Radar Approach Control ) facility . High traffic areas will have their own separate TRACON facility , while in lower traffic areas this will be combined with a tower location . In other countries this is referred to as the Terminal Control Center ( TCC ) . The approach controller 's responsibility is routing aircraft leaving airports in the area to avoid conflicts between aircraft , but often the pilots will just fly the published departure procedure . The departure controller receives reports of weather such as precipitation or icing and passes this on to other aircraft . Upon reaching a certain altitude , the departure will hand the pilots over to the center controller . This position is part of an <URL> ( Air Route Traffic Control Center ) , often abbreviated to " center " . The US has <URL> , each further divided into different sectors . Sectors are consolidated between controllers depending on traffic levels . Other countries refer to this as an Area Control Center ( ACC ) . The center controller is responsible for traffic at higher altitudes , primarily enroute traffic . The aircraft may pass through multiple centers , and each center may have different sectors controlled by different controllers . The pilots will be handed off between these controllers . Pilots must request altitude or course changes ( for efficiency or weather reasons ) , and controllers may issue changes for traffic reasons . Controllers also handle pilot reports of conditions such as turbulence . If the flight is crossing <URL> , the flight may be handed over to an oceanic controller . These controllers do not always have radar coverage of the aircraft they are controlling . They rely on the aircraft following their published routes and altitudes , and providing regular position reports . The lack of radar means there are also more strict rules about deviations from flight plans . As the pilots get closer to their destination , they will start on their arrival procedure . This usually specifies altitudes and possibly speeds , so the pilots will need to plan when to start their descent in order to meet these restrictions . The center controller will know the procedure and instruct them to follow it , and possibly issue deviations as traffic requires . At some point before arriving , the pilots may also contact their company at the arrival airport . They may need to coordinate passenger needs such as wheelchairs or medical/security issues , or commu
From the Boeing 737 emergency procedures : After all attempts fail to free the stabilizer ... Anticipate higher than normal elevator forces during approach and landing . The thrust reduction at flare will cause a nose down pitch . Note : Elevator control is sufficient to safely land the airplane regardless of stabilizer position .
In the modern day and age , it is very difficult to put a numerical value to this type of question , simply because the chance of something happening is so incredibly remote . This is not a clear-cut equation and is dependant on several factors . A few thoughts : The impact of loosing one engine will be less significant on a four-engined aircraft than a two-engined aircraft . You only loose 25 % of thrust as compared to 50 % . However , two engined jets are built with greater safety margin and are able to handle an engine failure at any phase in the flight . Four engined jets are certified to be able to fly on two engines on one side of the wing . In theory , you are twice as likely to suffer an engine failure with four engines , since you have twice as many engines . While the lost thrust would be less significant , very rarely damage can propagate to cause damage to other parts ( See <URL> and <URL> ) . In general , it is easier , cheaper and faster to maintain two engines than four . Should a complete engine swap be necessary for instance , you only need to do it twice instead of four times . Every extra step is an step where something could theoretically could go wrong . The <URL> ( Boeing 777 ) is certified to handle ' large ' birds ( 4kg ) as compared to the <URL> ( Airbus A340 ) only being able to handle ' medium ' birds . Hence , the Boeing 777 engines are likely to be a bit more robust . From a human perspective , pilot workload will be lower with two engines rather than four . Should something happen in a time-critical emergency , there will be more systems you need to keep an overview of . See <URL> . Furthermore , not every engine-related incident is spared simply cause you have four engines . <URL> lost all four engines due to volcanic ash . On <URL> , the engines failed in unison due to ice in the heat exchanger on the engines that were operating in identical conditions . Despite ETOPS being around for several decades and applying to thousands of aircraft I have not heard about a single accident involving commercial jets operating in that domain .
The Mode S address is not used for identification of aircraft in the higher levels of the ATC system such as the Flight Data Processing System . Mostly the assigned 12 bit code ( also known as Mode A code or squawk code ) is used to correlate a radar track to a flight plan . The major exception is that in Europe , when the Mode A code is set to 1000 ( octal notation ) , the Mode-S downlinked Aircraft Identity ( ACID ) is used for flight plan correlation . This is to free up Mode A codes . Usually planned flights are assigned discrete Mode A codes but using ACID / Flight ID correlation , multiple aircraft on a flight plan in the same area can use Mode A code 1000 . The downlinked ACID must be equal to the Flight ID used to file the flight plan . The Mode S 24 bit address is only used in low level systems ; in the Mode S radar , in multilateration systems , in ADS-B receivers and to some extend in tracking systems .
The answer to this lies in <URL> . In most cases , yes the type rating " upgrades " or " elevates " along with your license since the type rating is always evaluated at ATP standards , even if you only have a private or commercial certificate . Exceptions are type ratings for single-engine airplanes and type ratings that have a " VFR ONLY " restriction . 8900.1 excerpt : 5-710 PILOT CERTIFICATE LEVEL AND CATEGORY AND CLASS RATING . The following category and class rating ( s ) for which the applicant has qualified on the original or subsequent ATP practical tests are entered on the ATP certificate . A. Addition of Lighter-than-Air and Glider Class Ratings . A lighter-than-air or glider category rating may be added to an existing ATP certificate ; however , the rating may be added only at the recreational , private , or commercial pilot certificate level , as appropriate to the practical test completed . There is no provision for the original issuance of an ATP certificate with a lighter-than-air or glider category rating . B. Type Ratings . Type rating tests are conducted to the ATP standard for all grades of pilot certificate . Therefore , all type ratings in that category and class of aircraft for which the practical test is conducted in are upgraded after successful completion of the practical test . For example , a person who holds B-737 , DC-3 , and SK-62 type ratings on his or her commercial pilot certificate , and later satisfactorily completes an ATP practical test in a CE-750 , would have his/her B-737 and DC-3 type ratings elevated up to the ATP certificate . The SK-62 would not elevate up because the practical test was in a multiengine airplane . However , when the person satisfactorily completes an ATP practical test in a helicopter , the SK-62 would then elevate up to the ATP certificate . Therefore , all of the type ratings held on the superseded certificate carry forward at the new certificate level within category and class . NOTE : A type rating for a single-engine airplane may not be upgraded to the ATP level . 1 ) Except for type ratings and , under some circumstances , the instrument rating , other ratings indicated on the superseded pilot certificate are carried forward at the commercial , private , or recreational pilot certificate level , as indicated on the superseded certificate . 2 ) Instrument rating privileges are shown on the ATP certificate only if the ATP practical test was conducted under visual flight rules ( VFR ) only , or to retain instrument privileges that were held on the superseded certificate for a category of aircraft other than the one used for the ATP practical test . C. Type Rating Limited to VFR . A type rating bearing the limitation " VFR ONLY " may be added to an existing certificate other than an ATP certificate under the provisions of § 61.63 ( e ) . This limitation may be added to an aircraft type rating not capable of instrument maneuvers or procedures required on a practical test . The practical test must be administered under the appropriate ATP PTS for an aircraft type rating limited to " VFR ONLY " . A type rating bearing the limitation " VFR ONLY " may be added to an existing ATP certificate under the provisions of § 61.157 ( g ) . The practical test must be administered under the appropriate ATP PTS for an aircraft type rating limited to " VFR ONLY . " NOTE : There is no provision for taking an initial practical test for an ATP certificate in an aircraft that would require a VFR limitation .
In the US e.g. ATC will say " hold east of Miami VOR " , meaning you hold on Radial 090 right turns , 1 minute leg . In most of the rest of the wold ATC will give you the inbound course unless stated on the chart .
HOURS/CYCLES The single most important factor in the value of an aircraft ( generally speaking ) is hours . This will almost single handedly define what the plane is worth . When a plane is built all the parts on it have a life time . This is traced through a series of logs for the plane . When a part is at or approaching its life time it must either be rebuilt or replaced . If you are looking at a plane that has high hours/cycles chances are parts on it will need replacing soon . This is costly to the new buyer and will often reflect in a lower sale price . Here in the US commercial aircraft require more frequent inspections than general aviation planes . These inspections are not cheap and a plane that needs inspection when compared to a plane that just came out of inspection will be reflected in the price as well . There are of course other factors like wear and tear , corrosion ( which can be very costly to fix ) and interior condition but generally speaking when large planes change hands they are at least partially repainted with the new companies livery and the interiors are often redone . For some airlines it may be advantageous to buy second hand planes if they are already flying that make/model . Lets say smallTimeAir flies almost exclusively 727-200 's this means they have a nice store of parts for that plane and a crew well experienced in fixing them . It will be easier for them to add another 727-200 to the fleet than say an A320 for which they will need new mechanics and parts they do n't have . This makes some used airframes desirable to some people .
The value will obviously vary for different aircraft models ( and also with the loading , c.g. location etc ) , but the usual range can be found in the airport planning document for the particular airliner , where the values for ground clearance for the aircraft at the OEW ( max . value ) and MTW ( min . value ) would be given . The difference should give you the compression . For example , for Boeing 737-800 , the quoted value is around 15 cm ( plus or minus 7cm ) . <URL> Image from <URL> document Note that the different parts of the aircraft ' sink ' different amounts - the fuselage sinks around 15cm , while the engines ( mounted on the wings ) sink more - by 16cm due to the fuel in the wings . Another ' typical ' aircraft , the A320neo sinks by about 10cm . <URL> Image from <URL> document Note that the values are given here for max . ramp weight .
Because the pitch of the <URL> is not related to the pitch of the seats . The windows placement have to cut through as few frames as possible . You can see it in the following picture , noting that frames are " highlighted " by the vertical riveting Image <URL> It is even more evident in the picture contained in <URL> on UX.SE : Because the aircraft is designed once , but " decorated " by several airlines in several different manners . For example , an A320 or a B757 will have the windows always in the same locations , but depending on the airline that is using it , it will most probably have the seats in slightly different locations .
What that probably means is that the pilot is reporting that they have <URL> information kilo . Automatic Terminal Information Service ( ATIS ) is a radio broadcast on a specific frequency ( often a local navaid like a VOR ) which a pilot dials up to get weather and airport information before joining one of the airfield 's frequencies . Each time the information is updated in a day the next letter of the alphabet is used ; " information Kilo " means the information has been updated 11 times that day . If the tower had to relay weather , runway in use and other instructions to everyone pilot who joined the frequency it would take loads of their time ; ATIS is instead there so controllers can spend their time controlling . When a pilot introduces his/herself on frequency at an airfield they announce the latest ATIS they have so that the controller knows they have up to date information and they do n't need it relayed . From a phraseology standpoint just saying " with kilo " is okay . I usually say " with information kilo " because it makes sure that kilo is n't confused as being part of my callsign .
Some TMA arrival sectors can be further split up into an arrival/pickup part and a director/feeder part . The arrival controller is responsible for getting aircraft separated either onto downwinds or onto transitions , where they are handed off to the director . The director is then only responsible for turning these aircraft onto the approach , in most cases the ILS . Essentially , the arrival or pickup tries to get everyone onto the correct separation and speeds , so the director or feeder can turn and clear the aircraft onto their approaches , i.e. feeding the ILS with aircraft . <URL> ( Source : SentryRaven - Own Work ) The above picture shows the TMA airspace of Frankfurt ( EDDF ) . The TMA arrival controller would clear aircraft onto the transition or a vectored downwind and hand them over to director . The director position would then vector the aircraft onto the ILS for a handoff to tower .
AOPA has <URL> on exactly this question ( written by an attorney ) . Their advice is basically that it 's a judgement call on your part and one that you should think about carefully . Not calling may antagonize the FAA , but calling if it 's a major safety issue may be unwise : That does n't necessarily mean , however , that you should call the telephone number or respond to the FAA 's letter , and blather the most expansive defense you can conjure up . A little judgment is called for here -- and , unfortunately , there are no hard and fast rules . If you think the FAA may be inclined to just admonish you orally or content itself with administrative action , then a humble , cooperative approach may be best . Saying you wo n't talk without a lawyer , when the likely outcome if you do talk is minor , may only prompt the FAA to propose sterner action . Before you talk , however , think carefully about what you want to say , how much to say , what questions the FAA is likely to ask and how you 'll answer them . If , on the other hand , there is a substantial chance the FAA will take certificate action against you or will propose a fine , the best course of action , as I said above , is to hire an attorney . Do n't ignore the FAA ; be polite , but do n't provide more information than the bare outlines of what is already known and obvious to all . State quietly that you understand the FAA 's desire to investigate possible violations , that you take your obligations to fly safely very seriously , and that you will be happy to cooperate . Also say that , unless the FAA is not contemplating action against you , you feel it best to consult a lawyer before proceeding . Since the FAA likely wo n't give you any guarantees , its representative will be the one overreaching if he presses you to respond anyway . Politely decline if he does . I also had a look through the AOPA discussion forums ( members only , so no links ) and my summary of their comments would be : File a <URL> within the 10-day limit , whatever happened If you know what you did wrong and you know it was minor , then make the call If you do n't know what you did wrong then call but be prepared to end the conversation immediately if you have no good response or you realize it 's more serious than you thought If you know you caused a major safety issue ( actual or potential ) then do n't call and get a lawyer instead If you know the person you have to call - e.g. if it 's the tower controller at your home airport - then you should give more weight to calling In general , it 's better to call and have to cut off the conversation than not to call in the first place Whatever you say , keep it short and factual When you find out what you did wrong , get some ground and/or flight training from an instructor to address that specific issue and have him endorse it in your logbook ; this shows the FAA that you 've taken the issue seriously and you 've actively taken steps to make sure you wo n't do it again
In case of composite materals , the usual solution adopted for lightning protection is to have a conductive layer in the structure . Basically , this provides a continuous conductive path of low resistance over the entire aircraft exterior ( fuselage , for eg ) , with additional protection in zones where lightning is most likely to attach ( for example , the radome ) . This is achived usually by having a thin conductive copper mesh embedded in the structure . For example , the 787 uses two main methods to achieve lightning protection . The fuselage has a copper mesh ' baked ' into it . Some of the extremeties have metal foils in it to protect against lightning strike . The composite layup uses an expanded metal foil ( EMF ) in its structure to provide lightning strike protection ( LSP ) . The EMF is usually placed above the CFRP layer , as shown below . The EMF is usually a thin , lightweight metal foil embedded in the outer laminate of the CFRP or in the surface film in some cases . <URL> The composite structure layup shown at left consists of an expanded metal foil layer shown at right . This figure is a screenshot from the COMSOL Multiphysics ® software model featured in this blog post . Copyright © Boeing . Imge from comsol.com 787 also uses metal foils in some extremties ( wings , nacelles etc. ) . From <URL> : Wing fuel tank skin surfaces -- electromagnetic effects protection . Fasteners with dielectric tops ( sealant flush to the outer surface of the fuel tank skin ) in combination with copper foil protect against external ignition sources such as lightning and electrostatics on the wing tank skin surface by diverting and distributing current . The metal mesh is the usual method in practice at present and used in other places too , like helicopter rotor blades and fuselage . However , work is going on for using other methods like <URL> etc. .
FCOM for the A320 describes 3 independent hydraulic systems , with accumulation reservoirs for each at 6.5 L ,12.5 L &amp; 14.5 L ( 1.7 USG ,3.3 USG &amp; 3.8 USG ) respectively , so +33.5 liters is a good bet , which translate to 26-33 kgs depending on fluid type . Note that more fluid will be available in the system , but how much exactly you will need a mechanic to answer .
Here 's what the regulations say ATC should do : Broadcast on all appropriate frequencies a general caution warning every 5 minutes for 20 minutes following the last report ; Include information on the ATIS broadcast for one hour following the last report ; Report the incident through the Domestic Events Network ( DEN ) , or to their overlying TRACON or ARTCC facility . As for the pilots , lasers are regarded as an emergency , so you are permitted to take evasive action . Other aircraft are also permitted to request clearance to avoid the area . Here are the relevant FAA orders : <URL> : 10-2-14 . UNAUTHORIZED LASER ILLUMINATION OF AIRCRAFT a . When a laser event is reported to an air traffic facility , broadcast on all appropriate frequencies a general caution warning every five minutes for 20 minutes following the last report . PHRASEOLOGY - UNAUTHORIZED LASER ILLUMINATION EVENT , ( location ) , ( altitude ) . b. Terminal facilities must include reported unauthorized laser illumination events on the ATIS broadcast for one hour following the last report . Include the time , location , altitude , color , and direction of the laser as reported by the pilot . NOTE - All personnel can expect aircrews to regard lasers as an inflight emergency and may take evasive action to avoid laser illumination . Additionally , other aircraft may request clearance to avoid the area . <URL> : 2-1-27 . REPORTING UNAUTHORIZED LASER ILLUMINATION OF AIRCRAFT All FAA Air Traffic Control facilities , Federal Contract Towers and Flight Service Stations shall report unauthorized laser illumination incidents through the Domestic Events Network ( DEN ) , providing the following information : a. UTC date and time of event . b. Call Sign , or aircraft registration number . c. Type of aircraft . d. Nearest major city . e. Altitude . f. Location of event ( e.g. , latitude/longitude and/or Fixed Radial Distance ( FRD ) ) . g. Brief description of the event . h. Any other pertinent information . NOTE - Facilities without direct access to the DEN shall forward the information through the overlying TRACON or ARTCC facility
These numbers are based on mixed-class configurations and use of floor space for other things . The A380 for instance can theoretically be configured with 853 " economy " seats , but no-one I know of has bought one configured that way . Typical first-business-economy configuration is 525 , and Emirates seats just 489 because its first-class section is basically staterooms , and it has showers and a bar taking up floor space ( it also has an excellent and large business class instead of using the back half of both decks for coach ) . When designing an aircraft 's seating capacity , especially for long-haul flights , total cabin weight ( passengers and cargo ) must be taken into account . The more stuff you 're hauling , the less weight allowance you have for fuel , and therefore your range is reduced . Therefore , increased room per passenger on long-haul flights is n't just for passenger comfort , it 's often a necessity to reduce total cabin weight and thus be able to max out the fuel load to get between the airports non-stop . Operators of shorter flights do n't care as much because you can pack them in like sardines and still have plenty of fuel to get them where they 're going . Therefore , dimensions of various classes of seat differ by airline , aircraft and route ( Lufthansa , for instance , operates three different A380 configurations based on the routes they run ) . The typical coach seat is between 17 and 19 inches wide ( including half the armrest ) , and has a " pitch " ( space between seats which determines the legroom and ability to recline ) of between 31 and 35 inches . For business class in three-class planes it gets a bit better ; seat width averages about 21 " and a pitch of about 38 " ( more for planes outfitted with lay-flat seats ) . First class ranges widely by aircraft type and airline ( it 's truly " first-class " in aircraft with three-class configuration ; in two-class what 's called " first " is closer to business class ) , but typically offers room to spare especially on long-hauls . Coupled with required/desired aisle widths and additional amenities that widen the seats or replace them in certain areas of the cabin , it 's fairly academic to count up how many seats you can fit aboard a particular airframe .
Aerodynamic noise has many sources . It is not white noise , because some frequencies are dominant . Generally it happens when flows of different speed collide , or when a standing wave develops in a cavity . Common noise sources are : Uncovered openings , like vent holes or control surface gaps . Like when you blow across the top of an open bottle , they produce a howling sound with a dominant frequency that depends on flow speed and opening size . Tollmien-Schlichting waves in the boundary layer . These frequencies change with speed and their location along the flow path , and generally are responsible for most of the hissing sound of gliders . Separated flow , which produces alternating separations behind blunt bodies . Here the main frequency is that of the Karman vortex street that forms behind them . It can be calculated if the <URL> Sr of the flow is known . This is the equation for the main frequency $ f $ of a bracing wire with the diameter $ d $ : $ $ f = Sr \ cdot \ frac { v } { d } $ $ Here $ v $ is the airspeed , and for bracing wires Sr is normally 0.2 . Bracing wires ( or a blunt trailing edge , for that purpose ) produce a characteristic whistling sound . As you said , the landing configuration makes most noise . In addition to the factors above , you now have Extended flaps , mostly with gaps between them which show high local flow speed . This local high-speed flow is very noisy . Many more blunt objects sticking out of the airframe : Landing gears , gear covers or landing lights . The particular noise of landing gears was once tested with a <URL> which had styrofoam gears fitted under the wings . They broke off when it had to land , but yielded valuable data when compared to the noise of the clean glider . Sorry , there is no photo of this experiment on the web ! The gaping hole of the landing gear well . Especially while the gear is moved , this creates a lot of noise , but even after extension a part of the well is uncovered and adds its noise . <URL> is a good overview of different noise sources . It is best read with a good working knowledge of German . To answer your question : The sound is a mixture of hissing and whistling in different frequencies . If you stand close to the Autobahn ( best is a section without speed restrictions ) , the noise of the passing cars is similar , but less intense . At 180 km/h , engine noise starts to vanish in all the aerodynamic and tire noises ...
There are several ways to slow down an airliner : aerodynamic drag friction in the wheel bearings reverse thrust wheel brakes and a few even used a <URL> , but that went out of fashion a long time ago . If the runway is inclined , landing <URL> also will slow down the aircraft . Friction and drag you get for free , so I would rely on those first . Since they are highest when the speed is high , use them first until the aircraft is so far down the runway that it would overshoot without additional application of wheel brakes . Use spoilers and leave the flaps down to maximise the deceleration . Only at the end add wheel brakes so you have slowed down to taxi speed when the exit of the runway is reached . So the best answer is none of the above but : Coast along with flaps and spoilers out until you need to brake more to avoid an overshoot . Then apply wheel brakes . The exact way how brakes should be applied depends on <URL> .
Here is the text extracted from Boeing 's 777 Flight Crew Operations Manual : In cabin altitude controller cruise mode , maximum cabin altitude is 8,000 feet . When the takeoff field elevation is higher than 8,000 feet , the cabin descends to the cabin cruise altitude while the airplane is climbing . When the destination airport elevation is greater than 8,000 feet , cabin altitude controller cruise mode maintains a cabin altitude of 8,000 feet . ( ... ) At touchdown , the outflow valves open to depressurize the cabin . Therefore , when the airplane is on the ground , its cabin altitude is always equal to the ambient altitude . When it is in the air , the maximum is 8000 feet . Whether the cabin altitude will climb to 8000 feet or descend to 8000 feet depends on field elevation . The reverse happens upon landing . If landing at an airport at 10,400 feet , the cabin altitude is < = 8000 feet until touchdown , then raises to 10,400 feet . This make sense - if the outside pressure is greater , how do you open the door ? ( well with enough force you can , but I will leave it to your imagination as to what happens the moment the door is opened ) .
The FAA 's <URL> gives both US and ICAO definitions : RADAR CONTACT - a. Used by ATC to inform an aircraft that it is identified on the radar display and radar flight following will be provided until radar identification is terminated . Radar service may also be provided within the limits of necessity and capability . When a pilot is informed of " radar contact , " he/she automatically discontinues reporting over compulsory reporting points . [ ... ] b . The term used to inform the controller that the aircraft is identified and approval is granted for the aircraft to enter the receiving controllers airspace . ( See ICAO term RADAR CONTACT . ) RADAR CONTACT [ ICAO ] - The situation which exists when the radar blip or radar position symbol of a particular aircraft is seen and identified on a radar display . RADAR CONTACT LOST - Used by ATC to inform a pilot that radar data used to determine the aircraft 's position is no longer being received , or is no longer reliable and radar service is no longer being provided . The loss may be attributed to several factors including the aircraft merging with weather or ground clutter , the aircraft operating below radar line of sight coverage , the aircraft entering an area of poor radar return , failure of the aircraft transponder , or failure of the ground radar equipment . Note that this is not a universal term , Canada uses " radar identified " instead . Their equivalent of the P/CG is the <URL> : " Radar identified " An expression used by ATC to inform the pilot of an aircraft when radar identification is established . Fr : " Identifié radar " And : " Radar contact " U.S. : Expression for : " Radar identified "
end question
start question
What are the disadvantages ( if any ) of using a supercritical airfoil ?
A supercritical airfoil has these characteristics : Large leading edge radius Comparably flat upper surface Rounded lower surface with a maximum thickness location at around 50 % Flat or even negative camber in the forward section High positive camber in the rear section ( rear loading ) The large leading edge radius allows it to create more lift than comparable airfoils at high angle of attack . After <URL> re-invented <URL> ( they had first be developed by K. A. Kawalki in Germany in 1940 , and British airfoil research resulted in similar shapes , first used in the <URL> ) , he transferred some of their characteristics to a GA airfoil , the <URL> . From the <URL> : The unusual airfoil unexpectedly aided general aviation as well ; its rather blunt leading edge allowed it to generate high lift coefficients before stalling , and Whitcomb published a low-speed airfoil which he called GA ( W ) -1 ; it is now routinely used in light aircraft and gliders . As usual , Wikipedia is mostly correct , but the use of the GA ( W ) -1 on gliders is everything but routine . This gives an indication of their drawbacks : The low forward camber limits the range of the laminar bucket to lower lift coefficients . A <URL> tries to maintain the laminar bucket almost up to stall . A positive camber throughout will produce higher maximum lift coefficients than what a supercritical airfoil is capable of . That is why the GA ( W ) -1 uses only the blunt nose and the rear loading , but not the camber distribution of supercritical airfoils . The high rear loading gives them a large , negative pitch coefficient which translates into a larger travel of the center of pressure over angle of attack , requiring a larger horizontal tail . In airliners this does not matter because their large flaps dictate the size of the tail .
Narrower wing chords versus a biplane of similar span and area . More efficient and increased lift Potentially faster rate of climb , tighter turning radius Just to name a few . You 're essentially increasing the surface area without increasing the wingspan
To expand upon voretaq7 's answer , understanding the history and evolution of transponders can more deeply explain why this is the way it is ( for now ) . When Allied ( US/UK/Others ) WWII planes returned from combat missions over Germany and mainland Europe , the ( brand new technology ) radar controllers had no way of knowing " who " the aircraft were . To solve this problem , aircraft began carrying an electronic box that could transmit a radio signal automatically in order to identify themselves . This system was the original IFF ( Identification : Friend or Foe ) . This piece of electronic wizardry could be set on the ground by crew members , prior to departure , using an 8-position dial numbered from 0-7 . The box would receive a transmission signal from the ground , and then transmit a reply of two bursts of energy per cycle : the first signal was the " I 'm beginning my transmission " signal ( a slightly louder burst of energy ) , and the next signal was delayed a specific amount of nano-seconds to match the frequency wavelength ( and would be slightly lower in intensity ) . If the transmitter was set to 0 , the delay was nothing . That is , the second burst would be transmitted on the next " instance " following the begin-transmission burst . If set to 1 , then there was a 1-step delay after the start-signal ... all the way up to 7 , which would induce a 7-step delay . The rudimentary " computers " on the ground , co-located with the radar , would receive these transmissions . Based on the known radio frequency , the timing of these short bursts of energy onto the carrier wavelength could be interpreted back into a number . If the radio on the ground received something like : START-nothing-nothing-SIGNAL-nothing-nothing-nothing-nothing-nothing-START-nothing-nothing-SIGNAL-nothing-nothing-nothing-nothing-nothing ... then it could be calculated that the box onboard the aircraft was transmitting the " number 2 " . If the secret number for that day ( briefed to pilots before they left ) was " 2 " , then the plane was identified as a " FRIEND " in the IFF system . This was the very first transponder prototype . ( BTW : It is called a " transponder " because it does two things : it TRANSmits a resPONSE to a specific signal on a specific frequency . ) But the obvious first hurdle was the fact that there were only 8 numbers available , and so the transponder boxes were quickly upgraded to two settings ( 56 possible code combinations ) and then 4 settings ( 4,096 possible " code " combinations ) . But there was still a " problem " : the codes were set on the ground and could not be changed . Any mid-mission compromise of the number being used that day prevented aircraft already airborne from changing their codes . The next technological leap was to develop a panel-mounted system where the pilot could change each of the four dials manually . This technology eventually entered the civilian arena . To distinguish between different types of transponders and who was using them ( mostly a frequency issues - military freq vs. civilian freq ) , different categories came about , called " modes " . A " Mode 2 " transponder was the above described 4-digit , octal , set-on-the-ground-and-leave-it system . A " Mode 3 " transponder was the newer , pilot-sets-it-in-the-air version , but still using military frequencies . When the civilians began using the same technology on approved civilian frequencies , the designation was " Mode 3-A " , often just called a " Mode A " transponder . Combined with the advent of civilian air traffic surveillance radar , controllers could now distinguish " who was who " on their screens , by assigning each aircraft its own unique number . This was great for a while , but the only thing controllers could see was the " blip " and its assigned number . The radar computer could also calculate ground speed , but not altitude . So , the controllers relied on the pilot to report their altitude verbally . This led to the next technological leap forward in transponders . If that same radio could somehow be connected to the aircraft 's pressure system ( the same one that drives altimeters and vertical speed indicators ) , then it could probably somehow be configured to transmit that altitude data as well . That technology was thus invented , and the designation " Mode 3-A/C " was applied to the civilian versions ... commonly ( and still popular today ) called a " Mode C Transponder " . This ( finally ) gets us to the original question : Why do n't aircraft program their own registration numbers into the transponder ? Since there are only four octal digits available , there are three immediate problems : first , the numbers 8 and 9 are not usable ; second , no letters are available ; and third , with only 4096 possible combinations , and way more aircraft than that in the world , it is very highly possible that two aircraft in the same vicinity could possibly have the same number . The advent of " Mode S " transponders , with " current-day " technology , can now transmit ( as well as receive ) all kinds of information , including the ai
In order to engage the usual arresting gear ( cables ) on an aircraft carrier , it helps to have a <URL> . There are other forms of <URL> that do not require a tail hook . Presumably the main limitations on an aircraft using them are the size , weight , and landing speed of the aircraft . These devices do not seem to be designed for as frequent use as the arresting cables of a carrier . Followup : As I found out on looking into this further , many ( most ? all ? ) present-day land-based fighter jets , not just Navy or Marines jets , have tail hooks as well . However , at least according to <URL> , tail hooks of the types of aircraft used by the US Air Force ( and some other air forces ) are not designed to work with aircraft carrier arresting cables but only with land-based systems ( which suspend the cables higher than the aircraft carrier systems do ) . As mentioned in a comment ( and in the Wikipedia article on " Arresting gear " linked above ) , barrier nets can serve as arresting gear . Various publications ( for example the <URL> , pp. 10 -- 11 , accessed 22-Jan-2015 ) list numerous kinds of gear , including cables designed to engage tail hooks , woven straps designed to be torn by tail hooks ( one-time use only ! ) , nets designed to engage struts , nets designed to engage wings , nets combined with cables , and engineered material arresting systems ( EMAS ) that absorb energy as they are crushed under the wheels of the aircraft . I have not yet found any citations of EMAS being used by military aircraft , but its main limitation of seems to be landing speed rather than aircraft weight or size , as <URL> dated December 12 , 2014 credits these systems with stopping nine aircraft that overran runways in separate incidents , including a Boeing 747 , an MD-11 , and an Airbus A320 .
Never say never , but that 's not a prop malfunction that I 've heard of or that was ever addressed in the turboprops that I 've flown . We had various prop malfunctions , but the ways that things could fail that we considered would pretty much leave all blades in the same place . So without claiming that it could not , ever , ever , no way no how , not in all possibility ever happen , I 'll say that it 's not very likely . If you did get something like that , the vibration would probably be bad enough that you 'd shut the engine down , and at that point the interesting question would be , do all the blades feather for you ? ( The answer to that probably depends on what type of prop you have and what specific failure mode led to the condition in the first place , and now we 're into too much speculation for any answer to be very enlightening . )
Angle of Attack is the angle between the chord line of the airfoil and the relative wind . The elevator is also a " wing " in the effect that it is an airfoil . 1 ) Then what is the angle between the chord line of the elevator and relative wind ? Because if I am not wrong , by pitching the elevator up , the wing of an aircraft is subjected to the ' angle of attack ' . It 's also called " Angle Of Attack " . Pitching the elevator up also changes the angle of attack of the elevator . There are such conditions as elevator stall , although much less common than wing stall . 2 ) When you say angle of attack exceed critical angle of attack , is it because the elevator is pitched up thus creating wider angle between the chord line and the relative direction of the wind ? The " Critical AoA " is the angle at which the airfoil is generating the most lift . [ <URL> ] : The critical angle of attack is the angle of attack which produces maximum lift coefficient . This is also called the " stall angle of attack " . Below the critical angle of attack , as the angle of attack increases , the coefficient of lift ( Cl ) increases . At the same time , above the critical angle of attack , as angle of attack increases , the air begins to flow less smoothly over the upper surface of the airfoil and begins to separate from the upper surface Usually when you exceed the critical AoA , the air on the upper surface of the airfoil de-laminates and becomes turbulent . This results in a loss of lift ( stall ) . <URL> <URL> 3 ) In the Air France 447 accident , the PF kept saying , keeps the wings level . What does it mean ? How can the wings be leveled when the angle of attack is so high ? Does keeping the wings level means reducing the angle of attack to zero ? I 'm not sure what context you are talking about . I 've read the transcripts pretty carefully and I do n't recall the PF saying to keep the wings level . The Captain said to descend , while the PF was trying to climb . The SIC was pushing the stick forward while the PF was pulling back , causing the wings to remain level ( or at a slight climb ) . Keeping the wings level ( avoiding an un-coordinated turn ) in a stall condition is the best way to avoid putting the aircraft into a spin . This is possibly what they meant , although they did n't know that they were in a stall ( or if they did , they were not reacting to it appropriately ) . Yes , leveling the wings would be making the AoA at zero ( zero meaning where the airfoil is developing lift , and depending on the bank angle ) , but only if there were positive airspeed to make the relative wind parallel with the chord . In the case of AF447 , the aircraft was falling out of the sky at a spectacular 15,000 FPM , which means that the relative wind to the airfoil was basically perpendicular . They did n't have the forward airspeed to change the AoA , so they should have lowered the nose to gain airspeed and decrease the AoA . The important thing to remember is that the pitch angle of the aircraft is not the same as the AoA . You can take an aircraft at zero forward speed and drop it straight down , the pitch angle will be zero but the AoA will be perpendicular .
Yes ! You can charter large aircraft like the 747 . A lot of airlines offer this service for large groups ( sports teams come to mind ) , and there are also operators of the Boeing Business Jet that were created just for private and charter uses . The TSA requires aircraft like this to adopt a security program called the Twelve-Five Standard Security Program ( or TFSSP for short ) . <URL> contains the regulations which cover this . Most of the security program falls under non-disclosure rules that prevent anyone with knowledge of the program from talking about it to people that do n't have an operational need to know ( and have also signed a non-disclosure ) . This helps to prevent people that would try to bypass the security measures in place from even knowing what to look for . The regulations do specify the following though : Each operator of an aircraft that weighs more than 12,500 lbs . that is used for scheduled or charter operations must adopt the program . The program must be approved by the TSA . The program must contain the procedures and description of the facilities and equipment used regarding : the acceptance and screening of individuals and their accessible property , including , if applicable , the carriage weapons as part of State-required emergency equipment , the acceptance and screening of checked baggage , the acceptance and screening of cargo , the screening of individuals and property , the use of metal detection devices , regarding the use of x-ray systems , the use of explosives detection systems , the responsibilities of security coordinators , the requirements for law enforcement personnel , carriage of accessible weapons , carriage of prisoners under the control of armed law enforcement officers , transportation of Federal Air Marshals , aircraft and facilities control function , the specific locations where the air carrier has entered into an exclusive area agreement , fingerprint-based criminal history records checks , personnel identification systems , training , an aviation security contingency plan , bomb and air piracy threats , flight deck privileges , and the Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan ( AOIP ) . As you can see , there is quite a bit that goes into the TFSSP . Two of the biggest things though are the requirement for all flight crew members to undergo a fingerprint based criminal background check and that access to the flight deck must be restricted . For more details , refer to the actual regulations which cover this in more depth . <URL> also has a page about the TFSSP .
Short answer : High-strength aluminium alloys are tricky to weld correctly . Aluminium is such a fine material for aircraft structures that the need to rivet it is gladly accepted . Two things are important : While steel has a temperature range in which it gets more and more runny , aluminium alloys change from solid to liquid within a few degrees . Also , heat conductivity in iron-based alloys is lower than in aluminium , so heating steel locally will keep the surrounding material cooler and more solid compared to aluminium . While welding thin sheets of steel is trivial , it needs <URL> . For very thin sheets , special equipment like a water-cooled copper backing on which the aluminium sheets rest , so their back is cooled , are needed . Also , the melting temperature of steel and titanium is high enough for it to glow long before it melts , while aluminium will melt without giving you any optical hint of its temperature . High-strength aluminium is produced by <URL> . The <URL> atoms dispersed through the aluminium matrix which locally distort the atomic lattice and strengthen it . If they are heated and rapidly cooled by welding , the copper distribution would be changed and the material would be weakened around the welding area . To harden the finished structure again is rather impractical in most cases , so riveting is the better alternative . A third speciality is the oxide layer on aluminium , which has a higher melting temperature than the base material . You need an AC <URL> welder to disrupt the aluminium oxide layer , so your choice of welding techniques is rather limited . Also , riveted structures are easier to inspect and to repair . Most repairs need to remove aircraft structure for access , and a riveted structure is easier to disassemble and to put together again after the repair using slightly thicker rivets . My experience with aluminium welding stopped at 4mm thick sheets ; while thicker ones were easy to weld , I never managed to weld thinner ones . You sit in front of your structure and heat the spot where you want to start welding . Watching it through the darkened head screen you wait until the spot under the arc becomes glossy , which signals that the surface has started to melt . Now you need to add your welding wire like crazy to keep the spot from heating more , and get the spot moving . If you fail to do so , a second later you will have a hole under your arc , because the aluminium has molten completely and has fallen away . Doing this with 2mm sheets was a pure exercise in futility for me - the moment the surface became glossy it fell away already . Edit : Thanks to @voretaq7 for sharing the link about friction stir welding in the comments ! This is made possible by precise positioning of the parts and a computer-controlled welding head and will see wider application in the future . Eclipse Aerospace claims it helps them to avoid 60 % of rivets in their jet aircraft .
If we 're talking about FAA regs I 'm not aware of any endorsement required if your student passes the test with a perfect score ( they need an endorsement to take the test - , and they need an endorsement like the one in your question if they fail or do n't manage a perfect score ) . The endorsement above is intended for use when you need to endorse someone who failed to re-take the exam ( similar to what 's done if they fail a checkride ) , or when there 's stuff to review from the knowledge test ( My instructor combined it in my Checkride endorsement - . That said , it is probably a good idea to cover anything the student missed on the exam or does n't feel 100 % confident on , and to log that training - in this case if you do additional ground work you would just log it as you normally do ...
Molding of the intricate shape requires expensive carbon fiber For it to dampen the noise it 's best with 5 + blades ( see 3 . ) Which is hard to balance and too much weight for your run-of-the-mill 4-seater single engine plane By the time the benefits were realized , enter the jet engine for the big planes that would have benefited from it . You only see it in few turboprops nowadays . Edit : For more on the correlation between no . of blades and noise : it was mainly discovered from tests . Here 's a long <URL> with tons of info , and a snippet from it follows ( T denotes Test , summary : more blades , less noise ) : <URL>
I 've heard it said that the break-even point for owning vs renting is 200 hours/year . I fly a lot less than that , but I do n't like sharing my toys , so I own anyway . I make it a point to not actually count my cost of ownership , because it would n't be fun any more , but I 'll give you some rough numbers . I bought a 1962 Mooney for \ $ 30,000 . That 's about as cheap as it gets , and this was reflected in the condition of the plane and the high-time engine . In the first year had it , I spent \ $ 18,000 on an engine rebuild , new prop , new carb , new magnetos , new oil pump , and all the other firewall-forward upgrades that were required when I got the new engine . Five years later , I spent \ $ 14,000 on new paint . It still needs a new interior , but that can wait . I spent about \ $ 3000 at West Texas Aero installing speed upgrades . Budget \ $ 10/hour for your next engine rebuild . Annual inspection typically runs \ $ 3000 to \ $ 6000 depending on what they find wrong . I 'm getting a tank resealed this year , so it 's going to be an expensive one . Parking runs typically \ $ 50 - \ $ 100/month , depending on where you are . Insurance for my old crate runs \ $ 750/year . Expect to pay more for a nicer plane or if you have less experience . Note : get a commercial license ; it will pay for itself in reduced insurance in the long run . I think gas will typically run \ $ 5-6 / gallon , depending on a lot of factors . My Mooney burns around 9.5 gph , and flies 142 kts so it 's really economical in that respect ( and the main reason I do n't upgrade ) . Light twins are cheap to buy , but that 's because their cost of ownership is through the roof . A low-time pilot can expect to pay \ $ 12,000 / year for insurance and the annual inspection will also be a back-breaker . I used to have money . Now I have an airplane .
Aviation headsets are just like gaming headsets on a computer or console gaming system , except they are sturdier and much more expensive . At the basic end of the spectrum , an aviation headset is just a big clamp style pair of around the ear headphones with a microphone . The cable from the headset has 2 plugs ( for airplanes ) or one plug ( for helicopters ) . These two plug styles are equivalent electronically , with the helicopter cable having an extra conductor in order to include the microphone and headphones in the same plug . The two-plug variant has one plug for the headphones and one of the microphone . These differ from gaming headsets in that the headphone plug is 0.25 " ( the kind a nice stereo receiver uses ) and the microphone plug is 0.206 " . This difference in sizes is to avoid mixing up which plug goes in which jack . Aviation headsets fall into two broad categories : passive noise reduction and active noise reduction ( ANR ) . The passive noise reduction headsets rely on a good seal around the ear and a strong clamping force ( e.g. David Clarks ) . Active noise reduction are somewhat less " clampy " and provide less passive protection but make up for this with the active protection . An ANR headset is money well spent , but these do top out at around \ $ 850 - \ $ 1000 for the top models from Lightspeed and Bose respectively . ANR headsets must be powered to work properly but all ANR headsets still function without power as passive noise reducing headsets . Power for an ANR headset can come from a battery box or from aircraft power but not interchangeably . Aircraft power requires panel installation of a plug specific to the headset brand ( a single connector provides power , headphone and microphone connections ) . In general , unless you happen to own an airplane and install the power plug , you should get the battery version of a headset . The primary purpose of these headsets is to reduce the noise in the cockpit ( they can be very loud ) in order to avoid hearing loss ( yes , it is that loud ) and to facilitate clearer communication with ATC . For quieter airplanes there are in-ear headsets that have more in common with earbuds than the bigger headsets . Some of these are just earplugs wired for sound and some use molds of your ear to provide the seal . The headset is connected to the airplanes audio panel . Audio panels vary in complexity but their basic job is to provide an intercom for communication between occupants of the airplane and access to the com radio for communication with ATC . The audio panel is also able to monitor ( listen ) the navigation radios certain types of beacons . In transport aircraft the audio panel is also tied into the passenger address system and the flight attendant 's phones in the cabin . The headsets can be operated in a hot mic setup or the mic can be explicitly turned on and off . The hot mic is the usual method and the audio panel provides a squelch control so you are n't broadcasting the cockpit noise when not talking . The ATC transmissions are via a push-to-talk ( PTT ) switch . Aviation headsets for the most part do not need to be approved to use in airplanes , but in some situations for US registered aircraft , the requirement of an approved headset can be mandated ( some ( all ? ) 121 carriers ) . The FAA standards for approval are specified in TSO C-57a and C-58a . You 'll find many , but certainly not all , aviation headsets conform to these orders . They define minimum performance characteristics of the electronics , speakers , microphones , etc that make up the headset . How much hearing protection is needed depends greatly on the specific airplane in question . Jets can be on the very loud end of the spectrum ( EMB-145 ) or they can be quiet enough that even passive noise reduction is largely unnecessary . For the noisy end of the spectrum peak wavelengths can be well in excess of 100 dB . I can find reports of 130 db in some smaller airplanes and reports of 84 db in a 737 during cruise , but these numbers are all anecdotal in nature . What is important to take from these is not the specific numbers but that they are high enough to cause hearing loss during prolonged exposure . The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders defines 85 dB as the threshold for hearing damage from long or repeated exposure . Passive headsets generally advertise noise reduction around 20 dB ( 23 dB for the venerable David Clarks ) and some people will wear earplugs under a headset to further increase the passive noise reduction . A cursory look at ANR headsets reveal that they tend not to advertise their performance and instead specify maximum ambient noise levels for ANR to properly function ( around 120-125 dB for Bose and Lightspeed headsets ) . I can personally add an anecdote that both the Lightspeed Zulu and Bose X make dramatic changes in noise level ( both of these headsets are now outdated and replaced by newer versions ) . For most smaller airplanes you will wear the head
All wings warp . The extent of warping is one restriction which limits the fast side of the <URL> . Once aircraft designers realized that thick wings have less drag , they tried to build their wings as stiff as possible . Stiff wings allow to use airfoils with rear loading , will have <URL> and keep their shape even when operating at high dynamic pressure . Since the center of pressure moves chordwise on cambered airfoils depending on the angle of attack , any cambered wing will suffer from pitching moments around its axis of elasticity . This moment will <URL> and change the incidence of the outer wing sections . A stiff wing will suffer less twisting and stay closer to its ideal aerodynamic shape . Add an aileron , and another twisting moment is added on top . Now the wing twists opposite to the aileron deflection ! This can become so bad that most of the aileron 's effectiveness is lost as the wing is warped in a way which counteracts the lift change of the aileron . The <URL> uses this effect with an array of leading and trailing edge devices to actively warp the wing in the desired direction . Using computer-controlled deflections of small but very effective control surfaces , it creates a desired deformation of the wing for roll control . This can be compared to the effect a <URL> has on an aileron . The Flettner tab is a small control surface at the trailing edge of a larger control surface and is deflected by the pilot such that it moves the big control surface in opposite direction . It slightly reduces the effectiveness of the big control surface , but needs only a fraction of the stick force , thus helping to manually control big aircraft . Since the active wing warping of the X-53 depends on the proper functioning of the FCS and an array of movable devices , each with its own failure mode , I would hesitate to see this as a clear advantage . It allows , however , to control the aircraft at high dynamic pressure with minimal drag penalties .
The main benefit of biplanes is that the lift can be distributed across both wings . This provides more lift with less wingspan and places less load on each wing . Less load means the materials can have lower strength . This was very important in the early days of aviation , when engine power , materials , and weight were much more limited . The major downside of a biplane is aerodynamics . The wings interfere with each other , causing drag . While structural bracing between the wings can reduce weight , it also adds more drag . <URL> A biplane configuration does not make much sense for delta wings . The main drawback of a biplane is drag , but drag increases with the square of velocity , and delta wings are best in high-speed flight . <URL> , they have higher viscous drag due to the large surface area . A second delta wing will add more area , increasing both wave drag ( from the cross section ) and viscous drag ( from the surface ) . Configuration of the aircraft also becomes problematic . Most aircraft with delta wings tend to be fairly flat , allowing lower area and therefore lower drag . The closer the wings are , the more they will interfere . The further apart they are , the more structure is needed , either in a larger fuselage or in structural braces , which increases weight and drag .
<URL> Four sets of measured data can be seen in this plot , the difference caused by different Reynolds numbers during measurement . The figure is from Helicopter Performance , Stability and Control by Raymond Prouty . The book is still for sale and is a treasure cove of knowledge on all things sub-sonic . From page 426 onwards it has a section on representing airfoil data with equations , using NACA 0012 as example . <URL> This graph is from Theory Of Wing Sections by Abbott &amp; Von Doenhoff . Contains a chapter of compressibility effects . $ C_L $ and $ C_M $ are more extensively represented in the reference books than $ C_D $ , which is more generally lumped into considerations of Mach divergence number . The same two books will help you further . The NACA technical report server can be of help as well , a starting point there would be NACA TR 832 .
You have confused a turboprop engine with a turbocharged engine . They are very different and have very little in common . A turboprop engine is powered by a turbine engine geared to a propeller . Turbine engines have less power available at higher altitudes so answer " A " is correct . A turbocharged engine is a piston engine which is fitted with a small compressor driven by exhaust gas pressure . The compressor ( turbocharger ) can increase manifold pressure to restore sea level power at altitude . ( Turbo-normalized ) A turbo charger can also supply greater than sea level manifold pressure for more power . ( turbo-supercharged ) Both types of turbocharged piston engines can maintain full rated power as they climb , but they will eventually reach a limit where full power can no longer be maintained .
The FAA released a 70 page report back in 2003 titled <URL> which basically says that the overall accident rate of the two types of airplanes are almost the same . They found that the " available safety " of Technically Advanced Aircraft ( TAA ) is greater than non-TAA aircraft , however in emergency situations pilots often were not aware of the resources available . To offset this , they recommend ( among other things ) more training for pilots before flying TAA 's so that they actually have the safety related aspects available to them . Here were their official findings : Team Findings : The safety problems found in the accidents studied by the Team are typical of problems that occurred after previous introductions of new aircraft technology and all also reflect typical GA pilot judgment errors found in analysis of non-TAA accidents Previous safety problems similar to those identified in this Study have been remedied through a combination of improved training and , in the case of new aircraft capabilities , pilot screening ( i.e. , additional insurance company requirements of pilot experience ) . The predominant TAA-system-specific finding is that the steps required to call up information and program an approach in IFR-certified GPS navigators are numerous , and during high workload situations they can distract from the primary pilot duty of flying the aircraft . MFDs in the accident aircraft did not appear to present a complexity problem . The Team also believes that PFDs , while not installed in any of the accident aircraft and just now becoming available in TAAs , similarly are not likely to present a complexity problem . TAAs provide increased " available safety " , i.e. , a potential for increased safety . However , to actually obtain this available safety , pilots must receive additional training in the specific TAA systems in their aircraft that will enable them to exploit the opportunities and operate within the limitations inherent in their TAA systems . The template for securing this increased safety exists from the experiences with previous new technology introductions -- the current aircraft model-specific training and insurance requirements applicable to high-performance single and multi engine small airplanes . However , the existing training infrastructure currently is not able to provide the needed training in TAAs . Effective and feasible interventions have been identified , mostly recommending improvements in training , and effective implementation mechanisms for the recommended interventions exist . Therefore , TAA safety problems can be addressed , and the additional available safety of TAAs to address traditional causes of GA accidents can be realized as well . APOA has a nice <URL> .
I assume the hole has been properly deburred , otherwise you could suffer cuts on the sharp edges of the hole . What happens else depends on altitude and flight speed . At low level , the outside temperature should be tolerable and the pressure difference between inside and outside should be small , so your hand will be fine . At higher altitude , outside air temperature can drop to -60 ° C rsp . -76 ° F . Since air density is lower , the aircraft will travel fast ( approx . 250 m/s rsp . 560 Mph in case of an airliner ) , and convective cooling at the hole will soon cause hypothermia and frost bites . Also , inside pressure is 0.6 bar rsp 8.8 lb/sq-in higher than outside pressure , and the exposed skin on your palm will feel this as a sucking sensation . I further assume that you need to remove all cabin insulation to put your hand over that hole , so your whole hand will be exposed to the airplane 's metal skin which will have the same temperature as outside air . If the hand is dry and does not freeze to the metal skin , you might manage to keep it in place for a few seconds , but it will hurt . Keep it in contact with the metal skin longer and you will suffer progressive frostbite . The part of the skin which covers the hole should suffer less , since convective cooling should be less intense than the thermal conductivity of the metal skin , which will quickly pull all body heat from your hand where it touches the metal . The pressure difference will not damage your hand , but the low temperature will .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
To get an idea of the maximum forces , look at the certification limits . <URL> gives the limits for GA aircraft and <URL> those for larger aircraft including airliners . If these forces would be exceeded , even when something has failed , the aircraft would not be certified . The short-term limits in pitch are : 60 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 50 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 75 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The short-term limits in roll are : 30 lbs for stick-controlled aircraft ( only covered in FAR 23 ) , 25 lbs when only one hand is available for control , and 50 lbs when both hands can be used for control . The maximum force limits for prolonged application are much lower again .
end question
start question
What is the advantage of increasing an aircraft 's horizontal tail surface area ?
Increasing horizontal stabilizer area increases pitch stability and the permissible range for centre of gravity at the cost of some aerodynamic efficiency . Stability in pitch means that the aircraft tends to maintain constant angle of attack ( which roughly corresponds to maintaining constant speed with pitch ) . An aircraft is stable in pitch if the aft surface flies at lower angle of attack than the front surface ( this applies to both conventional tails and canards ) . Making the horizontal stabilizer larger does the following : The absolute change in lift force on the horizontal stabilizer when angle of attack changes is larger , so the aircraft returns to the trimmed angle of attack faster ( increased stability ) . As centre of gravity moves aft , the difference in angle of attack between the surfaces decreases to keep the plane balanced , reducing pitch stability . If the horizontal stabilizer is larger , the angle of attack changes more slowly for the same change in lift , so the centre of gravity may be permitted further aft before the aircraft becomes not stable enough . As centre of gravity moves forward , the difference of angle of attack between the surfaces increases until angle of attack of the horizontal stabilizer exceeds its stall angle of attack and control is lost . If the horizontal stabilizer is larger , it can provide more ( downward ! ) lift before it stalls , so the centre of gravity can be permitted further forward before loosing control authority .
The T-tail positions the horizontal stabilizer out of the turbulent " prop wash " . This reduces the strength and weight that would be required of the structure if it had to endure the aerodynamic stress behind the two propellers ( which is terrific ) . This simple shape has everything to do with parts and assembly simplicity and low cost for the homebuilder . Drag increases exponentially with speed ; so for slow aircraft , draggy shaped components are much less a problem .
Flutter is a phenomenon that can occur when a structure is subjected to aerodynamic forces . It occurs not only in aircraft but also for example in buildings , power lines , road signs and bridges . Flutter is an oscillation caused by interaction of aerodynamic forces , structural elasticity and inertial effects . Perhaps the best known example of flutter is the bridge over the <URL> that collapsed due to flutter in gale force winds . Flutter in aircraft causes the wings and / or stabilizers to oscillate . When the airspeed increases the energy added in each oscillation to the structure by the aerodynamic forces increases . At some speed the damping of the structure may be insufficient to absorb the energy increase from the aerodynamic loads and the amplitude of the harmonic oscillations will grow until the structure breaks . A flutter test is performed to determine what speed flutter occurs yet is still damped . Theoretically an aircraft should be able to stay structurally intact up to the design dive speed ( $ V_d $ ) which is at least 1.4 times the design cruise speed . In flight tests , the $ V_d $ is not always demonstrated as this is very risky since there would not be any margin from breaking up . The maximum speed is slowly increased in subsequent flight tests with careful data analyses in between up to a point where the test team decides that it is no longer safe to continue . This establishes the maximum demonstrated dive speed ( $ V _ { df } $ ) ; the published maximum operating speed ( $ V _ { mo } $ ) and never-exceed speed ( $ V _ { ne } $ ) are well below $ V _ { df } $ to give margin from disaster . This <URL> in a Hawker 800 . The incident occurred not during testing but was caused by <URL> ( FAA PDF ) .
Redundancy , particularly during <URL> operations . How it works depends on the specific airplane type . In the most advanced systems with triple ( or more ) flight guidance computers ( FGCs ) , a " voting " concept is used during critical operations like autoland . All 3 computers calculate their commands independently , and vote on what to do . The middle value , or sometimes the average of the 2 " most similar " values , is then passed to the flight control actuators . In this way , if any one of the computers fails and starts producing garbage commands , those erroneous commands will not be selected ( they are automatically rejected by the voting scheme ) . A monitoring system can also detect a failed computer in this way and take it offline , allowing " fail-active " functionality -- an autoland can continue on the 2 remaining functional computers . Less complex aircraft , and aircraft without autoland , still sometimes have 2 FGCs , but do not support fail-active operation . In these systems only one of the two computers is active or selected at any given time . A transfer switch in the cockpit allows the pilot to transfer control from one computer to the other if one fails . And it 's not just airliners . Business jets commonly also have dual FGCs , and in recent times even small general aviation airplanes like the Diamond DA-42 have dual systems ( Garmin G1000 in dual-GFC700 configurations ) . <URL> ( click for high res version ) shows a Cessna Citation CJ business jet with dual Garmin autopilots . At the top of the PFD , notice there is a small green arrow pointing left ; this indicates the left FGC is currently selected . The photo also shows the XFR ( transfer ) button on the mode select panel , top center , just underneath the master caution/warning annunciator panel . Pushing this button would switch to the right ( # 2 ) FGC and change the arrow on the PFD to point to the right . These indications are fairly representative of other dual-FGC systems . <URL> of a Hawker 800 with Rockwell Collins Pro Line 21 . You can see the same arrow on the PFDs . In this aircraft the transfer switch is labeled " AP XFR " and is again on the autopilot panel just underneath the glareshield at the top of the panel toward the left hand side . And finally <URL> with 3 FGCs and full autoland capability . It 's a bit hard to read in this photo , but just above the autopilot disengage bar ( the " spacebar " looking thing on the right side of the mode select panel just under the glareshield ) the 3 buttons are labeled " A/P ENGAGE " , " L " " C " and " R " for the left , center and right FGCs . During an autoland all 3 would be selected and illuminated .
Here are some things you can do , there are probably more . I 'm assuming you 're mainly interested in checking COM , not NAV . Controlled airport Check if you can hear the ATIS , Ground or Tower ; if you can , then at least you know you can receive . But you might as well just call Ground immediately and ask for a radio check . The <URL> is " how do you hear me ? " : Bowman Ground , N12345 , radio check please . How do you hear me ? Uncontrolled airport Listen to the AWOS , if there is one , to determine if you can receive . Ask UNICOM or another aircraft to give you a radio check . If none of those options are available then you can use a handheld airband transceiver to test . Tune it to the frequency you 're listening on and click transmit a few times , as if you 're turning on pilot-controlled lights ( PCL ) . If you hear the clicks in your headset , you can receive . To test transmission , do the opposite : click the transmit button on the yoke and listen on the handheld . Airborne You could call Approach , Center or FSS ; try activating the nearest PCL ( works best at night ) ; tune and identify a navaid ( that does n't verify COM works , but at least you know something 's working ) ; listen to 121.5 ( <URL> ) because there 's usually some bored pilot asking for sports scores on it and some other equally bored pilot yelling at him to " stop talking on <URL> " . Troubleshooting As always , if you have any problems with transmitting or receiving do some basic troubleshooting first : check you have the correct radio selected ; check you have the correct frequency ; check the volume controls on your headset and/or panel ; turn the squelch up/down/off ; check your headset is plugged in correctly ; if you have a right-seat passenger , see if they can hear/transmit ; and anything else you can think of .
Is the aircraft also equipped with trim tabs ? From the images available online ( this is a youtube screenshot , click it to see the larger version ) , no . And see point 3 on why I was not expecting any different . <URL> If an aircraft has both trim tabs and movable stabilizer I do not see the need of such a solution , a trimmable stabilizer is already optimal , adding trim tabs would increase the complexity of the system with no significant benefits , as the use of tabs increases drag , something that a THS does not . I do not know of any aircraft that uses both THS and tabs , but , should one exist , I presume one would use the tabs only if significantly faster than the THS actuation system , allowing the aircraft to be trimmed more rapidly , but afterwards the THS would take care of the trim allowing the tabs to go back to neutral and reducing drag . This solution would be hardly beneficial , since commercial aircraft ( as the one that prompted your question ) do not preform manoeuvers that require such fast ( and eventually frequent ) re-trimming . In addition , as GHB has pointed out in the comments , the elevator is already able to take care of fast transients , the trim tab would only provide unneeded complications ( in the design , the maintenance , the control ) .
It says it <URL> : 1-1-8 . Navigational Aid ( NAVAID ) Service Volumes c. Standard Service Volume limitations do not apply to published IFR routes or procedures . So V267 has been flown at the MEA by an FAA plane , and it obviously met the signal accuracy requirements to be usable at the distances charted .
Short answer If a single range should be stated for ACAS II , it would be the reliable range of 14 NM , even if targets can displayed by current TCAS II up to 30/40 NM . Reliable means here : a track can be established with a probability of at least 90 per cent for aircraft within the surveillance range . The reliable range of 14 NM is achievable with a ground plane antenna a power of 250 W and a Mode S sensitivity of -- 74 dBm . Diversity of ranges There are different range values that can be considered : Overall pulse detection range is 30 NM . Reliable surveillance range is 14 NM . Recommended RA range is 12 NM . Guaranteed range is 4.5 NM . The range must be limited because it impacts the number of transponder addresses to be stored for a given transponder density as well as the number of interrogations within a volume , hence radio spectrum use and reliability . ACAS II recommendations by ICAO ACAS II ICAO recommendations are found in <URL> , Airborne Collision Avoidance System ( ACAS ) Manual : Interrogation pulse detection range is 14 NM for Mode A/C and 30 NM for Mode S . The equipment should have the capacity for surveillance of any mix of Mode A/C or Mode S targets up to at least 30 aircraft . Surveillance must be reliable within 14 NM , with an aircraft density of 0.3 aircraft per square NM within 5 NM ( and up to 142 aircraft within 30 NM ) . The equipment should assess as possible collision threats only those targets within a maximum range of 12 NM . No target outside this range should be eligible to generate an RA . As density increases , reliability decreases . If the overall target count ever exceeds the surveillance capacity at any range up to 14 NM , the long-range targets may be dropped . The system reliability is guaranteed within the minimum range of 4.5 NM . This radius is deemed adequate for providing protection for up to 500 kt encounter . TCAS version 7.1 TCAS II is the sole implementation of ACAS II which fully comply with ACAS II . The reference ( paying ) documents are : <URL> ( RTCA ) and <URL> ( EUROCAE ) . From the EASA document <URL> TCAS II can simultaneously track up to 30 aircraft , within a nominal range of 14 NM for Mode A/C targets and 30 NM for Mode S targets . In implementations that allow for the use of the Mode S extended squitter , the normal surveillance range may be increased beyond the nominal 14 NM . However , this information is not used for collision avoidance purposes . This is confirmed in FAA document <URL> TCAS has a requirement to provide reliable surveillance out to a range of 14 nmi and in traffic densities of up to 0.3 aircraft per square nautical mile . [ ... ] TCAS can simultaneously track up to 30 transponder-equipped aircraft within a nominal range of 30 nmi .
In general , the method of getting the airspeed of any bird is pretty much the same : Measure the ground speed of the bird . Measure the wind speed in the area . Calculate the airspeed of the bird from these two values . The following excerpt from <URL> by C. J. Pennycuick et al. published by the Royal Society details one such method : We measured the bird 's air speed , for comparison with the predictions of theory , in two stages . First , we measured the ground speed vector , consisting of the bird 's speed relative to the observer 's position on the shore and its track direction , i.e. the direction in which the bird was moving over the ground , measured clockwise from true north . We also measured the wind vector consisting of the wind speed and the direction from which the wind was blowing , and then obtained the air speed vector ( air speed and heading direction ) by vector subtraction of the wind vector from the ground speed vector Other researchers have used Doppler radar for the same purpose and in case of high flying birds , one can simply fly along with the birds at the same speed and measure the airspeed .
The empty weight of airplanes can only be given to single-pound precision for one specific airplane . Minute differences in metal sheet thickness , equipment and paint will make sure that there is a difference of many pounds between airplanes of the same type and furnishing . Add to this the difference in seating , galleys and instrumentation between airplanes of the same type which are operated by different airlines , and a precise number as in your question becomes almost meaningless . A better way would be to give a range in which most airplanes will fall , or to round the number like the Concorde weight of your question . Weighing is quite straightforward : All tires of the landing gear are placed on scales and the weights are summed up . If the attitude of the airplane does not change , the weight on the tires can even be measured consecutively , so only one scale is needed . Small floatplanes can be suspended from a crane with a scale in the line holding the aircraft . In <URL> 's biography he remembers an aircraft deal with the Soviet Union in the late 1920s . He had to deliver five floatplanes of a specified weight , and the Russian approval inspectors insisted on all planes having the exact same weight . Of course the planes were not identically heavy , but his advantage was that the scale in his factory was indicating the weight by printing it on cards . So the evening before the inspectors came , he let one aircraft be weighed five times , put the cards back into the machine and had the printing mechanism disabled . The next day he closed the business successfully with his very happy Russian guests .
Aviation headsets are just like gaming headsets on a computer or console gaming system , except they are sturdier and much more expensive . At the basic end of the spectrum , an aviation headset is just a big clamp style pair of around the ear headphones with a microphone . The cable from the headset has 2 plugs ( for airplanes ) or one plug ( for helicopters ) . These two plug styles are equivalent electronically , with the helicopter cable having an extra conductor in order to include the microphone and headphones in the same plug . The two-plug variant has one plug for the headphones and one of the microphone . These differ from gaming headsets in that the headphone plug is 0.25 " ( the kind a nice stereo receiver uses ) and the microphone plug is 0.206 " . This difference in sizes is to avoid mixing up which plug goes in which jack . Aviation headsets fall into two broad categories : passive noise reduction and active noise reduction ( ANR ) . The passive noise reduction headsets rely on a good seal around the ear and a strong clamping force ( e.g. David Clarks ) . Active noise reduction are somewhat less " clampy " and provide less passive protection but make up for this with the active protection . An ANR headset is money well spent , but these do top out at around \ $ 850 - \ $ 1000 for the top models from Lightspeed and Bose respectively . ANR headsets must be powered to work properly but all ANR headsets still function without power as passive noise reducing headsets . Power for an ANR headset can come from a battery box or from aircraft power but not interchangeably . Aircraft power requires panel installation of a plug specific to the headset brand ( a single connector provides power , headphone and microphone connections ) . In general , unless you happen to own an airplane and install the power plug , you should get the battery version of a headset . The primary purpose of these headsets is to reduce the noise in the cockpit ( they can be very loud ) in order to avoid hearing loss ( yes , it is that loud ) and to facilitate clearer communication with ATC . For quieter airplanes there are in-ear headsets that have more in common with earbuds than the bigger headsets . Some of these are just earplugs wired for sound and some use molds of your ear to provide the seal . The headset is connected to the airplanes audio panel . Audio panels vary in complexity but their basic job is to provide an intercom for communication between occupants of the airplane and access to the com radio for communication with ATC . The audio panel is also able to monitor ( listen ) the navigation radios certain types of beacons . In transport aircraft the audio panel is also tied into the passenger address system and the flight attendant 's phones in the cabin . The headsets can be operated in a hot mic setup or the mic can be explicitly turned on and off . The hot mic is the usual method and the audio panel provides a squelch control so you are n't broadcasting the cockpit noise when not talking . The ATC transmissions are via a push-to-talk ( PTT ) switch . Aviation headsets for the most part do not need to be approved to use in airplanes , but in some situations for US registered aircraft , the requirement of an approved headset can be mandated ( some ( all ? ) 121 carriers ) . The FAA standards for approval are specified in TSO C-57a and C-58a . You 'll find many , but certainly not all , aviation headsets conform to these orders . They define minimum performance characteristics of the electronics , speakers , microphones , etc that make up the headset . How much hearing protection is needed depends greatly on the specific airplane in question . Jets can be on the very loud end of the spectrum ( EMB-145 ) or they can be quiet enough that even passive noise reduction is largely unnecessary . For the noisy end of the spectrum peak wavelengths can be well in excess of 100 dB . I can find reports of 130 db in some smaller airplanes and reports of 84 db in a 737 during cruise , but these numbers are all anecdotal in nature . What is important to take from these is not the specific numbers but that they are high enough to cause hearing loss during prolonged exposure . The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders defines 85 dB as the threshold for hearing damage from long or repeated exposure . Passive headsets generally advertise noise reduction around 20 dB ( 23 dB for the venerable David Clarks ) and some people will wear earplugs under a headset to further increase the passive noise reduction . A cursory look at ANR headsets reveal that they tend not to advertise their performance and instead specify maximum ambient noise levels for ANR to properly function ( around 120-125 dB for Bose and Lightspeed headsets ) . I can personally add an anecdote that both the Lightspeed Zulu and Bose X make dramatic changes in noise level ( both of these headsets are now outdated and replaced by newer versions ) . For most smaller airplanes you will wear the head
For statically stable aircraft , the canard is a spoiler in disguise . It will create a strong downwash right behind itself , coupled with an upwash outward of $ \ pi $ / 4 of its semispan . With changing angle of attack and lift coefficient , the vertical position and the strength of both up - and downwash will change , so the wing incidence variation over wingspan can be made right for just one angle of attack . Pros The force to effect flight path changes works the right way , so pitch response times of canards are slightly better than those of a conventional configuration . The wing can be further aft , so in short business jets the cabin might not interfere with the wing spar . Cons The induced drag at off-design points is higher than that of a comparable conventional configuration . The bigger lifting surface must keep some stall margin , so the total lift coefficient will be smaller than that of a comparable conventional configuration . In the end , a canard will need more wing area . Control surface deflections will add to the already high lift coefficient of the canard plane , increasing lift demands on the surface with the smallest margins . The highest lift coefficient is needed at the surface with the smaller <URL> . Normally , the reverse would be better . If the engines are mounted below and ahead of the wing , they will be hit by the wake of the canard , reducing intake efficiency and <URL> margins . To make sure that the control surface will be the last thing on the plane to run into compressibility problems , it should have less lift coefficient and more sweep than the wing . In the end , a statically stable canard will have a lower cruise Mach number than a comparable conventional configuration . The landing gear must be made to retract into the fuselage , because the wing is too far behind the center of gravity to allow the gear to retract into the wing . I could go on , but I guess you see by now where this is heading ...
The statistics for the number of pilots in the US is fairly easy to come by , The <URL> published a report on the <URL> . This shows a general static trend over the 10-or-so years preceding the report in 2011 The graph shows the total number of pilots since 1929 . <URL> For Europe , this statistic is a little harder to come by . In general , Aviation in Europe is controlled by the <URL> to which pretty much all European countries are members , with a few having a working arrangement to sync up their procedures/licensing . The EU , and its associated agencies are typically bureaucracies at their best ( worst ! ) and so there is unlikely to be a single register of the number of pilots . For example , some elements of aviation ( although NOT Licensing ) is still managed by the UK Civil Aviation Authority . With all the various european and intra country agencies involved in European Aviation it will be tougher to get figures for the number of pilots . Internationally your problem is moreso . With tens of different agencies involved in the Flight Crew Licensing , you may find it harder still to get some accurate figures .
Yes , it 's true . Usually called approach or arrival briefing Details will vary according to aircraft and operator but a typical list is NATS : NOTAMs1 ATIS2 notes , chart briefing point by point , date , frequencies , courses , minimums and missed approach procedures . Terrain , minimum safety altitude , which route Special notes for arrival , taxiing , likely gate for arrival ? I noticed that you specifically asked about something going wrong . The following assumes a serviceable aircraft . According to operator , if the aircraft is not on a stabilised approach by 1,000 feet , a go around will be performed and the missed approach procedure ( MAP ) followed . The MAP is printed on the approach chart . The initial action is : to get the aircraft safely climbing away ( aviate ) to the altitude and heading defined in the MAP ( navigate ) then call ATC to let them know ( communicate ) . Aviate , navigate , communicate , always in that order . A stabilised approach might differ between operators but is essentially . The flight path is correct with only minor changes in pitch and heading needed to stay on it . No more than 20 kts above the approach reference speed briefed as above . Correctly configured for landing ( flaps , slats , gear , spoilers armed , autobrake set etc ) Checklists completed Rate of descent < = 1,000 fpm Power setting is appropriate There may be other special checks for some types of approaches which must have been briefed as above ) . The MAP might be something like : The MAP is unique for each approach so must be briefed in advance . 1 <URL> : Warn of recent changes , temporary restrictions , equipment malfunctions etc. . 2 <URL> : A continuous broadcast of airfield information such as weather , special precautions , runways in use etc. .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
Our Flight Environment First the basics : <URL> is mainly carbon dioxide and has an average temperature of -47 ° C and an average pressure of <URL> . The speed of sound in these conditions is <URL> , the dynamic viscosity $ \ nu $ is <URL> , and for my calculations I use an atmospheric density of 0.0234 kg/m ³ . Now I owe all you early upvoters an apology . The earlier answer used an unsuitable methodology ; now I have improved the answer with different results . Operating Point Next step : The electric power supply makes a propeller the right choice , and for propeller aircraft the minimum power to sustain flight can be achieved when the lift coefficient is $ $ c_L = \ sqrt { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ Lambda \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ This makes your zero-lift drag the real sizing parameter : Make the aircraft a little more draggy , and you get punished with a big size increase . Therefore , we strive to keep the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ down to 0.008 in order to keep the aircraft small . This allows to get an idea which aspect ratio will be best : At minimum power the total drag is four times the zero-lift drag , and the lift coefficient should be as high as possible to keep the aircraft 's size small . Realistically , our flight $ c_l $ will not grow above 1.6 ( which is the best that <URL> can manage at a reasonable L/D ) , so the aspect ratio is $ $ \ Lambda = \ frac { c_l ^ 2 } { 3 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon } $ $ which yields an aspect ratio of 35.74 when $ \ epsilon $ is 0.95 . Available Power Now we can follow the procedure in <URL> to calculate power demands for your solar-electric propulsion . Solar radiation on Mars is a lot lower than on Earth , but very reliable as there are no clouds to obstruct the sun . Beware of <URL> , however ! Since you gave the Martian solar constant in your question , I will use it here : The wing will be covered to 80 % with solar cells , and each square meter of them will produce your optimistic 200 W ( 500 W radiation times 40 % efficiency ) . Per square meter of wing we can achieve 160 W , and with an electric efficiency of 96 % and a propeller efficiency of 85 % this translates into a propulsive power per square meter of 130.5 W. Matching Thrust to Drag Now we can equate the drag $ D$ and the available thrust $ T$ from the power $ P$ , like this : $ $ D = T = \ frac { P } { v } = > 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ frac { \ rho \ cdot v ^ 3 } { 2 } = 130.5 \ cdot S$ $ Luckily , wing area $ S$ can be canceled , and we get a result for the airspeed $ v $ at which the aircraft 's drag can just be supported by the power the wing can generate independent of wing area : $ $ v = \ sqrt [ 3 ] { \ frac { 130.5 } { 4 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ rho } } = 55.857 m/s $ $ Now for the real size : If we assume that the payload fraction is 25 % , the mass of the full aircraft will be 4 tons . To lift this at the dynamic pressure of 36.5 N/m ² which corresponds to the found flight speed we need a wing area of 254 m ² . This can create 40.65 kW of power , 33.17 of which are transformed into thrust . The wing span will be a whopping 95.28 m . How you get this to Mars I leave to your imagination - after all , this is just a tad less than the wingspan of the <URL> . If you can achieve a higher payload fraction , the wing will become smaller : At 30 % the full aircraft mass is only 3.333 tons , and the wing size will become 211.74 m ² large . Its wing span will be 87 m. With these dimensions I doubt that a higher payload fraction will be possible . The closest aircraft to this design was the <URL> , which had an empty mass of 3.6 tons ( with a propulsion system weighing close to the mass of Curiosity ) and a wing span of 61 m . Last Checks Mach number : 56 m/s is just Mach 0.2345 on Mars , so we should not run into compressibility effects which would limit the assumed lift coefficient . Reynolds number . The bigger wing has an average chord of 2.66 m and the smaller one still 2.43 m chord , and per meter the Reynolds number in -47 ° C cold carbon dioxide at 56 m/s is 4,900,000 - plenty enough to make the selected lift coefficient possible . Size helps here !
I will attempt an answer , although the question is a bit unclear . Climb rate is not measured in degrees or any other angle measurement unit . It 's altitude per time unit ( feet per minute usually ) . What you are mentioning is the climb gradient . See <URL> for details Now regarding your questions : Do climb rates for a given flight mission stay constant in one phase of flight ( e.g. until reaching 1500ft altitude ) and then change at a specific flight level or are they continuously adjusted ? Depends on what the pilot wants to achieve . Do they have to meet a restriction ? Noise abatement , crossing etc ? Are they instructed by ATC to climb quicker ( if able ) or slower to maintain separation with an opposite or crossing flight ? In any case they have to adjust their climb rate . Do given climb rates exist for ( one arbitrary ) given flight mission ? Yes and no . Given by whom ? The manufacturer ? The airline company ? The regulations ? If the SID you 've been assigned has climb restrictions imposed , then you have them given but not a firm number . It 's usually less than or more than ( or both ) . Also have in mind that climb rate is affected by aircraft weight as you can see in the document that I 've linked below . But this is more of a limit rather than a given rate for the specific flight . Is there a method to calculate the change of climb rates depending on altitude and weight ? Again , on whose perspective ? The aerospace engineer 's who designs the plane ? Or the pilot 's who will " just " fly it ? In the second case there are lookup tables , but I hardly recall details since it 's been almost 10 years from the last time I 've seen one . Are there sources like papers , reports , manuals that will work for genuine citation ? Your best bet is BADA . You might want to have a look into <URL> * where it actually describes ( among others ) the climb rates for various altitudes and weights for several aircraft types . Note that this is quite an old document dated back to 1998 , but I would guess this is the best one can get since BADA is proprietary and has lots of use restrictions . So I would n't expect anything much newer to be publicly available . * ( labeled since links have the bad habit to disappear )
Horizontal stabilizers do n't generate as much pressure difference as the wings . Generally the stab deflections are very small in flight , and there 's so much other drag during landing -- when the stab gets the most use -- that wing vortices from the tail are probably the least of your problems . Stabilizer winglets on their own , when there 's no pressure difference , would simply result in drag , whereas the main wing winglets are constantly effective while flying . Furthermore , the weight and trouble of adding little winglets to the horizontal stabilizers with larger actuators and hinges , for example , would probably outweigh the very slight aerodynamic benefit . I could also imagine that since the airflow over latter part of the wing is complex and varied , find a good design solution would be difficult . As @Federico points out , the DA42 has them , but that 's a composite airframe rather than the metal construction you see in most Cessnas , for instance , where you have to be more conservative in construction .
You are right , the horizontal tail of a conventional airplane appears to have a higher incidence , but the actual angle of attack is smaller than that of the wing . The wing , flying ahead of the tail , produces downwash , so the flow at the tail location has a distinct downward component . The downwash angle can be calculated from the lift coefficient and the geometry of the aircraft : To simplify things , let 's assume the wing is just acting on the air with the density $ \ rho $ flowing with the speed $ v $ through a circle with a diameter equal to the span $ b $ of the wing . If we just look at this stream tube , the mass flow is $ $ \ frac { dm } { dt } = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v $ $ Lift $ L$ is then the impulse change which is caused by the wing and equal to weight . With the downward air speed $ v_z $ imparted by the wing , lift is : $ $ L = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v \ cdot v_z = S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho $ $ $ S$ is the wing area and $ c_L $ the overall lift coefficient . If we now solve for the vertical air speed , we get $ $ v_z = \ frac { S \ cdot c_L \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } \ cdot \ rho } { \ frac { b ^ 2 } { 4 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ rho \ cdot v } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L \ cdot v } { \ pi \ cdot AR } $ $ with $ AR = \ frac { b ^ 2 } { S } $ the aspect ratio of the wing . Now we can divide the vertical speed by the air speed to calculate the angle by which the air has been deflected by the wing . Let 's call it $ \ alpha_w $ : $ $ \ alpha_w = arctan \ left ( \ frac { v_z } { v } \ right ) = arctan \ left ( \ frac { 2 \ cdot c_L } { \ pi \ cdot AR } \ right ) $ $ A typical airliner cruise lift coefficient is 0.4 , and a typical aspect ratio is around 8 : This results in a downwash angle of nearly 2 ° if the lift distribution over span is elliptical . In reality , it is more triangular-shaped , so the downwash angle is larger near the center of the aircraft . Note that the engine nacelles of the <URL> are tilted 3 ° up to align them with the local flow . The resulting angle of attack is lower by those 3 ° , and if the angle of attack difference between wing and tail is less than that , the tail surface will appear angled upward . To achieve static stability , the tail will have to fly at a slightly <URL> .
Fitting a larger fan does two things to the thrust of an engine : The static thrust is increased . Static thrust is the thrust produced when the engine is not moving . The thrust gradient over speed becomes more negative , which means that thrust will decline more with speed when the bypass ratio is increased . But there is more : Exit speeds at the nozzle are reduced , and a bigger intake is required , since the bigger fan will need more air . Increasing the bypass ratio means taking some of the <URL> and turning this into a higher fan mass flow . If we look at the formula for the propulsive efficiency $ \ eta_p $ of an airbreathing engine : $ $ \ eta_p = \ frac { v _ { \ infty } } { v _ { \ infty } + \ frac { \ Delta v } { 2 } } $ $ where $ v _ { \ infty } $ is the speed of the engine and $ \ Delta v $ the speed increase of the gas flowing through the engine , the speed dependency becomes clear : When $ v _ { \ infty } $ is low , a smaller $ \ Delta v $ acting on a higher mass flow makes the engine more efficient . When $ v _ { \ infty } $ is high , however , this effect disappears , and now the smaller engine with a smaller and lighter intake becomes more attractive . When the core of the engine stays the same , its fuel consumption will also stay the same , but the bigger fan will create more thrust , especially at low speed . The core mass flow will be the same , regardless of fan size , and the amount of <URL> will also not change . Since efficiency is defined as thrust per unit of fuel consumed , the bigger fan will also increase efficiency .
end question
start question
What are the reasons behind switching FDs off for a VOR approach ?
ok two questios there really : entering vapp as speed constraint at the FAF . After the FAF you want to be flying a constant 3deg path ( or whatever the approach gs is ) . Changing configurations and deploying flaps while on final will make the aeroplane baloon and deviate from that flightpath . To minimize those ( uncorectable ) deviations , the SOPs will call for the aircraft to be fully configured ( flaps full , gear down and Vapp ) at the FAF when starting the final descent . By entering the vapp in fmgc at the faf you are basically telling the computers I want to slow down early and configure to full flaps before thr FAF . The fmgc will then compute your descent to allow for that deceleration segment . It 's not SOP as far as I can tell , just a gimmick people use to tell computer you want early stabilized . Switching FDs off Two points here : you are not switching them off at the FAF . You are changing them to a TRK/FPA mode ( usually 1nm from FAF ) to better control your glidepath angle durring final . Yes , you could use v/s to do that , and use trigonometry to compute the v/s required to maintain 3 deg for a given groundspeed , but why would you . Changing winds will change your groundspeed , and thermals will mess up your flight path . Setting -3 deg in the FCU is much easier . I can then set -3.2 deg if I get , say 20 feet high , and I should be back on profile in about 1nm . Second point : FDs will be switched off ( completely ) after disconecting A/P and at least at reaching minimas . Reason is the ap guidance is not certified to guide you after that so it is manual/visual flying using PAPI if available . Note : this is all about flying a manually-selected non-precision approach ( eg in NAV/FPA or TRK/FPA ) mode with AP on . Using a fully managed approach is a different story
A carrier aircraft launcher is called a " <URL> " , for good reason ! It 's job is to get an aircraft up to flying speed very quickly , which of course results in a very high acceleration for the plane and pilot . Sometimes as high as 4G . On modern American aircraft carriers , the catapult is about 300 feet ( 90 metres ) long , and can get a large plane up to flying speed , 140 knots , in about 2 seconds . By comparison , taking off on a conventional runway a plane might need 2 kilometres to get up to this speed . As you can imagine this puts a lot of stress on the planes , carrier aircraft are built much more rugged than an aircraft that would only fly off normal runways . Each catapult-launched aircraft has different procedures for launch . In the case of the F/A -18 , the pilot keeps his hands off the control column during the actual launch , grabbing it as soon as the plane leaves the edge of the deck . This is not the case for other carrier aircraft , such as the C-2 Greyhound , nor is it the case when taking off the same aircraft from a runway . I found this in the F/A -18 E/F flight manual ( <URL> ) : Immediately after the end of the catapult stroke , the aircraft will rotate to capture the 12 ° reference AOA ( hands-off ) . To avoid PIO with the FCS , do not restrain the stick during catapult launch or make stick inputs immediately after catapult launch . The pilot should attempt to remain out of the loop but should closely monitor the catapult sequence . AOA = Angle of Attack , PIO = <URL> , FCS = Flight Control System . Which roughly translates as " The plane will fly itself and find the optimal climb angle without pilot input during the launch . "
Typically , the aircraft flight manual will identify this . In your particular case ( Cessna 172 G1000 ) , it is 200 feet AGL for all approach types . The C-172 can be fitted with either a Garmin GFC 700 , or a Bendix/King KAP 140 . For the GFC 700 , it is listed in the aircraft operating limitations : <URL> In the case of the KAP 140 , it is listed in the autopilot supplement : <URL>
I 've heard it said that the break-even point for owning vs renting is 200 hours/year . I fly a lot less than that , but I do n't like sharing my toys , so I own anyway . I make it a point to not actually count my cost of ownership , because it would n't be fun any more , but I 'll give you some rough numbers . I bought a 1962 Mooney for \ $ 30,000 . That 's about as cheap as it gets , and this was reflected in the condition of the plane and the high-time engine . In the first year had it , I spent \ $ 18,000 on an engine rebuild , new prop , new carb , new magnetos , new oil pump , and all the other firewall-forward upgrades that were required when I got the new engine . Five years later , I spent \ $ 14,000 on new paint . It still needs a new interior , but that can wait . I spent about \ $ 3000 at West Texas Aero installing speed upgrades . Budget \ $ 10/hour for your next engine rebuild . Annual inspection typically runs \ $ 3000 to \ $ 6000 depending on what they find wrong . I 'm getting a tank resealed this year , so it 's going to be an expensive one . Parking runs typically \ $ 50 - \ $ 100/month , depending on where you are . Insurance for my old crate runs \ $ 750/year . Expect to pay more for a nicer plane or if you have less experience . Note : get a commercial license ; it will pay for itself in reduced insurance in the long run . I think gas will typically run \ $ 5-6 / gallon , depending on a lot of factors . My Mooney burns around 9.5 gph , and flies 142 kts so it 's really economical in that respect ( and the main reason I do n't upgrade ) . Light twins are cheap to buy , but that 's because their cost of ownership is through the roof . A low-time pilot can expect to pay \ $ 12,000 / year for insurance and the annual inspection will also be a back-breaker . I used to have money . Now I have an airplane .
The different airspeeds : IAS is indicated airpseed CAS is calibrated airspeed EAS is equivalent airspeed TAS is true airspeed CAS is IAS corrected for instrumentation and position errors . The errors are most pronounced in slow and high angle-of-attack flight . IAS figures in aircraft manuals are actually converted from CAS . For ease of use . <URL> ( Wikipedia link ) . <URL> However , a modern plane with an <URL> ( ADC ) actually displays CAS , despite being labelled as IAS . Below 200 knots and 10,000 feet , for all purposes , CAS equals EAS . As the plane goes faster and higher and compresses the air , the air changes density , an effect known as compressibility that affects the CAS reading . <URL> EAS is computed by the ADC on a modern fast plane , and together with the density altitude , the TAS is then known . Ground speed and track ( from GPS , navaids , and/or INS ) together with the TAS allows the <URL> to calculate and display the wind speed/direction . Before ADC 's , pilots used charts like those in the answer . Summary : In a modern plane , what the pilot actually uses is CAS , despite being labelled IAS . And EAS is used in computing the TAS by the ADC . For engineers , TAS ( actual velocity through the air ) is used in lift equations , EAS is used in calculating dynamic pressures on the plane ( TAS corrected for air density ) . Source used and a must read : <URL>
See the <URL> : <URL> 3.9.3.8 Compass Roses Compass roses , as illustrated in Appendix 6 , shall be shown centered on all VHF NAVAIDs , when space allows . Preference shall be given to those serving enroute functions or located in areas not served by other VHF NAVAIDs . <URL> 3.7.4.5 Compasses Roses Compass roses shall be charted centered on those NAVAIDs which have routes predicated on them . Compass roses may be shown around other NAVAIDs where placement of the compass rose does not create additional unnecessary clutter or congestion . If compass roses overlap and congestion hinders readability , the compass rose of the NAVAID with the most congestion may be deleted . Compass roses shall be shown oriented to slave magnetic North . Cardinal direction values shall not be shown . Compass roses shall be .75 " in diameter and in very congested areas may be reduced in size to .5 " in diameter . In groundschool I was taught that this is actually based on <URL> ( which otherwise are n't explicitly marked at all on VFR sectional charts ) : the compass rose is not shown around VORs with Terminal service volumes . This might be a general rule , but it is not entirely true however . You provide a perfect example : OJC and RIS are both Terminal VORs . The key differences : 1 ) OJC has the V10-12 airway , and 2 ) map is more congested around RIS .
This question is difficult to answer comprehensively as the continuing education requirements are complex and varied . The complexity is because the continuing education requirements are mandated by multiple parties ( the FAA , insurance companies , clients , and employers ) and depend on the regulations the flight is conducted under ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , etc. ) , the type of aircraft operated ( single engine , multi-engine , turboprop , jet ) , and the pilot 's role in the operation ( PIC , SIC ) . Note that both the Commercial and Airline Transport Pilot ( ATP ) license are good for life , unless revoked or surrendered . Any continuing education requirements are to retain the employment or the privileges of exercising the license , unlike CE requirements for licenses in some industries . In very broad brush strokes , most professional pilots will be required to complete a flight proficiency check , either in an actual aircraft , or in a simulator , every 6 to 12 months . The amount of time will vary for such checks , but 3 hours might be typical . This proficiency check will be accompanied , in some cases , with a written or oral examination . In addition to this , insurance may require an aircraft systems class and simulator brush up session every 12-24 months . Such training is usually accomplished in 3-6 days , including roughly 12-24 hours of lecture/bookwork , and 6-10 hours of simulator time . In addition to the flight and systems training , pilots employed by air carriers will generally be required to receive instruction on operational aspects of their operation , including such topics as <URL> , hazardous materials , weather , physiology , as well as many others . Such training is often self-paced , computer based training ( CBT ) . I would estimate the time commitment for this training to be 20-40 hours annually . In addition to the required training and testing , many pilots choose to spend additional time studying aviation related topics . Such topics may include all those alluded to above , as well as other topics . Examples of such study would be changes to company operational procedures , brushing up on checklist memorization , FAA advisory publications , and areas of interest outside of normal operations , such as international operations . Speaking personally , I probably spend roughly 10 hours a week in what could be considered aviation related study or learning . I also often see other pilots at my company studying various aircraft or operational manuals , and our company keeps a collection of articles , FAA advisories , and other publications related to our operation with the intent that pilots voluntarily study these materials as they have time . Bear in mind that a pilot 's life often involves a great deal of waiting , a task which often lends itself to reading and study .
The <URL> has a relatively comprehensive list on how they derive at the " generation " of the fighter . For example , here is how the Air Force classifies them : 1 : Jet propulsion : F-80 , Me 262 2 : Swept wings ; range radar ; infrared missiles : F-86 , MiG-15 3 : Supersonic , pulse radar , Beyond-visual-range missiles : Century Series , F-105 , F-4 , MiG-17 , MiG-21 4 : Pulse-doppler radar ; high maneuverability ; look-down/shoot-down missiles : F-15 , F-16 , Mirage 2000 , MiG-29 . 4 + : High agility ; sensor fusion ; reduced radar signature : Eurofighter Typhoon , Su-30 , F/A -18 E/F , Rafale 4 + + : Active electronically scanned arrays ; continued reduced signatures or " active " ( waveform canceling ) stealth technology , supercruise : Su-35 , F-15SE 5 : All-aspect stealth with internal weapons bays , extreme agility , full-sensor fusion , integrated avionics , some or full supercruise : F-22 , F-35 , 6 : extreme stealth , morphing capability , smart skins , highly networked , extremely sensitive sensors , optionally manned , directed energy weapons . Until we have a major leap in technology , it would seem we are capped off at 5th generation fighters for the moment .
A crew that consists of the basic required cockpit crew for the aircraft plus relief crew for long flights is called an " augmented flight crew . " As far as I know , this designation is used by ICAO , the FAA , and the EASA ( and likely others . ) <URL> defines augmented flight crew as : Augmented flight crew . A flight crew that comprises more than the minimum number required to operate the aeroplane and in which each flight crew member can leave his or her assigned post and be replaced by another appropriately qualified flight crew member for the purpose of in-flight rest . The FAA 's Federal Aviation Regulations define it nearly identically in <URL> : Augmented flightcrew means a flightcrew that has more than the minimum number of flightcrew members required by the airplane type certificate to operate the aircraft to allow a flightcrew member to be replaced by another qualified flightcrew member for in-flight rest .
Ultralights are regulated under <URL> and there are very few regulations of any kind that apply to them . The only specific lighting requirement is in <URL> : § 103.11 Daylight operations . ( a ) No person may operate an ultralight vehicle except between the hours of sunrise and sunset . ( b ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( a ) of this section , ultralight vehicles may be operated during the twilight periods 30 minutes before official sunrise and 30 minutes after official sunset or , in Alaska , during the period of civil twilight as defined in the Air Almanac , if : ( 1 ) The vehicle is equipped with an operating anticollision light visible for at least 3 statute miles ; and ( 2 ) All operations are conducted in uncontrolled airspace . <URL> and <URL> have some information about what an anticollision light actually is ( a beacon and/or strobe ) , but since ultralights are so lightly regulated I 'd be surprised if anyone cares much about the exact form of lighting . However , you could check with your local EAA chapter or ultralight club to see what people typically use .
For the FAA , a " complex aeroplane " must have : A retractable gear ( not necessary for a seaplane ) ; In-flight adjustable flaps ; and A controllable pitch propeller . The FAA 's definition is given in <URL> : Complex airplane means an airplane that has a retractable landing gear , flaps , and a controllable pitch propeller , including airplanes equipped with an engine control system consisting of a digital computer and associated accessories for controlling the engine and propeller , such as a full authority digital engine control ; or , in the case of a seaplane , flaps and a controllable pitch propeller , including seaplanes equipped with an engine control system consisting of a digital computer and associated accessories for controlling the engine and propeller , such as a full authority digital engine control . However , the EASA has a different definition of a " complex motor-powered aircraft " that is an airplane , which is considerably more " complex " : an aeroplane : with a maximum certificated take-off mass exceeding 5 700 kg , or certificated for a maximum passenger seating configuration of more than nineteen , or certificated for operation with a minimum crew of at least two pilots , or equipped with ( a ) turbojet engine ( s ) or more than one turboprop engine Note that 5700kg is about 12567 pounds .
I fly out of a controlled satellite class D ( <URL> ) below a class C ( <URL> ) so I 'm fairly familiar with this scenario , at least in the way that it 's handled there . The short story - in my experience - is that Approach only cares about you having the numbers or ATIS for the airport where you 'll actually land . First the theory . The <URL> say : 7 − 1 − 3 . APPROACH CONTROL SERVICE FOR VFR ARRIVING AIRCRAFT Issue the following where procedures have been established for arriving VFR aircraft to contact approach control for landing information : a. Wind , runway , and altimeter setting at the airport of intended landing . This information may be omitted if contained in the ATIS broadcast and the pilot states the appropriate ATIS code or if the pilot uses the phrase , " have numbers . " Note the " airport of intended landing " , they are n't going to pester you to get the ATIS for somewhere that you are n't going to . Second , the practice . If I 'm inbound to KLOU on flight following ( do n't leave home without it ! ) then my first contact with Louisville Approach usually goes like this : Me : Louisville Approach , N12345 level at 6500 Appch : N12345 , roger , Louisville Altimeter is 2992 , report when you have the weather at Bowman , information Kilo is current Me : N12345 has Kilo at Bowman Appch : N12345 , roger [ and further instructions as needed ] As a controlled field , Bowman has ATIS , not " the numbers " but I 've had more or less the same exchange at other places . I think that <URL> about information is useful here : when I 'm inbound I usually have both the KSDF and KLOU ATIS anyway , just in case . Also notice how the KSDF controller helps me : the KLOU ATIS could have changed from Kilo to Lima between the time I got it and the time I called Approach . By telling me that Kilo is current , the controller is effectively telling me if I have to go and get the ATIS again or not . As for just passing through class C , the very few times I 've done that ATC has simply given me the local altimeter setting and that 's it . I 'm not landing , so they do n't seem to care if I have the ATIS or not .
Because air travel is the best option in those places . The <URL> is between Westray and Papa Westray in the Orkney Islands , a distance of 1.7 miles . If you see the <URL> , almost all of them are between islands . That instantly rules out buses and the like unless a bridge is built , which in most cases is not commercially viable . One can use a boat or ferry , but in most cases , the sea may not be deep enough or calm enough .
Approach , missed approach , departure &amp; holding Approach , missed approach , departure and holding are published instrument procedures . They are characterised by waypoints , alitudes , headings , climb - , and descend profiles . An approach procedure tells you how to get from cruise to short final , from a holding to short final , or from cruise into a holding . A missed approach procedure tells you how to get from climb out into a holding or to another point from where you can commence a new approach . A departure procedure tells you how to get from climb out to cruise flight . Takeoff , landing , go around &amp; touch and go Landing is the process of getting an aircraft from short final to a full stop on the runway . Takeoff is the process of getting an aircraft from a full stop to climb out . A go around takes an aircraft from short final to climb out directly , not touching the runway . A touch and go takes the aircraft from short final to climb out , touching the runway in the process . Relationships The procedures listed above can be combined arbitrarily . Even though a missed approach is often flown after a go around , they are not synonymous . Missed approaches can also be ( and are ) flown after a touch and go , or , for training purposes , after a takeoff . Also , a missed approach is not the only thing you can follow after a go around : Sometimes , you want to perform a departure and continue toward your alternate destination .
Update with relevant info from <URL> ( I 'm skipping the FTD portions as not relevant to the question , and including the simulated parts but italicizing them as they 're useful but also not relevant ) . Translated , you can log an approach when : it is flown solely by reference to instruments , and it is flown in IMC , and Actual Instrument time is logged , or the PF is using a view-limiting device , and Simulated Instrument time is logged ; you must fly the complete approach from a feeder or the IAP ( or Vectors to Final ) and remain established the whole time . This means you fly initial , intermediate , and final segments , unless you 're on vectors . if flying the approach in IMC , you may log an approach that : continues to DA/DH or MDA in actual , or becomes VMC before DA/DH or MDA , provided you are inside the FAF . if simulating the approach , you must continue to the DA/DH or MDA under the hood ( or other VLD ) ; That 's pretty much it . Here 's the source text : A pilot may log an IAP for currency or training when the pilot accomplishes the IAP in accordance with the following conditions : When conducted in an aircraft , flight simulator , flight training device , or aviation training device , the pilot must operate that aircraft or authorized training device solely by reference to instruments [ § 61.51 ( g ) ( 1 ) ] ; When conducted in an aircraft , flight simulator , flight training device , or aviation training device , the pilot must be established on each required segment of the IAP to the minimum descent altitude ( MDA ) or decision altitude/decision height ( DA/DH ) ; When conducted in an aircraft simulating instrument flight conditions , a flight simulator , a flight training device , or an aviation training device , the simulated instrument meteorological conditions ( IMC ) must continue to MDA or DA/DH ; and When conducted in an aircraft , the flight must be conducted under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions [ § 61.51 ( g ) ( 1 ) ] . When conducted in an aircraft maneuvering in IMC , and the aircraft transitions from IMC to visual flight conditions on the final approach segment of the IAP prior to or upon reaching MDA or DA/DH . Previously , I linked to Rod Machado , who cites the FAA in an <URL> to this that I quite like , and which was pretty frequently referred to when I was instructing at a flight school : Once you have been cleared for and have initiated an instrument approach in IMC , you may log that approach for instrument currency , regardless of the altitude at which you break out of the clouds . ... but this is not the latest knowledge anymore . It 's functionally pretty close to the InFo rules for IMC approaches , though !
Looking at the route your plane took , this low altitude flight was likely to avoid the polar jetstream . This is a band of wind that blows west to east in roughly the area the first half of your flight was flying through . It exists mostly between 30,000 and 39,000 feet altitude , and can range from about 60mph to over 200mph . I suspect that the low altitude was to keep the plane below this jetstream , avoiding the headwind and fuel and time costs that flying through it would create . To answer the other part of your question , as I mentioned in the comments , weight should n't have been an issue because the plane you were in ( a 777-300ER ) , has more than enough engine power to maintain a higher altitude , even fully weighted .
Read that other question again . He was approaching from the SSW and made an assumption based on the approach segment from AUGIE . He was n't actually on the AUGIE-BEJCY leg as it would be impossible to be there if he were approaching from the SSW . His clearance was " Direct BEJCY cleared for the GPS 01 approach " . That clearance , in lieu of any specific instructions about the procedure turn , requires that the procedure turn be flown . He assumed that because he was roughly on the extended centerline of the runway SSW of the airport that he was exempt . However , there is no charted course there labelled " NoPT " , so his assumption was incorrect . Back to your question of why someone flying from that location would have to fly the PT , and the answer generally boils down to " <URL> " . The leg from AUGIE can be flown at 3000 ft while the area minimum safe altitude is 3100 ft. It is very likely the minimum enroute altitude over that area is higher than 3100 feet . This means a pilot that is using BEJCY as the IAF may be considerably higher altitude than 3000 ft. On this approach you ideally want to be at 2500 ft by the FAF at CUCTO . If you are approaching BEJCY from any direction other than AUGIE this means you can not start your descent from whatever altitude you are at down to 2500 ' until passing BEJCY . The procedure turn is not only for course alignment but also to descend to the procedure altitude from the enroute environment .
When you look at FAA publications <URL> is pretty simple : A stabilized approach is one in which the pilot establishes and maintains a constant angle glidepath towards a predetermined point on the landing runway . When pilots talk about stabilized approaches we generally mean a little more than that though - for example <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> all include more than just the constant-angle glide path in their recommendations for what makes an approach " stabilized " . Criteria that are commonly included in a " stabilized approach " are : Maintaining a constant-angle glidepath toward a predetermined aiming point on the runway . Maintaining a specified descent rate Maintaining a specified airspeed ( Vapp ) ( Generally being slightly above Vapp is OK , but below is unacceptable . ) Having the aircraft configured for landing ( gear , flaps , etc. ) All required checklists completed The approach can be maintained with only " small corrections " to pitch , heading , or power . An approach is " stabilized " if all the required criteria are met by a specific altitude ( Airbus calls them " Stabilization Heights " , and recommends 500 feet for approaches in VMC , and 1000 feet for approaches in IMC ) . If the approach is not stabilized by the appropriate stabilization height ( or conditions cause the approach to become " destabilized " - a sudden change in winds for example ) the approach is abandoned ( a " go-around " ) . So what makes stabilized approaches safer ? The theory is that a stabilized approach reduces the pilot 's workload as they 're getting closer to the ground : If the aircraft is configured for landing and all the checklists have been completed all the pilot has to do is gently nudge the controls to keep the plane going where they want it , and they can concentrate all of their attention on a nice , safe , ( hopefully ) smooth landing . Are stabilized approaches always safer ? From a workload perspective , yes . It 's hard to argue with " The pilot has less work to do " . <URL> Stabilized approaches generally require partial power to be maintained throughout the approach , and although the engines in modern single-engine piston/jet aircraft have a pretty good track record of reliability there are good arguments for " non-stabilized " approaches ( or approaches that are effectively " stabilized " at idle power ) in single-engine aircraft . Even if you 're not flying a " stabilized approach " the way the airline folks define it you 're well-served by incorporating some of the elements though - going around if your checklists are n't completed by a certain altitude , abandoning the approach if you have to manhandle the controls to try to keep things together , etc. .
What does your POH/AFM says ? Ignoring winds and other factors , it depends on effective runway length , not just runway length . If you have a runway long ( really long ) enough , you can takeoff/land in either direction . As mentioned <URL> : ... advantage or disadvantage of a sloped runway is that a 1 % runway gradient -- an increase or decrease in altitude of 10 ' for every 1000 ' of runway length -- is equivalent to a 10 % increase or decrease in effective runway length ... Example : Runway length is 1500 ' with 3 % up-slope gradient Landing uphill on it will give us an effective runway length of almost 2000 ' ( 1500 ' x 1.3 = 1950 ' ) . Landing downhill on it will give us an effective runway length of just over 1000 ' ( 1500 ' x 0.7 = 1050 ' ) . Just for reference , the runway ( 6 : uphill ; 24 : downhill ) at Lukla Airport has 12 % gradient and is 1500 ' long . Effective Runway Lengths ( using the formula above ) Hence , hypothetically speaking , if runway 24 is 48,400 ' long with no wind , A380 <URL> takeoff too .
VOR Ground Station is aligned with magnetic North . It emits two signals : a 360 ° sweeping variable signal an omni-directional reference signal When an aircraft receives those signals , its receiver compares those and a measures the phase difference . This gives a precise radial position of the aircraft which is displayed on its Omni-Bearing Indicator ( OBI ) , Horizontal Situation Indicator ( HSI ) or a Radio Magnetic Indicator ( RMI ) , or a combination of two different kinds . <URL> the two signals : <URL> Blue is 360 ° sweeping signal Green is omni-directional reference signal
end question
start question
What are the differences between wings made for 2 engines and wings for 4 engines ?
The differences are surprisingly small , and the implications of two versus four engines are not very great as far as design of the wing is concerned . Weight implications The wing is an immensely strong structure - after all , it 's able to bear the weight of the entire aircraft , including of course the engines . Engines are heavy , but only a small fraction of the weight of the whole aircraft . A similar aircraft with four engines rather than two will have smaller engines , so the total weight difference will not be large . Space implications You need more space to fit two engines on each side , but not a vast amount . For example , the <URL> has four remarkably small <URL> engines . What 's more , four small engines can be easier to mount , because they need less ground clearance . Same wings , more engines In practice , it 's not very difficult to add engines to a wing ( for aircraft companies , that is ; I do n't think I 'd be able to do it without seeing someone do it first at least once ) . For example , <URL> - obviously , this engine is just being carried , not used , but it shows that simply placing the engine there does n't present insurmountable aerodynamic or other engineering difficulties . And then we have the Airbus <URL> / <URL> , designed and built in parallel , which are essentially the same aircraft - same fuselage and same wing - one with two engines and one with four . ( Actually the -500 and -600 A340 variants do have slightly longer wings , but that 's because they are heavier , and nothing to do with the additional engines . ) That 's not to say that there are no implications in having additional engines . In this case , wing flutter caused by the outboard engines of the A340 required some stiffening . And of course , additional engines will require additional fuel and control lines . However , these are n't part of the structure of the wing itself , and are not in themselves likely to have implications for it .
<URL> that the pressure decreases over the wing . We can also assume that a particle of air travelling above a wing does it so fast that does not have the time to exchange energy with the sorrounding ones ( called <URL> ) We can now look at a pressure/volume diagram for an adiabatic process that goes from " high " pressure ( the free undisturbed air in front of the aircraft ) to low pressure ( the air on top of the wing ) : image <URL> ( currently unreachable ) As you see from the diagram , if you move along the Adiabat line from the top to the bottom , the temperature drops . If the air has already a temperature near the water condensation one and a high enough humidity , it will condense . From the Wikipedia article linked before : Adiabatic cooling occurs when the pressure on an adiabatically isolated system is decreased , allowing it to expand , thus causing it to do work on its surroundings . When the pressure applied on a parcel of air is reduced , the air in the parcel is allowed to expand ; as the volume increases , the temperature falls as internal energy decreases .
Interesting question . <URL> mention only two reasons that controllers have to say " at your own risk " : The pilot " insists " on using a closed or unsafe runway ( 3-3-2 ) A helicopter takeoff or landing uses a non-movement area ( 3-11-2 , 3-11-6 ) Obviously Solar Impulse 2 is n't a helicopter , so that leaves the closed or unsafe runway reason . I do n't know for sure why the tower used the " own risk " phraseology - it would be great to hear from an actual controller - but some possibilities are : The runway was marked as closed ( for Solar Impulse 2 ) on the tower controller 's displays , and he said " at own risk " more or less out of habit There were vehicles on the runway , therefore it was " unsafe " Solar Impulse 2 is such an unusual aircraft that the controller felt he could n't contribute anything to the safety of the takeoff , so he was simply saying " go for it , I ca n't do much to help you " Of course , the problem with all those suggestions is that they should apply at all the airports , not just half of them . But I did find this quote from a controller on the AOPA forums ( members only ) : Although it 's normal for helicopters , I issued this " departure will be at your own risk " to an aircraft once . The runway was open , he was n't departing from a taxiway or anything like that . The problem was fog , where I could n't see the runway from the tower , and therefore I could n't determine whether the runway was actually " clear " for his takeoff . I do n't know if this is the right response in this situation or not , but I was a pretty new controller at the time , had n't faced this situation before , and figured the " at your own risk " was appropriate . That could have applied to the Solar Impulse situation : with other vehicles and personnel on the runway , the controller ca n't say it 's " clear " . And just like the controller on the forum , perhaps some of the controllers handling Solar Impulse 2 felt that the non-standard wording was appropriate for a very unusual situation . The other controllers who did issue a takeoff clearance presumably felt differently .
Actually , the Boeing design for the SST ( Super Sonic Transport ) , the <URL> had a swing wing ( swing wing was the hot thing during that time ) . It is instructive to look at what happened to that design . <URL> Image from up-ship . com The 2707 concept was a larger aircraft , with a 174 ' wingspan for TO/landing and low speed regime ( In comparison , Concorde had a 84 ' wingspan and carried half the passengers ) . While the wings were swept back , the wing area increased from 1828 $ m ^ { 2 } $ to 2743 $ m ^ { 2 } $ . The engines were carried on the stabilizers . During the development Boeing had significant problems associated with the swing wing mechanism . Concerns about stability and payload capability lead the design to be lengthened and added canard to the front to meet rotation requirements , though the new design 2707-200 kept the swing wings . <URL> Image from up-ship . com However , these changes did little to solve the problems . When kept near the centerline , the hinge mechanism interfered with the undercarriage . The hinge mechanism was so heavy that it negated the advantages of swing wing , leading to a very poor payload to weight ratio . Studies indicated that the aircraft would run out of fuel halfway across the Atlantic , essentially killing the project . Due to this , Boeing decided to use a fixed wing platform in its next iteration , the 2707-300 , which looked quite similar to Concorde . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> .
<URL> there is a nice tabular representation of the requirements for each level . <URL> provides a handy summary : Full Flight Simulators ( FFS ) FAA FFS Level A - A motion system is required with at least three degrees of freedom . Airplanes only . FAA FFS Level B - Requires three axis motion and a higher-fidelity aerodynamic model than does Level A . The lowest level of helicopter flight simulator . FAA FFS Level C - Requires a motion platform with all six degrees of freedom . Also lower transport delay ( latency ) over levels A &amp; B . The visual system must have an outside-world horizontal field of view of at least 75 degrees for each pilot . FAA FFS Level D - The highest level of FFS qualification currently available . Requirements are for Level C with additions . The motion platform must have all six degrees of freedom , and the visual system must have an outside-world horizontal field of view of at least 150 degrees , with a Collimated ( distant focus ) display . Realistic sounds in the cockpit are required , as well as a number of special motion and visual effects .
The high energy air that passes through the slots prevents boundary layer separation over the top surface of the flap . Though , this increases drag but it improves the stall characteristics of the airfoil . In other words , we can have higher maximum lift coefficient ( Cl_max ) by having higher maximum angle of attack ( alpha_max ) . So , higher the number of slots higher Cl_max one could reach , there should be a limit . In case of a fixed weight of an aircraft , a higher lift coefficient implies that one can fly at lower speed before it stalls . A comparison between different types of flaps ( up to double slotted ) can be found in the book Aircraft Design and Performance by Anderson . Source : The same book .
Check out this <URL> it provides a nice overview of some of the basics and how some of the systems are set up . Does the auto-throttle send its command directly to the EEC or to the mechanical throttle ? This may vary from design to design but the <URL> that physically move the throttle levers . You can read up on the <URL> . Are the throttle levers customized/calibrated for an engine model , or are their output standardized ( assuming the output is an electric signal ) . Does the electronic engine control apply further adjustment to the throttle input ? It seems that <URL> instead of mechanically actuating anything . With that in mind Im sure there are older designs out there that are closer to or a complete direct linkage from lever to engine . Is this correction transmitted back to the throttle lever ? I dont think so , it seems that when say full throttle is applied the throttle control will remain at full and the FADEC unit will take care of spooling it up as need be . Likewise if an engine suddenly cuts out or fuel flow becomes restricted as far as I know the throttles will remain in place . Auto throttle units will however physically actuate the throttles as need be . As per the comments here it seems this is only the case in Boeing aircraft . Airbus throttles must be set to maximum setting auto-throttle is allowed to use .
To get to the bottom of it , it might help to look at lift at a molecular level : Every air molecule is in a dynamic equilibrium between inertial , pressure and viscous effects : Inertial means that the mass of the particle wants to travel on as before and needs force to be convinced otherwise . Pressure means that air particles oscillate all the time and bounce into other air particles . The more bouncing , the more force they exert on their surroundings . Viscosity means that air molecules , because of this oscillation , tend to assume the speed and direction of their neighbors . Flow over the upper side of the wing Now to the airflow : When a wing approaches at subsonic speed , the low pressure area over its upper surface will suck in air ahead of it . See it this way : Above and downstream of a packet of air we have less bouncing of molecules ( = less pressure ) , and now the undiminished bouncing of the air below and upstream of that packet will push its air molecules upwards and towards that wing . The packet of air will rise and accelerate towards the wing and be sucked into that low pressure area . Due to the acceleration , the packet will be stretched lengthwise and its pressure drops in sync with it picking up speed . Spreading happens in flow direction - the packet is distorted and stretched lengthwise , but contracts in the direction orthogonally to the flow . Once there , it will " see " that the wing below it curves away from its path of travel , and if that path would remain unchanged , a vacuum between the wing and our packet of air would form . Reluctantly , the packet will change course and follow the wing 's contour . This requires even lower pressure , to make the molecules change their direction . This fast-flowing , low-pressure air will in turn suck in new air ahead and below of it , will go on to decelerate and regain its old pressure over the rear half of the wing , and will flow off with its new flow direction . Note that lift can only happen if the upper contour of the wing will slope downwards and away from the initial path of the air flowing around the wing 's leading edge . This could either be camber or angle of attack - both will have the same effect . Since camber allows for a gradual change of the contour , it is more efficient than angle of attack . Flow over the lower side of the wing A packet of air which ends up below the wing will experience less uplift and acceleration , and in the convex part of highly cambered airfoils it will experience a compression . It also has to change its flow path , because the cambered and/or inclined wing will push the air below it downwards , creating more pressure and more bouncing from above for our packet below the wing . When both packets arrive at the trailing edge , they will have picked up some downward speed . Behind the wing , both packets will continue along their downward path for a while due to inertia and push other air below them down and sideways . Above them , this air , having been pushed sideways before , will now fill the space above our two packets . Macroscopically , this looks like two big vortices . But the air in these vortices can not act on the wing anymore , so it will not affect drag or lift . See <URL> , including pretty pictures . Lift can be explained in several , equivalent ways Following the picture of a pressure field outlined above , lift is the difference of pressure between upper and lower surface of the wing . The molecules will bounce against the wing skin more at the lower side than at the upper side , and the difference is lift . Or you look at the macroscopic picture : A certain mass of air has been accelerated downwards by the wing , and this required a force to act on that air . This force is what keeps the aircraft up in the air : Lift . If you look at the wing as a black box and only pay attention to the impulse of the inflowing and outflowing air , the wing will change the impulse by adding a downward component . The reaction force of this impulse change is lift . Either way , you will arrive at the same result . By the way : Most of the directional change happens in the forward part of the airfoil , not at the trailing edge ! Lift is a matter of definition Lift and induced drag are both part of the pressures acting on the wing . If you add up all the pressure forces acting on a wing , their resulting vector will point slightly backwards . The streamwise component is drag , and the component orthogonal to the direction of movement is lift . This is just a defininion , made for simplicity .
The different airspeeds : IAS is indicated airpseed CAS is calibrated airspeed EAS is equivalent airspeed TAS is true airspeed CAS is IAS corrected for instrumentation and position errors . The errors are most pronounced in slow and high angle-of-attack flight . IAS figures in aircraft manuals are actually converted from CAS . For ease of use . <URL> ( Wikipedia link ) . <URL> However , a modern plane with an <URL> ( ADC ) actually displays CAS , despite being labelled as IAS . Below 200 knots and 10,000 feet , for all purposes , CAS equals EAS . As the plane goes faster and higher and compresses the air , the air changes density , an effect known as compressibility that affects the CAS reading . <URL> EAS is computed by the ADC on a modern fast plane , and together with the density altitude , the TAS is then known . Ground speed and track ( from GPS , navaids , and/or INS ) together with the TAS allows the <URL> to calculate and display the wind speed/direction . Before ADC 's , pilots used charts like those in the answer . Summary : In a modern plane , what the pilot actually uses is CAS , despite being labelled IAS . And EAS is used in computing the TAS by the ADC . For engineers , TAS ( actual velocity through the air ) is used in lift equations , EAS is used in calculating dynamic pressures on the plane ( TAS corrected for air density ) . Source used and a must read : <URL>
Maybe you mean the p-factor . If both engines are rotating clockwise , the plane yaws to the right . If one rotates clockwise , the other counter-clockwise , the effect cancelles out and the plane flys straight .
Well , first let 's clear up a few terms . When you say " rotary " engine I 'm assuming you 're referring to <URL> , a type of piston engine that used to be pretty common on aircraft . ( These days <URL> are what you typically find on piston-powered aircraft , <URL> are yet another design , but their usage died out around the end of World War I. ) The TU-95 is not actually a piston-powered aircraft - it 's a <URL> -- basically a turbine engine similar to what you 'd find in a jet , only rigged up to turn a propeller rather than produce " jet thrust " directly . From an efficiency standpoint , turbine engines are usually more fuel efficient than their piston counterparts , and jet fuel is produced in greater volume than aviation gasoline and is consequently cheaper for operators to procure . Turbine engines also offer more reliability than piston engines , and the maintenance on a turboprop engine is also largely similar to a jet engine with a few extra components , which is an advantage for a company operating a fleet of jet and propeller driven aircraft . The differences in operating efficiency and reliability are the major reason why gasoline-powered piston engines have basically disappeared from scheduled airline service . So why do n't we see more turboprops ? Actually we see a lot of them , if you look in the right places . Jets and Turboprops are good at different things -- broadly simplifying , a turboprop is more efficient at lower altitudes and airspeeds while a jet engine is more efficient at higher altitudes and airspeeds . As a result we see turboprop aircraft like <URL> in use for short-haul " commuter " service , but for trans-continental or trans-oceanic flights where they spend a long time cruising at high altitude jets dominate the sky . Since most people are flying to go relatively long distances there are comparatively more jets in scheduled airline service than turboprops . Noise is probably also a factor - fast turboprops like the Bear are LOUD not due to the engine , but due to the propeller . The tips of the spinning propeller on a TU-95 can approach supersonic speeds , which causes quite a bit of noise . The TU-95 's <URL> ( which help produce thrust more efficiently ) also contribute to a louder noise footprint . In the case of the TU-95 this does n't matter - it 's a military plane , and the Russian air force does n't care if people complain as the aircraft has a mission to complete and that 's more important than a few noise complaints . If United Airlines were to operate a TU-95 out of Kennedy departing over people 's houses I suspect they would quickly reconsider their choice of equipment when the noise complaints started coming in ...
<URL> By Julien.scavini ( Own work ) [ <URL> ] , <URL> The ATR72 is quite a bit longer than the ATR42 , and has several more windows to allow for more passengers . According to wikipedia : " The ATR 72 was developed from the ATR 42 in order to increase the maximum seating capacity ( from 48 to 78 ) by stretching the fuselage by 4.5 metres ( 15 ft ) , increasing the wingspan , adding more powerful engines , and increasing fuel capacity by approximately 10 percent . " So it 's longer , and has larger wingspan . The stronger engines and larger fueltanks ca n't be seen from the outside .
The primary advance in the transistor era is the <URL> . It 's essentially a fly-by-wire throttle , incorporating rate limiters to key engine inputs such as fuel flow rate , and performing automated monitoring tasks to reduce flight crew workload . Prior to the FADEC system , sufficiently complex jet aircraft required a crew member , the flight engineer , whose primary task was monitoring and maintaining engine performance in flight . Additionally , jets without a FADEC require particular attention paid by the pilot ( s ) to the rate at which the throttle is adjusted ; you ca n't just firewall it for a takeoff as that will cause a compressor stall .
The MiG-31 is an all new design with higher strength for low-level flight and new engines . The reason it looks just like the MiG-25 has to do with the structure of the Soviet aviation industry . The basic shape is first defined by the Central Aerodynamic and Hydrodynamic Institute ( <URL> is the abbreviation of its Russian name ) and then given to the design bureaus which do the mechanical design . Production is then relegated to dedicated manufacturers which build the designs of different bureaus in parallel . Both aircraft were designed as interceptors . The main difference is the advanced radar , digital data links and the more powerful engines of the MiG-31 which made a longer fuselage necessary . The MiG-25 radar , a development from the 1960s , could only detect high-flying targets , while the <URL> radar of the MiG-31 can also detect and track low flying aircraft ( <URL> capability ) ; a necessity after NATO changed its strategy to <URL> flying to avoid detection . If you need to tell both apart on pictures , look for these features : While the main landing gear of the MiG-25 has a large , single wheel , the main gear of the MiG-31 uses two smaller wheels in a staggered arrangement . <URL> MiG-31 main landing gear ( picture by Burkhard Domke <URL> ) While most MiG-25 were single seaters , the MiG-31 has two occupants , a pilot and a weapon systems officer behind him . Two-seater versions of the MiG-25 can be easily distinguished because the two cockpits are separate units , the front cockpit replacing the radar . <URL> MiG-31 on the ground with canopies open ( picture <URL> ) The wing root of the MiG-31 has a small strake added while the wing of the MiG-25 is a pure trapeze with a straight leading edge . The picture below shows the MiG-25 in black lines and the MiG-31 overlaid in red . <URL>
The differences are in the demonstrated accuracy of the ILS or RNAV equipment . Not sure if the question can be properly answered without writing a book , but digging into the documents linked by Jonathan Walters I extracted the tables below . The document is very long and full of caveats , exceptions and specifics on testing requirements , etc. and frequently refers to parameters set forth in other documents . CAT I <URL> CAT II <URL> CAT III Landing System Performance . All types of low visibility landings systems , including automatic flight control , guidance for manual control , and hybrid , shall be demonstrated to achieve the performance accuracy with the probabilities prescribed in this section . The performance values may vary where justified by the characteristics of the airplane . The performance criteria and probabilities are as follows : ( a ) Longitudinal touch down earlier than a point on the runway 200 ft. ( 60m ) from the threshold to a probability of 1 x 10-6 ; ( b ) Longitudinal touch down beyond 2700 ft. ( 823m ) from threshold to a probability of 1 x 10-6 ; ( c ) Lateral touch down with the outboard landing gear more than 70 ft. ( 21.3 m ) from runway centerline to a probability of 1 x 10-6 . ( d ) Structural limit load , to a probability of 1 x 10-6 . An acceptable means of establishing that the structural limit load is not exceeded is to show separately and independently that : ( i ) The limit load that results from a sink rate at touch down not greater than 10 f.p.s. or the limit rate of descent used for certification under 14 CFR part 25 subpart C ( see section 25.473 ) , whichever is the greater . ( ii ) The lateral side load does not exceed the limit value determined for the lateral drift landing condition defined in part 25 , section 25.479 ( d ) ( 2 ) . ( e ) Bank angle resulting in hazard to the airplane to a probability of 1 x 10-7 . A hazard to the airplane is interpreted to mean a bank angle resulting in any part of the wing , high lift device , or engine nacelle touching the ground . 6.3.2 . Speed Control Performance . Airspeed must be controllable to within + / - five knots of the approach speed * , except for momentary gusts , up to the point where the throttles are retarded to idle for landing . For operations flown with manual control of approach speed , the flightcrew must be able to control speed to within + / - five knots of the approach speed . <URL>
There is more information available from NATS on the website on <URL> [ TBS ] and from a very descriptive <URL> PDF . While Heathrow ( EGLL ) is the first airport where this is being researched and tested , there are als other works , such as a research paper called <URL> PDF which applies TBS at Charles Des Gaulles ( LFPG ) . The main focus of using TBS is to increase airport capacity during strong headwind operations , which significantly decrease groundspeed and therefore traffic flow . None of the papers I have found speak of hazards related to decreasing the lateral distance between flights . The general idea seems to be that the minimal safety gain accompanying lower groundspeeds due to strong headwinds ( lower GS means lower closure rate to objects / stationary traffic on ground ) can be partially sacrificed and offset by TBS to maintain airport capacity or reduce the impact of the strong headwinds on airport capacity . This sacrifice becomes available since stronger headwinds also aid the dissipation of wake vortex . The below table is based on own calculations , assuming constant approach speeds . It should show you how the time to cover a set distance increases with decreasing ground speeds , which means that e.g. it takes longer to cover 3nm to reach the runway threshold . Reducing the lateral separation ( the values chosen are deliberately a bit extreme , as none of the papers mentioned a formula to calculate TBS distances ) reduces time to cover the distance , but covering 2.5 nm at 130 GS is becoming quite close to 3nm at 150 GS .
The noise within the engine will make all flow turbulent . There is not much liberty for the engine designer to choose the type of boundary layer . Generally , a laminar boundary layer is preferable as long as the flow is accelerated , because viscous drag will be lower , and a turbulent one is better when it is decelerated , so <URL> . Outside of boundary layer phenomena , turbulence is helpful for keeping the <URL> going in the combustor and especially in the afterburner . Ahead of the combustor all engines have a diffusor to <URL> , so it has time to mix with the fuel and burn as much of it as possible . Note that the diffusor only slows down the axial movement of the air , so radial velocities will not be affected and be relatively larger relative to the axial flow at the entry of the combustion chamber . This makes the flow more turbulent , which is helpful for better fuel-air mixing . In the afterburner , flame holders are needed to produce pockets of slow-moving , hot gas which can ignite the fuel-air mixture . Again , they cause more turbulence . <URL> Flame holder ( 10 ) with annular selectors ( 9 ) of an afterburner ( picture <URL> ) At the nozzle , turbulent mixing of the hot core flow and the bypass flow reduces noise . Engine nozzles use a <URL> to speed up the mixing process .
Small aircraft need very low mounted wings to allow for a decent cabin height . The last commercial airliner which required the passengers to climb over the wing spar on their way to their seat was the <URL> . Low wings do not allow the necessary space for engines , so the next best location is on the rear fuselage . Also , small aircraft have a relatively short fuselage , and the gear can be made short ( and light ) without risking a tail strike on rotation . Fighters need to have small moments of inertia , especially in roll , so they can not afford to put engines on the wings . Even the Me-262 was initially planned with fuselage-mounted engines , that 's why it had this peculiar triangular fuselage cross section . Only when the engines grew in diameter during development they had to be placed on the wing . Pros of rear-mounted / fuselage-mounted engines : The wing is clean , having low drag and optimum conditions for lift creation . The engines are easy to access ( if mounted at the rear fuselage . Different story with buried engines ! ) . Smaller vertical tail needed for asymmetric thrust conditions . Shorter , lighter landing gear possible ( if rotation capability is not compromised ) . Low roll inertia . Cons of rear-mounted / fuselage-mounted engines : No bending relief for the wing ; heavier wing spar needed . No help in flutter supression ( a mass ahead of the elastic line helps ) . Possible interference with wing wake at high angle of attack . Forces the tail to be a T-tail configuration . More structure needed to carry the thrust forces forward . Intake noise is more audible , especially for passengers in the rear seats . This picture of a Cessna Citation X should illustrate the point nicely .
The differences are surprisingly small , and the implications of two versus four engines are not very great as far as design of the wing is concerned . Weight implications The wing is an immensely strong structure - after all , it 's able to bear the weight of the entire aircraft , including of course the engines . Engines are heavy , but only a small fraction of the weight of the whole aircraft . A similar aircraft with four engines rather than two will have smaller engines , so the total weight difference will not be large . Space implications You need more space to fit two engines on each side , but not a vast amount . For example , the <URL> has four remarkably small <URL> engines . What 's more , four small engines can be easier to mount , because they need less ground clearance . Same wings , more engines In practice , it 's not very difficult to add engines to a wing ( for aircraft companies , that is ; I do n't think I 'd be able to do it without seeing someone do it first at least once ) . For example , <URL> - obviously , this engine is just being carried , not used , but it shows that simply placing the engine there does n't present insurmountable aerodynamic or other engineering difficulties . And then we have the Airbus <URL> / <URL> , designed and built in parallel , which are essentially the same aircraft - same fuselage and same wing - one with two engines and one with four . ( Actually the -500 and -600 A340 variants do have slightly longer wings , but that 's because they are heavier , and nothing to do with the additional engines . ) That 's not to say that there are no implications in having additional engines . In this case , wing flutter caused by the outboard engines of the A340 required some stiffening . And of course , additional engines will require additional fuel and control lines . However , these are n't part of the structure of the wing itself , and are not in themselves likely to have implications for it .
Like anything else a <URL> except the engine is bolted directly to it ( <URL> ) . In a car a rolling road is simply a way to couple the tires to the dyno without having to have any custom fittings . For what its worth cars lose a bit of horse power in the transmission/drive shaft/differential so shaft horse power and wheel horsepower are not always the same . However in a plane the prop is bolted more or less to the end of the crank ( with the exception of some planes with stepper gear boxes ) . In any case shaft horsepower on a plane engine is more or less whats available at the prop . Here is a lycoming engine on a dyno <URL> ( <URL> )
end question
start question
What radio frequencies are used for intercom in formation flying ?
For the US , according to <URL> of the AIM ( Designated UNICOM/MULTICOM Frequencies ) for private fixed-wing flights you should use 122.75 : Air-to-air communication ( private fixed wing aircraft ) : 122.750 Air-to-air communications ( general aviation helicopters ) : 123.025 Aviation instruction , Glider , Hot Air Balloon ( not to be used for advisory service ) : 123.300 , 123.500 I have no idea what the military does and their tactical comms might even be encrypted anyway , but they frequently use UHF instead of VHF , at least in the US . Nor do I know what to do if you have two formation flights at the same time , but I guess that in reality it 's either an air show with some form of semi-official control and perhaps even NOTAMs , or it 's something private and in that case people make their own arrangements , e.g. picking some frequency that does n't overlap with any nearby assigned frequencies . Using 123.45 is apparently common , but definitely not official . Non-VHF communications for private flights would be regulated by the FCC , not the FAA , and personally I 'm not sure if the benefits would be worth the extra equipment and the risk of confusion , but then again I know nothing about formation flying . EDIT : some useful information from the FAA is in this <URL> clarifying the use of 121.5 and 123.45 . It says that 123.45 is for operational use in oceanic regions , and within the US it 's reserved for " non-government flight test operations " . There 's also an <URL> on requesting temporary frequencies for airshows etc. but it 's air to ground only .
The wing planform ( which is the shape and layout of wing ) for each aircraft is mainly based on the aerodynamic requirements . There are other considerations like stealth , controllability etc. . The basic terminology in the wing geometry is given in the figure below . <URL> Source : grc.nasa.gov Most of the wing platforms in use ( or have been used ) fall under one of these categories . Elliptical Aerodynamically , the elliptical planform is the most efficient as elliptical spanwise lift distribution has the lowest possible induced drag ( as given by thin airfoil theory ) . However , the most important disadvantage of the elliptical wing is that its manufacturability is poor . Perhaps the most famous aircraft with elliptical planform is the <URL> , used in Battle of Britan . <URL> " <URL> " by Adrian Pingstone ( <URL> ) - Own work . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Interestingly , the elliptical wing was not decided to minimize induced drag , but to house the retractable landing gear along with guns and ammunition inside a wing that had to be thin . As per designer Beverly Shenstone , The ellipse was simply the shape that allowed us the thinnest possible wing with room inside to carry the necessary structure and the things we wanted to cram in . And it looked nice . Some aircraft like the <URL> had a semi elliptical wing , with only the leading or trailing edge elliptical . <URL> " <URL> " by Unknown - <URL> . Licensed under CC0 via <URL> . Rectangular Arguably the simplest wing planform from a manufacturing point of view , the rectangular wing is a straight , untapered wing . A good example would be the light general aircraft like <URL> . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . The main disadvantage of this wing is that it is aerodynamically inefficient . Tapered Wing This is a modification of the rectangular wing where the chord is varied across the span to approximate the elliptical lift distribution . While not as efficient as the elliptical lift distribution , it offers a compromise between manufacturability and efficiency . A very good example of aircraft using this type of wing is the North American <URL> , which became the premier USAAF escort fighter against the Luftwaffe . <URL> " <URL> " . Licensed under Public Domain via <URL> . Constant Chord with Tapered Outer This is midway between the rectangular and the tapered wing , with the inner part having constant chord and the outer part having a taper . A very good example of this type of wing is the <URL> . <URL> Source : Almost all of the wings seen so far are used in subsonic aircraft due to the large drag caused by them in the transonic regime . Most of the wings used in supersonic aircraft fall under one of the following categories . Delta The delta is a very low aspect ratio wing used in supersonic aircraft , most notably in the European designs . The main advantages of the delta wing is that is efficient in all the flight regimes ( subsonic , transonic and supersonic ) . Also , the wing offers a large wing area for the shape , reducing wing loading and improving maneuverability . The delta wing design is also very strong structurally , offering large volume for internal fuel . The delta wings are also quite simple to build and maintain . The main disadvantages are that they have high induced drag due to low aspect ratio and also that they should have high angle of attack at low speeds ( takeoff and landing ) , mainly due to fact that at these speeds , lift is generated by vortices . To compensate for this , they have high stall angles . A very good example for this wing is the Dassault <URL> , which is an example of tailless delta i.e. without horizontal stabilizers . <URL> Source : www.aircraftrecognition.co.uk A variant of the delta wing used in some aircraft is the one with horizontal stabilizer ( tailed delta ) , the most famous of them being the Russian <URL> . <URL> Source : hdwallpapers.cat Another variant is the one used by the <URL> , the so called cropped delta , where the tips of the delta are ' cut off ' to reduce drag at high angles of attack . <URL> " <URL> " by <URL> - Own work . Licensed under GFDL via <URL> . Yet another variant of the delta wing ( this planform is very popular in combat aircraft ) , is the so called double delta , where the leading edge angle is not constant , but has two different values . One good example of this is the <URL> ' Tejas ' under development in India . <URL> " <URL> " by Rinju9 - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Trapezoidal The trapezoidal wing is a high performance configuration such that the leading edge sweeps back and the trailing edge sweeps forward . This is mostly found in combat aircraft from the US . This wing configuration offers efficient supersonic flight and has very good stealth characteristics . However , the wing loading is quite high , resulting in reduced maneuverability , especially instantaneous turn rate . This wing configuration is used most notably in the Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor . <URL> " <URL> " by
I 'm not aware of any rules , hopefully others can contribute , but you can usually predict the next frequency with a high rate of precision . For example ( exact stations will differ depending on airport and airspace type ) a typical IFR sequence of stations . Clearance delivery Ground Tower Departures Sector/area ... Sector/area Approach Tower Ground The initial tuning will put delivery in live and ground in standby . Then as you say , just press the toggle . When the next frequency gets dialled in is not , as far as I know , governed in anyway and is probably not even in SOPs since it is just about using the equipment more efficiently . Say delivery has given you a clearance . They will probably follow up with something like " call ground 129.7 " for push and start " . When you are ready for push and start , toggle to ground then put the tower into the standby frequency and so on . Frequency changes are certainly made in cruise , when passing from one ACC sector to the next . These frequencies are published in the national AIP 's and visible on en-route charts . For a sector handoff , I 'd probably dial the next frequency in when the current sector instructs me to contact xyz . It 's really not a big deal if you have to contact someone unexpected . Modern boxes with push button tuning are almost as quick to tune manually as to toggle .
" Four hundred " was likely annunciated twice due to a bit of a dip in the terrain that would cause it to pass the 400ft level twice . The " hundred above " call-out is for 100 feet above decision height to let the crew know they will need to make their decision soon to either continue or go around . After that , you hear the " two hundred " and " minimum " call-outs right after one another . The " one hundred " call-out afterwards signifies 100 feet above ground level .
They are ( and historically , were even more so ) two of the biggest cities in the business world ( ranked <URL> ) . That specific route has some of the highest rates of business travel and is , therefore , a fairly prestigious , famous route which is popular with fairly wealthy , prestigious people . They are also two of the most famous cities in the world , and most people know roughly where they are on a map . The fact they 're separated by an ocean which is large but was just small enough to be possible to cross safely in the early days of aviation also helped , because it gives the impression of being further than it is . For example it 's a comparable distance to London-Dubai , but that does n't " feel " as big due to being overland through Europe . Equally while many people know roughly where Dubai is nowadays , it was n't anywhere near as famous 30-80 years ago .
Disclaimer : I 'm not a Blue Angels pilot so do n't know their exact procedures/limitations , but have done a fair share of military formation flying . Answer : It is possible , it 's just a more " bumpy " ride . Not a huge issue if the turbulence is not severe enough ( or of a " rotor " type ) to cause uncontrollable rolls in three dimensions . When flying formation you are separated from other aircraft in three dimensions . In turbulent weather conditions the aircraft position usually results in vertical displacement , not so much in horizontal displacement . This means the aircraft will not roll into the adjacent aircraft ( the roll effect happens when you fly into wake turbulence or through rotors for example ) , but do more of an " up and down " jump . The same air disturbance will effect several ( if not all ) aircraft in the formation , sometimes with just a tiny delay . Also , the heavier and faster the aircraft is , the less effect the same amount of turbulence will have . If weather does n't permit a small single-engine piston to fly formation , it may still be workable for jets . Ultimately , it is up to the flight lead to : - determine if conditions permit close formation - fly the formation to avoid known hazards ( for example if the wind is from the N , do n't fly on the S side of hills/mountains )
Pilots are allowed to fly as close as they want to each other as long as all parties agree to it and feel safe doing so . Air Traffic Control can not guarantee separation for planes in formation flight , So this will only be done under VFR and in VMC , where pilots can maintain visual separation from each other . Many stunt fliers are civilian pilots and will routinely fly in close formation as well . Other notable example of civilian formation flight include <URL> and <URL>
There are two parts to the question : Why number runways based on their direction ? The runways have to be identified somehow and the identification has to be directional . So the , rounded , heading offers itself and it has advantage that : The pilot can verify they are approaching the intended runway by looking at the compass , which works at night , in bad visibility or early on the approach when the numbers on the ground are not visible yet and serves as cross-check for verifying the instruments are set correctly during instrument approaches . Since the pilot needs to know the runway heading for navigation and for checking the wind anyway , it makes it easier to remember . Why use magnetic heading instead of true ? In the early days of aviation , magnetic compass was the only tool available for determining direction . It is simple and reliable and well tested in naval navigation . So magnetic headings became the obvious standard . Later gyrocompass was introduced to overcome the limitation of magnetic compass that it is biased in turns and requires some time to stabilize . However gyrocompass precesses , so it has to be periodically corrected , which was , and is , still done by reference to the magnetic compass . On the other hand GPS is still a rather recent technology . It is only precise enough to determine heading ( or rather tracking ) for last 15 years . It requires a complex electronic device that can fail in a myriad of ways and it is affected by many external factors including the state of ionosphere and the selective availability not being turned on again . And not all aircraft have GPS anyway . So if you wanted to switch the ones that use GPS to true headings , there would still be some that would need to use the magnetic and it would be a mess . On the other hand when you have GPS , you have a computer already and it can contain and use the magnetic declination tables to give you magnetic heading as well .
There are lots of options . Flight training is the US is usually divided into <URL> and <URL> . Part 61 is general flight instruction and any FAA approved instructor can teach you under it : many part 61 instructors are independent or work for or with FBOs at GA airports . Part 141 governs flight schools that have a standard curriculum and are much more structured ; they 're often associated with training commercial pilots looking for airline careers . The license you get is exactly the same whichever way you learn . There are pros and cons to both approaches , <URL> summarizes them well but the most important general point is probably that part 61 is ' one on one ' training so it can be tailored for you and fit your schedule , whereas part 141 is ' school ' training and if you ca n't follow their schedule then it usually is n't possible anyway . For that reason , part 61 is often the only practical option for many private pilots who have jobs and families . Perhaps your real question here is " how do I find an instructor ? " , in which case you need to search the web , check out local FBOs and flight schools , ask for recommendations from pilots you know and so on . It 's definitely worth investing some time to find the right instructor for you , because that can make a huge difference to your progress ( and your costs ) .
The purpose of squawk code 2000 is to prevent aircraft entering a Secondary Surveillance Radar ( SSR ) area from transmitting a code that is the same as a discrete code assigned by ATC to an individual aircraft . If you are flying in the USA under Visual Flight Rules ( VFR ) , you will be assigned ( implicitly ) code 1200 . Upon entering a SSR area you might get assigned another code , but often you will keep code 1200 if you are not near class C airspace . If you are flying Instrument Flight Rules ( IFR ) outside a SSR area ( e.g. entry into the US from oceanic airspace ) , you will use code 2000 . Upon radar contact you will then get assigned a discrete code . From <URL> : 2 . EXPANDED OCEANIC CHECKLIST . ... . . g . After Oceanic Entry ( 1 ) Squawk 2000 . Thirty minutes after oceanic en try , crews should Squawk 2000 , if applicable . There may be regional differences such as Squawking 2100 in Bermuda 's airspace or maintaining last assigned Squawk in the West Atlantic Route System ( WATRS ) . Crews transiting Reykjavik 's airspace must maintain last assigned Squawk . Another use of code 2000 is on the airport : before power up you can select code 2000 to avoid code conflicts that could occur when you would maintain your code from a previous flight . It is standard practice in many airlines to select code 2000 after arrival at the gate .
The FAA has issued an <URL> which covers what they call " non-towered airports " NON-TOWERED AIRPORTS When the control tower is closed or if there is no tower , the airport is referred to as non-towered . At a non-towered airport , you do not need controller permission before entering a runway or taxiway . Below are some best practices for operating on a non-towered airport : When you approach the runways and taxiways , STOP , LOOK both ways , and LISTEN for aircraft that are landing or taking off . Vehicle windows should be open to do this properly . Alert others when you are using a taxiway or runway by always making an announcement on the radio before you enter . Be specific with your location and intentions . Always yield the right-of-way to taxiing aircraft and give them plenty of room . If an aircraft is headed toward you on the same taxiway , move out of the aircraft 's way . Always carry a radio tuned to the airport 's Common Traffic Advisory Frequency ( CTAF ) or UNICOM . If an aircraft is about to land on a runway that you need to cross , stop well clear of the runway . Continue to yield to the aircraft until it has landed and taxied off of the runway . Be aware that some aircraft at non-towered airports are not equipped with radios . Before you cross a runway , ensure that no potentially conflicting aircraft are taxiing , landing or taking off . Be aware of aircraft at non-towered airports that frequently make touch-and-go landings ( immediately after landing , full power is applied and the aircraft takes off again ) . If your vehicle has a rotating beacon , be sure to turn it on anytime you are on the airport surface . Turn on headlights as well , being careful not to blind any pilots in the area .
In all cases the answer is yes , those aircraft were all outfitted with seats , and at least very close to being ready for delivery to the customer . Installing interiors and seats is a regular part of the production process , and it 's unlikely that the plane would be pulled from the line before seats are installed , and worked back in later . From looking at <URL> , these aircraft all had about 7 months between rollout and delivery , with the air show appearance happening within a month of delivery . Also , the aircraft are used as static displays while not flying , allowing people to walk through and see the interior . In 2011 , the Korean Air A380 <URL> . It was delivered in the middle of July . In 2012 , the Malaysian A380 <URL> . It was delivered at the end of July . In 2013 , the British Airways A380 probably had seats installed . I ca n't find any pictures of the inside , but it was delivered shortly after <URL> . Airbus also tends to bring a flight test A380 like MSN001 ( first to fly , registered F-WWOW ) for display , and has a <URL> . The Korean Air A380 was used for the display in 2011 after the flight test plane MSN004 had a <URL> .
Short answer Quick access recorders ( QAR ) , which are not aimed to be used for investigations , are getting into aircraft . They allow flight data to be collected and analyzed in different ways , including overall improvement of security and efficiency . QAR are used in place of FDR because being not dedicated to security and accident investigations they do n't have the same use and disclosure restrictions ( which are detailed below ) . Details There are two recorders that are mandatory on board commercial aircraft : CVR for voice , and FDR for data . They are designed to survive an accident and include an ultrasonic beacon to facilitate locating them underwater . It 's worth mentioning that CVR and FDR are not connected to any external data port for data export/copy/extraction , and extraction of the recorders after an accident is done exclusively by the investigating agency . See more about privacy protection at the end of the post . Cockpit voice recorder ( CVR ) The CVR is a sensitive question . Crews have accepted the recording of cockpit conversations to help understand accidents . One condition is the conversations remain private in other circumstances . So there is definitely no other allowed use of the CVR . Flight data recorder ( FDR ) Certain technical parameters , like inputs on the flight controls , must be recorded , also to help determine the cause of an accident . Most FDRs record many more parameters than mandatory . Still the FDR can not be used in other circumstances than an investigation . Using in-flight data for improvement Still technical parameters values do n't disclose personal opinions , FDR data causes less privacy concerns than CVR conversations . Safety agencies over the world have encouraged airlines and manufacturers to set up improvement programs ( quality improvement ) taking into account in-flight technical parameters . <URL> ( <URL> ) <URL> include : Flight operations quality assurance , FOQA . See FAA <URL> . Flight data monitoring , FDM . See Swiss <URL> . FDM allows companies to : Compare their flight standards ( <URL> ) and the crews ' actual actions . This is a way to enforce SOPs , and detect deviations from SOPs , hence crews may be reluctant to see this becoming mandatory . Detect excessive forces applied to the aircraft , that require maintenance checks and/or repairs . Set fuel consumption improvement actions . As the FDR data can not be exported , new recorders used for data monitoring and analysis are now seen on aircraft . Quick access recorders ( QAR ) QAR use the same data acquisition unit ( <URL> ) as the FDR , using <URL> links . They are essentially duplicating and extending the mandatory FDR , but data can be read at any time using data links , either wired or wireless connections . This access is not limited to investigation purposes . Optical quick access recorders ( OQAR ) are QARs storing data on <URL> ( e.g. <URL> ) , and they can record up to weeks or months of flight data . On the other hand , very small " micro " QARs exist too . This well known one uses a <URL> card : <URL> ( <URL> ) Countries like India have mandated flight data monitoring and analysis using such devices , but most regulation bodies have taken into account the reluctance of crews regarding the spreading of sensitive data , and the programs remain subject to airline decision . Privacy aspects of CVR and FDR data This section is likely very incomplete as the topic is complex . ICAO : Investigation-related recommendations are described in Annex 13 to the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation : <URL> . Non-disclosure of records . 5.12 The State conducting the investigation [ ... ] shall not make the following records available for purposes other than accident or incident investigation , unless the appropriate authority for the administration of justice in that State [ ... ] : [ ... ] b ) all communications between persons having been involved in the operation of the aircraft ; [ ... ] d ) cockpit voice recordings and transcripts from such recordings ; 5.12.1 These records shall be included in the final report [ ... ] only when pertinent to the analysis of the accident or incident . Parts of the records not relevant to the analysis shall not be disclosed . Flight recorder cover both voice and data : Flight recorder . Any type of recorder installed in the aircraft for the purpose of complementing accident/incident investigation . However only CVR is mentioned in the article above , so there is some ambiguity about using FDR data . The point about privacy is that if the information is disclosed , then the safety agencies may not be trusted in the future , information may not be provided , and security may suffer from this lack of information . CVR in the US : A CVR committee usually consisting of members from the NTSB , FAA , operator of the aircraft , manufacturer of the airplane , manufacturer of the engines , and the pilots union , is formed to listen to the recording . This committee creates a written transcript of the CVR audio to be used
There is a description of this route page <URL> . <URL> The scan is not good , you may get the textual content <URL> . It says terrain following activities may take place , as well as visual contours ( which I assume to be navigating without radar , looking at the outdoor and searching in a catalog the same relief contour to know where you are ) . As you commented , taking into account the local relief : For terrain following should be for newbies . For visual contours navigation should be for top-guns only . There are different routes like this , starting from nowhere and ending in the Smoky MOA . They seem to be routes avoiding nearby airfields . On the image below , I 've emphasized the area without airfields , including MOAs . It looks like IR-504 is drawn along the centerline . <URL> Based on <URL> Other possible selection criteria : Unpopulated areas ( noise from low flying jets ) Low radio noise areas . Flat terrain for UAV training .
In short : the 24 bit address is critical on the technical layer of Air Traffic Control , but it is not used in the operational level . For identification of aircraft and association to flight plans , the air traffic controllers and the flight data processing systems rely mostly on the Mode A code and the aircraft ID ( call sign ) transmitted by the transponder . The ICAO 24-bit aircraft address is an essential element of the way Mode S radar and TCAS work . Before Mode-S radar , only modes A and C were used by civil ATC secondary radars . Mode A and Mode C are unaddressed ; every transponder receiving a Mode A or Mode C interrogation will reply * . This causes two problems , garbling and FRUIT . Garbling is caused by the overlap of replies from multiple transponders . A transponder replies on 1090 MHz in the from of a number of pulses . For Mode A &amp; C , there are at most 12 pulses between a set of framing pulses . When multiple aircraft reply to the same interrogation , these pulses mix up and it becomes difficult to find out which transponder sent which pulse . This leads to false altitudes or false squawk codes . FRUIT ( False Replies Unsynchronised to Interrogator Transmission ) is caused by replies that are triggered by other radars . When multiple radars operate in an area , transponders can be quite busy and the radar is easily mislead by a reply to another radar . In addition to the timing ( range ) being wrong , the reply can be Mode A ( squawk code ) while the radar interrogated Mode C ( altitude ) . There is no way to see what kind ( A or C ) reply was sent . To overcome these problems of Mode A/C , Mode S was introduced . Mode S is quite different from Mode A/C and requires a more sophisticated radar and transponder . It uses the 24 bit address to distinguish responses from various aircraft and to interrogate specific aircraft . Most Mode S interrogations are addressed ; the interrogation contains the unique 24 bit address of the aircraft it is interrogating . This reduces the probability of garbling since other aircraft will not reply Unaddressed Mode S interrogations will solicit replies that contain the address of interrogator ( radar ) . This prevents FRUIT since the radar can verify that the reply is correctly addressed . Unlike Mode A/C which does not have any error checking , a Mode S reply contains a 24 bit CRC check code . Mode S Altitude and identity ( squawk ) replies have their own identifier so they can be distinguished . Mode S radars can be operated in clusters and coordinate between them who is interrogating which aircraft at which time . This further reduces the message load and garbling / fruit probability . For TCAS , the Mode S address is used to distinguish replies for various aircraft in the vicinity of the own aircraft . The TCAS transponder interrogates omnidirectionally ( in all directions ) and get 's replies from all direction . Again , this is very susceptible to Garbling and FRUIT . Whilst TCAS can work with Mode A/C , for its reliability and coordination of resolution advisories , the 24-bit address is crucial .
There are no language recommendations or requirements , other than what is sensible given the verification requirements in the various standards ( e.g. , DO-178B / C ) . For the highest design assurance levels , the generated code must be inspected down at the op-code level to ensure no known processor gotchas are invoked . You also end up having to test every part of every conditional , both the true and the false sides , and ensure that no jump instructions will take you someplace where you did n't expect it to go . For these reasons , the big three languages in use in embedded avionics today are : C++ ( as a better C . The OO nature is often used only sparingly . Things like polymorphism are just too expensive to verify ) Ada ( You may not like it , but a TON of current avionics are written in Ada , and are currently being maintained and updated with new features ) C - As close to the hardware as you want to get and still be highly productive ( not intending to offend anyone who is productive in something else ) Assembler is frequently used for specific needs , but it would not be used to a greater degree than one of the above-mentioned languages . What makes these languages ideal for avionics is that they are relatively close to the hardware and memory structure , not too abstract . Their tools are mature and well-known . People have years of experience certifying software written in them . And there are lots of programmers who can get up to speed in them quickly ( Yes , even Ada ) . Non-safety critical software , both on and off the aircraft , will be written in any of the big languages of the day : Java , C# , VB , C , C++ , Python , Perl , Ruby , etc. . iPads are becoming useful inside the cockpit and are approved in limited situations . iOS apps are written in Objective-C , C , C++ , and increasingly , Swift ( Apple 's new language ) .
Let 's say you have two aircraft that will reach the same point in space at the same time , and your job is to keep them three miles apart . One way to do it is to calculate how many knots the second aircraft should reduce their speed so that at the time the first aircraft reaches the point , the second aircraft will have fallen three miles in trail . Unfortunately for you , this means that you have to work a time-speed-distance-wind problem for every single aircraft that you , as a controller , handle . Alternatively , you pick a point three miles away and tell the second aircraft to fly there . Air traffic controllers are human , and humans are better at angles than we are at numbers . The simplest thing for controllers is usually the best thing - they 've got lots on their mind already without making them do math too ! This might change in the NEXTGEN air traffic network ( where everyone has a GPS position and speed readout right there on the screen ) but for now , easy is better than hard .
This varies from country to country but here in the US the Federal Aviation Regulations define the minimum safe altitudes : <URL> Except when necessary for takeoff or landing , no person may operate an aircraft below the following altitudes : ( a ) Anywhere . An altitude allowing , if a power unit fails , an emergency landing without undue hazard to persons or property on the surface . ( b ) Over congested areas . Over any congested area of a city , town , or settlement , or over any open air assembly of persons , an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal radius of 2,000 feet of the aircraft . ( c ) Over other than congested areas . An altitude of 500 feet above the surface , except over open water or sparsely populated areas . In those cases , the aircraft may not be operated closer than 500 feet to any person , vessel , vehicle , or structure . ( d ) Helicopters , powered parachutes , and weight-shift-control aircraft . If the operation is conducted without hazard to persons or property on the surface -- ( 1 ) A helicopter may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) of this section , provided each person operating the helicopter complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for helicopters by the FAA ; and ( 2 ) A powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph ( c ) of this section . In your case , the sea-planes can fly closer than regulated since it falls under the " Except when necessary for takeoff and landing " clause . These minimums apply in all air spaces however different airspaces surrounding cities ( typically Class B and Class C ) may prevent you from ever getting within 1000ft ( or even a few miles ) of the city due to clearance . For example you ca n't get near a city under a bravo space without ATC clearance and even then you ca n't fly where you want like in other airspaces . but how is that and other private flying entities like news choppers News choppers and the like still must fly by these rules . They often compensate with bigger camera lenses . The somewhat exception to this rule is generally police , fire , and rescue/medical operation choppers/aircraft . This of course is taken on a case by case basis but ATC usually gives them precedent and clears them for whatever they ask within reason . I actually met a guy that was on the council that designed the Philadelphia Bravo Airspace . The airspace is specially designed so that the medical helicopters can take off and fly under the bravo shelf from any hospital in the city . They can do this and still be a safe distance from buildings as well . and ad-banner planes governed ? Banner towing planes , like helicopters must also fly by these rules . Although they are not seen in cities all too often I generally see them at the beach . Although beaches are generally not defined as a congested area and generally the planes are flying over " open water " thus they must be only 500ft from the people on the beach ( depending on how you interpret the law ) .
Qualification : I worked at a busy drop zone for 10 years . Just announce yourself on the airfield frequency about 5-10 minutes out and they 'll tell you what 's going on , including which runway is active and how high they are jumping from - standard altitudes are 3000ft and 12,000 ft AGL . At our place it was really simple : left-hand for 34 , right-hand for 16 . We landed everyone on the east side , and if we are dropping at 3000 all day you can just pop up to 4000 and be completely out of the way . Under no circumstances make a cross-field pass as that 's usually right in the middle of everyone else 's landing pattern , and we do n't carry radios . If you are just passing by a 2km buffer is lots - no one is likely to be in the air that far away . No reply usually means nothing in the air .
For the US , according to <URL> of the AIM ( Designated UNICOM/MULTICOM Frequencies ) for private fixed-wing flights you should use 122.75 : Air-to-air communication ( private fixed wing aircraft ) : 122.750 Air-to-air communications ( general aviation helicopters ) : 123.025 Aviation instruction , Glider , Hot Air Balloon ( not to be used for advisory service ) : 123.300 , 123.500 I have no idea what the military does and their tactical comms might even be encrypted anyway , but they frequently use UHF instead of VHF , at least in the US . Nor do I know what to do if you have two formation flights at the same time , but I guess that in reality it 's either an air show with some form of semi-official control and perhaps even NOTAMs , or it 's something private and in that case people make their own arrangements , e.g. picking some frequency that does n't overlap with any nearby assigned frequencies . Using 123.45 is apparently common , but definitely not official . Non-VHF communications for private flights would be regulated by the FCC , not the FAA , and personally I 'm not sure if the benefits would be worth the extra equipment and the risk of confusion , but then again I know nothing about formation flying . EDIT : some useful information from the FAA is in this <URL> clarifying the use of 121.5 and 123.45 . It says that 123.45 is for operational use in oceanic regions , and within the US it 's reserved for " non-government flight test operations " . There 's also an <URL> on requesting temporary frequencies for airshows etc. but it 's air to ground only .
end question
start question
Do I need a PPL license for a CPL license ?
Yes , with a couple of exceptions . FAR 61.123 contains the requirements for a commercial certificate , while 61.153 contains the requirements for an ATP certificate . <URL> states than an applicant must : Hold at least a private pilot certificate issued under this part or meet the requirements of § 61.73 <URL> refers to the option for military pilots to apply for an FAA certificate based on their military qualifications . For non-military pilots , the commercial certificate can only be earned after obtaining the private pilot certificate . <URL> includes the ability to use a foreign commercial or ATP certificate as a prerequisite . An applicant must : Meet at least one of the following requirements : ( 1 ) Holds a commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating issued under this part ; ( 2 ) Meet the military experience requirements under § 61.73 of this part to qualify for a commercial pilot certificate , and an instrument rating if the person is a rated military pilot or former rated military pilot of an Armed Force of the United States ; or ( 3 ) Holds either a foreign airline transport pilot license with instrument privileges , or a foreign commercial pilot license with an instrument rating , that -- ( i ) Was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation ; and ( ii ) Contains no geographical limitations .
According to the <URL> ( 2 ) Private aircraft . The pilots of private aircraft are required to secure permission to land from CBP following transmission of the advance notice of arrival via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP , pursuant to § 122.22 . Prior to departure as defined in § 122.22 ( a ) , from a foreign port or place , the pilot of a private aircraft must receive a message from CBP that landing rights have been granted for that aircraft at a particular airport . This only matters if you are inbound from an out of country origin . An LRA airport is Landing rights airport . A landing rights airport is any airport , other than an international airport or user fee airport , at which flights from a foreign area are given permission by Customs to land .
You can find interesting lectures about the refueling <URL> or in the <URL> . When they have children leave the plane , it is probably a company thing ! There are no such rules that all passengers have to deboard a plane during refuel ( with JetA and similar ) . But , as you can see in the Airbus FOPN , there are some requirements that need to be met . Each manufacturer as well as each company probably has its on way of interpreting of the rules and regulations issued by the CAP and the FAA . Summing up , it is basically by the pilots and therefore the company 's discretion what to do with the passengers ( or children ) on board during refueling as long as saftey requirements are met !
You can change your address with the FAA online . You do not need to get a new plastic certificate . <URL>
One UK list is <URL> , it mentions several universities that include PPL and/or ATPL training in the degree course , but they appear to cover only the theory part of the courses with actual flight training being optional . Where a full PPL is included , they mention extra costs of around GBP 7000 on top of regular tuition . If you look directly at the university sites they seem to confirm this : <URL> includes only 10 flight hours for the PPL ; <URL> and <URL> both include a UK NPPL but at extra cost . You might be able to get a scholarship of some kind to cover all or part of your tuition , but that depends very heavily on your personal situation and what the individual university offers . Finally , you could consider the RAF as an alternative route to paid flight training but I have no idea if that 's of any interest to you and I imagine that competition for cockpit places is very tough .
Really this is a moot point ... <URL> ( a ) states : ( a ) No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate -- ( 1 ) For other than the purpose for which the certificate was issued ; or ( 2 ) Carrying persons or property for compensation or hire . And again ( e ) states : ( e ) No person may operate an aircraft that is issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 ( i ) of this chapter for compensation or hire , except a person may operate an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 ( i ) ( 1 ) for compensation or hire to -- ( 1 ) Tow a glider that is a light-sport aircraft or unpowered ultralight vehicle in accordance with § 91.309 ; or ( 2 ) Conduct flight training in an aircraft which that person provides prior to January 31 , 2010 . <URL> is in reference to operating light-sport aircraft and how it obtains an experimental certificate . There are very few auto-gyros that are factory built and certified , and none that I can find that are currently being built . Anything you build in your home ( home-built ) needs to pass certain FAA inspections before it is issued an airworthiness certificate and/or experimental certificate . All home-builts are experimental since they are not built under the manufacturers quality control system . Either way , the FAA certifies that you build it to a safe standard and a standard in which the manufacturer intended it to fly . Being used for a commercial purpose , even if that were possible ( which it is not ) would not change the certification process for that aircraft . It would not require you to abide by any different rules or build standards . That is implying that personal aircraft would be built to a lower safety standard than commercial ones , which is n't the case .
The voice communications for air traffic control is all analog ( <URL> ) . A scanner that works in that frequency range on AM should be fine . Although a switch to digital has been considered , there is just too much coordination and investment required . A good reference to find the right frequencies is <URL> . It will list all the frequencies for an airport . Another good reference for many frequencies , not just airports , is <URL> . The database there will tell you exactly how each channel is transmitted , so you know what type of radio you will need to listen to it . Also keep in mind that ATC transmissions are line-of-sight , so you will have to be close to a ground station to hear it . The " rubber duck " antenna included with a lot of scanners is fine but a better antenna will help to improve reception . Also , military aircraft use a higher frequency range , and a lot of cheaper scanners will not receive this .
Given the hours required for the ATP , the chance of doing that rating alone in under a year seems pretty remote . Getting the private and commercial certificates done inside of a year is entirely possible , although not cheap . The writtens for the ATP are no big deal , but the hours simply will take a lot of time , as well as the right employment opportunity , to get . The number of FO 's at smaller ( regional ) airlines who have been flying for several years but who do n't yet have their ATP attests to the time required . You can ( and generally have to ) pay for the flight time to get your Commercial , but paying for all the flight time required for an ATP is simply beyond those of whose last name is n't Gates , Bezos , Trump , or etc. .
The Cessna 208 is a bit of a confusing model when it comes to seating . Short version : Under US legislation , the aircraft may have up to 11 seats and can carry 9 passengers and 2 pilots . Other countries did recertify the aircraft to have up to 14 seats . By doing so they adopt the FAA certification based on part 23 and add text to waive the 9 passenger limitation . Long version : Originally the type was approved by the FAA in October 1984 under FAR 23 ( up to amendment 28 ) and given FAA Type certificate number <URL> . The aircraft is certified as 11 Place Closed Land Monoplane ( PCLM ) and later as 11 Place Closed Sea Monoplane ( PCSM ) . In 1984 the applicability of <URL> was described by 23.1 ( since <URL> ) as : ( a ) This Part prescribes airworthiness standards for the issue of type certificates , and changes to those certificates , for small airplanes in the normal , utility , and acrobatic categories that have a passenger seating configuration , excluding pilot seats , of nine seats or less . So this is where the 9 passenger limitation originally comes from . This also implies that if you operate with only one pilot , one of the 11 seats must be unoccupied . Until 1971 there was no mention of a 9 passengers limitation and since 1987 ( <URL> ) a new category of commuter planes is defined allowing for more than 9 passenger ( up to 19 passengers ) in propeller-driven , multiengine airplanes . Since the Cessna 208 is a single engine aircraft , the commuter category can not apply . As a result , when the aircraft is operating under the FAA type certificate , there is a limit of 9 passengers . When the aircraft is registered and operated outside the USA , the FAA rules do not necessarily apply . Usually a country adopts the Type Certificate of the original certifying country , but changes can be made . This is exactly what happened with the Cessna 208 . Since the aircraft offers space for more seats and the maximum take-off weight allows for extra passengers , Cessna started to offer a 14 seat model for use outside the USA . For aircraft with more than 11 seats , the flight manual has a <URL> stating : Limitations Utilization of the 13-place , 14-place and Utility seating options described in this supplement is limited only to nations where approval has been received . The United States does not authorize more than 11 seats in the airplane . In the 11 - seat configuration , the right front seat may be occupied by either a second crew member or a passenger , However , when the right front seat is occupied by a passenger , only eight seats in the aft cabin can be occupied . Europe ( EU ) The <URL> allows the 11 seat model 208 . It also mentions a 14 seat model 208B being approved by the UK CAA . When EASA took over aircraft certification in Europe , the UK CAA approvement for 14 seats was adopted , but only for the 208B model . In section 2 . E ( only for 208B ) : A 14 seat place configuration was certified before 28 September 2003 by CAA UK ( see UK TCDS FA54 ) and subsequently adopt by EASA . Those aircraft have to be operated i.a.w. FAA approved AFM 1329-3 - 13PHUK and AFM Supplement D1340-1-13UK or latest approved revision . The original <URL> included the text : MAXIMUM OCCUPANTS/PASSENGERS : 14 occupants , including pilot . Refer to British Aeroplane Flight Manual Australia The <URL> mentions : Australian registered Cessna 208 aircraft may be configured for greater than 9 passenger seats . The requirement of FAR 23 paragraph 23.1 , introduced by amendment 23-10 , to limit the passenger seating configuration , excluding pilot seats , to nine seats or less is not applicable to Australian aeroplanes certificated under Section 101.22 of Civil Aviation Orders . In the <URL> reference is given to the UK CAA approval for more than 11 seats . New Zealand New Zealand <URL> the 208 to be operated with 14 seats . In New Zealand the Model 208 Caravan has been approved for operation in the fourteen seat configuration in accordance with the provisions of the Fourteen Place Seating Supplement to the Model 208 Pilot 's Operating handbook . ( A similar Supplement is included in the Flight Manual for the 208B . ) The 208 aircraft was " accepted on the basis of compliance with FAR23 excluding the wording of FAR 23.1 ( a ) ; ' that have a passenger seating configuration , excluding pilot seats , of nine seats or less ' . " South Africa The type certification document from New Zealand mentions that at the time of first approval ( 1985 ) Cessna stated : Australia , UK , South Africa , Norway , Sweden , Kenya and Columbia had all accepted the Cessna 208 with more than nine passenger seats . Interestingly in February 2014 the CAA of South Africa ( SACAA ) <URL> in South Africa . Operators using the Cessna 208 with more than 11 seats found themselves operating the aircraft illegally suddenly . Quickly a Supplemental Type Certificate ( STC ) was <URL> which allows operation with 14 seats again .
If I wish to downgrade my software 's design assurance level ( DAL ) from Level A to Level C , what do I need to do ? DAL level A software is software which , if it fails , may have " catastrophic " results , defined as " Failure may cause multiple fatalities , usually with loss of airplane . " DAL level C , " Failure significantly reduces the safety margin or significantly increases crew workload . May result in passenger discomfort ( or even minor injuries ) . " So , to move your software from DAL level A to DAL level C , you 'll have to reduce the responsibility of your software . Your software 's operation or failure to operate can not : result in passenger major injury or fatality produce a large negative impact on safety or performance of the aircraft reduce the ability of the crew to operate the aircraft due to physical distress or higher workload ( though significant increases in workload is acceptable at Level C ) At most , your software 's operation or failure to operate may : Significantly reduce safety margins Significantly increase crew workload Result in passenger discomfort or minor injury If you can change your software , or change your customer 's use of the software ( ie , can not be used or installed as part of a safety critical control system ) , then the certifying authorities may allow your software to be certified at Level C . What are the benefits and drawbacks of doing this ? There are only 62 objectives that have to be met , and of those only 8 have to be verified by someone independent of the person who implemented the code that falls under that objective . While the number of objectives is only reduced a little ( 71 vs 62 ) , the number requiring independent verification is cut by over 75 % from 33 to 8 . This significantly reduces the amount of work required to meet certification requirements , mostly in traceability . The major drawback is that your software can not be used or incorporated into systems which require a higher level of compliance . So if your software is designed to control actuators and is currently certified to Level A , you might find that it 's being used to control flight surfaces on some planes . The move to Level C may , in that case , not require any software changes at all . If you stop performing the full traceability , tests , and meeting objectives with independence at Level A , and only perform those necessary for Level C , then your release under this new system will necessarily only be certified under Level C . The software can no longer be used to control flight surfaces , but if a new plane comes out with electronically adjustable air nozzles in the passenger compartment , it may be eligible for inclusion there where failure would , at worst , cause passenger discomfort and increase crew workload managing complaints about air vents being misdirected or opened/closed when the opposite is desired . If your software is an autopilot , though , then it will never be used if it does n't meet Level A . In this case , there 's no way to change your software or process to a lower level and expect it to be used - the usage of the software defines the level to which it must comply . In most cases , the usage will drive which level the software must be certified to , and there 's no real way ( or reason ) for you to change your level . It would cease to be useful software at the wrong level .
Can a sextant be used while flying ? Yes it can . Some aircraft like 747 for example had a sextant port to allow celestial navigation . How accurate/reliable is a sextant , both standing still and at 500 + mph ? Sextant is not accurate . At least not accurate enough for today 's navigation purposes . You can not perform a RNP-RNAV approach with a sextant . Per wikipedia , the best accuracy you can get with a sextant is between a tenth to a quarter of nautical mile . But it is a very good alternative if everything else fails . Are sextants found in any cockpits today ? As for sextants in modern cockpits , my best guess is you wo n't find any , at least in the form of one " left in a drawer " . See that image of a sextant being operated on a VC-10 . It 's more like a submarine periscope than a traditional naval sextant . <URL> Retrieved from <URL> unknown copyright owner . Finally , as KRyan notes and as voretaq7 wrote <URL> , pilots do n't need to know , but they can attend training in order to know .
The appropriate paragraph of Part 61 of CFR 14 is 61.63 ( emphasis mine , the ' unless ' part does not apply in your case ) : ( c ) Additional aircraft class rating . A person who applies for an additional class rating on a pilot certificate : ( 1 ) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation . ( 2 ) Must pass the practical test . ( 3 ) Need not meet the specified training time requirements prescribed by this part that apply to the pilot certificate for the aircraft class rating sought ; unless , the person only holds a lighter-than-air category rating with a balloon class rating and is seeking an airship class rating , then that person must receive the specified training time requirements and possess the appropriate aeronautical experience . ( 4 ) Need not take an additional knowledge test , provided the applicant holds an airplane , rotorcraft , powered-lift , weight-shift-control aircraft , powered parachute , or airship rating at that pilot certificate level . So , to answer your question , no , you do not need a cross-country , you do not need any solo time in a multiengine airplane , either . All you need is a sign off from your instructor .
I had this happen to me on my first license . I got in touch with the FAA Examiner and he had me contact the local Flight Standards Office ( FSDO ) who corrected it for me . If it was a mistake on the application , your Certifying Officer ( read : FAA Examainer ) can allow you to edit the information through IACRA ( <URL> ) and the license re-issued . If all of the information was correct , but it was misprinted , you would want to call your local FSDO . FSDO Search : <URL> Your local FSDO can help you with : Low-flying aircraft Accident Reporting Air carrier certification and operations Aircraft maintenance Aircraft operational issues Aircraft permits Airmen certification ( licensing ) for pilots , mechanics , repairmen , dispatchers , and parachute riggers Certification and modification issues Enforcement of Airmen &amp; Aircraft Regulations
In short : Yes , you can . The FAA does n't really care , as long as you 're not going to interrupt class B or C operations . And honestly as long as you 're not hosting a dozen other aircraft , how are they going to tell the difference between a field and an airstrip ? If you want it on a chart or you are near special airspace , you need to contact the FSDO and talk to them about it ( it 's good to do that anyway ) . They will send someone out to survey it and talk with you , and hopefully approve it . It 's the local authorities that usually ends up being troublesome . Your state/county/city might have laws that apply , and you 'll need to find that out on your own . A friend of mine spent just a few days talking/meeting with the FAA on his strip , but spent weeks dealing with the state transportation department and a local ban on new grass strips which he sat right on the border of ( as in it was a ban in a 50 mile radius and his house was on mile 50 ) . Persistence is key , good luck !
It 's possible to get a <URL> : An applicant will be considered monocular when there is only one eye or when the best corrected distant visual acuity in the poorer eye is no better than 20/200 . An individual with one eye , or effective visual acuity equivalent to monocular , may be considered for medical certification , any class , through the special issuance section of part 67 ( 14 CFR 67.401 ) .
When you deflect the ailerons , you increase lift on one side of the wing and decrease it on the other . This causes a parallel increase of the local induced drag where lift is increased and vice versa . The consequence of that is a yawing moment which needs to be corrected with rudder deflection . Once your ailerons are neutral , this yawing moment goes away , but now your airplane is in a constant yawing motion which increases airspeed on the outer wing and swings the tail around , so your vertical tail sees some sideslip even if your ball is centered . The airspeed differential between inner and outer wing causes some friction drag differential which tries to pull the aircraft out of the yawing motion . Depending on the tendency of the rudder to follow a sideslip , you will need some pressure to keep the yawing motion going . It is hard to be more specific , because details depend on the particular airplane . In most of the airplanes I have flown , you also need to keep some aileron deflection to keep your bank angle constant . Here are two effects which go against each other , so again the details depend on the particular aircraft . One effect is caused by the airspeed difference which causes a lift difference between inner and outer wing . To correct this , you need to deflect the aileron against the bank . The other effect is caused by the different centrifugal forces of the masses of the inner and outer wing . The whole wing is moving at the same angular velocity , but centrifugal acceleration is the product of the square of the angular velocity and the radius of your motion . Since the outer wing flies at a larger radius than the inner wing , the masses of the wing will try to pull the aircraft level . This needs aileron deflection into the bank . If you are lucky , both effects cancel each other out , but normally they do n't .
The <URL> allows pilots to bypass the traditional <URL> flight review by completing a " phase " of the WINGS program . The program and requirements are detailed in FAA Advisory Circular 61-91 <URL> . The short version is that a " phase " of WINGS consists of three credits of " flight activities " and three credits of " knowledge activities " , which must be earned with a 12 calendar month period . Flight credits are earned by flying with an instructor and demonstrating safe &amp; proficient flying skills in specific areas of operation . For example , one " Basic WINGS " flight activity ( worth 1 credit ) is demonstrating basic air work - forward slips , steep turns , rectangular course , S-turns , and turns around a point - to Private Pilot practical test standards . When you have successfully completed a flight activity your instructor can log in to the FAA Safety / WINGS site and give you credit for completing the activity . Knowledge credits are earned by attending seminars and classes - these can be <URL> , or on-line webinars . Many of the <URL> qualify for WINGS credit . When you complete a phase of wings your flight review clock resets , and your flight review becomes due 24 calendar months from the date you completed that phase . Ultimately participating in the WINGS program probably means you will be spending more than the " bare minimum " 1 hour of ground time and 1 hour of flight time that FAR 61.56 requires . While you can often complete flight activities in an hour ( or much less if you 're proficient ) the knowledge topics often take longer : the webinars are typically 30-40 minutes each , and in-person seminars can easily last an hour or more . The major benefit to the WINGS program is increased safety through building your knowledge and proficiency - the seminars are actually informative ( and the in-person ones can even be fun , depending on who is running them ) , and the flight activities are pretty easy ( though there are certainly challenging ones available if you want to push yourself and really sharpen your skills ) . Resetting the flight review is an enticement to encourage all of us to participate .
If : Your unmanned aircraft weighs between 250g and 25kg ( including fuel and cargo ) , You are not flying under the <URL> , also known as section 336 You intend to operate it outdoors , and You are operating it in the United States , you need to register your drone through <URL> . If your drone is heavier than 25kg , you need to go through the <URL> . If your drone is ligher than 250g , or you are only operating it indoors , you do not need to register it . Additionally , if you are operating the drone for commercial purposes , you must have a <URL> . ( Note : if you are younger than 13 years old , someone who is 13 or older needs to register your drone for you . )
The regulations for this are in <URL> . In short , flight time limits within a rolling 24 hour period depend on the number of crew members assigned to the flight : One or two pilot crews - 8 hours max Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember : 12 hours max Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember : More than 12 hours , but " adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane " will be provided However , they may also implement a " Fatigue Risk Management System " which allows them to exceed these limits if they are found to be safe and approved by the FAA . This system would most likely address the number of timezones crossed but is optional . A particular airlines pilot contract may also have more restrictive limitations ( like considering the number of timezones crossed ) that are negotiated by the union , but this is not required by the regulations . § 121.481 Flight time limitations : One or two pilot crews . ( a ) A certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly in an airplane that has a crew of one or two pilots for eight hours or less during any 24 consecutive hours without a rest period during these eight hours . ... § 121.483 Flight time limitations : Two pilots and one additional flight crewmember . ( a ) No certificate holder conducting flag operations may schedule a pilot to fly , in an airplane that has a crew of two pilots and at least one additional flight crewmember , for a total of more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.485 Flight time limitations : Three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . ( a ) Each certificate holder conducting flag operations shall schedule its flight hours to provide adequate rest periods on the ground for each pilot who is away from his base and who is a pilot on an airplane that has a crew of three or more pilots and an additional flight crewmember . It shall also provide adequate sleeping quarters on the airplane whenever a pilot is scheduled to fly more than 12 hours during any 24 consecutive hours . ... § 121.495 Fatigue risk management system . ( a ) No certificate holder may exceed any provision of this subpart unless approved by the FAA under a Fatigue Risk Management System . ( b ) The Fatigue Risk Management System must include : ( 1 ) A fatigue risk management policy . ( 2 ) An education and awareness training program . ( 3 ) A fatigue reporting system . ( 4 ) A system for monitoring flightcrew fatigue . ( 5 ) An incident reporting process . ( 6 ) A performance evaluation .
The pavement requires frequent renewal of the top surface . The frequency depends on the type of pavement and on the weather . Asphalt for instance suffers a lot of damage when it snows and becomes less viscous when it is very hot , <URL> . The main issue with repairing a runway on a major airport like JFK or O'Hare is doing so with little to no impact on traffic . Resurfacing an entire runway can take a long time . Therefore , rather than closing the runway for days at a time , airports try to do as many short maintenance operations as possible at night . Some operations can not be done in a single night but can be divided into several perfectly timed tasks , that can be done between 11 PM and 5 AM . Some operations can not be divided into such small tasks and require that the airport closes for a day or more . The French airport Orly ( ORY ) for instance has one slab of concrete replaced every night on the runway . This way , the strip can be renewed every other year on average , without disturbing traffic . ( I saw a video on this subject once , but ca n't seem to find it again . ) The results of each runway inspection are compared with the results of the previous runway inspection . Maintenance programs are revised based on the rate of deterioration of the runway . The FAA has <URL> to help airport operators plan these maintenance operations . But damage done by huge planes is only one of the many things that needs to be taken care of on a regular basis . Moreover , aircraft manufacturers try to design landing gear that reduces the impact of the aircraft on the runway as much as possible ( note that airports can charge higher landing fees for aircraft that do more damage to the runway , so airlines want airplanes that do n't damage the runway ) . The most common maintenance operations are ( not in any order , and indicated frequencies are only a rule of thumb , as these will change from one airport to another ) : Removing rubber . This is an important one . When taking off or landing , aircraft often skid for a brief moment and leave rubber on the runway . This greatly reduces the adherence of the runway , which has a negative impact on stopping distances . This is usually done with high pressure water . Cleaning the approach light systems and other visual aids . These get dirty with rubber , tartar , dirt ... This operation can be done for instance with a mix of water and sodium bicarbonate , or <URL> . Checking the quality of the approach light systems and other visual aids . Often , a truck with optometric sensors drives down the runway and measures the luminosity . Sometimes the lights need to be replaced . Airports usually have spares available for every type of light that is used on the runway . Paint and markings somtimes have to be redone . <URL> . Trucks are equipped with all kinds of sensors and go up and down the runway . The measures are used to make a map of the condition of the runway . Sometimes , the runway is divided into sub-sections and a different section will be evaluated every month or every other month , so that each section is inspected twice a year . Checking for foreign objects on the runway . On all the airports I visited , this is done by the airport firetruck several times a day . Every few months , they sweep the runway to prevent grass , dirt , pebbles , ... from accumulating . Repairing cracks and resealing joints on the runway . This is to prevent water infiltrations that have long-term catastrophic consequences . A visual inspection of the runway is performed daily to look for cracks . Cutting the grass around the runway and on the airfield . The grass has to be kept 2 to 4 inches high around the runway . This reduces the amount of debris that can be blown onto the runway . This also reduces the number of birds and other animals living close to the runway ( because nobody wants birds to be ingested by an engine , or a squirrel to be run over ) . Keeping all water evacuation paths clear . No water can be left to build up on the runway , since this would increase stopping distance for aircraft , and may freeze . There also are seasonal operations , such as de-icing the runway or removing snow .
end question
start question
Are walkalong gliders based on the principles of ground effect ?
No the paddle acts as an inverted wing and pushes air up , this in turn will push the glider up . Even with ground effect a non-powered glider can not maintain height and speed .
As you 've mentioned , your tolerance will build up over time so a simple , partial answer is to be patient and fly in small doses . Two 20 minute flights with a break between is much much better than a single hour long flight . You 'll learn more , stay focused , and acclimate faster . Try not to move your head much during maneuvers . For a loop , I typically look at my left wing tip until I 'm about 3/8 's through the loop , then I transition to looking " up " to catch the horizon as I approach the top of the loop . Any more movement than that might be a problem . Bill Thomas 's classic book <URL> describes where to look for many of the basic maneuvers .
The multiple methods of braking help to stop an aircraft faster , both through providing different means of braking and complementing each other . The wheel brakes are the primary method of braking on the aircraft . They work at any speed and can provide good braking force depending on the amount of friction between the tires and ground . Brakes convert the aircraft 's kinetic energy into heat , and have a limited ability to dissipate that heat . Aircraft may be delayed from taking off to allow brakes to cool down after a rejected takeoff or a short turnaround . Brakes wear down over time and must be replaced . Aircraft that are light and slow may be fine with only wheel brakes , as the other methods are less effective in this case and would add complexity and weight . Speed brakes or spoilers usually extend from the top surface of the wing . This both increases drag and reduces the lift produced by the wings , and are most effective at higher speeds . Reduced lift means more weight on the wheels , increasing their friction and the effectiveness of brakes . Airliners will typically extend the spoilers immediately after touchdown to increase braking and control effectiveness as they slow down . Aircraft are required to be able to demonstrate a rejected takeoff and stop using only brakes and spoilers on a dry runway . Techniques such as keeping the nose high as long as possible or just holding up elevator can also add aerodynamic braking . Reverse thrust redirects some of the engine 's thrust forward . This provides a braking force and for engines under the wing also helps interrupt airflow over the wing , reducing lift . Jet engines redirect core and/or fan air forward , propellers may change pitch to push the air forward . This can be particularly important on contaminated runways were low friction limits the effectiveness of the brakes . Reverse thrust is generally only used at higher speeds to reduce the risk the debris or exhaust being ingested . These are the primary methods available on airliners . Brakes are the most versatile but require friction and must be replaced . Speed brakes and reverse thrust use aerodynamic forces at higher speeds to help slow down , and increase effectiveness of brakes . Speed brakes are basically " free " , reverse thrust is relatively cheap and effective . Reducing the load placed on wheel brakes reduces temperature and wear ; steel brakes deteriorate much more at higher temperatures . Having multiple methods provides some redundancy as well , but when runway friction is poor it 's important that they are all used effectively to stop the aircraft . Drag chutes are another option to slow down . Upon landing , the parachute is released and uses drag to slow an aircraft down . The parachute provides large amounts of drag but must be collected and re-packed after every landing . This is useful for aircraft with high landing speeds where cost is less of an issue , such as fighter jets or the space shuttle . Tail hooks grab cables on the ground , and the cable provides the braking force to the aircraft . This can stop the aircraft quickly but requires an aircraft designed with a hook that can withstand the braking forces . Hooks are useful on aircraft carriers where space is at a premium , but this requires pilot skill to touch down in the right place for the hook to catch the cable . Hooks can also be used on regular runways for emergencies , where the extended hook will catch the cable as the aircraft rolls past .
Latest FCOM , after revision 24 of section 3.01.21 , contain the explanation : AIR CONDITIONING WITH LP GROUND UNIT Do not use conditioned air simultaneously from packs and LP ground unit ( to avoid chattering of the non return valves ) . The non-return valves prevent air in the mixer unit to return into any source in the case this source delivers air at a lower pressure , or does n't deliver air . Valves are the one-way separation between the air generation section and the air distribution section : <URL> <URL> If the LP ground connection is used while the packs are ON , pressure will be comparable on both sides of the valves . Valves can start chattering instead of being stable in the open position . While pressures compete , air from the mixer unit can return to the packs . Damage can occur , as described in this <URL> ( air conditioning duct and non-return valve damaged ) .
An EFB could not be used for this purpose , all your suggestion would do is replicate things that are already done by <URL> ( engine indication and crew alert system ) . The reason for this is that " receiving " , " pre-flight " and " before takeoff " checklists all involve physically moving switches . The EFB would be unable to perform these actions ( e.g. an EFB can not select flaps 9 degrees ) . What an EFB could do , if tied into the aircraft ARINC data bus , is to verify things . Such an EFB could verify that flaps are indicating a set position and could alert us if it were not . However , as mentioned , the EICAS already does this , and if I were to advance a thrust lever beyond taxi power I would get a master warning and a takeoff configuration EICAS message as well as an aural warning " TAKEOFF FLAPS " ( EMB-145 ) . You also mention the bulk of paper carried as a reason for this , but this is not relevant to the checklists . The checklist on many large airplanes is a single sheet of paper , laminated and installed in the airplane . Some airplanes may have a few sheets , but overall checklists account for very little paperwork and they belong to the airplane , not the pilots . Where EFBs do help with paperwork are the approach charts , which account for 75 % of what I carried on any given flight . Three 2 " binders , full of nothing but approach plates . An EFB can condense that down to a tablet , and this is where the value of the EFB is .
Yes , they are official , this is the <URL> approach plate : <URL> I ca n't find a " East Channel Departure " but if you know what airport it belongs to , you can find it in the Terminal Procedures publication , either in paper form or <URL> . They are not VFR procedures , but rather visual IFR procedures . The MALL VISUAL would not be assigned to a VFR flight . Some airports do have special arrival/departure procedures which apply to VFR flights ; these can be found in the Airport/Facilities Directory ( A/FD ) or on a website like <URL> ( for the US anyway ) .
A <URL> is any sensor that detects whether there is something in its proximity ( within specified distance ) . There are many kinds of proximity sensors ( optical , magnetic , capacitive etc. ) that detect different kinds of target objects and to various distances . In this case , proximity sensor is used to detect position of the spoiler . Proximity sensors are preferred over micro-switches because they are more reliable , since they have no moving parts and thus do n't wear out . For parts actuated with hydraulics they are the only way to detect the position , since hydraulic actuators do n't provide any direct way for detecting their position ( compared to electric actuators , where in some cases the response of the actuator can be used to detect the position ; the principle is similar to a magnetic proximity sensor anyway though ) .
Yes , your last sentence gets it about right . Just one detail : Air does not move " forward " to flow out again once it has entered the intake - which air goes where is all settled ahead of the intake . Never forget , though , that this effect is small and spillage leaves a net drag component . When compared to a sharp-lipped intake as used on supersonic planes , subsonic intakes are more forgiving for a mismatch between capture area ( area of the stream tube which goes into the engine ) and the actual intake lip area . Below I tried to fake the flow around an intake lip using Inkscape and added blue and red shading to indicate pressure . The core flow gets compressed ahead of the intake ( blue shade , diverging streamlines ) while the outer flow is pushed to the outside of the intake lip by the increasing pressure and now has to follow the contour of the intake . Like with <URL> , the air is accelerated ( converging flow lines ) and a suction peak forms on the intake lip ( red shading ) . This suction peak sits on the forward-facing part of the intake lip and provides some suction . The sharp intake lip of a surpersonic intake would produce separated flow under the same conditions with a considerable increase in drag . <URL>
Yes it would be possible to build a fighter plane from wood , not one that can fly at Mach 3 however . There are some olden days examples of fighter planes using wood construction , here is another one from 1938 : the Fokker G. 1 . with a wooden wing . These planes do n't look like F16s , but were subject to fully aerobatic g-forces . <URL> <URL> provides an overview of knowledge of aeronautical wood construction . Wood is a light construction material , and one of the largest aircraft ever built , the Spruce Goose , was made entirely of wood . Wood also has asymmetrical strength properties : it is much stronger in line with the grain than perpendicular to it , one of the main advantages cited for composites . We could follow the same construction method as for composites : shave off thin layers of wood and embed them in resin , line up the majority of the grain in the direction of greatest stress , and use some alternate grain directions like in plywood to create sufficient strength and stiffness in all directions . If we consider the properties of aeroplane construction materials : Strength . Wood has a specific strength that is slightly lower than that of aluminium : spruce has a compression strength of 27.5 N/mm $ ^ 2 $ = 27.5 MPa , and a density of 418 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ . Compare this with untempered 7075 aluminium alloy : a tensile strength of 280 MPa and a density of 2,810 kg/m $ ^ 3 $ . Aircraft aluminium alloy is 10.2 times as strong and 6.7 times as heavy as spruce , so its specific strength is 10.2 / 6.7 = 1.52 that of spruce . But half of the wing is compression loaded , and a thicker skin made of a lighter material buckles less easily . So for wings with a high aspect ratio , part of aluminium 's weight advantage is traded in : compressed skin is dimensioned on skin thickness , not on yield strength . Heat resistance/flammability Aircraft aluminium alloys yield strength reduces as a function of temperature , as indicated in the graph below ( <URL> ) . The red line is for 2024 aluminium : at 250 ° C , the tensile strength ( = compression strength ) is halved . <URL> Compare this with the compression strength of spruce : halved at around 150 ° C ( Source : fig 5-14 of <URL> ) . There are two graph regions for different moisture contents , and that brings us to the main disadvantage of wood : the variability of a natural material , next under point 3 . <URL> But of course the main point of attention would be using a jet engine in a wooden frame . Even the G. 1 had an aluminium front engine construction . Consistency and weather resistance From <URL> ... the principal factors tending to restrict the use of wood are a not unlimited supply of the most desirable species ; a hygroscopicity that results in shrinking and swelling and changes in strength ; and a wide difference in properties with different directions of the grain . These disadvantages can be partially undone by using plywood , however this has an additional weight penalty . Wood has not been used for several decades for constructing airliners or fighters , and for a good reason . Fokker successfully built wooden monoplane aircraft in the 1920/1930s , until a high visibility <URL> brought this construction method under scrutiny . Not long after , the <URL> and the <URL> pioneered aluminium smooth skin aeroplane construction , and the industry has never looked back . So yes , a fighter can be built out of wood and would be strong enough . However it would be heavier , prone to weather influences , and cause of major headaches for integrating a jet engine into its flammable construction . It can not fly at Mach 3 : the SR-71 needed to be built out of titanium , not aluminium , due to the heat resistance required . Spruce would not stand a chance and go up in flames . There are no good reasons to not build a fighter jet from metal or nowadays composits .
Paraglider Pilots can induce a stall by holding the brakes at seat or waist height until the wing retards . The wing does not want to do this and will resist but a full stall will eventually be induced this way . Pilots will feel and hear the reduction in forward airspeed . To come out of a stall , the pilot may smoothly move the position of the brakes upwards anticipating a surge where the wing recovers and may dive or surge in front of the pilot . Performing a 360 in light wind conditions , the side of the wing on the inside of the turn may stall . Typically , smoothly and promptly coming out of the turn using the brakes , will cause the wing to recover , failure to recover may result in a flat spin . Flying near full speed with minimum brake also risks a deflation of the wing on the left centre or right sides . This might be exacerbated if the pilots all-up weight is at the upper or lower weight limit of the glider ; typically gliders come in xs s m l xl sizes . Prompt appropriate use of the brakes is pretty much all a paraglider pilot has to recover normal flight in all the scenarios above . If in doubt pilots should follow the instructions in the gliders manual and ensure they have enough recent flying hours in the conditions they wish to fly that they can do so safely , ie not freeze , recognise the symptoms of a stall for their glider , and react appropriately . Like all aircraft it wo n't be possible to recover from a stall below a certain height , so a pilot should have enough skill not put themselves at risk whilst still having fun ! I imagine hang glider pilots will feel and hear the wind , and be aware of the pressure on the control bar . I 'm guessing their priority will also be to get air flowing over the wing by pulling in on the control bar - but I 'm only guessing as I was a PG pilot not an HG pilot .
Almost all the tests done on aircraft wings can easily be categorized in one of the areas you mentioned . The only remaining thing I can think is bending an aircraft 's wing . It is <URL> as : Many modern passenger jets can flex their wings nearly 90 degrees in a test rig . For B787 , <URL> : During the test , the wings on the 787 were flexed upward " approximately 25 feet " which equates to 150 percent of the most extreme forces the airplane is ever expected to encounter during normal operation . The test is used to demonstrate a safety margin for the design and is part of the certification process to show the airplane can withstand extreme forces . <URL> ( also <URL> ) how much force a wing can take before breaking . OP <URL> about tests for lightning effects . Lightning commonly strikes the nose , wingtips , engine cowlings , and tip of the vertical tail . Hence , wings are not the only parts of an airplane which needs to be protected against lightning . To avoid reinventing the wheel , please see the following questions : <URL> <URL>
Most airliners have a protection system for this which is based on Weight-on-Wheels ( WoW ) : sensors which detect load on the wheels ( which implies that the aircraft is in contact with ground ) . For safety reasons this can be bypassed and there 's usually a small lever in connection to the gear lever to do this . This image illustrates the 737 gear lever where you can clearly see a " lock override " which fills this functionality ( red part ) <URL>
The signs on top of the jet bridges are useful in identifying your assigned gate . Without these signs it would be easy to misidentify a neighboring gate if it also had a ground crew ready to accept an airplane . They are also useful for keeping an eye on an occupied gate from a distance while you wait for an aircraft to leave . They are also illuminated which helps locating the right gate at night or in low light . The electronic signs high on the terminal building are helpful to aircrew and ground crews . They often list aircraft info , departure/arrival airports and time to scheduled pushback . The on ground painted lines are useful for initially lining up for a gate and in making the elaborate maneuvers required getting into certain tightly spaced gates . Once you get this close you are being guided by ground crew and have wing walkers watching your clearances . The final painted ground positions for nosewheel position ( by aircraft type ) are only useful to the ground staff guy with the wands -- you ca n't see them yourself when needed .
No . The purpose of air traffic control is to prevent collisions and expidite and maintain an orderly flow of air traffic . An air traffic controller has no say in who gets to fly and who does n't . Refusing a certain flight would be something that needs to be done at a political level , and certainly far away from an operational level . Also remember that , except in special cases , air traffic controllers have no way of knowing who is onboard a certain aircraft . Essentially , all we see is a flight ID and a route . Air traffic controllers are not in contact with passenger lists at any time . Furthermore , air traffic controllers do not have any physical way of preventing flights from taking place . See this slightly related answer : <URL>
I went poking around the FAA <URL> until I found <URL> , which states : Sec . 139.307 Unpaved areas . ( a ) In a manner authorized by the Administrator , each certificate holder [ must ] maintain and promptly repair the surface of each gravel , turf , or other unpaved runway , taxiway , or loading ramp and parking area on the airport that is available for air carrier use as follows : ... ( b ) FAA Advisory Circulars contain methods and procedures for the maintenance and configuration of unpaved areas that are acceptable to the Administrator . So I went looking for those advisory circulars . There are probably more that I have n't found , but <URL> beginning at page 82 seems to have the sort of thing you 're looking for .
The short answer is " If you intentionally pointed the Luxor beam at an aircraft ( flying low enough for it to constitute a hazard ) you would probably be arrested . " -- the real question is What would they charge you with ? , and the FAA regulations are n't where you want to look for that : You need to look in the " United States Code " . <URL> makes it an offense to aim a laser pointer at an aircraft . It goes on to define " laser pointer " as : any device designed or used to amplify electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission that emits a beam designed to be used by the operator as a pointer or highlighter to indicate , mark , or identify a specific position , place , item , or object . The Luxor beam certainly is n't that , so you 're safe there . Instead you will probably be charged under a creative application of <URL> , which says Whoever willfully ... interferes with or disables , with intent to endanger the safety of any person or with a reckless disregard for the safety of human life , anyone engaged in the authorized operation of such aircraft or any air navigation facility aiding in the navigation of any such aircraft ... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than twenty years or both . While this law was originally conceived to deal with in-person threats ( kicking down the cockpit door and clobbering the captain with a frying pan ) it would not take a very creative US Attorney to make the argument that shining a 40 billion candela light at an aircraft 's cockpit would " interfere with or disable " the flight crew , and shows a " reckless disregard for the safety of human life " . Similarly it would not take much creativity to argue that swinging such a beam around in the sky in an area where it may interfere with aircraft operations would also show a " reckless disregard for the safety of human life " , unless you took the time to file an appropriate hazard NOTAM . Note that in my initial statement I said that you would be charged if the aircraft were flying " low enough for it to constitute a hazard " -- as has been pointed out non-coherent light source intensity falls off <URL> , and with sufficient altitude the Luxor beam is just a bright spot on the ground and does n't have anywhere near the effects of <URL> . The Luxor 's beam was in fact <URL> . That section of this report ( and indeed the entire thing ) makes for interesting reading .
According to the <URL> on Wikipedia it is the rolling moment created by the fuselage and vertical surfaces in a sideslip if the center of pressure is vertically offset from the center of gravity . Functions of a keel The keel of a ship ( besides shifting the center of gravity below the <URL> ) provides a stabilizing side force when the ship rolls . The same is achieved by a tail surface , but in aviation this is called <URL> . The much larger wing tends to dominate roll damping , so the effect of the vertical surface is small . The next task of the keel is to balance the side force and rolling moment from the sails in crosswind conditions . It does this by letting the boat build up a sideslip condition until the side force from the keel and hull balances the side force from the sails , and the rolling moment from the side force and from <URL> balances the rolling moment from the sails . The keel effect is this rolling moment due to a sideslip condition . A few aircraft with very small wings and large vertical surfaces do indeed suffer from excessive moments created by side loads on those vertical surfaces . The best known of those is probably the <URL> . The massive tail on the upswept rear fuselage made 10 ° anhedral necessary to get the sideslip-induced rolling moment right . Pendulum effect The Wikipedia page also mentions the pendulum effect and calls both the fuselage contribution to the dihedral effect . Man , if there is ever a competition for the most misleading name of an effect , this would be the winning entry . A <URL> is a mass mounted below the <URL> or the <URL> , so it will stabilize in the down position . It seems the adherents of the pendulum effect belief believe that the plane is somehow hinged at the center of the wing . This is so wrong ! A flying aircraft is not hinged , so all motion is around the center of gravity . This is different with airships : As @JanHudec points out in the comments , the buoyancy of the lifting gas always works against gravity whereas the lift of a wing acts perpendicular to its span and the airspeed . This does produce a moment when the airship rolls , and the heavy gondola is pulled down by the same effect which pulls down a pendulum . Also , due to an airship 's low density ( by definition very close to the density of the air it displaces ) the aerodynamic side forces on an airship are much larger compared to the inertial forces . This lets the airship effectively pivot around a point near the center of the envelope . Note that airships have no means of roll control - it is just gravity which ensures that the gondola stays on the lower side of the hull . Now you can argue that the same is true for aircraft , only with much smaller aerodynamic forces . Yes , but those side forces are vanishingly small in comparison to the wing 's aerodynamic forces which , again by definition , are close to the weight of the aircraft . A small change there will completely dominate the picture , and the small loads on the fuselage are just a rounding error . By moving the control surfaces , the pilot can shift the lift vector around almost as he/she likes , and the forces on the fuselage are insignificant . Note that <URL> , a situation when the side force on the fuselage really is close to the aircraft 's weight , needs lots of fuselage area and a powerful engine . Fuselage loads in normal flight are a fraction of those in knife edge flight .
If you feel that you would need carb heat sitting on the ground , I 'd recommend taxing back and waiting for conditions to improve . If you are set on going , usually doing a run-up at the runway before take-off will tell you if you have carb ice or not . The other answer gave good reasons , sucking in some FOD ( foreign object debris ) , but there are some other things you would want to consider ... Forgetting to push the carb heat back in before takeoff - Especially important when taking off from short fields , you want all the power your engine has to offer , as carb heat robs your engine of some power . If you have carb ice , applying carb heat will cause your engine to make even less power ( hot air is less dense than cold air ) . 3/4 of the way down a 1200 foot runway is a bad time to realize the carb heat is still on , because it probably is n't on your takeoff checklist . Carb heat is not very effective on a cold engine - This is a real problem when you are at idle or especially gliding , the airflow over the engine components and the exhaust just does n't create enough heat to melt the ice in the carb ( at least not very quickly ) . This is why you may be instructed to " clear " the engine periodically during low power operations . This involves adding power and then carb heat to help melt any ice . That all being said , its not so much a rule as a recommendation . You 'll probably find that during your flight training you 'll end up leaving the carb heat on while on the ground for short periods . This happens a lot during landing operations when you are instructed to have carb heat on ( my instructor taught me mid-field downwind , " Seat Belts , Gear , Fuel Selector , Carb Heat , Mixture , Prop , Power " ) . You 'll end up leaving it on until you 've cleared the runway ( or set up for a touch-and-go ) and are running your " after landing " checklists .
Ultralights are regulated under <URL> and there are very few regulations of any kind that apply to them . The only specific lighting requirement is in <URL> : § 103.11 Daylight operations . ( a ) No person may operate an ultralight vehicle except between the hours of sunrise and sunset . ( b ) Notwithstanding paragraph ( a ) of this section , ultralight vehicles may be operated during the twilight periods 30 minutes before official sunrise and 30 minutes after official sunset or , in Alaska , during the period of civil twilight as defined in the Air Almanac , if : ( 1 ) The vehicle is equipped with an operating anticollision light visible for at least 3 statute miles ; and ( 2 ) All operations are conducted in uncontrolled airspace . <URL> and <URL> have some information about what an anticollision light actually is ( a beacon and/or strobe ) , but since ultralights are so lightly regulated I 'd be surprised if anyone cares much about the exact form of lighting . However , you could check with your local EAA chapter or ultralight club to see what people typically use .
It adjusts the FMGC temperature model to account for non-standard temperature . This will have the effect of improving performance predictions by having a more accurate temperature model . The FMGC uses a temperature model based on the International Standard Atmosphere ( ISA ) . The ISA is based on a sea-level temperature of 15 deg C . In the model , temperature decreases with altitude at a rate of 1.98 deg C/1000 feet up to the tropopause . Above the Tropopause , the temperature is a constant -56.5 deg C. Updating the tropopause as well as entering the cruise altitude/temperature will adjust the temperature model closer to actual and thus improve predictions . Not entering either value will result in predictions using the ISA model which will reduce the accuracy of predictions ( except in the off chance the actual weather matches the ISA . )
end question
start question
Do airliners adjust altitude for latitude ?
<URL> ( aviationweather.gov ) Significant weather chart . Note the numbers in boxes . They decrease as the latitude increases : 450 → 400 → 350 → 250 . Note : those values change day to day and season to season , they 're not fixed . Those are the <URL> . 450 is FL450 , i.e. , 45,000 feet at a <URL> . This figure is very important in flight planning . Jets typically fly around this figure for optimal aircraft/engine performance . So yes , you 're right , the farther you fly from the equator , the lower you should fly . However , the following two statements are incorrect : I 'd expect that the air pressure at the top of the troposphere [ be the same regardless of latitude . ] The pressure gradient is still the same . See : <URL> As the altitude of an airliner increases , the angle of attack [ also increases . ] As the altitude increases , so does the speed , to counter the thinner air . Until you end up in a <URL> . Also , for high latitude polar flights , an airline can do away with the optimal performance , because the rise in temperature helps keep the fuel from freezing , however I may stand corrected on that .
The masks are connected to a <URL> by a lanyard . Pulling the mask pulls the lanyard , which pulls a pin from the generator and starts the reaction . They typically last betweeen about 10 and 20 minutes , more than enough time to get down to 10,000 feet where additional oxygen is not required . There is no need for a % of flight time since the crew will descend to a safe altitude then divert to the nearest suitable field . Therefore , the only requirement is to last during the ( emergency ) descent . You can not " repressurise " since the cabin altitude will be the same as the external altitude . The only thing to do is to increase the partial pressure of oxygen by descending . It 's worth mentioning that the flight crew each have their own , isolated supply from a bottle which lasts significantly longer . This is so that they can continue to fly if there are fumes in the cockpit . Cabin crew often have their own , smaller , portable bottles so that they can freely move about the cabin to assist the " self loading freight " . Many 's a morning when I would arrive to work feeling , ahem , a little " under the weather " and nip into the cockpit for a couple of minutes on 100 % oxygen . Works wonders - and do n't worry , they are topped up to full as part of the pre-flight service .
The factor affecting TSFC is speed , not altitude . Altitude is indirectly responsible because the lower density requires a higher flight speed . Low-bypass engines have a higher exit speed , so the change in speed affects their efficiency less . High-bypass engines double their TSFC between static and Mach 0.8 and only the lower temperature at altitude <URL> a bit . If you look at the formula for thermal efficiency in <URL> , you see that efficiency drops more over speed for high-bypass engines . Only the much better propulsive efficiency of high-bypass engines makes them overall better for airliners .
Pressure Altitude As defined by FAA in the <URL> : Pressure altitude is the height above a standard datum plane ( SDP ) , which is a theoretical level where the weight of the atmosphere is 29.92 " Hg ( 1,013.2 mb ) as measured by a barometer . An altimeter is essentially a sensitive barometer calibrated to indicate altitude in the standard atmosphere . If the altimeter is set for 29.92 " Hg SDP , the altitude indicated is the pressure altitude . As atmospheric pressure changes , the SDP may be below , at , or above sea level . Pressure altitude is important as a basis for determining airplane performance , as well as for assigning flight levels to airplanes operating at or above 18,000 feet . The pressure altitude can be determined by either of two methods : 1 . Setting the barometric scale of the altimeter to 29.92 and reading the indicated altitude . 2 . Applying a correction factor to the indicated altitude according to the reported altimeter setting . <URL> From <URL> § 91.217 Data correspondence between automatically reported pressure altitude data and the pilot 's altitude reference . ( a ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder -- ( 1 ) When deactivation of that equipment is directed by ATC ; ( 2 ) Unless , as installed , that equipment was tested and calibrated to transmit altitude data corresponding within 125 feet ( on a 95 percent probability basis ) of the indicated or calibrated datum of the altimeter normally used to maintain flight altitude , with that altimeter referenced to 29.92 inches of mercury for altitudes from sea level to the maximum operating altitude of the aircraft ; or ( 3 ) Unless the altimeters and digitizers in that equipment meet the standards of TSO-C10b and TSO-C88 , respectively . ( b ) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder or with ADS-B Out equipment unless the pressure altitude reported for ADS-B Out and Mode C/S is derived from the same source for aircraft equipped with both a transponder and ADS-B Out . ICAO has described how they calculate Pressure Altitude <URL> <URL> When the ISA mean sea level standard pressure of 1013.2 hPa is set on an aircraft altimeter subscale , the height so indicated upon landing at an airfield is known as the QNE reading . More widely , this is also the PRESSURE ALTITUDE , which is alternatively defined as the height of any level in the international standard atmosphere ( ISA-see above ) , above the level corresponding to a pressure of 1013.2 hPa . <URL> to calculate standard atmospheric conditions ( ISA ) at a given geometric or pressure altitude and ambient temperature .
The optimum altitude depends on your aircraft , the engines and the weather . But most important is to decide what you are trying to achieve . If you would like to optimize your fuel consumption per distance travelled , the altitude you will fly at will be higher than if you try to optimize your fuel consumption per time unit . Fuel per distance travelled is usually better at altitude , while fuel flow per time unit is lower at lower altitudes . In other words , if you want to go far , fly high . If you want to keep flying long , fly low . Winds play an important role as well . If you have a strong headwind high up , you might go further staying low . There is quite some difference between reciprocating engines and jet / turbine engines here . The former perform better at lower altitudes , while the latter do just fine until much higher .
Qualifier : I am a master parachute rigger and taught sport skydiving for 10 years . Standard jump altitude is 12,000 feet AGL - this is one turn of the standard parachutist 's altimeter . This height provides 1 minute of freefall , is within reach of a Cessna with a decent engine and does not require supplementary oxygen . For most places , this means an operating altitude between 12,000 and 15,000 feet MSL . Dropzones in high areas like Denver will reduce their jump altitude to 9,500 feet AGL mainly because the piston-powered planes take too long to climb higher and/or the upper part of the climb runs into the oxygen zone .
It could have been as you witnessed . In 2005 , a modification package dubbed <URL> was offered for the 737-200 and the 737 Classic ( -3 / 4/500 ) that would droop the flaps by 4 ° for all phases of flight . [ It ] decreases drag for cruise , and increases the aerodynamic efficiency of the wing by between 2 % and 3 % . The <URL> that many 727 pilots were doing the same thing in cruise -- but manually and unapproved . They would pull a CB to keep the slats on the leading edge of the wing retracted , while the flaps extended to the their first stop . Investigators believed that 727 pilots ( in general , and this flight specifically ) were setting the trailing edge flaps to two degrees during high altitude cruise , while at the same time pulling the circuit breaker for the slats so that they would not activate . This configuration was rumored to result in increased lift with no increase in drag , thus allowing more speed , higher elevation , or decreased fuel consumption . Flaps and Slats were intended to only be deployed at low speeds during take-off or landing . To answer the title question , yes . Flap position indicators exist , and combined with the electronic speed tape , the maximum speed indicated will be slower . If the flaps were to be extended at above design speed , an overspeed warning will be triggered as well .
Crews do n't listen to channel 16 of the marine band . Channel 16 is used by marine with FM , while a VHF aviation receiver demodulates only AM , and the upper limit of the VHF band for aviation is 137 MHz . Channel 16 is monitored by local marine agencies -- coast guards -- e.g. . <URL> in France and <URL> in the US . Emergency frequencies , including 121.5 MHz are also used in marine , e.g. by <URL> . The use of 121.5 MHz for marine EPIRBs was to allow monitoring by aircraft , which is not relevant any more as EPIRBs are now efficiently monitored by satellite ( <URL> ) . However 121.5 MHz is still monitored ( " guarded " ) by aircraft . The requirement is specified in <URL> to the Chicago Convention : 5.2.2.1.1.1 Aircraft on long over-water flights , or on flights over designated areas over which the carriage of an emergency locator transmitter ( ELT ) is required , shall continuously guard the VHF emergency frequency 121.5 MHz , except for those periods when aircraft are carrying out communications on other VHF channels or when airborne equipment limitations or cockpit duties do not permit simultaneous guarding of two channels . 5.2.2.1.1.2 Aircraft shall continuously guard the VHF emergency frequency 121.5 MHz in areas or over routes where the possibility of interception of aircraft or other hazardous situations exist , and a requirement has been established by the appropriate authority . 5.2.2.1.3 Aeronautical stations shall maintain a continuous listening watch on VHF emergency channel 121.5 MHz during the hours of service of the units at which it is installed . ICAO standard practices ( " SARPs " ) for international aviation activity are recommendations , but they are generally implemented in the national regulations by the member states . Notes : Aircraft are required to carry an equipment able to receive and transmit on emergency frequencies . 121.5 MHz is being replaced by 406 MHz , as this is the frequency of the <URL> organization .
Airports underneath controlled airspace may need to keep their traffic clear of controlled airspace , which may start from a typical altitude such as 1000Ft . As is also mentioned in <URL> , in April 2013 the standard pattern height was changed from 800 ft to 1000ft , possibly accounting for a number of airports still having the old " standard " .
From ARINC 429 , Attachment 6 : Label 025 , Selected Altitude ( BCD ) Five binary coded decimals . Range is up to 50000 . Resolution is 1 foot . Bit 29 ( MSC ) ------------------------------ Bit 11 ( LSC ) 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 | 8 4 2 1 1 0 0 | 0 0 0 1 | 0 0 0 0 | 0 0 0 0 | 0 0 0 0 The above line codes to 41000 ft. Note : Negative sign is annunciated in the sign/status matrix . Label 102 , Selected Altitude ( BNR ) 16 bits of data . Range of 65536 . Resolution ( value of LSB ) is 1 foot . Bit 28 ( MSB ) ------------------- Bit 13 ( LSB ) ( Bits 12-11 are set to 0 ) 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 The above line codes to 41000 ft. Note : Negative values are encoded as the two 's complements of positive values and the negative sign is annunciated in the sign/status matrix .
The minimum altitude for autopilot engagement is generally the acceleration height or around 400 ' AGL though this can vary between operators . The question of when the autopilot is actually engaged is a more complicated question and is subject to pilot preference . Personally , I generally hand flew until the first level off or until climbing and accelerating through 10,000 MSL . Others may turn it on as soon as allowed and most fall somewhere in the spectrum between the two .
<URL> ( <URL> ) The basics Height : absolute height above ground , measured using a radar altimeter ( like the helicopter on the right ) QFE : the barometric setting an airport broadcasts that makes an altimeter on ground read zero . This gives height only around the airport if the area is relatively flat . Also known as Above Field Elevation QNH : the barometric setting an airport broadcasts that makes an altimeter on ground read the airport 's elevation ( height above mean sea level ) Aircraft using the same QNH below the transition level * in the same area are all flying the same indicated altitudes Aircraft using QNH 1013 mb ( 29.92 inHg ) are all flying the same pressure altitudes . Above the transition altitude * they 're called flight levels * The <URL> vary from place to place . For flying below 18,000 feet in the US , you can ignore flight levels for now . QNH is good for separation since everyone is using the same measurement system . Even if the temperature 's rate of change with altitude ( lapse rate ) is different from the standard . Lapse rate <URL> ( <URL> ) On the left is a hotter than usual lapse rate , i.e. , it gets colder less slowly . Still , all aircraft using the same pressure setting will still be flying the same indicated altitudes / flight levels . Pressure altitude ( what the altimeter reads when set to 1013/29 .92 ) adjusted for lapse rate deviation is density altitude . It 's used for performance calculations . The answer You said , " [ The ] atmosphere actually expands and becomes taller under hot conditions " . Yes , but not for that reason . A hotter than standard day means the air molecules are more jumpy , i.e. , they are producing more pressure . That 's why 1,000 feet on the left is higher . Think of it this way , air is hot , it 's still keeping pressure a bit higher ( height ) . Remember , a basic altimeter senses only pressure from the static port , it does n't know the temperature . Since the pressure is the same for the same altitudes , and the variable is the temperature , it will be lower air density on the left due to the higher temperature ( angry molecules do n't like to cozy up ) . That 's why engine output and lift are impacted . For cold weather , usually at or below 0 ° C ( 32 ° F ) , this deviation can become dangerous in mountainous areas . There are special rules and equipment for that , which are listed on the appropriate charts for airports that usually face such conditions . Further reading : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Very very uncommon . Goose Bay , Canada , is a diversion airport for US-Europe flights . If you search <URL> for " goose " , you will find about 2 to 3 flights divert there each year . 3 flights diverted in 2017 : Delta A330 Oct 20 , engine problem SAS A340 April 16 , low cabin pressure Air France A380 Sep 30 , engine structural failure 2 flights diverted in 2016 : Virgin B787 Nov 22 , engine oil leak United B767 Sep 15 , generator/APU failure 3 flights diverted in 2015 : American B757 Sep 30 , electrical problem Delta B767 July 31 , generator failure United B767 June 12 , flight controls 2 flights diverted in 2014 : Delta B767 Aug 9 , engine problem Delta B767 May 1 , engine shut down In all these incidents except for 2 , the report in Aviation Herald states a replacement aircraft was required . Sometimes the delay was 6 hours , sometimes the next day . In the 2 other incidents , it 's unclear if a replacement aircraft was required or not , but in both cases maintenance was required , so at least a delay occurred . This compares with a bird strike , or fumes/smoke in the cabin , almost daily somewhere . It 's much rare than even lightning strikes , of which 25 were reported in 2017 .
As has been stated , ATC will assign you an altitude , taking into account your requested altitude , traffic conditions , and of course the FAR . <URL> will apply from a design standpoint . The aircraft designer will use something like that to calculate typical values , which will be included in the aircraft 's operating handbook . The table below is listed by pressure altitude and gross weight . At each combination there will be performance values such as : Average N1 ( for a turbine ) Max TAT for thrust rating IAS Knots Mach number ISA fuel flow LB/HR/ENG ISA TAS Knots The flight distance will determine the approximate gross weight , which corresponds to an altitude and cruise speed that provide the best efficiency . Here is an example from a virtual 737 handbook , with the values I listed . The optimum performance is in blue . Higher gross weights have been removed for clarity . Airlines may have their own performance tables , choosing a custom balance of efficiency and speed . Dispatchers for the airline will take the flight information and decide on a cruising altitude for filing the flight plan , which the pilot will then receive . As you can see , as the aircraft burns fuel and gets lighter , it will be more efficient at higher altitudes . This is the step climb that Peter mentioned , where the aircraft will climb to higher altitudes as the flight progresses when they are cleared by ATC . Modern planning systems can take into account weather factors such as winds aloft and turbulence to pick the most efficient route .
There are a few possibilities , there 's no way to know which is correct without more information : There could have been an emergency on board . If someone is showing signs of a serious illness pilots will get the plane on the ground in a hurry to get the person medical attention as soon as they can . Or there could have been an issue with the airplane or a passenger , like someone very drunk and unruly in first class , say As @falstro said it could have been a slam-dunk approach , where a controller directs airplanes to do steeper descents to solve sequencing issues . Pilots know if they say " unable " that they probably wo n't get another approach for awhile , so they 'll accept a steep descent to get on the ground sooner It could have been a request of the pilots for a non-emergency reason , like them trying to make up scheduling time , or to stay within fuel limits
The altitude appears to be above ground level . From <URL> : Section 4 . Fuel Dumping 9 − 4 − 3 . ALTITUDE ASSIGNMENT If an aircraft is dumping fuel in IFR conditions , assign an altitude at least 2,000 feet above the highest obstacle within 5 miles of the route or pattern being flown . The wording says ' above the highest obstacle ' , indicating AGL . The <URL> is much more explicit : 13.3 Controllers are to recommend to flight crew that jettisoning of fuel should be carried out above 10,000 feet agl . Exceptionally , if fuel dumping at this level , or over water , is operationally impracticable or inconsistent with safety , fuel may be jettisoned above 7000 feet agl in winter and above 4000 feet agl in summer . This indicates that the altitude requirement of dumping fuel is from the from the first consideration i.e. it takes x feet for the fuel to fall before it evaporates . <URL> go into this at a little bit of detail . Generally , air masses are only moved vertically very slowly , usually at a settling rate of approximately 60 centimetres per second . In addition the upper limit of the planetary boundary layer ( PBL ) at the altitude of approximately 3000 ft over ground renders the air flow from the upper to the lower layers more difficult . Therefore the chance that even a small quantity of fuel reaches the ground is estimated to be unlikely . Again , it says ' above ground ' indicating AGL .
In areas where the ATC provides the altitude in meter ( China ( PRC ) , North Korea , and Russia ) , depending on the equipment ( altimeter ) , the pilot can determine what to do : In case of older aircraft , where the altimeter is calibrated in feet , the pilots use a conversion card for determining the altitude in feet , before dialing in the altitude to the autopilot . <URL> Source : aerosavvy.com Note : The conversion charts are standardized for the airspace and the pilots have to use it . For Chinese airspace refer <URL> In case of modern aircraft displays , the altimeter can be made to display altitude in imperial ( feet ) or metric ( meter ) units .
Older airliners use hydraulics and cables attached to the pilot controls . Some RATs power the hydraulics directly as well so limited control is still possible then . The pilots would get a workout but the plane would safely touch down . However planes with entirely fly-by-wire systems ( no current airliner is completely fly-by-wire ) will be completely uncontrollable apart from shifting weight and would glide to the ground . They are made stable so they wo n't just enter a spin and pancake into the ground .
Other than extra braking and reverse thrust , is there a specific short-field landing technique for large jet airliners ? Never heard of any . The required landing distance is calculated so that the plane can reliably stop ( even if reversers fail ) and landing at shorter runway is not allowed . so the 747s try to land right on the numbers , rather than the usual technique of touching down within the first third of the runway . The usual technique is to aim for 1,000 ft down the runway and touch down with some flare somewhere around 1,500 . In discussions about the famous landings at St Maarten , it is sometimes said that part of the reason for the low passes is due to the relatively short runway , so the 747s try to land right on the numbers Actually the <URL> runway 10 has PAPI and TDZ marking a little beyond the usual 1,000 ft mark at around 1,250 ft. <URL> the threshold is displaced 162 ft ( but it also says runway 9 , so it is likely out of date ) , but according to the satellite images it is a bit over 300 ft plus some runway end safety area , placing the threshold around 500 ft past the fence and the touch-down zone around 1,750 ft past the fence . Now the normal glide-slope is around 5 % . That means the aircraft is supposed to cross the fence at around 90 ft , on average . That seems about right . Of course you ca n't expect every aircraft to be positioned precisely within a few feet , so now and then some crosses it at maybe 50 ft. That is not intention , but simply a deviation . But of course the photos of planes flying especially low are more likely to be picked for publishing . Also , a short field landing normally calls for steep approach which make precise aim for landing spot easier . That would actually place the aircraft higher over the beach . But the glide-slope at TNCM is normal 3 ° ( 5 % ) one , so it is not a steep approach . Such a procedure is fine in a Cessna , but in a large passenger jet ? I have my doubts . In large jet it is n't . Air transport has stricter regulations than general aviation because more is at stake and larger aircraft have stricter limits because the higher energies involved mean errors are harder to fix and have more serious consequences .
There 's a thread on <URL> about the same topic . One of the most prominent and useful aspects of the delta wing is the fact that it increases an airplane 's critical Mach number ( the speed at which some air passing over any part of an aircraft - usually the wing - reaches Mach 1.0 ) . By increasing the critical Mach number , it makes supersonic flight much more feasible on delta wings than on conventional wings . Delta wings are particularly happy even at a high AoA ( angle of attack ) . This is because of the reaction lift generated by the wing , and the vortex created at the leading edge of the wing . Hence , airplanes with delta wings have a much higher tolerance to stalling . This makes it easier to attain higher vertical speed , also known as " rate of climb " safely . But on the flip side : One of the downsides of deltas is that they create more drag , because of the bigger surface area , but they do have a bigger internal volume ( for fuel , for example ) which could lead to a smaller fuselage , or more space in the fuselage for other things . Another disadvantage is higher landing and take off speeds . The last point is particularly important . The Concorde 's already small number of usable airports was reduced because the runways needed to be long enough to accommodate for the 160 KIAS landing speeds ( for comparison , typical turbofan-based airliners lands at 130-140 KIAS ) . As a result of the higher takeoff/landing speeds , the cost of maintenance of vital components such as the brakes and tyres is higher . Moreover , the high landing speeds can even lead to greater stress on the airframe . So , indirectly delta wings do contribute to a higher cost of maintenance . Other disadvantages of delta wings I can think of is the lack of a flaps/slats system . Delta wings do n't require flaps as they can simply reduce their airspeed by increasing the AoA , but the lack of flaps reduces their subsonic efficiency , and increases the takeoff distance and takeoff velocity . For instance , the Concorde 's delta wings produced very little lift during takeoff prior to rotation , necessitating high takeoff speeds of nearly 220 knots ! As an answer to your second question , I could not find anything about regulations relating to the use of delta wings on airliners . All in all , delta wings work well for niche purposes such as supersonic aircraft , but their disadvantages and poor operating economics make them impractical for subsonic flight . However , as you can see here , the now-scrapped Boeing Sonic Cruiser attempted to make the best of both worlds by combining a conventional wing with a delta wing , to form a wide , " cranked-delta " wing design .
end question
start question
Is there any use for variable shape wings within aviation ?
Well , yes . Variable shape wings ( or variable geometry ) have a number of uses , primarily in being able to optimize the shape of the wing to an ideal form for the regime of flight . The idea is n't new ; birds , bats and other flying creatures twist and warp the shape of their wings in order to maneuver and generate thrust as these pigeons demonstrate . <URL> The Wright Brothers used a warping wing box on their gliders and the 1903 flyer . Orville Wright is said to have come up with the idea while twisting a rectangular cardboard box used to ship bicycle tire inner tubes . The chief advantages to such a design are that it provides an extremely clean airframe , aerodynamic wise , without joints , separate control surfaces , moving parts , etc which create excess drag . In addition , the aircraft shape can automatically be optimized to the altitudes , speeds and Mach numbers desired without tradeoffs for weight or performance required with aircraft made from conventional materials . The downside to warping wings is solving the problem of finding materials which could be flexible and change their shape and then remain rigid and immutable under aerodynamic loads . Wood and metal airframes lacked the capability to do this successfully . Early attempts to solve this problem have been to make ' swing wing ' designs where the wing can be rotated at the wing root to an optimal sweep in flight . The Bell X-5 successfully demonstrated this concept and it has been used on a number of military aircraft including the F-111 , F-14 , MiG-23 / 27 , B-1 , and SU-22 . NASA is currently developing a morphing wing for these reasons . If successful and shown to be feasible from a manufacturing and service standpoint , it would be a game changer . <URL>
Yes . Ignoring companies that used to exist but are now bankrupt/merged into Airbus or Boeing , you have companies from countries that are n't historically too friendly with the US and Western Europe . For instance , Tupolev makes the <URL> , which is currently in production and seats over 175 passengers . The Ilyushin-designed <URL> is a widebody in current use some places ( Russia , Cuba ) . Before the Cold War ended , Russia had more indigenous airliners ; Aeroflot now largely uses Boeings and Airbuses , but there are still Russian aircraft that see use . In addition , you have newer manufacturers starting to enter the market : Bombardier with their <URL> , Comac ( in China ) with their <URL> ( in development ) , and Irkut with their <URL> ( in development ) . Embraer makes <URL> ( although they 're shorter-range , and you might consider them regional jets ) .
No . It has nothing to do with the configuration , but the structure , the engine and the fuel system of your aircraft . The SportCruiser is certified in the <URL> ( LSA ) category and is meant for flying right-side-up . For aerobatics , you need a fuel system than can still feed the engine when the <URL> , an engine which can still lubricate all moving parts when it is experiencing a negative load factor , and a structure which can tolerate higher load factors than what you can expect from cruising along at 115 kts max in fair weather . The wing location has no impact on aerobatic fitness . You might even argue that the unrestricted view up in a low wing aircraft helps to see better what is ahead in steep turns .
Tip jet rotors are still being developed , none of them are ramjet powered as far as I know . The <URL> is tip rocket powered , while the <URL> uses air jets powered by a conventional engine . Ramjet technology has not improved , so the cases for using them on rotor tips has not changes . They are still too heavy , thirsty and noisy .
There are quite a few 727 that actually had nose wheel braking , however they utilized it only for maximum braking power . ( Also they were proven to be ineffective and unreliable , so a service bulletin was written to remove the system ) . Saab Gripens use nose wheel brakes to stop as well , the main gear sits farther aft than most planes , so there is quite a bit of weight on the nose gear , which makes it effective for stopping .
Yes , the FAA currently offers a lapel pin at the completion of each phase of the <URL> . This " reward " is not automatically awarded or delivered , the WINGS participant must request it . Upon completion of each of a phase , for example Basic , Advanced , or Master , the FAA Safety Team will include the following notice : If you have not already done so , I encourage you to go to your My WINGS page at FAASafety.gov and claim your Team Member Reward -- a beautiful set of wings for your lapel . The pins are sponsored and distributed by AVEMCO , in <URL> with the FAA . The pins are available in at least three finishes : bronze , silver , and gold , and a special <URL> is apparently available . <URL> Source : own work
For a transport category airplane with 20 more more seats the minimum aisle width is 15 inches from the floor to a height of 25 inches , and 20 inches width above a height of 25 inches . § 25.815 Width of aisle . The passenger aisle width at any point between seats must equal or exceed the values in the following table : 1A narrower width not less than 9 inches may be approved when substantiated by tests found necessary by the Administrator .
According to the <URL> ( the Flight Navigator Cert is rarely issued any more to my understanding but none the less ) . The standard unit of distance for navigation is the nautical mile ( NM ) . The NM can be defined as either 6,076 feet or 1 minute of latitude It goes on to talk about speed Closely related to the concept of distance is speed , which determines the rate of change of position . Speed is usually expressed in miles per hour ( mph ) , this being either SM per hour or NM per hour . If the measure of distance is NM , it is customary to speak of speed in terms of knots . Thus , a speed of 200 knots and a speed of 200 NM per hour are the same thing . It is incorrect to say 200 knots per hour unless referring to acceleration . It seems it comes down to what you measure distance in , then simply report the appropriate speed units . Most pilots will calculate ( and talk in units ) based on the instrumentation in their plane . Some airspeed indicators contain both knots and MPH however its not uncommon for them to contain only a single unit ( generally older GA planes is where I have seen MPH instruments ) . POH 's will generally contain what ever unit the air speed indicators in the original build of the plane contained ( some POHs will contain both units ) . Just to show some examples , <URL> while say a <URL> . For example this indicator contains both units . <URL> ( <URL> ) In the end of the day its most important that the units are not mixed up and or used interchangeably . As for the errors in airspeeds this is one of the reasons that air speed indicators have color queues to indicate things like stall range , flap extend range and smooth air operating range . This way if a pilot does accidentally confuse units there are other things to rely on . ( Side note there are some important speeds that do NOT appear on airspeed indicators that should always be noted ) . - Edit - To answer the comments below . I report distance in NM since thats what foreflight uses on its ruler function as well as its ring function ( at least the way I have it set up ) . Most plotters I have seen are in NM so even if I had a paper map I would be reporting NM as well . Im not sure the FAA has official declared that Knots are the only acceptable unit . MPH airspeed indicators are still considered air worthy so they must at least accept it on that level . There have been pushes to standardize instrumentation after the issues caused by the eastern vs. western attitude indicators but with the advent of glass cockpits most of these things can now be configurable in software and changed by a simple setting . The FAR 's ( such as 91.117 ) report speed in both KTS and MPH and that is the letter of the law from the FAA .
You would need a three-axis autopilot . The nature of an unusual attitude is that it needs corrections around all three axes .
If you follow the AIAA publication number ( AIAA-2014-0567 ) given in the first frame of the linked video , you will find <URL> which explains in detail that the optimisation shown in the video was done on MACH : These tools are components of the framework for multidisciplinary design optimization ( MDO ) of Aircraft Configurations with High fidelity ( MACH ) . MACH can perform the simultaneous optimization of aerodynamic shape and structural sizing variables considering aeroelastic deflections . If you now google for MACH , you will find <URL> which explains in detail how the software works . But this in not what you want , my impression is you need a simple to use software which can be downloaded and run within minutes . My recommendation would be <URL> which incorporates the XFOIL airfoil solver and adds modules for designing and calculating the whole aircraft . YouTube has a variety of <URL> available . Is that what you want ? However , a basic understanding of aerodynamics and the possibilities and limitations of the algorithms used will be very helpful - a good engineer should be able to think both like a scientist and a programmer .
Many aircraft were certified to CAR standards . Those aircraft still have to meet those standard . Even a brand new aircraft off the line today , that is produced based on a type certificate data sheet that has CAR regulations has to meet those regulations .
There is an aircraft with a single engine in the middle of fuselage - the <URL> - and it has the wingspan of a 737 . <URL> Global Hawk and B737 ; image from reddit . For the engine to power an airliner the size of 737 , it would have to be more powerful and huge . This leads to a few issues : It is going to eat up cabin space . In an age where airlines are finding creative ways to squeeze more people into the available space , this is a no-go . The large engine means that there should be sufficient clearance between the engine and the fuselage - else , it would result in more drag and reduced thrust , thereby reducing efficiency . Increasing clearance is quite difficult for fuselage mounted high bypass engine due to weight implications . Passengers in rear seats may not have a pleasant journey due to engine noise . Mounting the engine in rear incurs weight penalty through various ways - you have to strengthen the rear fuselage and at the same time , you lose wing bending relief , requiring strengthening and you have cg issues . Mounting engines above the fuselage is a not maintenance friendly either . Just to note , redundancy and safety are significant issues , especially in a commercial airliner .
The FAA has <URL> to mean that the operator must have a line-of-sight view of the model aircraft at all times , and that FPV does not qualify . Based on the plain language of the statute , the FAA interprets this requirement to mean that : ( 1 ) the aircraft must be visible at all times to the operator ; ( 2 ) that the operator must use his or her own natural vision ( which includes vision corrected by standard eyeglasses or contact lenses ) to observe the aircraft ; and ( 3 ) people other than the operator may not be used in lieu of the operator for maintaining visual line of sight . But also note that this does not apply if : ... the aircraft is operated in accordance with a community-based set of safety guidelines and within the programming of a nationwide community-based organization ; The above is from the linked NPRM released in June 2014 . <URL> has the same requirements . So members of an organization like <URL> are exempt from that rule . The AMA <URL> to be used when flying FPV .
Yes , there has : <URL> The war also saw the only confirmed air-to-air helicopter battles in the history of warfare , with Iraqi Mi-25s flying against Iranian AH-1J SeaCobras on numerous occasions . The first instance of these helicopter " dogfights " occurred on the first day of the war ( 22 September 1980 ) : two Iranian SeaCobras crept up on two Mi-25s and hit them with TOW wire-guided anti-tank missiles . One Mi-25 went down immediately , the other was badly damaged and crashed before reaching base . The Iranians won a similar air battle on 24 April 1981 , destroying two Mi-25s without incurring losses themselves . According to unclassified documents , Iranian pilots achieved a 10-to-1 kill ratio over the Iraqi helicopter pilots during these engagements and even engaged Iraqi fixed-wing aircraft . These would be pretty loosely classified as a " dogfight " since the Iranian AH-1J 's " crept up " on the Mi-25 's . It is doubtful that the Mi 's did any kind of evasive maneuvering or that the AH 's did any kind of aggressive pursuits , but it is air-to-air combat between helicopters . The page from the <URL> gives a little more detailed report : This war also saw the only confirmed air-to-air helicopter battles in history with the Iraqi Mi-25s flying against Iranian AH-1J SeaCobras ( supplied by the United States before the Iranian Revolution ) on several separate occasions . In November 1980 , not long after Iraq 's initial invasion of Iran , two Iranian SeaCobras engaged two Mi-25s with TOW wire-guided antitank missiles . One Mi-25 went down immediately , the other was badly damaged and crashed before reaching base . The Iranians repeated this accomplishment on 24 April 1981 , destroying two Mi-25s without incurring losses to themselves . One Mi-25 was also downed by an IRIAF F-14A . The Iraqis hit back , claiming the destruction of a SeaCobra on 14 September 1983 ( with YaKB machine gun ) , then three SeaCobras on 5 February 1984 and three more on 25 February 1984 ( two with Falanga missiles , one with S-5 rockets ) . After a lull in helicopter losses , each side lost a gunship on 13 February 1986 . Later , a Mi-25 claimed a SeaCobra shot down with YaKB gun on 16 February , and a SeaCobra claimed a Mi-25 shot down with rockets on 18 February . The last engagement between the two types was on 22 May 1986 , when Mi-25s shot down a SeaCobra . The final claim tally was 10 SeaCobras and 6 Mi-25s destroyed . The relatively small numbers and the inevitable disputes over actual kill numbers makes it unclear if one gunship had a real technical superiority over the other . Iraqi Mi-25s also claimed 43 kills against other Iranian helicopters , such as Agusta-Bell UH-1 Hueys . I do n't believe there has been any recorded instance since the Iran-Iraq war , but during that conflict there were multiple instances of helicopter-vs-helicopter battles .
It is still called the ( Airborne ) Fire Control System ; found about it <URL> from a Google search . Well , the acronym for ( Airborne ) Fire Control System is FCS ( As well as Flight Control System ) according to <URL>
In addition to the systems listed by RedGrittyBrick , it is also possible to let the aircraft detect itself , from its sensors , potential crashes . This problem has been studied , and is pretty well documented in a report made by the BEA ( the French equivalent of the NTSB ) after the crash of the flight AF447 . The full report is available in <URL> and in <URL> . I made a summary of their work in this answer . The solution proposed in this report is a triggered transmission of flight data . The aircraft transmits them only if it detects a potentially dangerous situation from its sensors ( this reduces the load on communication systems ) . Two types of triggering criterion are proposed : One base on binary logic One based on Fuzzy logic They both take into account several parameters ( speed , pitch angle , pilot 's inputs ... ) and verify some relations about them . For example , if , something is probably wrong . The criterion have been check against a database of real flight data recovered from crashed aircrafts , in order to assess their performances : The robustness of the triggering criteria was evaluated using the following metrics : False detection rate ( or nuisance trigger rate ) : out of all the normal flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation Nuisance transmission time that the nuisance triggers generate Emergency situation detection rate : out of all the accident/incident flights , how many are considered as containing an emergency situation For flights with a correctly detected emergency situation , what is the warning time between the time of detection and the time of impact with the surface The conclusion of these tests is that accidents were almost always predicted ( binary logic failed in only one case out of 44 , fuzzy logic detected every case ) . On average , the problem was raised about 350s before the actual crash ( the median is around 33s , minimum at 3s and maximum at 10,019 s ) . The second half of the report discusses different system to transmit these triggered alarms to infrastructures on the ground . It is also interesting and well written , but outside the scope of this question .
" Restricted Airspace " is exactly that ; it comes with various restrictions that vary between areas . According to the AIM , " Restricted areas denote the existence of unusual , often invisible , hazards to aircraft such as artillery firing , aerial gunnery , or guided missiles . Penetration of restricted areas without authorization from the using or controlling agency may be extremely hazardous to the aircraft and its occupants . " My old CFI 's example was flying through an active artillery range . The guns are required to stop while aircraft are near . They will find you and have some very strongly-worded advice for you when you land . Like MOAs , these areas can be " hot " at certain times . The difference here would mean that you should n't fly into restricted airspace while it is " hot " while there is no such restriction with MOAs , though you are requested to route around them if possible . Some areas might require additional visibility and/or altitude requirements or restrict based on the type and class of aircraft . " Prohibited Airspace " is not allowed to be entered at any time without prior authorization of the controlling agency or explicit permission during an emergency .
straight out of the Airplane Flying Handbook , pp 9-4 Operating the engine at idle speed for any prolonged period during the glide may result in excessive engine cooling , spark plug fouling , or carburetor ice . To assist in avoiding these issues , the throttle should be periodically advanced to normal cruise power and sustained for a few seconds . This procedure is common during emergency descents or steep spirals to prevent the engine from cooling off too much . If the engine mixture is excessively rich , spark plug fouling can occur . Fouling can be cleaned off the plugs by running the engine at Cruise power settings with a properly leaned mixture in about 10 or so seconds .
In normal operations there are regulations against this sort of thing ( as Dave has said ) . But there have been a few emergencies where the First Office or the Captain have become incapacitated ( due to medical emergencies ) , and the remaining pilot has declined to ask if there is another pilot on board to help fly the plane . Here is an example from 2011 of a <URL> ** , I have heard of others but ca n't find references . So , admittedly , that may be the only actual occurrence . So , to finally answer your questions : Very rarely , in an emergency situation , there can be a single pilot on a commercial airliner . Granted , there were passengers on board , so I 'm not sure it fits your narrow definition of " solo " , but it 's about as close as it 's going to get . For completeness ( though I do n't think it counts ) , there have been a few instances of a single pilot stealing a commercial jetliner . For example <URL> . There were actually two people involved , one was a mechanic , the other had a private pilots license ( hence the pilot was " soloing " ) . The aircraft has not been seen since ... so it 's assumed it ended badly , and , for the record , it 's also assumed the pilot was coerced ( if indeed he was even flying the plane ) . There are a couple more incidents , namely this <URL> , which was stolen by a mechanic , circled for an hour , then crashed . And also this <URL> , which was actually stolen by a Captain form Air Botswana . He circled the airport for a couple of hours demanding to speak to everyone from his girlfriend , to his boss to the President of Botswana . They were actually arranging to have him speak with the president when he crashed his plane into two other Air Botswana ATR-42-320s that were parked on the ground . He was the only one killed . Again , though , I 'm not sure if these fit the criteria you are looking for . But in that last one , at very least , he was the only person on board the aircraft , it was a commercial aircraft and he was in fact a Captain . But to say all this an irregularity would be an extreme understatement ... ** For clarification : The reason I state this is the only example I could find is because it 's the only one where I could find a report where it was specifically stated the remaining pilot had no help . To quote from the report : Once the initial Cabin Crew assistance was complete , the Captain indicated that he did not need assistance in operating the aircraft , although this was suggested in the operator 's procedures for pilot incapacitation . The First Officer took no further part in the operation of the aircraft . No inquiries as to the possible presence on board the aircraft of either medically trained personnel or qualified pilots were made . All other examples I saw either specifically stated that a new co-pilot was found , or they skipped that detail entirely . All of that being said , I somehow doubt this is the only case , it 's just the only one I could explicitly verify .
For the aircrew , at least in the aircraft that I 've flown , there is no defined checklist . You scan and then deal with anything that occurs ( inoperative equipment , pressurization issues , whatever you get ) with whatever checklists apply : if the lightning knocked out a hydraulic pump , run the checklist for the inop pump , etc. . Once you 're on the ground , maintenance has a HUGE checklist to work through , essentially checking every surface of the aircraft for damage and verifying that every piece of equipment still works . The more that the crew can tell them ( i.e. radios &amp; instruments unaffected , no equipment stopped working , pressurization normal , etc ) , the more of it they can sign off from the crew observation . But even then , it 's still pretty lengthy .
end question
start question
How to land a sports plane with tailwind ?
Land normally . Check your POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) first to ensure you have enough runway including the extra needed for a tailwind . The only thing to watch out for is that winds tend to moderate as you get closer to the ground . In a headwind landing , the relative wind will decrease , In a tailwind landing the relative wind will increase , so there will be an increased tendency to float way down the runway . Be on speed for a short field landing technique .
If you want to look for the airplane that flew a certain flight ( U22604/EZY42EA for your case ) , you could go onto <URL> and search for that specific flight to find the list of aircraft which flew with the callsign and if you select any one of the planes , you can find out the flight history of that plane for the past few months . You could also search <URL> for flight history too .
Land normally . Check your POH ( Pilot Operating Handbook ) first to ensure you have enough runway including the extra needed for a tailwind . The only thing to watch out for is that winds tend to moderate as you get closer to the ground . In a headwind landing , the relative wind will decrease , In a tailwind landing the relative wind will increase , so there will be an increased tendency to float way down the runway . Be on speed for a short field landing technique .
Even the largest commercial airliners are able to land without flaps , since flap failures do happen occasionally . See a report <URL> where an A380 landed with no flaps . This was at the Auckland , New Zealand airport , where the runway is 3,635 m ( 11,926 ft ) long . The pilots have checklists to follow in the event of issues with flaps , which include information about what speeds they should fly with what amounts of flaps . They simply land at a higher than normal speed . The brakes can end up getting hotter than normal , so they may have to stop and let them cool or have them inspected by emergency services . The tires are designed to deflate with <URL> before high temperatures would cause them to blow . Aircraft are also tested to make sure they can reject a takeoff at high weights ( higher than normal landing weights ) using no thrust reversers . Here is a video of the 747-8 doing this test .
If your definition of drone is any remote control aircraft freely available to consumers , then the answer is yes , but highly unlikely . <URL> Its very unlikely , but it is possible . First , I 'd like to point out that Radio Controlled Aircraft ( RC Aircraft ) have been available to consumers since at least the late 1950s . Hobbists build RC aircraft all the time , and when I was a kid I built my own RC aircraft that was much bigger than most commercially available " drones " . To focus on drones alone misses a big slice of the pie . RC aircraft are sometimes built as 1/4 scale models of the original aircraft and can weigh 100lbs or more , so imagine a remote control aircraft that is 25 % the size of the real aircraft . So , the potential has always been there for at least the last half a century for a remote control aircraft to have enough mass to potentially cause a serious collision with a real aircraft . Imagine if a couple of 18lbs geese took down the Flight 1549 , what would a 100 + lbs quarter scale RC Aircraft do . Personally , I 've never been too concerned with this because I 've flown both RC aircraft and real aircraft . It would be extremely hard for a drone or RC aircraft pilot to target an aircraft and hit it in its most vulnerable locations such as cockpit or engines . So , yes , its possible , but I would not lose any sleep over it .
According to the FAA 's <URL> ( section 2.4.5 ) it 's because : Light : in light winds the vortices stay around longer ; if the wind is greater than 5 knots then the vortices move out of the way quickly and break up Quartering : crosswinds blow the vortices across the aircraft 's flight path , which means that if you 're landing next then one vortex might still be over the runway . With no crosswind at all , the vortices will dissipate on each side of the runway , out of your way . Tailwind : the vortices are blown in the same direction as the aircraft , which means that the vortices from a landing aircraft will be blown down the runway rather than away from it . Again , that 's an issue for the next aircraft landing . They have a handy diagram to illustrate the vortex paths from an aircraft at 0 , 3 and 6 knots . You can see that a light , 3-knot crosswind causes one vortex to still be in the flightpath after 20 seconds , whereas with 0 or 6 knots of wind the vortex is out of the flightpath completely . You ca n't see tailwind on this diagram , of course , but the principle is the same : it blows the vortex down the runway ( flightpath ) rather than away from it . <URL>
Your second question is really easy to answer : Q : How do aircraft designers make landing gear that can land on a grass field without plowing into the ground and ripping off ? A : <URL> <URL> <URL> A wide , low-pressure tire has a larger contact patch with the ground , spreading the aircraft 's weight over that larger area helps prevent the tire from digging into the ground , and lets the aircraft roll more easily on rough or soft surfaces . Your first question - How much weight can a grass strip support ? is a much tougher one . The bearing strength of an unimproved surface depends on a number of factors ( some big ones : The composition of the runway bed , its drainage , and what kind of surface cover - turf , rocks , etc. - it has ) . If you look at aerial photos of <URL> you 'll notice part of the runway complex includes a dry lake bed : <URL> Some pretty heavy stuff has taken off from and landed on those runways - <URL> . Similarly <URL> , a Boeing 737 , landed on a levee at NASA 's Michoud Assembly Facility ( and was subsequently repaired and took off again , though they used an access road for the takeoff rather than the grass levee ) . Conversely if you tried to land a Cub on a grass strip that 's saturated with water after a rainy month there 's a chance your tires might sink into the mud . <URL> , which includes some discussion of how their bearing strength ( and thus maximum landing weights , tire pressure limits , etc. ) can be calculated , but each unimproved runway will be different , and the values will likely change over time .
According to this <URL> , Table 3 , ASRS reports were analyzed for 16 months between 1978 and 1979 . This included 553 incidents where the recipient was not monitoring , which seems to be the closest category to loss of communications . This equates to a little more than 1 incident a day . Note that this only includes incidents that were reported , and air traffic has increased since then . <URL> contains info from ICAO in in Europe . The focus is on the security issues from unresponsive aircraft . In just the northern region , there were 230 flights over just 6 months in the beginning of 2004 . This number inclues airlines , business jets , and military transports . This frequency is a little higher than the previous report , but is more recent and probably includes less flights . Other reports like <URL> do n't include a time frame for the reports analyzed , but look at other factors involved . For example , pilots with fewer hours and GA pilots are more likely to be involved in such an incident . The average duration of these incidents was 7.6 minutes . <URL> also has some good information about this type of incident , including a list of some of the many possible reasons for lost communications and excerpts from some of the reports .
As glide ratio is the <URL> , the increase in drag due to the addition of floats will reduce it . The <URL> gives the effect of addition of floats in the glide ratio : <URL> DHC-2 Beaver 's Glide ratio ; image from <URL> Note that at their configuration for best glide ratio , there is a drop in about 10 % in glide ratio for the configuration for floats . This will differ for different configurations and operating conditions , but the basic effect of addition of floats will be a reduction in glide ratio .
In a word , it 's called " Turbulence " and in cloud , it is caused by differing air density . Sciencey bit : The sun warms the earth and causes the air to rise . As warm air rises , it cools at the wet adiabatic lapse rate . Inside of a cloud , this rate is much slower than outside of it . Clouds are more dense than dry air , and the water vapour inside a cloud is not spread out evenly . Combined with the thermal turbulence ( the movement of warm air ) and the lower wet adiabatic lapse rate ( rate of cooling ) results in drafts of air through the cloud . The result to the aircraft is pockets of more and less lift on the wings in somewhat unpredictable patterns . You feel this inside the aircraft as bumpiness and occasional feelings of rising or dropping . Sometimes this can be quite pronounced - this is why you will almost certainly be asked to remain seated with seatbelts fastened . Very occasionally , outside of clouds , there can be more unpredicatable turbulence which may come as a surprise to the Pilot . This type of turbulence can cause injuries - usually from falling luggage or persons . This is why , even during cruise , the cabin crew and pilot usually suggest you keep your belt on while seated . In almost no case does any kind of turbulence cause any damage to the aircraft or significantly affect its airworthiness . Another answer here might be interesting reading for you <URL> as might <URL>
My copy of " EW 101 : A First Course in Electronic Warfare " calls it " formation jamming " . <URL> Mind you , an operator of a radar with non-cooperative threat recognition capability will at least suspect something is wrong ( although not from all aspects and ranges ) .
For this we need to reference the <URL> First off this will tell us who is in charge down there ( at least for US bases ) as its not quite an ice frontier free for all , Oversight of the on-ice operations of the civil aircraft is NSF-delegated to the Dept of the Interior/OAS Office of Aviation Services ( OAS ) in accordance with the SLA between OAS/AIL . Joint use of the USAP airspace in Antarctica requires close coordination between the DoD and NSF ( and its delegations ) . It looks like if you want to fly down there you need to file <URL> 2.3.4 . Intercontinental flights between New Zealand and Antarctica will require USAP aircrew to file a DD Form 1801 ( International Flight Plan ) in Christchurch Base Operations to Christchurch Clearance Delivery . Flights utilizing the Macquarrie route will require a FIR estimate for Melbourne and Auckland boundaries . The document does not list any approach procedures for NZSP but it does list them for McMurdo Station and they are presumably similar , 2.7.2.1 . IFR . McMurdo ATC retains responsibility for all IFR aircraft . Aircraft will be USAP Inter-agency Air Operations Manual , 1 August 2012 40 instructed to contact Tower prior to entering Class E airspace . Mac 2.7.2.2 . VFR . Aircraft are normally instructed to contact tower no closer than 10 miles from the airport for landing instructions . 2.7.2.3 . Aircraft operating in Class D airspace will be in radio contact with the tower and should remain at 1,000 feet AGL or higher ( 500 feet for helicopters ) until commencing final descent . They even have reg 's for uncontrolled fields 2.8.1 . For operations at uncontrolled McMurdo area airfields , fixed/rotary wing aircraft pilots will follow uncontrolled field procedures . 2.8.1.1 . Flight plans will be filed with Mac Center and advisory service provided . 2.8.1.2 . Fifteen ( 15 ) minutes prior to departure from an uncontrolled airfield , the pilot will notify Mac Center/Tower of planned activity via landline or radio . 2.8.1.3 . Mac Center/Tower will notify Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting ( ARFF ) ( who notifies the USAP Airfield Manager ) on FM Channel 2 of intended uncontrolled airfield operations . 2.8.1.4 . Pilots will announce their intentions on the Common Traffic Advisory Frequency ( CTAF ) VHF 129.7 MHz . Interestingly it looks like McMurdo is the primary landing strip however based on the letter of 1.2.1 the South Pole Station ( which Im pretty sure is NZSP ) only accepts ski equipped aircraft so you would at least need skis . 1.2.1 . Primary airfields for the USAP are located in the McMurdo Station area and at the South Pole Station ( ski-equipped aircraft only ) . The primary heliport is located at McMurdo Station . Additional ice runways , skiways , and helicopter landing sites are established throughout the continent supporting the USAP science activities as planned by the NSF Prime Contractor 's Fixed / Rotary Wing Coordinators . According to the doc a lot of the info is published in the <URL> which looks like you may need to set up <URL> to download or " contact [ your ] affiliate National Antarctic Program " . All this in mind , I have not yet found any documentation or out right publications that seem to forbid flying there as long as procedures are followed . With that in mind you clearly need to file some flight plans and related info , I would think you would need a good reason to be going there to get approval . The reality is there may be more info on this buried in the <URL> but in practice I dont know how that sort of stuff gets enforced .
Yes , we can ask you to plan your landing roll in a certain way . We wo n't technically instruct you to brake the aircraft in a specific way , but simply to aim for a specific taxiway after landing . There can be different reasons for this , but generally it is an attempt to expedite traffic flow on the ground at the airport . For example , if you are landing on a long runway and your parking position is near the far end of the runway , I might ask you to keep the plane rolling down the runway and vacate at the end , in order for you to have a shorter taxi time . It could also be that the taxiway you would normally use to leave the runway is blocked by another aircraft or vehicle , and I want you to leave the runway via a taxiway that is further down the runway . However , extending the landing roll does extend the runway occupancy time as well , so if there is another aircraft behind you on short final I will not offer you to perform a long landing roll . This is also why you should always ask ATC if you are planning to perform a long landing for one reason or the other -- if we have someone else just a couple miles behind you , we might have to instruct them to go around if you do not vacate the runway like we expect you to . With regards to reverse thrust specifically , there are airports where the use of reverse thrust is only permitted in special situations . This is to reduce the noise level at and around the airport . However , this is purely a regulatory thing , and is not actually related to ATC . ICAO offers the following guidance on the subject ( DOC 4444 ) : 7.10.3.1 When necessary or desirable in order to expedite traffic , a landing aircraft may be requested to : a ) hold short of an intersecting runway after landing ; b ) land beyond the touchdown zone of the runway ; c ) vacate the runway at a specified exit taxiway ; d ) expedite vacating the runway . 7.10.3.2 In requesting a landing aircraft to perform a specific landing and/or roll-out manoeuvre , the type of aircraft , runway length , location of exit taxiways , reported braking action on runway and taxiway , and prevailing meteorological conditions shall be considered . A HEAVY aircraft shall not be requested to land beyond the touchdown zone of a runway .
An airplane can slow down and reduce its speed while in flight . The easiest way to do so is to reduce the amount of thrust that the engines are producing . This will produce an almost immediate reduction of the airspeed , especially if the plane is maintaining the same altitude . There are also devices called <URL> and <URL> that can be further used to reduce speed . These , however , are never1 used in normal , level flight by passenger2 aircraft and are normally only used to reduce speed during the descent and landing phases of the aircraft3 . If an airplane reduces its speed too much , it will of course stall and start dropping precipitously , at which time the airspeed usually also increases again . The slowest speed an aircraft can maintain at a given altitude without stalling is listed in its <URL> However in the scenario you mentioned ( obstacles ahead ) , it 's usually easiest to simply fly around the obstacle . 1 : <URL> 2 : The situation is different in military aircrafts , you can see the approaching Su-27 using its airbrake in <URL> 3 : The wheels of most aircraft also have brakes , similar to those found on automobiles . Obviously these can only be used when the plane is touching the ground . Lowering retracted landing gear will also increase drag . There are also <URL> on some aircraft that are used in the final stages of landing . Use of thrust reversers during flight can be <URL> although some older aircraft ( including the C-17A ) were designed to use thrust reversal to scrub speed in-flight . Finally , some gliders and larger aircraft have <URL> to help slow them down , for example for use on short runways .
Trim is simply a force that offsets the neutral position of the control surface . On aircraft with mechanical controls it is provided aerodynamically via trim tab , but it can also be provided by springs , hydraulics , or simply by adding the selected offset in the fly-by-wire computer . Since F-16 , F-18 and F-22 are all fly-by-wire , the last option is most likely . In fact , all these fighters are aerodynamically unstable , which requires using " cooked " controls where centred stick commands the computer to maintain straight flight and the computer then adjusts the stabilators accordingly , doing small corrections all the time since the flight path would quickly diverge without that . So there is no trim in the traditional sense at all .
Since there are actual projects for things like this I guess it is possible at least in principle : <URL> From the site : The main feature of the circular runway is that it will become possible to let an aircraft operate always at landing and take-off with headwind . Whatever its strength and direction , the Endless Runway becomes independent of the wind . When allowing limited crosswind , airspace users can shorten the global trajectory of the flights through optimized departure and arrival routes . Apart from that they seem to hope that they can start/land more airplanes per time unit by shifting the start/landing point thus avoiding the problem that airplanes must not follow other airplanes to close along the same trajectory .
I happen to have personal knowledge of this particular case . I was in that airplane , too , seated two rows away from him . I 'm also a former pilot and was naturally very interested in what happened , so I asked him some questions during the flight back . He had worked as service mechanic for this company before , servicing their planes in Iceland . Their technical staff and the pilot of this plane already knew him , which made things easier . Tools and parts were available at the airport in Alicante , but no qualified technician certified for this type of aircraft . The technical staff of the airline contacted his boss in Iceland by phone , who agreed to sub-contract him to the airline for the duration of the repair and pay him overtime for the work . They faxed a copy of his certification documents to Stockholm to cover the EASA regulations that require a certified professional doing the repair .
In the UK a paramotor does not have to take off from an airfield . There is an explanation of the UK regulation of paramotors on the <URL> website . You do need the landowner 's permission to take off , but you do n't need any type of pilot 's licence . You have to comply with the rules of the air ( the <URL> ) , as does any other flyer Taking off from an airfield that is being used by faster aircraft ( anything else with an engine is faster than a paramotor ) may be a bad idea !
The thrust variation with altitude would be highly engine specific , but the general trend is nicely depicted in the image below : <URL> this for further details .
I can find no evidence of the FAA or any other authority ever issuing such a permit . <URL> ( without a permit ) . An SN-601 tried to take off from Portland with one engine . Unsuccessfully . Luckily no one was hurt . There 's also a <URL> , in which there are several undocumented , anecdotal stories about this being done successfully ( and illegally ) , e.g. in a <URL> and either a <URL> . There are some good technical reasons why this is unlikely to be safe , or approved by any authority : Asymmetric thrust will make the takeoff very difficult . In particular , until the airplane reaches VMC , it may not be possible to keep the airplane on the centerline with takeoff thrust on one engine . Especially for piston airplanes , single-engine performance is often very poor . Hence the expression , " in the event of an engine failure , the other engine will get you to the scene of the crash . " All-engines-out operation in a multi-engine airliner is usually considered an extremely unlikely event , and as such , training is patchy and contingency procedures are very dire if they exist at all . Basically , if your one good engine dies , you 'd be in mortal danger , much moreso than in a single-engine airplane , in which pilots are well trained for engine failures , since all-engines-out is a much more likely event . Back to the notion of ferry permits , some guidance is given in <URL> , which lays out conditions for one-engine-inoperative ferry permits for 4-engine or 3-engine-turbine airplanes . It says nothing about twins though .
end question
start question
How can I find telephone numbers for FAA ATC facilities ?
You would think the control tower phone numbers would be listed prominently and conveniently on the FAA website . You would however be wrong1 . Your best bet would be to contact the <URL> that covers your area - they can get you in touch with whatever other branches of the FAA you might need to talk to . You can also get tower phone numbers from Flight Service ( 1-800-WX-BRIEF ) . <URL> also has tower phone numbers in a conveniently searchable system ( punch in the airport identifier and it will be in the results you get ) , and the <URL> used to have tower numbers as an appendix ( I 'm pretty sure it still does ) . 1 -- Actually that 's not strictly correct : <URL> publish tower numbers prominently . Most do n't , or my search skills are n't good enough to find them .
<URL> has a list of the various transponder codes and what they are used for , which will give you an idea of what the problem is . Unless there is an actual aircraft incident or accident which requires the FAA to investigate though , you wo n't be able to find a record of it . In fact , pilots are n't even required to file a report unless requested , and those do n't go into a public database . For actual incidents or accidents , you can look at the NTSB <URL> . For pilot reports to the NASA ASRS self-reporting safety system , you can <URL> . If the pilot filed a report then you will see it show up there . Commonly used emergency codes are : 7500 - Hijack Code 7600 - Loss of Radio Communications Code 7700 - Emergency Code Also , some countries use the code 7000 for VFR traffic ( which is not an emergency code ) , but the US uses 1200 instead .
The code for Markham Airport , CNU8 , is a Transport Canada identifier . The codes for the other airports are <URL> . ICAO airport codes always consist of 4 letters . Markham Airport does not have an ICAO airport code .
See the notes on <URL> under the " Delivery " section . Looks like its formally called " long-line loiter " . There is a brief note on it <URL> and a US Patent <URL> and <URL> manual from the 70 's that seems to show how to do it and some related research on it . Here is a nice image of the maneuver
There 's no separate night rating or endorsement in the US , it 's included in the private pilot flight proficiency requirements ( <URL> ) and the specific required experience is in <URL> : ( 2 ) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part , 3 hours of night flight training in a single-engine airplane that includes -- ( i ) One cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance ; and ( ii ) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop ( with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern ) at an airport . Some very minimal instrument training is also required , which can be helpful at night : ( 3 ) 3 hours of flight training in a single-engine airplane on the control and maneuvering of an airplane solely by reference to instruments , including straight and level flight , constant airspeed climbs and descents , turns to a heading , recovery from unusual flight attitudes , radio communications , and the use of navigation systems/facilities and radar services appropriate to instrument flight ; That all applies to private pilots ; <URL> may not fly at night . And as David <URL> , there is an exception to the night requirements under <URL> for pilots in Alaska : they can skip the night training but if they do , they ca n't fly at night .
They are searchable at FNS NOTAM search : <URL> A link is provided to a PDF , containing a link to the actual LTA . ( Filter by LTA , remember the agreement might not be with the airport , but with the ATSU , like the local TRACON/ARTCC , try searching by airport name + radius ) . Expiry date is shown in the details view .
Based on the country you are looking for the certification , rules may be slightly changed . For India following syllabus is applicable ( Source : atcguild.com ) At present it is a year-long ab-initio training ( Under revision to make it in two sections of six months each ) Modules : Air Traffic Services Aerodromes and Ground Aids Air Legislation Meteorology Communication Procedures Technical Search and Rescue Air Navigation The selection shall be made on the basis of a Written test 50 % questions on subjects relating to educational qualifications prescribed 50 % on General Knowledge , General Intelligence , General Aptitude , English etc. . Voice test Personal Interview Medical fitness as per ICAO Annex-1 I Googled for the subject , but did n't find much information on the paper patterns or example papers .
Sure can . FAR 61.109 makes no distinction between flight in hard IMC and simulated in an aircraft using a view limiting device .
What you refer to as the aerodynamic centre is also called the neutral point , the point where pitch moments do not change at all angles of attack with attached airflow . If you ask for an unswept body of high aspect ratio , the answer would be easy : At the quarter chord point in subsonic flow and at the half chord point in supersonic flow . Unfortunately , the neutral point shifts forward with decreasing aspect ratio until it sits right at the leading point ( not edge ) of a slender body , a body with infinitesimally small aspect ratio . It shifts slightly backwards with positive sweep , so you normally have to calculate correction factors which depend on Sweep angle Taper ratio Ratio of fuselage width and span Lengthwise position of the wing-fuselage intersection High wing or low wing configuration ( negligible influence ) If you do n't have good wind tunnel data or a validated CFD model , you would use a collection of formulas and diagrams like DATCOM ( see this <URL> ) to approximate a solution . Sorry , but I can not give you a simple formula which would work out of the box .
The two aircraft in question were actually only one . Apparently it was a glitch in the FR24 system . It was an Embraer ERJ-190AR , registration number N949UW on flight AA1678 from ATL to LGA . <URL> <URL> <URL> This also pretty much validates sweber 's assertion that the numbers are internal FR24 codes , because the mode-S ID is AD306E .
So according to EASA , it is the <URL> and specifically in where is specifies 11 criteria regarding STD standards , among them being accuracy of aircraft performance , voice recognition realism , equipment , data displays , etc : STD criteria If a synthetic training device ( STD ) is used for training , it should be approved by the competent authority as part of the course approval process for any training plan . Training organisations should demonstrate how the STD will provide adequate support for the intended training , in particular , how the STD will meet the stated objectives of the practical training exercises and enable the performance objectives to be assessed to the level determined in the training programme . This demonstration and the related documentation should include the following relevant criteria : ( 1 ) the general environment , which should provide an environment in which STD exercises may be run without undue interference from unrelated activities ; ( 2 ) the STD layout ; ( 3 ) the equipment provided ; ( 4 ) the display presentation , functionality , and updating of operational information ; ( 5 ) data displays , including strip displays , where appropriate ; ( 6 ) coordination facilities ; ( 7 ) aircraft performance characteristics , including the availability of manoeuvres , e.g. holding or instrumental landing system ( ILS ) operation , required for a particular simulation ; ( 8 ) the availability of real-time changes during an exercise ; ( 9 ) the processes by which the training organisation can be assured that staff associated with the training conducted with the use of an STD are competent ; ( 10 ) the degree of realism of any voice recognition system associated with the STD ; ( 11 ) where a simulator is an integral part of an operational ATC system , the processes by which the training organisation is assured that interference between the simulated and operational environments is prevented . The extent to which the STD achieves the above criteria will be used to determine the adequacy of the STD for the proposed use . As a general principle , the greater the degree of replication of the operational position being represented the greater the use will be possible for any particular training .
Generally there are two ways to get an interpretation of regulations from the FAA . The first ( less-formal ) way would be to call or email your <URL> with your question -- they will usually get back to you pretty quickly with a verbal opinion or an email ( on the two occasions I 've contacted the local FSDO I 've gotten an answer within 1-2 days ) . Interpretations from your local FSDO are essentially valid within their coverage area ( if you get an opinion from Farmingdale in New York the folks in Los Angeles , California may not honor it ) . The second ( very formal ) way is to write an actual on-paper letter to the FAA 's office of the chief counsel requesting a legal interpretation of some specific regulation ( s ) and <URL> : This request should be as specific as you can make it , for example : May the FAA hold a person who performs maintenance on an aircraft responsible for the proper performance of that maintenance under 43.13 ( a ) and ( b ) when that person was not the person who made the maintenance record entry required by 43.9 ? If your request is inspired by some ongoing action ( say a warning letter ) you should reference it and include a copy to help speed things along . The FAA 's legal staff will chew on the request for a while , and eventually produce <URL> ( the linked interpretation , which answers the example question above , took about 5 months , and it is a relatively simple interpretation - The more complex the regulation that needs to be interpreted the longer it will probably take ) . Counsel interpretations are organization-wide precedent , and <URL> . They are effective " The Final Word " on how regulations are to be applied ( unless overturned in court ) .
Yes , the FAA currently offers a lapel pin at the completion of each phase of the <URL> . This " reward " is not automatically awarded or delivered , the WINGS participant must request it . Upon completion of each of a phase , for example Basic , Advanced , or Master , the FAA Safety Team will include the following notice : If you have not already done so , I encourage you to go to your My WINGS page at FAASafety.gov and claim your Team Member Reward -- a beautiful set of wings for your lapel . The pins are sponsored and distributed by AVEMCO , in <URL> with the FAA . The pins are available in at least three finishes : bronze , silver , and gold , and a special <URL> is apparently available . <URL> Source : own work
In short : Yes , you can . The FAA does n't really care , as long as you 're not going to interrupt class B or C operations . And honestly as long as you 're not hosting a dozen other aircraft , how are they going to tell the difference between a field and an airstrip ? If you want it on a chart or you are near special airspace , you need to contact the FSDO and talk to them about it ( it 's good to do that anyway ) . They will send someone out to survey it and talk with you , and hopefully approve it . It 's the local authorities that usually ends up being troublesome . Your state/county/city might have laws that apply , and you 'll need to find that out on your own . A friend of mine spent just a few days talking/meeting with the FAA on his strip , but spent weeks dealing with the state transportation department and a local ban on new grass strips which he sat right on the border of ( as in it was a ban in a 50 mile radius and his house was on mile 50 ) . Persistence is key , good luck !
Basically , there are two ways . One is easy but imprecise , and the other is hard but more precise . First the easy one : Look at other aircraft and estimate how much winglets affect lift and drag . Make sure to do this at several lift coefficients ; winglets help much more at high lift coefficients . Do n't forget to account for the added mass of the winglets and their added friction over their surface area . Bonus points for estimating losses due to sideslip . The hard way is to do a numerical simulation of the wing . Since you want to know what difference the winglets make , you can focus on a comparison between a regular and a winglet-equipped wing and transfer the effect to the full airplane . For the lift and induced drag effects , you will at least need to divide the wing into panels and simultaneously solve the <URL> equations for bound vortices at the quarter chord of each panel plus the trailing free vortices with control points at the three-quarter point where local flow must be parallel with local wing inclination . Make sure you use a method which does better than to assume that all panels lie in one plane ! I have no experience with Simulink - I guess there are libraries around for vortex lattice or even Euler codes , but if you are free to choose your tools , maybe it is worth to take a look at <URL> . This should work out of the box for your project , and all you need to add is a proper input file .
I assume that your FAA private license was issued under <URL> , and that section also includes the requirements for adding instrument privileges : ( d ) Instrument ratings issued . A person who holds an instrument rating on the foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may be issued an instrument rating on a U.S. pilot certificate provided : ( 1 ) The person 's foreign pilot license authorizes instrument privileges ; ( 2 ) Within 24 months preceding the month in which the person applies for the instrument rating , the person passes the appropriate knowledge test ; and ( 3 ) The person is able to read , speak , write , and understand the English language . If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons , then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant 's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft . The " appropriate knowledge test " in this case is the Instrument Rating - Foreign Pilot test , it 's described <URL> with a few sample questions . Some more information is <URL> , including the point that you do n't need any prior authorization to take the test : • Requires NO instructor endorsement or other form of written authorization . I 'm not sure about the exact process involved ( I guess you just do the test and send the certificate to the FAA ) but the FSDO that validated your foreign license for VFR should be able to give you all the details .
No , the air traffic controller can not see the whether the autopilot is used or not . However , in the Mode S radar and ADS-B protocols there are messages defined that contain state of the autopilot . Currently there is no requirement that this data is provided by the aircraft , but some aircraft/transponders do provide the information nevertheless . The data is not displayed to the controller though . In some control centres the aircraft 's Mode Control Panel / Flight Control Unit Selected Altitude can be displayed to the air traffic controller . The information can be used to reduce Level Busts . From observations of the radar track it is difficult to tell . A competent pilot will be able to maintain altitude and heading in such a way that it is difficult to see the difference from an autopilot at the resolution of the ATC display . There are circumstances where the pilot is required to use the autopilot , especially to keep separation from other aircraft . In Reduced Vertical Separation Minima ( RVSM ) airspace the vertical separation is 1000 ft between Flight Level 290 and FL410 . The aircraft must be flown using the autopilot in this airspace to ensure the flight levels are adhered to strictly .
YouTube is really your best bet - is there any reason you would n't be able to use one of the many <URL> ? If you need a release for legal reasons NASA is famously liberal about granting rights to their research/educational videos - just contact then and you 'll almost certainly get an official " Sure , you can use it ! "
<URL> lists renewal requirements for flight instructors . If your CFI certificate is still valid ( unexpired ) than you can renew by any one of the following : Getting a new rating on your CFI certificate or re-taking a practical test for an existing rating on your CFI certificate ( 1 ) Passing a practical test for -- ( i ) One of the ratings listed on the current flight instructor certificate ; or ( ii ) An additional flight instructor rating ; or Having had at least 5 students in the last 2 years with an 80 % or higher pass rate ( i ) A record of training students showing that , during the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has endorsed at least 5 students for a practical test for a certificate or rating and at least 80 percent of those students passed that test on the first attempt . Being a check pilot , chief flight instructor , check airman or flight instructor for a part 121 or 135 operation and active in pilot evaluation during the last 2 years ( ii ) A record showing that , within the preceding 24 calendar months , the flight instructor has served as a company check pilot , chief flight instructor , company check airman , or flight instructor in a part 121 or part 135 operation , or in a position involving the regular evaluation of pilots . Completing an approved refresher course within the preceding 3 months ( iii ) A graduation certificate showing that , within the preceding 3 calendar months , the person has successfully completed an approved flight instructor refresher course consisting of ground training or flight training , or a combination of both . Passing a US armed forces military instructor proficiency check in the preceding 12 months . ( iv ) A record showing that , within the preceding 12 months from the month of application , the flight instructor passed an official U.S. Armed Forces military instructor pilot proficiency check . If you are not actively instructing and just maintaining your certificate the easiest method is the approved refresher course . There are a few weekend workshops and a online courses that are approved . The last time I did this method I used an online course and submitted the 8710 via IACRA and completed the whole thing over a weekend and with no physical paperwork . If your certificate has expired , even if you have completed the above but failed to submit the proper paperwork in time , then you can no longer do this the easy way and have to look at <URL> . To reinstate an expired certificate you must either pass a practical test for one of your existing CFI ratings or pass a practical test for a new rating for your CFI certificate .
Simplest answer : Call the tower . Or ask instructors/schools in the area if the controllers care when you arrive and want to practice . Usually if you arrive during the busiest time , you 'll likely be accommodated as best as they can , but there 's a chance you could be told to just do a full-stop taxi-back operation if that helps out or told to go fly around elsewhere for a bit . It depends on what airport you 're thinking about going to . If you want to go to ATL , well , you 'll be vectored in a gap , and told go as fast as you can for as long as you can , and be told to land ( or if you go around , expect a long delay to find a new gap ) . If it 's just a general aviation airport , anytime is fine .
end question
start question
Would turbulence created by two jumbos less than 100ft apart cause both of them to crash ?
The probability of two jets surviving such a close encounter are extremely remote . Setting aside the fact that it is difficult to imagine two aircraft flying in the same altitude in opposite directions ( commercial aircraft are separated by 3 miles laterally and 1000 ft. vertically ) , if the scenario unfolds as in the movie and the horizontal separation between the aircraft on approach is as shown , the pilots would not have time to react and take the necessary evasive actions . Assuming that the jets are cruising towards each other at 900 kmph , the combined speed is around 1800 kmph , or half a kilometer per second . If the TCAS is not working and the aircraft come within five km ( the distance in the video is considerably lower , less than a km ) of each other , the pilots have less than 10 seconds to get out of each other 's way . The civil aircrafts are not designed for such rapid roll rates . The inertia of the aircraft ( especially the 747 ) will limit it . Another thing to note is that the modern flight control systems will not allow airline pilots to carry the maneuvers shown in the flight . The pilot can override the Flight control Computer.However , in this case , they would not have time to react . If by some miracle the aircrafts cross each other , they will fly right into the other aircraft 's wake turbulence , which will have disastrous consequences , especially for the smaller aircraft . <URL> Sources : airpower.maxwell.af In case of small aircraft flying behind a heavy jet , FAA regulations require a minimum separation of 5 miles , lesser than which the effect of the wake turbulence ( wingtip vortices ) can have serious consequences . <URL> Source : Aeronautical Information Manual FAA conducted <URL> on the effects of wake turbulence by flying a 737 behind a 727 , which shows the loss of control associated with flying in the wake of another aircraft . Once ( if ) the aircraft pass each other , they should be brought to level flight as quickly as possible ( whether it is possible or not is another question ) to prevent stall . In this critical juncture , if the aircraft wings encounter wake turbulence , the control of the aircraft will be loss , resulting in stall . Finally , in case two aircraft do approach each other in the same altitude in opposite directions , there are laid down procedures to follow . None of them involve the stunt shown in the movie . When two aircraft are flying head on , each must move to their right . <URL> Source : planefinder.net If two aircraft are at the same height and on converging courses , the aircraft with the other on its starboard side has to give way . <URL> Source : planefinder.net
Most accidents are referred to by flight number It depends who it is that is referring to the accident , and on who they are addressing . News media and the general public Newpapers and other media use flight numbers because that is the number known to friends and relatives of the individuals concerned and because most members of the public who have flown as passengers are very familiar with the concept of flight numbers but not really familiar with aircraft registration numbers . Investigators Investigating authorities have their own numbering schemes for accidents they investigate . Aircraft registration numbers change when an aircraft is sold to a purchaser based in another country . The only number that stays with an aircraft for its entire life is the manufacturer 's serial number . All these numbers can appear in official accident investigations reports . The registration number is usually prominent . <URL> <URL> <URL>
There is a numerical study on the topic at <URL> , where they simulated a 5kg drone being ingested by a turbofan , some pictures related to the study below : <URL> On the same <URL> it can be read that : FAA will begin testing of drone ingestion <URL> The metric for danger is the density of the material , so metallic parts are more critical than the bird bones/tissues . Modern drones have more aluminum parts , but the most critical component of a Drone ingestion would be the batteries . Comparing different sizes , a commercial quad copter is around 1.4 kg , while the most frequent bird impact ( from <URL> ) is around 1.8 kg . This is not the worst case scenario since larger drones are commercially available , and a goose , which can weight up to 6kg .
Long story short is that the manufacturers instructions take precedence over all . <URL> requires that at each annual and 100 hr the compression be checked and that if there is " weak " compression further inspection of condition and tolerances of the engine have to be made . Now the term " weak " is kind of broad . <URL> states : If a cylinder has less than a 60/80 reading on the differential test gauges on a hot engine , and procedures in paragraphs 8-14b ( 5 ) ( i ) and ( j ) fail to raise the compression reading , the cylinder must be removed and inspected . However , it also states : This advisory circular ( AC ) contains methods , techniques , and practices acceptable to the Administrator for the inspection and repair of nonpressurized areas of civil aircraft , only when there are no manufacturer repair or maintenance instructions . So the gist of it seems to be that if the compression is below 60/80 on a hot engine IN GENERAL , then yes it needs to be removed and inspected , UNLESS the manufacturers instructions state otherwise . Keep in mind Advisory Circulars are guidelines and not regulatory in nature although they are usually used as best practice guides . There is a great AVweb article <URL> that has more in depth analysis .
<URL> means data read on the basic instruments . Not-raw data means enhanced information built from raw data and/or flight management system . <URL> bars are not raw data , but a computation from basic air data , desired airspeed , roll angle limit , etc. . At the next higher level , the <URL> can use the FD data to fly the aircraft . Similarly desired speed can be determined automatically and thrust can be managed by the <URL> . Taking off and climbing with FD , auto-throttle and autopilot <URL> Takeoff with FD and AP , just after liftoff ( A320 simulator ) . Source : <URL> The green bars of the FD shows what should be the attitude of the aircraft , SRS ( <URL> ) guidance law has been used to determine the desired 165 kt speed . The pilot may fly the aircraft manually using these non-raw data . In the present case the pilot has also activated another layer of assistance : Autopilot and auto-throttle . The AP follows the FD indications , and the thrust is managed by the auto-throttle so that the desired speed is achieved safely as soon as possible . The indication in the <URL> means autopilot , flight director and auto-throttle are currently selected / active . T/O with raw data Flying with raw data implies not using the FD or the SRS mode , nor the AP other modes or the auto-throttle . The crew must determine the attitude to be used after the T/O rotation , and during the climb . They also need to manage the thrust required . For example , the roll angle has to be determined manually , depending on all factors discussed above and the desired horizontal track . <URL> Takeoff without FD ( A320 ) . Source : <URL> Benefits Not using computer assistance helps maintaining and developing pilot skills and prevents dependency on automation that can always <URL> . The correct attitude , speed and thrust depend on many limits -- some are displayed in the <URL> band and the <URL> when they have video displays -- that the pilots must have in mind . So it 's usual that pilots perform manual take-offs and landings and raw-data operations . The frequency of such permanent training may be influenced by the <URL> ( standard operating procedures , SOP ) which can either encourage or discourage crews to use the airplane automatic features at certain phases of the flight . On modern aircraft there are some mechanisms ca n't be inactivated as the direct transmission between controls and corresponding actuators have been replaced , partially or totally , by <URL> . The conversion between actual pilot movements and electrical command signals is subject to some level of filtering provided by the fly-by-wire system . Other raw data operations <URL> . Raw data navigation . This post consistently uses Airbus-based explanations , as terminology varies between aircraft manufacturers ( but principles are mostly the same for this topic ) .
The aviation industry is already running at near-peak efficiency , performing crucial tasks simultaneously to ensure quick turn-around . Trying to speed up the boarding process by allowing entrance from both ends would be doable with a large amount of changes to the existing process , in both operations and infrastructure . However , the result would be horrendous and time - and resource-consuming at worst and comical at best . Jetways need to be able to reach all points of ingress/egress , where currently , they only reach the forward doors . Seeing as aircraft nose-in at the gate , to reach the aft doors would require a jetway that goes around the wing ( above the wing is even less practical from a design/physics standpoint ) , effectively creating an even smaller limit to the size of the aircraft that can fit at the terminal since there is now a jetway that needs to reach the rear doors . As you can see , the space between aircraft is already tight : Or , you use a simple stairway at the aft door and allow passengers on the tarmac , an already busy place during aircraft turn-around , and we do n't need them touching anything en route . I highly recommend against the latter . In many instances , during boarding , the rear and/or opposite-side doors are already in use for loading/unloading food and drinks and taking out the trash . So you 'd have to redesign that process . Humans are generally stupid in large groups . Southwest notwithstanding , your typical airline assigns seats . Imagine a passenger entering the rear door with seat 1A . It does n't have to be that extreme . It can be any seat assignment more forward than another passenger coming the opposite direction down the aisle , which has the effect of halting both directions of travel . Passengers already sit in the wrong seats , or travel with babies , or carry too much luggage ( or stow it selfishly ) . There have been many studies on efficient boarding methods . The most efficient algorithm seems to be <URL> , but this method requires someone with an inordinate attention to detail ( and willing passengers ) to line people up in a specific order . Taking into account crew resources , the most efficient method is by window-middle-aisle groups , then by random order ( i.e. " single-zone " ) , with typical " zone boarding " least efficient . EDIT : There are scenarios where boarding from both ends makes sense and is feasible , e.g. smaller planes with fewer passengers . On larger aircraft , the problem compounds itself as the number of passengers grows , each " collision " incident affecting that many more people in the queue . Minimizing collisions requires airlines to throw more resources at the problem , namely personnel to direct traffic . Ask any CFO - more often than not , human resources is the most significant slice of the operating budget . In any case , engineering a solution should not entail best-case scenarios ; it should be designed for typical-case at best , and more commonly for worst-case . The human factor is one that can not be overlooked . There is no such thing as an idiot-proof system .
Heathrow is somewhat of a standout when it comes to volume . Your wording , that LHR " gets by " with 2 runways is apt . By movements , it is the busiest 2-runway airport in the world . By passenger volume it is second only to Dubai Intl. ( Note , though , that DXB is home to Emirates , who has the world 's largest fleet of A380 's . They are the only airport that averages over 200 passengers per movement ! ) Aircraft movement is the best way to look at it from a runway usage standpoint . The following chart is sorted by aircraft movement . * <URL> As you can see , the top 3 all have 5 or more runways . There are 7 large airports with 5 or more rwys and they all fall in the top 16 . The top 16 is rounded out by 5 airports with 4 runways , one with 3 runways and ... LHR . The next 2-rwy airport on the list is Benito Juarez Intl. in Mexico City clear down at 21st on the list . Any busy airport with 2 runways has to make those runways work as tightly as possible with little room for error . Otherwise they end up with delays . If I sort the list by movements per rwy , all of those with 2 rwys rise to the top . 10 of the top 15 have 2 rwys . <URL> So , how does LHR pull it off ? How do they manage to pack all those flights in to just two runways?There 's a downside to handling that kind of volume with so few runways . The following collage gives a clue as to what that is . <URL> Those are just a random pick of arrivals at a couple of random times yesterday morning at LHR . There was no significant weather at the times . As you can see , you just do n't arrive at LHR without being put in a holding stack . Every single flight I could find had to do at least one racetrack . At any point during the day , in places like Chesham , Effingham and Brentwood , if you look up there will be as many as 6 or 7 aircraft doing racetracks waiting to be cleared into Heathrow . That makes for very efficient runway usage when there are 20 planes waiting in line , but it 's terribly inefficient for the airlines and passengers to have to spend so much time burning fuel circling around London . On the flip side , building more runways has a down side too . It will get the planes out of the air quicker , but , as happens at Schipol - which has 6 runways - you can end up with a long taxi back to the terminal . All data was taken from Wikipedia .
The flying boom method uses a rigid boom which is " flown " by an operator in coordination with the pilot in order to make a connection with a receptacle on the second aircraft . The boom is retracted when not in use . Though <URL> if it comes in contact with an aircraft , <URL> . The probe and drogue method uses a trailing hose with a basket on the end . Pilots will guide a probe on their aircraft into the basket to connect with the hose . The hoses are retracted when not in use . Though the crew has less control of the drogue , which <URL> , there is less danger to the aircraft than from a boom , and it could allow the aircraft to stay further away from the tanker . The boom method was developed early on in the Cold War , when <URL> . They needed a method that would transfer fuel as fast as possible in order to reduce the time it took to transfer the large amounts of fuel needed . Because the boom is rigid , it is capable of a higher transfer rate . The importance of bombers meant that SAC got their way , and the KC-135 fleet was equipped with booms . Today , almost all US Air Force planes capable of aerial refueling use the boom system . The US Navy on the other hand , along with most aircraft in other countries , uses the drogue system . Though this method is not capable of the high transfer rates of a boom , it is much more flexible . A refueling aircraft may only be fitted with one boom , and this requires extra design work and integration with the fuselage . The drogue system , on the other hand , is more simple , and does not need a dedicated operator . This means that it can be more easily fitted to the refueling aircraft , even <URL> , and larger aircraft can have multiple drogues . Another point is that smaller aircraft such as fighters are not capable of receiving fuel at the full rate the boom provides , so they have less benefit from the system . Although a boom can have a <URL> , this still commits the tanker to one aircraft at a time and one type of system per flight . Also , aircraft such as helicopters <URL> . When the Air Force was looking at a replacement for its tanker fleet in the early 2000s , a <URL> to determine what standard the new tanker should support . The report suggests some options for the best combination of methods . In the end , the Air Force selected the <URL> for the contract , which will include both the boom and the drogue options for refueling . This will provide better support to aircraft from other branches or countries , while maintaining support of the existing aircraft that use a boom .
There are a few ways that pilots are aware of potentially turbulent areas . Eyesight The most obvious way is just by looking outside and observing the sky . Large billowing clouds , called cumulus clouds , indicated pockets of unstable air ( the clouds are rising because the air under them is as well ) . If the pilots must fly through these clouds then its a safe bet that there will be some turbulence . Weather Radar Just like using your eyes , except the radar can see further through haze and other clouds . Typically this is useful for finding embedded thunderstorms , but it can also be useful to find areas of potential turbulence . Communication Pilots talk . Both to each other and to air traffic controllers . En route controllers frequently ask pilots for " PIREPS " ( pilot reports ) , to build an accurate picture of the flight conditions at different altitudes . Often commercial aircraft will request to change altitudes or deviate around weather / turbulence , so it is in the best interest of the controller to know ahead of time where the bad flight conditions are , and have a game plan of how to route traffic . This makes it much easier for the controller to route traffic , rather than getting request after request from individual aircraft .
consider if you Google a flight number you can see the flight status , imagine if the number was from a past crash , you might for a moment think the one you 're looking up had crashed <URL>
Apparently , yes , it has -- see <URL> . As the article reports , the issues appeared to be related to the turbocharger , but I 'm not sure how far ( if at all ) accident reports or details go beyond that .
The wingtip vortices create both upwash and downwash ; The downwash lies within the wingspan and affects the wing angle of attack while the upwash region lies outside the wingspan and can be utilized by another aircraft ( or bird ) flying behind and above the wing . The flow induced by the downwash reduces the effective angle of attack of the ( finite ) wing and causes the induced drag . See if this image clarifies your doubt . <URL> Source : aerospaceweb.org Consider the upwash before the wing and downwash after the wing ( section ) . <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com As it can be seen , the airflow in front of the wing is slightly directed upwards by the upwash . Now , the angle the wing makes with the horizontal datum ( i.e. relative airflow ) is the same . However , the airflow is slightly turned upwards and the wing sees the air coming at it at a different angle compared to the relative airflow . As a result , the effective angle of attack ( defined as the angle of attack that lies between the chord of an airfoil and the effective airflow ) is reduced , so that the relative and effective airflow looks something like this : <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com This difference between the relative and effective airflows is what that causes the induced drag . <URL> Source : theairlinepilots.com
Appearances can be deceiving . The view " behind " a Piper Cherokee looks something like the image below : no rear window so you ca n't see what 's behind you , but that really does n't matter since there 's no way to go " backward " in this aircraft using the flight controls . Visibility aside , ground handling is often a a complex production , particularly for larger aircraft or when you have a lot of aircraft in proximity to each other or obstacles . Moving small aircraft around typically requires at least 3 people . When you 're moving forward you will have the person operating the tug and two " wing walkers " who stand a few feet off the wingtips and walk along to make sure the wings are n't going to hit anything . When pushing an aircraft back in a tightly packed hangar there 's sometimes a fourth person walking ahead of the tail to make sure you do n't back the plane into something . Since there 's not usually much for the pilot to do inside the plane at this point , they usually serve as one of the walkers . Larger aircraft observe similar procedures , but for push-backs or power-backs it 's known that the area behind the aircraft is clear ( this is usually coordinated over the radio ) , and as long as the tug driver or pilot keeps the nosewheel on the appropriate pavement markings there will be wingtip clearance . Line personnel are also often stationed to <URL> in close quarters where positioning is critical ( e.g. when pulling an airliner up to a gate , or parking a small aircraft on a busy ramp ) . The other half of the picture is taxiing under your own power and control . When taxiing , it 's generally assumed that the pilot knows their aircraft 's dimensions and will avoid hitting things . This usually works out well , but <URL> . Airport taxiways are marked so an aircraft with a specific maximum wingspan will be clear of any obstacles while taxiing along the centerline , and as you 're generally only going forward that 's where visibility is most important ( you can assume if the area your wingtip was going to hit was clear 15 seconds ago when you last saw it and nothing was heading into that area it 's still clear now , and you 're relying on the pilot of the aircraft behind you to be paying attention and not taxi into your tail ) .
The four-digit transponder code that is entered by a pilot is an octal number rather than a decimal number , and in the octal numbering system , only the digits 0-7 are valid . As far as why , internally it 's actually a 12-bit binary number and octal works really well since can be used as a " shortcut " for entering groups of three binary digits at a time ( 000 - 111 , which is 0-7 in octal ) . If it were designed today , with the additional computing power and software complexity available , it would be possible to use a decimal number even if it is stored as binary internally , just so that it is more familiar . At the time that the system was created though , changing the dials directly set the code in hardware and doing the conversion would have been much more complex / difficult / expensive . In short , it was convenient for the engineers and manufacturers , and just an oddity for the end users , so they left it that way .
The probability of two jets surviving such a close encounter are extremely remote . Setting aside the fact that it is difficult to imagine two aircraft flying in the same altitude in opposite directions ( commercial aircraft are separated by 3 miles laterally and 1000 ft. vertically ) , if the scenario unfolds as in the movie and the horizontal separation between the aircraft on approach is as shown , the pilots would not have time to react and take the necessary evasive actions . Assuming that the jets are cruising towards each other at 900 kmph , the combined speed is around 1800 kmph , or half a kilometer per second . If the TCAS is not working and the aircraft come within five km ( the distance in the video is considerably lower , less than a km ) of each other , the pilots have less than 10 seconds to get out of each other 's way . The civil aircrafts are not designed for such rapid roll rates . The inertia of the aircraft ( especially the 747 ) will limit it . Another thing to note is that the modern flight control systems will not allow airline pilots to carry the maneuvers shown in the flight . The pilot can override the Flight control Computer.However , in this case , they would not have time to react . If by some miracle the aircrafts cross each other , they will fly right into the other aircraft 's wake turbulence , which will have disastrous consequences , especially for the smaller aircraft . <URL> Sources : airpower.maxwell.af In case of small aircraft flying behind a heavy jet , FAA regulations require a minimum separation of 5 miles , lesser than which the effect of the wake turbulence ( wingtip vortices ) can have serious consequences . <URL> Source : Aeronautical Information Manual FAA conducted <URL> on the effects of wake turbulence by flying a 737 behind a 727 , which shows the loss of control associated with flying in the wake of another aircraft . Once ( if ) the aircraft pass each other , they should be brought to level flight as quickly as possible ( whether it is possible or not is another question ) to prevent stall . In this critical juncture , if the aircraft wings encounter wake turbulence , the control of the aircraft will be loss , resulting in stall . Finally , in case two aircraft do approach each other in the same altitude in opposite directions , there are laid down procedures to follow . None of them involve the stunt shown in the movie . When two aircraft are flying head on , each must move to their right . <URL> Source : planefinder.net If two aircraft are at the same height and on converging courses , the aircraft with the other on its starboard side has to give way . <URL> Source : planefinder.net
I go through the SAFETY checklist with all my passengers . <URL> Seat Belts - This is where they are and how to use them . Air Vents - Here are the air vents and how to use them Fire - In case of a fire here is the location of the fire extinguisher and this is how you use it . PASS method . Exits , Emergencies and Equipment - Here are the exits on the airplane and here is how to open the door . Know that you are in good hands and that I have been well trained to land safely under most situations . If for some reason an emergency occurs in flight follow my directions . If we need to land off the airport , I will ask you to pop open the door just before landing to ensure we can exit the airplane safely . Here is any safety equipment that you may want to use on this flight . i.e. supplemental oxygen . Traffic and talking - Please point out an traffic that you see and I will do the same . Please no talking while I am on the radio . Once we start taxiing to the runway please remain quiet til we are far enough away from the airport . I will let you know when it is safe to talk again . When we come in to land , I will ask that you remain quiet , unless an emergency situation occurs , till after the landing is complete and we are taxiing back to parking . Your questions - Do you have any questions ? Alright , lets go have some fun ! <URL>
It 's very difficult to answer this question as it depends upon so many different things : - Location - Time of day - Season - Flight level - Terrain below - Current weather ( of course ) - Type of aircraft - The crew and their knowledge / weather radar use . What also makes it hard is that what ' feels uncomfortable ' for one person might not for another . In the tropics it 's quite common for flights to be affected by turbulence . Most will see at least some light chop . In my experience of a few hundred long-haul flights through the tropics I 've only had a couple with no moderate turbulence ( what you might call uncomfortable ) . In a similar number of short-haul flights in Europe I 'd say that around 50 % had no significant turbulence at all and only around 5 % had moderate turbulence . You 're more likely to experience turbulence in the tropics as there 's a lot more convective activity there ( air rising and falling ) . Away from the tropics the USA tends to generate turbulence whilst Europe does not ( relatively speaking ) . SE Asia is particularly well known for turbulence encounters .
The ka-50 , like other <URL> designs , use their contra-spinning rotors to cancel out the torque in the same way a traditional helicopter uses it 's tail rotor . A traditional single rotor : <URL> Contra-rotating rotors : <URL> There are a few <URL> of the contra-rotating setup , such as Reduced vibration Reduced likelihood of <URL> Reduced likelihood of anti-torque failure during flight .
<URL> The short answer is this is n't something that 's realistically planned for because the chance of a double-failure of the redundant systems in question ( the two pilots ) is pretty unlikely , and many of the conditions that could lead to it would result in a catastrophic loss of the aircraft anyway . ( The most notable exception to that would be a loss of pressurization at altitude , in which case hopefully at least one of the pilots can get their oxygen mask on to make the emergency descent . ) The ATC/Airline system as a whole can theoretically deal with this sort of a double failure in a few different ways . The most common is finding an off-duty employee of the airline who is riding non-revenue ( dead-head , jumpseat , etc. ) to fill the role of an incapacitated crew member . This is of course predicated on whatever incapacitated the flight crew not affecting this other person . If no qualified personnel are available it may be possible to get an experienced instructor on the radio to " talk the plane down " , but that relies on having someone onboard who can ( a ) get access to the cockpit , and ( b ) at least figure out how to operate the radios to ask for help . " Talk-Down Landings " have happened <URL> on several occasions , but <URL> outside of <URL> and similar thought experiments .
Some autopilots found on advanced aircraft can be engaged on selected axis only , for example Boeing 737 , 747-200 &amp; MD-11 . There are three autopilot indicators on the Boeing autopilots : auto throttle , roll and pitch . Each can be in a different mode . Here a Boeing 737 's autopilot roll mode is set to Heading Select ( HDG SEL ) while the Pitch is flown manually ( CWS P ) : <URL> The pilot can pull or push the yoke , and the autopilot will roll the aircraft automatically . If the pilot steer the yoke left or right , the roll mode will change to CWS R . In this image below , the pilot is manually Rolling the aircraft ( CWS R ) , but the autopilot pitch mode is set to Vertical Speed mode . <URL> Later models , such as the Boeing 777 , does not have this feature - both pitch and roll modes must be engaged together .
end question
start question
What are the reasons for an installed engine to produce less thrust than an uninstalled engine ?
No , these losses are well known and are called installation losses . Their reasons are : Intake losses . In a ground test the engine will be fitted with <URL> , but none of the long intake tubes which are common especially in supersonic aircraft . Generator loads : The <URL> to supply the aircraft with electricity . This can be simulated in a ground run , but often the generator load is higher in flight . Bleed air : Some of the compressed air inside the engine is piped to a <URL> for <URL> , or used for leading edge de-icing . Again , this can be simulated in the static test but sometimes bleed air losses are higher in flight . Interference between fuselage and power plant is only to be expected with fuselage-mounted engines . This can be both beneficial ( as in the <URL> and speed on the <URL> ) , or it can distort the flow when side-mounted intakes are operated at a high sideslip angle .
There are potentially two answers to this question If you are asking about <URL> when the aircraft is parked like these <URL> ( <URL> ) They are made out of any manner of fabric , nylon , canvas and often foam filled if they are inserted somewhere . If you are asking about the exterior housing around an engine its generally aluminum like the rest of the aircraft . Much like the open panels that can be seen here . <URL> ( <URL> )
An altitude engine is a type of engine that uses a <URL> ( and less often , a <URL> ) to generate sea-level pressure in its intake manifold , up to its critical altitude , at which point power will start to fall off . It is also sometimes called a turbo-normalizer . Non-altitude engines will lose power as they climb because the ambient air pressure drops off at a rate of about 1 " Hg per 1,000 ft of altitude ( up to 10,000 ft ) . The altitude engine allows aircraft to fly at higher altitudes at full power , and increases the aircraft 's speed and efficiency , because true airspeed increases with altitude . It also allows an aircraft under IFR to fly at higher MEAs or under VFR over higher terrain , and allows the pilot to choose a favorable altitude for weather . There are also what are called turbocharged engines , which are a type of altitude engine that can generate more intake manifold pressure than at sea level . For example , a Mooney Bravo M20M can generate 36 " of manifold pressure , and can generate at least 30 " of manifold pressure up to its critical altitude of 22,000 ft. An altitude engine is considered less taxing on the engine than a turbocharged engine because the former does n't develop above sea-level pressure or high turbine-inlet temperatures . The altitude engine is also easier to fly than a turbocharged engine , since it never develops more power than would be developed at sea level . Altitude engines also typically have a controllable-pitch prop , and develop more than 200 horsepower , so they require both a <URL> and a <URL> . See <URL> .
I never landed at Courchevel , but did some aerobatic training in <URL> in the Giant Mountains of Silesia . What I learned was : A proper approach looks steeper than normal because the field inclination is steeper relative to the plane 's attitude . You need to flare sooner for two reasons : The sink speed relative to the rising ground is higher than normal , and The amount of pitch change needed to flare is larger . Even with airplanes which have a strong ground effect ( and where too fast a touchdown speed will normally result in a very long float ) the flare was short , as was the rollout distance . Do n't let speed bleed off too early , but stay on your approach speed until you are low enough to flare . Airports with slope sit on the sides of mountains . In many cases , the approach is already over rising terrain . When landing with a headwind , the wind will create a downdraft along the approach so the sink speed during the approach will be higher than normal . For glider pilots this is the biggest danger - once you are too low , you will hit the ground short of the runway . Most inclined runways show a variation in inclination along their length . This means that the relative sink speed and the necessary pitch change for a successful flare will vary with the touchdown point . Stay alert , no landing is routine ! The landing configuration and approach speed were not different from that on regular airports with level runways . Different was mostly the height at which the flare is begun . Also , at first I needed getting used to staying on my approach speed until I was low enough to flare - you need more energy to keep the airplane flying until it is level with the ground ( i.e. climbing uphill ! ) , so the final approach and flare must be executed precisely for a good landing . When I saw the runway at Zar for the first time I thought the location is sheer madness . After a few landings I learned to appreciate the benefits : Very short roll-outs and planes would land uphill only , so they come to a stop where the ( downhill ) take-off run could begin . But the approaches need to be precise ( we did mixed motor and glider flying ) especially with gliders if you want to keep your fellow glider students happy .
FAA has letters of agreement with US DOD , which authorizes certain military aircraft to fly faster than 250 KIAS below 10,000 feet . A good example of this would be the <URL> , described in <URL> : 12-10-11 . AUTHORIZATIONS T-38 / T-1 airspeeds in excess of 250 KIAS below 10,000 feet MSL are authorized by competent military authority in accordance with FAA Order 7110.65 and the letter of authorization granted to DOD . The reason for this waiver is discussed in <URL> : THE T-38 'S SPD WAS ABOUT 330 KTS ; THE SPD LIMITATION OF 250 KTS HAD BEEN WAIVED FOR T-38 ACFT , DUE TO THE ACFT 'S LACK OF CONTROLLABILITY AT THE LOWER SPD . The relevant letter from <URL> : <URL> Also , from <URL> : 14 CFR Part 91.117 covers aircraft speed . Recognizing that some DoD aircraft performance requirements exceed 250 knots , the FAA issued an exemption to 14 CFR Part 91.117 . The exemption has been claimed for other aircraft too - like <URL> : ... climb-out occurs at 350 KCAS for an air-to-air configured jet and 330 KCAS on one with air-to-ground ordnance . ... this is significantly higher than the 14 CFR speed restriction of 250 knots below 10,000 feet . The F-15E , like most fighter aircraft , falls under the Letter of Agreement between the DoD and FAA allowing some military aircraft a waiver to that speed limit .
The reasons presented at ground school for the benefits of de-rated thrust takeoffs were twofold : less chance of catastrophic engine failure during takeoff less overall wear between overhauls It is from this standpoint that reduced thrust takeoffs are safer . As you point out , these are only authorized when the weights , temperature and runway length allow , but for the EMB-145 virtually every takeoff we did was eligible for reduced thrust . You point about ease of control with an engine out is countered by engine out procedures which involve setting max thrust on the remaining engine ( for two-engine ops ) . During takeoff roll in the EMB-145XR , this puts the other engine at 117 % power . With the exception of flying near $ V _ { MC } $ ( for light twins ) the extra thrust is a benefit and not a hindrance to control and if this is at or after $ V_1 $ you 'll want the thrust to go flying . Your question about a bird strike is going to go one of two ways : the bird hits the N1 fan and goes through the bypass ducting the bird hits the N1 fan and is ingested into the N2 compressor stages In either scenario a reduced thrust vs full thrust takeoff is not going to make a huge difference , but scenario 2 will be far more destructive to the engine than scenario 1 .
Engines must be at idle thrust to enter reverse thrust . This may not be 100 % true of the physical action of engine entering reverse thrust ( opening the buckets or translating the cowling ) , but it is required by the thrust levers . In all airplanes I 'm familiar with the thrust levers must be at idle to enter the reverse regime , In the EMB-145 the reversage was below idle ( i.e. you keep moving the levers aft ) through a gate . Even if the engine is capable of entering reverse thrust not at idle , there is no way to command it without first being at idle .
Power Some models are different in power , a consideration if you intend to operate hot and/or high , or heavy . Otherwise that extra power is mostly fuel-inefficient . Competition In situations where two or more alternatives are available , there 's healthy competition . Engines are around 25 % of the cost of a new aircraft , so there would be a big money to gain when airlines bulk order from a certain company . Boeing took this a step further on the B787 where it 's easier than ever to switch the type of engine to prevent this type of ' vendor lock-in ' . Historically , it was very difficult to switch due to the technical complexity in these systems . Customer Relationship If an airline has good contacts with a manufacturer and know how they work , they may prefer to opt for that comfort when considerable money is on the line . Part Commonality The more type of the same engine you operate , the better economies of scale you achieve . This is especially important as substantial maintenance work is concentrated around the engines . This made for instance American Airlines store Boeing 757 aircraft that it got through a company acquisition that did not have the same engine type as the remaining fleet . This thinking is not limited to your company , but for instance within a group of companies , as heavy maintenance is often centralized . It can even apply across types . For instance , Korean Air ordered 787s and 747-8 both with GEnx engines . To quote GE Aviation on the two slightly different engine types : The -2 B contains an identical core and similar materials as the -1 B , delivering synergies for mixed GEnx fleets
You keep it clean : adding flaps adds drag . You can see this in Section 3 of the Cessna POH , which includes a Maximum Glide ( distance ) diagram . In the C172S POH that I checked , it notes that maximum distance is achieved with : SPEED 68 KIAS PROPELLER WINDMILLING FLAPS UP ZERO WIND ( A tailwind would extend your range , but only in one direction . ) Two other points worth noting : If the engine failure also caused an electrical failure then you wo n't be able to use the flaps anyway ( in models with electrically operated flaps ) You might want to reduce your gliding distance if the best landing spot is relatively close by , and extending flaps is one way to do that ( along with slipping , S-turns or other maneuvers , and extending the gear )
Sweden currently has a surplus of controllers , so you are unlikely to find open positions . However , since you are a qualified controller and speak Swedish , you should be qualified to apply for any position that might come up . I suggest you have a look at LFV , which is the largest Swedish ANSP : www.lfv.se/en
Yes they are . In fact this is required for a static takeoff . A static take-off means setting the brakes and running up the engines to takeoff power then when ready they release the brakes and start the takeoff roll . Besides that one of the test Airliners have to withstand is a worst-case V1 abort . This means starting a takeoff and at the last second slam the brakes , come to a stop and then taxi around for 5 minutes . This all needs to happen fully-loaded and with worn brakes that are still certified safe to use . Between hitting the brakes and coming to a stop the engines will not have time to spool down and stop providing takeoff power . Airliner mechanics also do engine run-up tests essentially powering up the engine and going through the power range and making sure it works as specified . This is usually 1 engine at a time . In these run-up tests loose debris ( including cars ) can be thrown around by the engine blast . So it 's important to keep the area clear .
Well , engines and rotors obey the same laws regarding induced drag ( induced power in this case ) as wings : larger fan/propeller/rotor is more efficient , but limited to lower speeds . And from that , the advantages should be obvious : Tiltrotors ( <URL> , <URL> ) are only a little less efficient in hover than normal helicopters , but they can only go around 300 knots ( both aircraft have max speed quoted at 275 knots ) ; above that , the tips would become supersonic and generate too much drag . These can be built with engines similar to what a comparable fixed-wing turboprop aircraft would need and can cary comparable payloads with only slightly higher fuel burn . The <URL> is a product for civilian market aiming at charter operators supplying oil platforms and similar remote stations where it should be more efficient than helicopter . The main disadvantage is that they are more complex and therefore more expensive to build and maintain . Tiltjets/vectored thrust jets ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) are horribly inefficient in hover , but they can go fast . Jet engine for thrust/weight ratio 1 ( needed for hover ) takes up most of the aircraft , leaving very little room for payload . Such design and thrust/weight ratio is common in fighters , but out of question for anything else . This configuration also consumes a lot of fuel for take-off and landing . Absolutely no way would anything like that be competitive for commercial operation . However , the military is willing to pay it if they can have a fighter jet that can be deployed from an assault ship . And even they prefer conventional aircraft when possible . This is really niche design , but one that offers enough tactical advantage that the Marines and the Royal Navy want it ( US Navy will use the conventional <URL> with <URL> , Royal Navy decided it will be cheaper to use the <URL> <URL> version than upgrading the carrier they are building to <URL> ) . I ca n't really compare maintenance . Obviously both are more complex than conventional aircraft and even than helicopters . But also , anything military is usually much more maintenance intensive than civilian designs , because military usually wants to squeeze out every bit of performance at the cost of simplicity .
I do n't know specifically for a CFM56 , but in general : fan blades are usually identified by a dimple on the spinner ( blade # 1 is next to the dimple and number from there ) . High pressure compressor blades can be identified by special " locking " blades , which will look different from the others . They will have screws in them to " lock " them into place . These line up with a feature on the rotor , so they are always in the same place . Locking blade will be # 1 and number from there . I 'm not sure how high pressure turbine blades are identified . LPT blades are usually identified by finding the # 1 fan blade and rotating it down to bottom dead center . Then the LPT blade at bottom dead center is considered blade # 1 .
You have confused a turboprop engine with a turbocharged engine . They are very different and have very little in common . A turboprop engine is powered by a turbine engine geared to a propeller . Turbine engines have less power available at higher altitudes so answer " A " is correct . A turbocharged engine is a piston engine which is fitted with a small compressor driven by exhaust gas pressure . The compressor ( turbocharger ) can increase manifold pressure to restore sea level power at altitude . ( Turbo-normalized ) A turbo charger can also supply greater than sea level manifold pressure for more power . ( turbo-supercharged ) Both types of turbocharged piston engines can maintain full rated power as they climb , but they will eventually reach a limit where full power can no longer be maintained .
Because spiral instability is easier to address by the pilot than Dutch Roll tendencies . Spiral instability is instability about the longitudinal axis . For example , spiral instability means that if the right wing tip moves down , it continues to move down rolling the plane to the right . Its simple to detect and address with left aileron . Additional information on spiral instability available here : <URL> Dutch Roll causes cross-control-type movements across two axes , the vertical and longitudinal axis , such that when the airplane rolls right , it yaws to the left , then it swings back the other way and rolls left , while yawing to the right . This movement is difficult for the pilot to counteract and the inputs from the pilot can actually amplify these movements . Additional information on Dutch Roll tendancies available here : <URL>
Gradual power loss would not be caused by " air in the fuel lines " . The most likely cause is blocked vents . There are pipes that allow air into the tanks so the fuel will flow out . If they are blocked for any reason , fuel will stop flowing , often in a gradual manner . Another possibility is that there is corrosion or sediment which is blocking the fuel line . Are you checking drain valves on every preflight and after refueling ?
You would be much better off renting the plane in the United States . It will be difficult to find a rental anywhere in the Caribbean , except maybe Puerto Rico . You may want to read Greenspun 's <URL> . It 's a little dated but has good information .
Fuel efficiency . One engine can run more efficiently than two , even if the two have the same power output combined than the one . Friction losses , inertia losses , etc. . . The same thing can be seen in commercial airliners today . Now that gas turbines have reached a very reliable state , and the regulations for overwater flight recognize this , we are seeing large two engine widebodies ( 777 ) replacing four engine widebodies ( A340 ) , partially due to lower maintenance costs ( cheaper to rebuild two large engines than four smaller ones ) but mainly for reasons of fuel consumption . The <URL> that made the round the world unrefueled flight had two engines , but only used both for takeoff and initial climb . After that , the one was shut down for the duration of the flight , for reasons of fuel consumption . Obviously , two engines are more reliable than one , and yes , a single engine long range flight is risky .
No , you can not . Carbon fibre composites always contain a matrix component which serves different functionalities , but ( in a micro nutshell ) bonds and keeps the fibres in place . What you get is a very complex material with lots of lightweight potential , but also very different property profiles compared to metals . Most matrix materials ( thermoset , thermoplastics ) will not work up to engine ( combustion chamber ) temperatures and either degrade/burn or melt/vaporize/burn long before reaching even a meagre few hundred Kelvin ( say , 500K ) . In fact , carbon fibres will not work as well in an oxygenated high-temperature environment , and degrade/burn up as well . One composite material that works and is used already in engines are ceramic matrix composites , like ( amongst others ) e.g. C/C-SiC structures , but those are very special animals ( and even there the carbon fibre parts are susceptible to burn ) . Especially in terms of mechanical properties , these can not compete with superalloys . But also for many other , ambient temperature parts , metals are much better suited . Think of example of a ball bearing - doing that completely in composite will not work really well ( if at all ) .
A good engineer will first check existing designs : How much power is installed in comparable designs ? Use airplanes of similar speed and built quality , such as the <URL> which needs 50 to 60 hp . Cruise speed is 90 knots and the MTOW is 450 kg . Next , try to estimate the minimum wing area . Starting from the <URL> ( = 18 m/s ) , and assuming a maximum lift coefficient with flaps down of 1.6 , the area to support 340 kg at sea level is $ $ S = \ frac { 2 \ cdot m \ cdot g } { \ rho \ cdot c_L \ cdot v ^ 2 } = \ frac { 2 \ cdot 340 \ cdot 9.81 } { 1.225 \ cdot 1.6 \ cdot 18 ^ 2 } = 10.5 m ^ 2 $ $ Now calculate the drag coefficient in cruise , using the <URL> . First , establish the <URL> : $ $ c _ { L _ { opt } } = \ sqrt { c _ { D0 } \ cdot \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } $ $ The total drag coefficient at this point is simply twice the zero-lift drag coefficient $ c _ { D0 } $ , so a low drag design is important . Still , with a fixed gear your zero-lift drag coefficient will hardly be lower than 0.035 , so your cruise lift coefficient is 0.938 ( assuming an aspect ratio $ AR$ of 10 and an Oswald factor $ \ epsilon $ of 0.8 ) , resulting in a flight speed of just 23.51 m/s = 45.7 kts . Total drag at this point is $ $ D _ { min } = 2 \ cdot c _ { D0 } \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } = 249 N$ $ To sustain flight at this point only requires $ P = v \ cdot D$ = 5.85 kW , and assuming a prop efficiency of 0.75 , the installed power should be 7.8 kW . But you want to fly faster , so we need the drag at 100 kts ( = 51.4 m/s ) : $ $ D = \ left ( c _ { D0 } + \ frac { c_L ^ 2 } { \ pi \ cdot \ epsilon \ cdot AR } \ right ) \ cdot S \ cdot \ rho \ cdot \ frac { v ^ 2 } { 2 } $ $ There , your lift coefficient is only 0.196 but the dynamic pressure rises to 1,621 N/mm ² . Since the Reynolds number is higher , your zero-lift drag could drop to 0.031 , resulting in a drag force of 550 N . At that speed , the required power is 28.3 kW . Under the heroic assumption that your prop will still be 75 % efficient at that speed , the installed power needs to be 37.8 kW or 50.65 hp . If you " only " want to achieve a TAS of 100 kt at altitude , here is what you need to do in the case of cruise at 10,000 ft ( = 3048 m ) . First you need the density at that altitude , which is <URL> . This means that the dynamic pressure is 1,191 N/mm ² and the lift coefficient 0.267 , resulting in a drag force of 419 N . This needs a continuous power of 21.56 kW to overcome . Now I assume the 75 % efficient propeller again and that you run the engine at 75 % of max . power , so the installed power in 10,000 ft should be at least 38.3 kW or 51.4 hp . Assuming a normally aspirated engine , this would translate to a rated power of 70 hp at sea level . Considering that similar designs require similar power , this looks about right . Normally , you now need to compute the climb speed with the excess power of 35.15 kW to check how usable this design is , but at 10.5 m/s I doubt this will be not enough . If you manage to include a retractable gear with your limited mass budget , the zero-lift drag might be as low as 0.024 . Now the drag force in cruise at 10,000 ft will be only 324.4 N and the installed rated power at sea level only 40.4 kw or 54 hp . With piston aircraft , your power needs increase with the cube of airspeed . I leave it as an exercise to you to calculate how much more power the last 10 knots require : Repeat the calculation with only 90 kt cruise and your rated engine power can be as low as 51 hp with a fixed gear .
end question
start question
Does anxiety increase the likelihood of developing motion sickness ?
It 's different for everyone , but I 'd expect stress/anxiety to be a contributing factor for many , which is an ultimately self-defeating cycle ; if you " know " you 're going to get sick , you 'll be anxious about that , and that 'll make you sick . The trigger for me is inadequate ventilation . I 'm fortunate enough to rarely get motion sickness , but when it does happen it 's usually because I 'm in a hot , still cabin without a good source of fresh air .
Drag ( and lift ) increases with density . Density decreased and so did drag . So at the same power , you can fly faster . Now I do n't know whether reduction of power of a normally aspirated spark-ignition reciprocating engine at constant throttle setting would be higher or lower than the reduction of drag . But the question says power setting .
Cyclic pumping will likely degrade your performance <URL> e , it leads to rotor inefficiencies As far as moving the cyclic around goes it destroys lift as the TRT vector is all over the place and not acting in one place or close too it and more power is required What is this TRT he 's talking about ? <URL> In a still air hover , TRT is , in broad terms , equal and opposite to weight . As the disc is tilted to commence a transition into forward flight , the TRT vector is tilted and must be increased so that its vertical component remains equal to weight if level flight is to be maintained . With <URL> in mind , pumping the cyclic with the engines working simply means that you need more power from your engine to keep your Nr up to fly , as you are being inefficient . If you have no power , pumping the cyclic is counter productive to your efforts at maintaining Nr since the back and forth creates sequential inefficiencies , and more drag but you have no engine to restore Nr ... and in the situation you describe , your precious Nr is a critical resource to your walking away from the forced landing or crash . Depending on what is happening , a slight turn or flare ( aft cyclic , not foreward ) may load the head and preserve Nr a bit so that it 's still turning with enough inertia to help you as you near the ground and need that cushion from the collective as you hit the ground . Each bit of Nr you retain for that last pull is critical , in that situation . It 's a tough one , the low speed , not-quite-inside-the-Hv-diagram scenario that you presented . Consult the manual for your model helicopter , and the H-V diagram . Know your limitations .
Good question . Another name for the " position of the Zenith " would be the gravity vector . Which for an aircraft is <URL> ( shortest distance to reunite with terra firma ) . Note that it is necessary to subtract acceleration due to gravity from the vertical channel before performing the integration . -- <URL> So the answer is yes , the acceleration due to the gravity vector is corrected . Check the PDF for a detailed description and equations .
There are a lot of differences in the US and European communication . I got my AZF about a year ago and basically you have to do simulated IFR departure and approach . In addition you will have to fill out an IFR flightplan and answer 30 IFR communication questions . I would say it is a similar difficulty like the BZF , it might be even a little bit easier , as you just have to repeat what the controller tells you ( but you still have to be aware where you are ) . An example on how radio communication is done can be found at <URL> or <URL> I would however recommend a training at a flight school ( which costs around 150 Euros ) .
Landing distance is a function of the formula Any change that will increase kinetic energy will require longer landing distances . When we land , the kinetic energy needs to go somewhere . It can be converted into heat with the brakes , opposed with drag from the thrust reversers or deployed spoilers Higher landing speed will cause an increase kinetic energy that must be converted on landing and thus you will have a longer landing distance . Braking , thrust reverser or spoiler issues will increase the landing distance because they will not be as effective ( take more time ) in converting kinetic energy . In a hydraulic issue , most likely the manufacturer has chosen to fly the airplane at a speed greater than needed for a normal landing ( VREF + 20 ) and will most likely not have the ability to use normal braking . Most jets use hydraulic fluid to stop the brakes . In the jets I fly , without normal braking means we use the emergency brakes which are not routed through the anti-skid system so precaution must be taken to not skid the tires . This all adds up to a substantial landing distance penalty . Hare the landing distances for some airplanes . Learjet family : Factor of 3.15 Learjet 45 family : Factor of 2.2 Challenger 604 family : Factor of 1.7 ( braking ) times 1.8 ( airspeed ) for a total of 3.06
A typical discovery flight is about a 30 minute on the ground introduction to the airplane and the cockpit controls , followed by a sightseeing flight of 30-minutes to one-hour . The entire process typically lasts 1 to 2 hours . During the flight , the instructor will have the controls for takeoff , navigation and landing , but may turn the controls over to the passenger for some gentle , easy maneuvers . You can expect to ask numerous questions and have them answered , but you wo n't learn a whole lot about actual flying in a short session . I would advise you to keep your questions to the flight training process , rather than specifics about flying that need more detailed explanations . Some good questions may be : How much ground school does it take to get a license ? How much flight time does it take to get a license ? What are some important milestones along the way to getting a license ? Will I have the same instructor throughout my training ? What supplies do I need for training ? How much should I expect to spend ?
Helicopters use more fuel than airplanes ( considering everything else being equal ) . When helicopters are traveling slow , they need more energy to hold their weight . When traveling fast ( according to their standards ) , the rotor drag is very high . This is the primary reason they need more power . More Power = More Fuel . Conventional aircraft have much less drag at a given weight and speed than a helicopter . Helicopters travel slow . When they burn more fuel per hour and travel slowly , fuel consumption per mile is much worse . They also stay low . Most have turbine engines , turbines burn lots of fuel at low altitudes . Wikipedia has a good article about <URL> . Two-seater and four-seater flying at 250 km/h with old generation engines can burn 25 to 40 liters per flight hour , 3 to 5 liters per 100 passenger km . The Sikorsky S-76C + + twin turbine helicopter gets about 1.65 mpg-US ( 143 L/100 km ; 1.98 mpg-imp ) at 140 knots ( 260 km/h ; 160 mph ) and carries 12 for about 19.8 passenger-miles per gallon ( 11.9 litres per 100 passenger km ) .
The operating procedures for the four airlines I worked for ( 2 commuters and two 747 carriers ) all called for the flying pilot ( which would be the first officer if it was their leg ) to retain control of the airplane until all relevant checklists had been accomplished . That said , it is , of course , the captain 's prerogative to take control at any point . That would , I think , be very unwise to do in the case of an engine failure during takeoff unless the first officer was really screwing up . The greater workload in the 747 during emergency/abnormal procedures lies with the non-flying pilot and the flight engineer ( old 3 man cockpit 747-100s and -200 s ) . The recommended procedure at my last two airlines was , if the captain was flying at the time of the failure , to hand control to the first officer after all relevant checklists had been completed , to thus enable the captain to give his full attention to how best to proceed . My personal and observational experience is that there is little difference between captains and first officers at the 747 level insofar as control manipulation during go/no go situations on the runway in simulators . In fact , I could point you to an accident resulting in the total loss of a 747 when the flying pilot was the Captain , and he elected to abort 30 knots after $ V_1 $ , thus insuring the aircraft would leave the runway .
It 's different for everyone , but I 'd expect stress/anxiety to be a contributing factor for many , which is an ultimately self-defeating cycle ; if you " know " you 're going to get sick , you 'll be anxious about that , and that 'll make you sick . The trigger for me is inadequate ventilation . I 'm fortunate enough to rarely get motion sickness , but when it does happen it 's usually because I 'm in a hot , still cabin without a good source of fresh air .
Depends on the reasons the FAA had to justify the need for a 709 ride . If it was some kind of bureaucratic maneuver without justification for doing so and you pass the ride with flying colors , probably nothing . If there was a serious discrepancy in your airmanship which required a 709 ride to verify improvement on your part , it 's going to depend on whether it was a one time event or a trend in airmanship deficiency resulting in the check ride . In addition have there been further reports of deficiency in your airmanship after the 709 ride ? That will also have an effect on an employer 's judgment of you as a potential employee . Whatever the reasons for the 709 ride , an employer is going to see it , so be prepared to explain anything associated with it . Look at this from the employer 's perspective : I 'm going to put you in charge of a big , heavy multimillion dollar machine that you are going to pilot several miles off the ground at speeds close to that of sound . If anything goes wrong , you 're going to get killed , someone else on board is going to get killed , people on the ground are going to get killed and I 'm going to get sued , go bankrupt , end up in jail , or all three if your negligence can be traced back to me . Is there anything in your background which make me suspicious this is likely to happen if you are in my employ as a pilot ? The fact that you do make mistakes , possibly even serious ones , is not necessarily the issue here ; everybody makes mistakes . The last time you flew on an airliner the flight crew probably screwed something up . People with thousands of PIC hours learn something new on their next flight and it 's a mark of a good pilot that you can identify your own faults and fix them . The Blue Angels have a private saying amongst themselves that " We 've never flown a perfect airshow and we probably never will . But we strive for the perfect airshow each and every flight " . Striving for perfection as a personal motivator is the mark of a good airman and looks good on a resume , no matter how balls up some flight in your logbook was . The real issue here is do you have a recent or chronic history of uncorrected gross negligence or inability to handle the kinds of aircraft a potential employer flies which raises red flags as to your airmanship or trustworthiness . If you have a spotty record or recent 709 ride in your recent past , take a couple of years staying on with your current employer and do an outstanding job . Work on your airmanship and develop a stellar reputation with them as a pilot . That will go a long way to erasing the past , or at least mute its bite . Speaking of trustworthiness , DO NOT LIE TO A PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYER ABOUT A 709 RIDE OR ANY OTHER FAILED CHECKRIDE . Aviation is built upon an honor system and any kind of detected lying or deceitfulness on your part is an automatic fail with no second chances , no matter how squeaky clean your career is up to that point . If they ask about it , tell it like it was , no more , no less , and let the chips fall where they may . It will yield the best possible outcomes , even if you do n't get the job .
If you keep increasing your angle of attack , your drag will increase and combined with the increasing along trajectory component ( your path angle will increase ) of the weight vector will slow you down ( assuming your thrust does not exceed your weight + drag ) . Because you slow down , your lift will decrease . The lift will now be less than the across trajectory component of the weight vector and the flight path will become less steep . I do n't understand your second point . The critical angle of attack is where the maximum lift coefficient occurs . If you increase the angle of attack further , the wing will stall and the lift will decrease . This does not occur at Vx
Yes , it should . In the end , <URL> is just a funny word for the out-of-center shift of the thrust vector , and if the vector is larger , the effect should be equally larger .
Wings are static . The wings do not move in response to emergency door opening . There is no requirement regarding position of flaps , in most cases involving an emergency evacuation after landing , flaps are likely to be extended , but I do n't think this is guaranteed . Evacuation assistance On commercial transport aircraft , there are marked routes on the wing for passengers and , if the exit point is more than 6ft from the ground , there are self-inflating slides that allow passengers to reach the ground . <URL> Image from <URL> Evacuation on water The inflated slides also work as life-rafts in the event that the aircraft comes to rest in water and has to be evacuated . Generally this applies only to slides at main exits , over-wing exits have slides that are not designed to be used in this way . <URL> <URL> Regulations The <URL> say Each passenger-carrying landplane emergency exit ( other than over-the-wing ) that is more that 6 feet from the ground with the airplane on the ground and the landing gear extended must have an approved means to assist the occupants in descending to the ground . The manufacturer must demonstrate that they can evacuate all passengers and crew to the ground within 90 seconds using only half the emergency exits . This applies to aircraft capable of carrying more than 44 passengers . Variations in arrangements by aircraft Not all aircraft need overwing exits and slides . Here are some B757 variants <URL> <URL> <URL> From <URL> Boeing 737 As commenters have noted , the 737 does not have self-inflating slides for its over-wing exits . <URL> <URL> The 737 system does not always work very well Passengers climbed onto both wings , which were slippery due to the rain , but were able to see the markings indicating the direction of movement . It was difficult to see the ground in the dark and some passengers were not aware that they should slide down the flap surfaces . Others expected to find an escape slide . On the left wing , some passengers slid down onto the ground and assisted others . On the right wing , fewer people slid down to the ground , while others re‑entered the cabin and exited it using door escape slides when it was apparent that there were no visible signs of danger . - from <URL>
So it appears that Diamond answered this question for me . See this page : <URL> <URL> From this chart , it would appear that the DA42 has a slightly higher accident rate , and of those accidents , even more are fatal ( which makes sense due to the higher speeds ) . Still loads safer that the SR22 though , and I 'd personally prefer the 42 over water as well .
Generally , a compressor can not work efficiently at supersonic speed due to the shockwaves , the role of the <URL> and diffuser is to slow the air below Mach 1 . There is a similar need for a ramjet , so that the combustion can occur within the engine and produce thrust . The cone position and diffuser geometry are adjusted according to the airspeed . The overall shape of the diffuser is diverging . From <URL> , the diffuser decreases velocity and increases pressure according to : $ \ frac 1 \ rho \ ; dp = - \ mathrm V \ ;d \ mathrm V$ where $ \ rho $ is air density . Look at this video : <URL> for more details about how pressure and velocity are affected in a nozzle / a diffuser . Here is a summary : <URL> The J58 is turbojet within a ramjet . The forward section of the engine has a complex role . It adapts to a large range of speed ( 0 to Mach 3.2 ) and altitude ( 0 to 85,000 ft ) , and modifies the airflow to work either as turbojet , or as a ramjet , depending on the airspeed . <URL> Simplified adjustment of the airflow ( <URL> ) . Actual mechanism used at different airspeed ranges in the J58 : <URL> ( <URL> )
Here is what a lot of people experiences about simulator : they sit on a chair in front of a desk at home , run some PC flight simulator game with a yoke , and they can do pretty much anything - in the simulator . Many of these simulators are very real , especially with quality addons . Since they fly very good in the simulator , they should be good pilots too - after all , you just read the readings on the instruments then react to them ! How hard can that be , huh ? It turns out , we are biologically wired to orient ourselves with our ears . It is the result of evolution , with us staying on the ground for the past million years or so . When we fly , the body sends " wrong " signals to the brain . These signals are interpreted as " instincts " , and since we have trusted our body 's sensation ever since we 're born , they are very hard to fight against . Many new pilots faced trouble reacting to instrument readings , because their biological body is telling them the opposite of what the instrument is indicating , creating doubt . Full-motion simulators solves this problem . The movement of the simulator itself is , obviously , restricted . However , it is designed with ear-balance in mind . For example , the simulator will slowly right itself to upright over time , but the rate of rotation is just under the detection threshold of the ear-balance mechanism . Therefore , the occupants will not feel the simulator platform resetting itself . This allows pilots to practice with the sensation associated with attitude changes , in a controlled environment , with a much lower risk ( and much lower cost ) than flying in a real airplane .
When preparing for a flight , pilots will calculate many things , including their rotation speed . This is the speed in their takeoff roll at which they will start to pitch up , and hopefully the plane <URL> . The rotation speed is dependent on many things such as temperature , altitude , and aircraft weight . My answer <URL> discusses the lift calculations in relation to rotation . That question covered the importance of speed related to weight . More speed is needed to create the lift to take off with a higher weight . When the airplane rotates , it increases the angle of attack of the wing , which increases the lift coefficient ( if the wing does not stall ) . The pilots will pitch up at a certain rate , and they do not stop until they reach a climbout attitude higher than what is possible when the main gear is still on the ground ( <URL> ) . They count on the plane acheiving enough lift during rotation to leave the ground so that they pass that maximum pitch while in the air . If pilots underestimate their weight , they will calculate a lower speed than is necessary to provide the lift for takeoff . This means that when they rotate , the plane does n't have enough airspeed yet to create enough lift to take off . So instead of leaving the ground before fully pitching up , the tail strikes the runway . It may seem like an easy mistake to make , but thousands of pilots do it every day without a problem .
The answer is in two parts . First , at higher speeds , control surfaces have more air moving over them and so they do n't have to angle as much to provide the same force necessary to move the jet as they do at slower speeds . In fact , a thin control surface like this canard will stall at lower angles of attack than a thicker profile would ( the thinner profile reduces drag which is why it 's used here ) , and a stalled surface ca n't do its job . Second , modern jets like the Rafale have fly-by-wire systems with flight limiters , to avoid the pilot overstressing the airframe at high speeds . The first video shows the Rafale in landing configuration , approaching a carrier at maybe 150kts . The second video shows high-G maneuvers at probably between 300 and 400kts . The forces at play on the canard are , in general , related to the square of the speed of the air moving past them , so if the system allowed the canards to present the same angle to a 300-knot flow as a 150-knot flow , all other things being equal the canard would be under 4 times the stress . At 450 knots that canard would be under 9 times the stress . Very quickly you would exceed the mechanical strength of that canard surface entirely , and then you would n't have a canard surface at all . So instead , the canards are moved at a shallower angle , with the difference in pitch rate , up to what the flight limiter will allow the entire aircraft to do , is made up using the elevons on the wings .
The relevant regulation is in 14 CFR 61.1 ( b ) ( 3 ) : Cross-country time means -- ( i ) Except as provided in paragraphs ( ii ) through ( vi ) of this definition , time acquired during flight -- ( A ) Conducted by a person who holds a pilot certificate ; ( B ) Conducted in an aircraft ; ( C ) That includes a landing at a point other than the point of departure ; and ( D ) That involves the use of dead reckoning , pilotage , electronic navigation aids , radio aids , or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point . ( ii ) For the purpose of meeting the aeronautical experience requirements ( except for a rotorcraft category rating ) , for a private pilot certificate ( except for a powered parachute category rating ) , a commercial pilot certificate , or an instrument rating , or for the purpose of exercising recreational pilot privileges ( except in a rotorcraft ) under § 61.101 ( c ) , time acquired during a flight -- ( A ) Conducted in an appropriate aircraft ; ( B ) That includes a point of landing that was at least a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure ; and ( C ) That involves the use of dead reckoning , pilotage , electronic navigation aids , radio aids , or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point . Note that the rule under paragraph ( ii ) ( B ) is " a flight " that includes " a " point of landing more than 50nm from the point of departure . It does not specify that all points of landing must be further than 50nm from the departure point , or even that the first point of landing must be further than 50nm . Since the overall trip was over 50nm , does the FAA allow you to consider that 24nm leg to be part a single overall flight ? Unfortunately , the FAA does n't provide a definition of " flight " in this context . However , it is generally accepted that short stops ( to pick up a passenger , refuel , eat lunch , etc. ) can be logged as part of a single flight . Edit to add : Please also this this <URL> , and especially the <URL> it links to .
end question
start question
How can one determine if a Service Bulletin is still applicable ?
This <URL> . It also says that the Design Approval Holder should make available an easy way to search the SB 's A DAH should develop a robust SB/AD tracking and management system using the following process to ensure overlaps and conflicts between new and existing SB actions are identified and addressed : a. Search capabilities should include the following primary areas : ( 1 ) Make/model or part number of affected product ( s ) , ( 2 ) Major aircraft elements ( e.g. , engine , strut , wing , etc. ) , ( 3 ) ATA code , ( 4 ) Maintenance zones , ( 5 ) Service information ( e.g. , service bulletin number ) , ( 6 ) Airworthiness limitation sections , ( 7 ) Previously issued ADs , and ( 8 ) Planned ADs ( i.e. , action ( s ) that the FAA proposes to mandate in an AD ) . This puts the ownership on the company a bit . The <URL> so you can check if they still list it as current . There is also a bit of duality between service bulletins and Air worthiness directives . SB 's are issued by the company if they feel there is a safety hazard to the aircraft . Most importantly , unless they are issued alongside an AD they may not be mandatory . You can <URL> that goes into it a bit more .
Yes . <URL> To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating you must : ( a ) Be at least 18 years old . ( b ) Be able to read , speak , write , and understand English . If you can not read , speak , write , and understand English because of medical reasons , the FAA may place limits on your certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of light-sport aircraft . ( c ) Hold at least a sport pilot certificate with category and class ratings or privileges , as applicable , that are appropriate to the flight instructor privileges sought . A CFI never needs a medical certificate . It is not required for the operation of that certificate . A medical certificate may be required if the CFI has additional roles . For example , the CFI also is acting as the legal pilot in command . A sport pilot acting as the legal pilot in command does not need a medical . <URL> ( b ) Operations not requiring a medical certificate . A person is not required to hold a medical certificate -- ( 1 ) When exercising the privileges of a student pilot certificate while seeking -- ( i ) A sport pilot certificate with glider or balloon privileges ; or ( ii ) A pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating ; ( 2 ) When exercising the privileges of a sport pilot certificate with privileges in a glider or balloon ; ( 3 ) When exercising the privileges of a pilot certificate with a glider category rating or balloon class rating in a glider or a balloon , as appropriate ; ( 4 ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate with -- ( i ) A sport pilot rating in a glider or balloon ; or ( ii ) A glider category rating ; ( 5 ) When exercising the privileges of a flight instructor certificate if the person is not acting as pilot in command or serving as a required pilot flight crewmember ; ( 6 ) When exercising the privileges of a ground instructor certificate ; To answer your questions . A sport pilot or CFI will never need a medical because the operation does not require a medical but a valid driver 's license . A glider pilot or CFI never needs a medical or drivers license , if I am reading the regulation correctly . A sport CFI does not require a CPL as does a regular CFI . The CPL requirement is found under part 61 subpart H Subpart H -- Flight Instructors Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating § 61.183 Eligibility requirements . To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must : ( c ) Hold either a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with : But subpart H specifies Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating . The rules for sport CFI are found in subpart K where no such requirement is found . ( see 61.403 above ) It does not relieve the pilot or CFI from adhering to <URL> though .
Yes , absolutely . The skin transfers shear stresses between the <URL> which run lengthwise along the fuselage and transmit tensile or compressive stress . Cutouts and openings ( for doors and windows ) need special local reinforcements , so the reduced structure can still withstand the loads . Equally , the wing skin is the main element for the transmission of torsional loads . In today 's airliners , the spar is part of the skin , but the wing skin ahead and aft of it is also a part of the primary structure . Generally , stress follows stiffness . When a structure is loaded , it will deform , and those parts which withstand deformation most will carry most of the load . In the end , all parts which have similar stiffness will carry loads in proportion to their cross section . Since most of an airliner 's structure is made from aluminum , it has the same stiffness . See <URL> for one example clearly showing fuselage skin deformation .
Fly ? No . Wings generally only produce enough lift to keep an aircraft aloft when air is flowing over them in their intended direction . If you reverse the airflow over the wing ( by moving backwards in the air , for example ) the wing would no longer be producing the necessary lift , and the aircraft would " descend at an extremely rapid rate " until a normal airflow over the wings was restored . ( That 's the polite way of saying " the darn thing falls out of the sky like a rock ! " ) Move ? Yes . At least on the ground . This has been demonstrated on more than one occasion by <URL> , the C-130 that supports the Blue Angels . While the propellers themselves do not reverse , the blade pitch is changed to produce reverse thrust ( slowing the aircraft the same way thrust reversers do on a jet engine , and in this case reversing its direction of travel ) . Note that there is one notable exception to the " airplanes ca n't fly backwards " rule , <URL> : If the wind velocity exceeds the aircraft 's stall speed it 's possible for an aircraft to " fly " at its minimum airspeed , but be moving backwards relative to the ground . This is a bit of a cheat though : The airplane still thinks it 's flying forward ( the relative velocity of the wind over the wings is in the " normal " direction , and the airspeed is fast enough to create enough lift to sustain flight ) . It just happens the the airspeed includes a headwind component sufficient to give the aircraft a net " negative " groundspeed . The hypothetical P-51 in your question would require sustained winds of about 83 knots to make this trick work ( we generally call that a hurricane ) , but something like a <URL> can do it at much more reasonable wind speeds .
This sort of FOD is often not an immediate problem , however introducing any slight knick or gouge to a propeller could be the beginning of a stress fracture . The last thing you want is a catastrophic prop failure whilst flying ! The correct course of action , much like any minor damage to the airframe , is to note it in the logs , have a mechanic look at it , and make the call if a repair is necessary .
After watching the video the problem he was having was in keeping it horizontal . It appears that the software is n't able to control the unpowered motors . I know absolutely nothing about quads but I 'm assuming with a fixed rotor pitch they must use variable voltage to the motor to control everything such as translational movement . I 'm also assuming they have an accelerometer to determine pitch . The first question is how accurate the accelerometer is at low g 's . Second , when in free fall if a rheostat that is controlled by the computer could be connected across the sides of the motor then your problem could be solved . The freewheeling motors will create a voltage just like a generator so a rheostat would be able to control the current and thus the mechanical resistance to the motor . The rheostat will have an inverse relationship with the mechanical resistance ( more electrical resistance less mechanical resistance ) . How linear that relationship is you 'll have to experiment with . If you have the software switch to controlling that resistance it should be able to direct the freefall in the same way it does everything under power , only it will be more limited In its authority . If you do it right you might even be able to use the power generated to recover a little bit of the energy from the fall to charge the batteries like a hybrid car does . Like I said , I know absolutely zero about quadecopters so I ca n't fill in any details , but it seems feasible .
Here are some things you can do , there are probably more . I 'm assuming you 're mainly interested in checking COM , not NAV . Controlled airport Check if you can hear the ATIS , Ground or Tower ; if you can , then at least you know you can receive . But you might as well just call Ground immediately and ask for a radio check . The <URL> is " how do you hear me ? " : Bowman Ground , N12345 , radio check please . How do you hear me ? Uncontrolled airport Listen to the AWOS , if there is one , to determine if you can receive . Ask UNICOM or another aircraft to give you a radio check . If none of those options are available then you can use a handheld airband transceiver to test . Tune it to the frequency you 're listening on and click transmit a few times , as if you 're turning on pilot-controlled lights ( PCL ) . If you hear the clicks in your headset , you can receive . To test transmission , do the opposite : click the transmit button on the yoke and listen on the handheld . Airborne You could call Approach , Center or FSS ; try activating the nearest PCL ( works best at night ) ; tune and identify a navaid ( that does n't verify COM works , but at least you know something 's working ) ; listen to 121.5 ( <URL> ) because there 's usually some bored pilot asking for sports scores on it and some other equally bored pilot yelling at him to " stop talking on <URL> " . Troubleshooting As always , if you have any problems with transmitting or receiving do some basic troubleshooting first : check you have the correct radio selected ; check you have the correct frequency ; check the volume controls on your headset and/or panel ; turn the squelch up/down/off ; check your headset is plugged in correctly ; if you have a right-seat passenger , see if they can hear/transmit ; and anything else you can think of .
As I pointed out in <URL> of mine , it is not legal to use a cell phone in flight , and as <URL> to the same question says , it really does n't work very well anyway . . Now , if the pilot has an emergency , they can exercise the emergency authority of the PIC as allowed in <URL> ( b ) to go ahead and use the cell phone . If it is just the radio failure though , that is n't usually an emergency since there are other procedures in place for radio failures . Radio Failure Procedures <URL> contains the procedures to use in the event of a radio failure . Basically , if the pilot is in visual conditions ( VMC ) and can remain that way , they should fly VFR ( visually ) and land as soon as practical . If they ca n't remain in VMC then there are a number of rules which spell out the route and altitude that they should fly , as well as when they should start an instrument approach . Once they get to an airport they will still need to get clearance to land if it is a towered airport . <URL> covers that , and basically the tower will communicate with the pilot via light gun signals : <URL>
Mainly by the soon to happen descent and landing , probably at a place you were n't expecting to go . :) If you are seated behind the wing , you might be able to see smoke or flames coming out of the engine , but other times it will just quit with no visible indicaion , depending on the cause of the failure . Sometimes ( usually just after takeoff when the airplane is slow ) it is obvious and you can tell by the change in the sound of the airplane ( one side suddenly gets quiet or there might be a loud bang depending on why it failed ) , a sudden yaw in one direction ( the nose pulls to one side ) , and an abrupt pitching down of the nose ( done by the pilot to maintain flying speed ) . Other times ( like during a descent with plenty of speed and the engines at idle , or when the center engine of a three engine airplane fails ) it can be hard for even the pilot to tell without looking at the instrumentation , so you probably wo n't notice it . Another major clue would be when the seatbelt sign unexpectedly coming on , without an announcement or indication of turbulence , and the flight attendants suddenly putting things away and getting ready for landing , especially when you are n't close to your destination . Being briefed for an emergency landing is also a dead giveaway ( no pun intended ) .
It is in the <URL> allright . <URL> As @Dave pointed out , this value can change depending on configuration and other limitation/alterations .
This depends on how the systems are plumbed , and while this is likely an exception , for some airplanes like the EMB-145 , the answer is yes . The EMB-145 has 2 hydraulic systems . System # 1 serviced the outboard brakes and system # 2 serviced the inboard brakes and the parking brake . The parking brake actuated all of the brakes and this let you transfer fluid between the systems through the outboard brakes . This is n't a normal procedure , but one maintenance would walk you through if you had low fluid in one system and more than you needed in the other to balance the systems if you were out somewhere without the ability to service the hydraulic fluid . The procedure was either Depress and hold toe brakes Set parking brake Release toe brakes Release parking brake or the opposite , depending on which way you wanted to transfer fluid . This works in flight or on the ground ( <URL> )
The key issue that determines the aircraft speed is economics . Airlines fly the aircraft that make most sense economically - which is rarely , if ever , the fastest speed possible ( more speed equals more drag usually , which reduces fuel economy ) . More fuel efficient the aircraft is , better the range/passenger capacity , making airlines more money . The top speed of the ( subsonic ) aircraft has changed only a little in the past few decades - most developments have been geared up towards improving fuel efficiency , not increasing speed ( speed alone does n't make economic sense to airlines ; look at what happened to Concorde ) . There is another issue here - most of the passenger aircraft fly in high subsonic ( transonic ) regime . As a result , the airliners are flown below the <URL> , beyond which the drag increases rapidly . This limits the aircraft speed . As a related point , due to the high altitudes at which the aircraft are flown is that there is <URL> between the stall speed ( lowest speed possible ) and critical mach number ( highest speed possible beyond which flow separates due to local supersonic flow ) . This limits the practical options available to the pilot .
As long as there are load-bearing structures beneath the fiber ( I do n't know how strong that fiber is so I will assume it is fabric-like ) , it will most likely fly if designed properly . If the fiber is smooth , it should n't be much different than regular fabric or other composite skins . And yes , there are plenty of sailplanes that self launch with electric or gas motors . You would just have to take into account the weight and position of the motor when you add it in . This could mean that you need to lengthen the tail section for more tail down force , move the seats further back , place the engine in a more neutral CG position above the fuselage on a pylon , or any number of other methods . You might then also need to increase the wing surface area a bit , to lift the extra weight . Also take into account the weight and position of the batteries . The design effects and considerations are pretty straightforward , but dealing with them may or may not be complicated . The Soviets tried in the 1930 's to make an invisible spy plane ( an AIR-6 I believe ) by replacing the cloth skin with a cellophane-like material so that its entire was transparent . At just a few thousand feet the engine could be heard but the plane was almost completely invisible . Unfortunately the cellophane-like material would rapidly degrade after a few flights or several days out in the sun . It seems like your idea would be the modern version of that endeavor .
NOTE : as pointed out in the comments , none of these quick verification steps actually guarantees that the airplane you clambered into is certified for LPV approaches , or for IFR GPS usage at all ! On boot , a 430W will display that it 's a 430W : Aside from that , I 'm sure there 's a version info screen somewhere ( on both G1000 and GNS430 ) , but the best solution I can think of is to check the satellite status screen . I 'm trying to find examples of a 430W displaying it , and failing , but on a G1000 , you 'll see this : <URL> ( <URL> ) If the G1000 supports WAAS , it 'll display that under the ' SBAS Selection ' header and you 'll see satellites at the bottom numbered in the 100s - , , , etc - all the 100-series satellites are the WAAS augmentation satellites . The satellites augmented by WAAS will also have a " D " at the bottom of the signal strength column .
The 747-300 was somewhat of a cross between -200 and SP . The -300 was almost same as the -200 except for the increased length of the hump . The -300 was never a success and was soon overshadowed by the -400 . The 747SP was the result of a requirement for longer range aircraft . Boeing engineers basically <URL> . However , by the time it flew for the first time , commercial air travel had changed ( in no small part due to the high oil prices ) and the model never sold as much as Boeing had hoped . However , when it was observed that there were no adverse effects when the rear of the cockpit lined up with the front of the wing , Boeing introduced the 747-300 with increased length of the hump with little else in terms of major change from -200 . However , just two years after -300 was introduced , Boeing introduced the -400 , which was a significant improvement - it eliminated the flight engineer , increased range among others , while retaining the -300 's hump ( which meant more economy seats ) . 747-400 is the most successful model of the series , with more than 690 orders . Most airlines jumped straight to the -400 , effectively killing the -300 . Actually , the 747-200 production ( with over 390 made ) ended after the -300 version ( of which only 81 were made ) . So they are more of contemporaries . Also , it 'll be a stretch to call that the older 747 versions are still in passenger service . 747-100 is <URL> , <URL> hardly qualify as passenger service and the most successful of these , the 747-200s are also <URL> , if you discount the VC-25s flying around with US President ( which are slated to be replaced by 747-8s ) .
No , you can not . <URL> : ( c ) Instrument experience . Except as provided in paragraph ( e ) of this section , a person may act as pilot in command under IFR or weather conditions less than the minimums prescribed for VFR only if : [ instrument currency requirements ] To accept an IFR clearance as PIC , even in VMC , you must be instrument current .
It is no problem to have the same call sign on the same day . As long as the same call sign is not uses at the same time there is no problem . For VFR flights , the same call sign can even be used at the same time as long as it is not in the same airspace . Many of the ADS-B duplicated call signs on a single are aircraft registrations coded in the transponder 's aircraft ID field , typically from General Aviation flights
The standard operating procedures state that before every flight , a thorough pre-flight inspection should be performed . Depending on the aircraft , minute and tiny details are not even omitted . Things do not normally and occasionally fall off from a flying airplane , the same way as different objects do not fall from a driving car , although the pre-drive inspection of a car is no where nearly as comprehensive as the pre-flight inspection . Yet , how many times we have seen a bumper , guard , muffler or rear-view mirrors falling off ? How dangerous it would be when it happens ? This depends on the part which has fallen . Some parts are not noticeable until landing or next inspection and some can cause disasters . <URL> reports <URL> : No deaths or injuries have been reported in such incidents , but the Federal Aviation Administration is not even 100 percent certain of that . The proper term for this incident is Things Falling Off Aircraft ( TFOA ) . The pilot must then submit a <URL> within 24 hours in case the material can cause further harm . <URL> has listed some TFOA incidents : In August 2000 , a KLM Royal Dutch Airlines Boeing 747 was forced to make an emergency landing when some engine pieces plummeted to the ground and landed on a crowded Los Angeles beach On March 10 , 2005 , a couple taking a stroll through woodlands near Gatwick airport had a lucky escape when a door from a passing British Airways jet , crashed to earth . A part of the 70-pound door from a Boeing 777 had become dislodged just after take off and missed the couple by only 20 feet ! On August 11 , 2006 , a door fell off from a TAM Fokker 100 from Sao Paulo to Rio de Janeiro . It dropped off 18 minutes after departure but the plane was able to return to Sao Paulo without incident . Nobody was injured . An engine exploded on a Japan Airlines flight bound for Tokyo with pieces of the engine falling on a neighborhood in Jakarta . The falling debris hurt no one but 16 homes were damaged . The right wheel of a Blue Panorama Airlines Boeing 737 fell off after it departed from an airport in Spain and was forced to make an unscheduled landing amid emergency in Rome . A similar incident happened near Los Angeles where an American Airlines Boeing 757 lost its right nose gear but managed to land safely with 105 passengers on board . A landing gear door fell off a Delta Airlines Boeing 727 shortly after the plane took off from Boston * s Logan International Airport . The 30-pound metal door crashed into an empty street in a quiet residential neighborhood .
In short , the scheme is as follows : Busier airports get 3-letter identifiers . Less busy public-use airports usually get 2 numbers and a letter , sometimes 1 number and 2 letters . Less busy private airports ( which is almost all private airports ) get 2 letters and 2 numbers . More specifically , the FAA assigns airport identifiers ( and location identifiers in general ) according to the guidance laid out in section 1-2-7 of <URL> . 3 Letter Identifiers For airports , 3-letter identifiers are assigned to airports that meet the following criteria : Airports : ( a ) with a manned air traffic control facility . ( b ) with a navigational aid ( NAVAID ) within airport boundaries . ( c ) that receive scheduled route air carriers . ( d ) that receive military airlift services . ( e ) designated by the U.S. Customs Service as Airports of Entry . or Public use airports commissioning Automated Weather Observations Systems , level III ( AWOS-III ) or higher that have paved runways 5,000 feet or longer . 1 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Most one − number , two − letter identifiers have been assigned to aviation weather reporting and observation stations and special − use locations . Some of these identifiers may be assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : In this identifier series , the number is always in the first position of the three − character combination . For example , 1AD would be a valid code . 2 Number , 1 Letter Identifiers Most one − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to public − use landing facilities within the United States and its jurisdictions , which do not meet the requirements for identifiers in the three − letter series . The format of these codes is as follows : One − letter , two − number identifiers are keyed by the alphabetical letter . The letter may appear in the first , middle or last position in the combination of three characters . For example , 25M , 8M1 , or M72 are all valid codes . 2 Number , 2 Letter Identifiers Two − letter , two − number identifiers are assigned to private − use landing facilities in the United States and its jurisdictions which do not meet the requirements for three − character assignments . The format of these codes is as follows : They are keyed by the two − letter Post Office or supplemental abbreviation ( listed below ) of the state with which they are associated . The two − letter code appears in the first two , middle , or last two positions of the four − character code . For example , TN01 , 1CA3 , or 50SD would be valid codes . The order continues to list a table of supplemental codes that can be used instead of the state 's mail code . This allows for states whose mailing codes would n't work well as part of the identifier and also for states which need more than the 300 private airport registration codes possible with a given 2-letter sequence in this format . Changes to Existing Identifiers Airport identifiers are preferred to keep the same code once it 's assigned , except in exceptional circumstances . According to section 1-2-4 of the same document : Location identifiers are considered permanent and will not be changed without strong and documented justification , primarily concerning air safety or a significant change of landing facility status . As a result of this , it 's possible for an airport which now meets the qualifications for a 3-letter identifier to still have an identifier containing numbers due to it not having met the requirements for three letters when it was assigned . <URL> is an example of this . It has an AWOS-III and a paved runway longer than 5,000 feet , but still retains the code 8A3 , which was assigned before the runway was lengthened .
I always track my flights , so here is my experience : App using offline maps As it has been said , you will need an app which can download maps prior to the flight . I never had a flight with onboard wifi , but I guess , there 's usually a data volume constraint , which could make it expensive . I use <URL> ( Android ) , which is an offline navigation system for cars etc. . The maps can be obtained from within the app , the user has the choice between free maps from the <URL> project and TomTom maps , which you have to pay . The maps can be downloaded per country , and big maps are subdivided into smaller pieces . For example , the very detailed map for Germany is divided into four parts , together about 0.8 GB of data . The entire USA can be downloaded per state , all together 1.7 GB . It 's possible to configure several fields at the bottom of the screen to display speed , altitude , GPS coordinates , distance to destination and so on . I mainly use this app to explore a country ( e.g. by car ) on vacation , but it 's also fun to use it on board to see what 's that location below us . You may switch off speed camera warning . I once got a warning over Switzerland . The 840km/h were well above the max speed limit of 120km/h , and the fine should have been in the order of seizing all property of the airline . For some reason , the pilot did n't care ... OK , lots of advantages , but there 's also a drawback : The app can not just record your flight , though a menu for tracking exists . Nor can it display your currently covered track . It can only record a track when it 's navigating you , but you do n't want to hear " turn around ! turn around ! " all the time ... Tracking app Again , there should be thousands of apps out there . I 'm using <URL> , which can also display your position / track on an online map . So , you just see a point moving on a gray screen while flying . However , this app allows to record your track , with up to one point per second , and at the end , you can export it as GPX file , which is the standard . It can be opened by many map tools , also by googles MyMaps or what it 's called . The file contains coordinates , precision , time , altitude , speed , number of satellites and course . One hint : This app makes a sanity check between speed reported by the GPS module and speed calculated from recorded points . If this fails , it does n't display/record any speed . This often happens onboard , so switch this check off . Here is a flight from Düsseldorf ( DUS ) to Las Palmas , Gran Canaria ( LPA ) , including altitude profile , drawn with Marble ( Linux KDE program ) : <URL> Precision An airliner is usually made of aluminum , which makes it a huge faraday 's cage . The reception of any radio waves is very limited ( through the windows ) , and so is GPS . And as GPS needs a line of sight to several satellites spread as much as possible over the entire sky , the only chance is to have a window seat . There , I usually get a very good GPS signal , while it 's already very bad to unusable on the next seat , and do n't even think about it on the aisle seat . Having a window seat , I usually get a good signal . While taxiing , the precision is quite good , as on this flight from Frankfurt ( FRA ) : <URL> Of course , the strength and accuracy of the GPS signal relies on the quality of the GPS module of your phone . My last phone was n't so good , I often had jumps of several 100m sidewards , or from 7000m to 10000m altitude . This is just because accuracy comes with the number of satellites , which usually increases with altitude . And : The first aim of GPS is to locate your position , the altitude usually is less important . With my current phone , I do n't see such problems . No sudden steps aside , and altitude and speed were quite the same as displayed on the entertainment system . Well , not entirely . I noticed my phone showing an altitude about 50m too high when landing on my last flight . The 20m shown by the entertainment system were plausible , as the airport was nearly on sea level / in the sea . But the too high altitude was still there , even at the beach . Keep in mind the earth is n't a sphere , it 's an ellipsoid , though even that 's not correct , it 's more like a potato . So , sea level is n't the same everywhere . High quality/price GPS receivers know this and contain data to compensate it , but cheap ones just use the ellipsoid model . ( However , 50m is nothing during flight , and what do you expect from a phone inside the cabin ... ) More hints For a working GPS , the receiver needs a list of all GPS satellites and their precise orbits ( " almanach " ) , current time and its rough position . If it does not have its rough position , it takes much more time to get a fix ( first GPS position ) . And if it does n't have a recent almanach , it has to listen to the satellites for a while , as they slowly broadcast it . As reception of radio signals is quite difficult inside the cabin , it may be very hard to get a fix , and even impossible to get the almanach . So , it 's good practice to prepare your phone before the flight , as
end question
start question
What does the suction gauge actually show ?
According to the diagram below from a <URL> the gauge shows the difference between vacuum line and the ambient pressure : The pressure difference between the ambient and the vacuum line drives the airflow which spins the gyros in you instruments . In the Socata design , there is an implicit assumption that the air filter is not blocked . If the filter would be blocked , the suction gauge would probably exceed the green area unless the vacuum relief valve opens before the red is reached . If your vacuum pump stops working , the dial will fall to its lower stop . If the air filter is blocked , and both the vacuum pump and the vacuum relief valve working properly , the dial should exceed 5 inHg . Other designs are a bit more fault tolerant in the sense that they do not make any assumptions on the working of the filter or the relief valve . In the examples below ( thanks to voretaq7 ) the suction gauge indicates the pressure difference over the instrument itself , which is a more robust presentation of how the system is performing .
Feathering is not engine starting , and also is not used in turbine ( excluding turboprop ) aircraft . In a piston or turbo prop aircraft , in the event of an engine failure , to decrease drag so you can either glide farther or have better performance on the remaining engine ( s ) , you can set the prop pitch lever so instead of facing at a right angle to drive air backwards and produce thrust , the propeller will instead turn edge-first into the airstream , reducing drag . Not all propeller airplanes have this capability , but it 's an added safety feature . In motorgliders ( both light sport aircraft and primary ) without retracting blades , the feathering position turns the prop so that the edge faces into the airstream and also locks the propeller so it no longer turns .
I 'd suggest that you review the topic of <URL> , first , and then review how a <URL> works as it does n't sound like you 're very familiar with engine components ; I 've never heard of a ' pressure chamber ' or ' fire output controller ' . Modern jet aircraft technically do n't use throttles ; rather they are equipped with thrust levers which are connected to a Fuel Control Unit ( FCU ) . This can come in the form of a mechanical computer in the case of earlier engines or a digital electronic computer called a Fully Authority Digital Engine Controller ( FADEC ) , similar to the schematic in <URL> for the F100 fighter engine installation on the F-16 airplane . Early jet aircraft did use a throttle - literally a cockpit lever connected to a throttleable valve to precisely meter fuel into the combustion chamber ( s ) of the engine . This could be problematic to operate in flight as the fuel rate has to be changed as altitude - and consequently combustor inlet conditions - changes , making the engine vulnerable to flameouts from excessively rich fuel flow and compressor stalls from abrupt throttle changes . FCUs were developed , specific to each engine to offer simplified control .
Lets cover your specific questions first . Let 's say someone has a helicopter license and wants to get their private pilot ? Do they have to take a knowledge test ? ( it appears I was initially incorrect and the knowledge test does not need to be <URL> below ) <URL> you do n't need to retake the knowledge test ( b ) Additional aircraft category rating . A person who applies to add a category rating to a pilot certificate : ( 1 ) Must complete the training and have the applicable aeronautical experience . ( 2 ) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation . ( 3 ) Must pass the practical test . ( 4 ) Need not take an additional knowledge test , provided the applicant holds an airplane , rotorcraft , powered-lift , weight-shift-control aircraft , powered parachute , or airship rating at that pilot certificate level . The FAR 's pretty much cover all the the various cases however they can be a bit confusing . What if someone is a sports pilot and wants to upgrade to a private pilot , what do they have to do ? How do you figure it out ? In terms of endorsements you must obtain an endorsement for what ever it is you are going to do ( exam , practical test , etc. ) even if you have a license in another class or category . For example if you are going to take the PPL check ride you need an endorsement for that check ride ( even if you have a sport pilots license ) . Now when it comes to training things may differ . Your training for a PPL will obviously be shorter if you have a sport pilots license but you will still be required to take the Private Pilots Single Engine Land written test and practical test and receive endorsements to do so , to get a PPL . This site covers the <URL> nicely . If you are transitioning from sport to private I would imagine you may be able to complete all the requirements for a PPL without having received the student solo endorsement since you could in theory have accomplished all your solo flight requirements as a sport pilot . Personal Note : Its always a good idea to speak with your DPE before taking any practical test and ask what endorsements he is expecting to see in your log book ( which should be the ones that are required and no more ( or less for that matter ) ) . When I went for my check ride the wording for the PPL practical endorsement had changed recently and he warned me that many instructors mess up the wording or the pre printed ones in the log book are out of date and it can be an issue . I had my instructor add the necessary line before I went for my check ride .
If the RVR is less than the minimum value that can be measured , M will precede this value e.g. R24L/M0050 . If measured in ft , then FT will follow . For example : R24L/M0200FT For greater than can be measured and trends : If the RVR is greater than the maximum value that can be measured , P will precede this value e.g. R24L/P1500 . If RVR trends can be measured then U , D , or N will follow the RVR value to indicate increasing , decreasing or no change respectively . Source : <URL>
If a door is put into armed mode , it will trigger the <URL> when the door is opened . Prior to departure ( usually before engine startup ) , all the aircraft doors are placed into the armed ( or automatic ) mode by the cabin crew . Methods of arming vary from aircraft to aircraft , but ultimately the girt bar ( a metal bar attached to the door end of the slide ) is physically attached to brackets either in or adjacent to the door sill . [ ... ] If a rapid evacuation is required and the doors are opened while " armed " , the opening of the door pulls the slide pack out of the bustle ( because the girt bar is physically attached to the aircraft floor ) This is also the reason for the famous <URL> : DOORS TO ARRIVAL AND CROSSCHECK " Flight attendants , doors to arrival and crosscheck . " Meaning : Occasionally heard as " disarm your doors and crosscheck , " and announced by the lead flight attendant or purser as a plane approaches the gate . The intent is to verify disarming of the emergency escape slides attached to the doors . When armed , a slide will automatically deploy the instant its door is opened . Disarmed , it needs to be deployed manually . On departure the slides are armed to facilitate an emergency evacuation . ( You might hear this as " doors to automatic . " ) Upon docking , they 're disarmed to keep them from billowing into the boarding tunnel or onto the apron during servicing . The orange or yellow tape is a visual indicator for ground workers or ramp agents that the doors are armed or not armed . The visual indicator can vary , it can also be built into the door lock mechanism , triggering a visual indicator externally if the door is locked and armed . In the following picture , the orange tape is not strapped over the window , which should indicate an unarmed door . In the video that this image is taken from , the flight attendant has just locked and possibly armed the door , the other flight attendant would place the orange tape over the door window during " cross-check " . ( Image Source : <URL> - Author : Exupery747 )
Yes . In the Navy , our primary source of altitude indication under 5,000 ft is the radar altimeter . The AGL over the ocean conveniently also happens to be the MSL as well .
Your question is based on an incomplete picture of how aircraft work , I 'm afraid . As a passenger on any major airline , the only lead you are likely to encounter is in the shielding on the security x-ray machines . Fact : leaded fuel is relatively uncommon First , tetraethyl lead is only present in what we call avgas - it is most often sold these days as 100LL ( 100-octane low-lead ) aviation gasoline . Avgas is only used in piston ( reciprocating piston ) engines . Very few commercial aircraft in this day and age are powered by piston engines ; most airliners are turbine-powered ( jet or turboprop engines ) and are fueled by Jet A , a variation on kerosene . Fact : exhaust should n't be in the cabin anyway Second , even if you happen to be flying in a light aircraft with a piston engine ( or old , think Douglas DC-3 in Alaska ) , you should n't actually encounter any lead . The cabin air intakes are positioned intentionally to avoid any exhaust entering the cabin . If exhaust carrying lead particles was reaching the cabin , you 've probably got bigger and more immediate problems with carbon monoxide poisoning anyway .
Since the 1960 's and 1970 's when political hijackings were a problem , airplanes started to only carry the fuel required for the flight . This means a typical fuel load will be something on the order of : taxi fuel at the departure airport fuel to fly and land at the destination at a given altitude and forecast winds if an alternate is needed : fuel to fly to the alternate airport 45 minutes of reserve fuel perhaps a bit extra for contingency and to keep captains happy ( e.g. 5-15 minutes worth of fuel ) . For a normal flight this means you 'll land with around 45-60 minutes of fuel on board , sometimes less . You 'll fill up for the next leg at this airport while you deplane and enplane passengers . Fuel at the hub airports is sometimes a bit cheaper due to the fuel contracts the airline can secure when they order massive amounts of fuel every day . Fuel at outstations that do n't see a huge volume of fuel may be quite a bit more expensive . In this case , and if your weights allow , the airline may elect to load extra fuel that is n't needed . The purpose of this is so you do not need to buy as much fuel at higher prices at the outstation . I only saw this happen operationally when we were going to be very light and the outstation fuel was very expensive . Usually our loads were high enough that we were struggling to get all 50 passengers , bags , and especially jumpseaters on board with the required fuel load . In that case it would not be economical to take more fuel because we 'd have to take fewer passengers .
There are a lot of differences in the US and European communication . I got my AZF about a year ago and basically you have to do simulated IFR departure and approach . In addition you will have to fill out an IFR flightplan and answer 30 IFR communication questions . I would say it is a similar difficulty like the BZF , it might be even a little bit easier , as you just have to repeat what the controller tells you ( but you still have to be aware where you are ) . An example on how radio communication is done can be found at <URL> or <URL> I would however recommend a training at a flight school ( which costs around 150 Euros ) .
What does svc tar/ssr u/s mean ? Terminal area surveillance radar and secondary surveillance radar ( raw radar return and the secondary return from your transponder ) is unserviceable . If you were VFR you could practice the approaches without ATC radar vectoring , or ATC could give you a non-radar routing via an airway , then transition route , then the instrument approach procedure . In other words , the area for the time being ( NOTAM period ) has no radar . Non-radar procedures would be utilized . If the local ATC area was normally a radar environment and the radar equipment was taken down for preventive maintenance ( for example ) , providing separation for practice approaches may be more than they are willing to do . In the US ATC system , controllers are initially trained , tested , and qualified using a non-radar environment at the FAA Academy . Non-radar approach control is infrequently necessary in actual operation ( unless it is in an area where radar coverage is not available full time , which is becoming rare in the US ) . Call the local ATC Approach Control in the area you are referring to and see what services they can provide .
As the US military primarily flies and trains in US airspace , they use the standard measures associated with the airspace . That is feet ( or flight levels ) , nautical miles and knots , inHg , and ° F. Though , using ° C is fairly common in the US now since weather reports shifted to the ICAO format . That said , the cockpit systems can be switched to HPa and meters for altitude and ° C for temp for when they fly in airspace where that is the standard . Speed and distance are always in nm and kts .
Flameout basically means that the flame in the combustion chamber has been extinguished . A jet engine compresses air , then adds fuel and ignites it . So , it needs three things to function correctly - fuel , air ( oxygen ) , and the heat to make them burn . <URL> . It can happen for a number of reasons : fuel starvation - <URL> suffered flameout ( due to wrong amount of fuel being put ) and had to be landed like a glider . Compressor stall ( or surge ) - The disruption of airflow due to compressor stall can cause an engine flameout . Ingestion of foreign objects - <URL> suffered flameouts in all four engines due to ingestion of volcanic ash Firing of armament - Early in its service A-10 Warthog suffered flameouts due to the engines ingesting the gassed generated while firing the GAU-8 Avenger . Early jet engines ( like the Jumo 004B ) had <URL> ; however , modern jet engine flame outs are very rare , at the rate of about one every 100,000 non military flights . In most cases of flameout , the <URL> for resumption of flight . <URL> mentions a case where flameout happened because a F-100 ingested fuel ( during aerial refueling ) ; however , such occurrences are quite rare .
ETOPS stands for Extended-range Twin-engine Operational Performance Standards , a rule which permits twin engine aircrafts to fly routes which , at some point , is more than 60 minutes flying time away from the nearest airport suitable for emergency landing . ETOPS may also be interpreted as Engines Turn or Passengers Swim . It is not a rule which applies after an engine has failed . Rather , it is a set of regulations and standards which must be met if an airliner wishes to fly its planes more than 60 minutes away from a suitable emergency airport . History Early combustion engines were noticeably unreliable . It was not uncommon for a 4-engine piston aircraft to arrive at its destination with only 3 engines running . Twin engine aircrafts , as a result , were required to fly dogleg paths to stay close enough to an adequate airport . Aircrafts with more than 2 engines were not restricted by this rule . Thus , many transatlantic flights were flown with Boeing 747s and L-1011s , since airliners can fly a more direct route with these aircrafts . As engineers gained more experience in jets , they slowly recognized that jet engines are much more reliable than their piston counterparts . The FAA began to approve flying twin engines 120 minutes away from a suitable airport . This made twin engine aircrafts popular , because the fuel efficiency of flying a twin is much better than flying a 4-engine 747 or A340 . Certification ETOPS certification requires both the aircraft and the airline to comply with a set of standards . For the aircraft , the manufacturer must demonstrate that flying with only one engine is relatively easy for the flight crew , safe for the airframe , and an extremely remote event . The airline must demonstrate that its flight crew training and maintenance procedures are up to a higher standard . Pilots , engineers and staff must be specially qualified for ETOPS . Recently , more operators are adopting the ETOPS approach to non-ETOPs routes . They discovered that the approach offers significant improvements in reliability , performance and dispatch rates . The cost of application is later offset by reduced maintenance costs , and costs associated with diversions , delays and turn backs . Flight Plan An ETOPS flight plan may look something like this : Let 's say the aircraft 's ground speed ( with one engine inoperative ! ) is 450 knots . By drawing circles with radius 450nm around alternate airports , we can obtain areas which the flight must stay within . The flight path always stays inside one of these circles . If we are operating under ETOPS 120 , we will draw the circles at 900nm . Actual flight plans are slightly more complex , since winds aloft ( sometimes more than 100 knots ) will affect the aircraft 's ground speed . Dispatchers use software to calculate a route , taking aircraft weight , fuel consumption and winds into consideration .
This answer assumes that " GA " means " little piston planes . " Aluminum ( or non-fabric ) aircraft tend to " hold up " better against the elements . I would not store a Stinson 108 outdoors but would not think twice about storing a 172 ( or Cirrus ) on an open air tiedown . The fabric covering requires a great deal of care compared to the metal ( or composite ) skin of most GA planes . Fabric planes must be re-covered every few decades , more frequently if neglected . This is a non-trivial operation with a price tag to match . This typically involves reconditioning the now-exposed structure which adds significant cost . Re-covering and painting a Cub ( small plane ) , for example , can cost an owner tens of thousands of dollars . Stripping , treating , and painting a " metalized " Cessna 120 ( similar to a Cub ) is a much easier , faster , and cheaper task . Another consideration is the availability of aluminum . Aluminum was declared a strategic material in WW2 and , as a result , a great deal of energy was allocated to increase production . With the war over and the infrastructure in place to produce a lot of aluminum cheaply , why adhere to an antiquated manufacturing process requiring a painstaking level of detail when lower skilled labor can use cheap aluminum to mass produce high quality planes ? In short , fabric planes typically require more care and attention than their stressed skin cousins . They also require somewhat specialized and skilled labor to build and maintain . This generally translates into higher costs for everyone involved . I 'm sure there are technical reasons for the shift away from fabric but I 'll let Peter ( or another technical expert ) comment on those .
I 've never heard of the term , but from the context of the explanation it appears that they refer to a situation where the elevator neutral position is relative to the stabiliser , not to the aircraft . So stick moves elevator relative to aircraft and stabiliser , trim moves elevator relative to aircraft only because the elevator neutral position follows the stab position . Like the stabiliser/elevator arrangement on the B737 . <URL> <URL>
The only passenger needs that would result in a non-scheduled landing would be a medical emergency or acts/threats of violence of the level that prompt removal of the passenger is needed ( with law enforcement coordination ) . A passenger forgetting his wallet would not result in a diversion . An aircraft deviation to enplane more passengers and proceeding to the scheduled destination would be a highly unusual situation and would not be for passenger needs , it would be for operational needs .
What is turbulence ? Turbulence is random and stochastic Each realization of a turbulent flow is unique and fluctuations in velocity are very irregular in space and time . dissipative Turbulence can not maintain itself and will decay into laminar flow without energy input from the environment ( e.g. mean shear in the velocity field or buoyancy ) . Reducing viscosity in a flow does not remove dissipation , it just moves dissipation to ever decreasing scales . diffusive A time-averaged scalar transported in a turbulent flow will have larger plume than that of a laminar flow . For example , if you injected a dye into a smooth flowing river and one into a turbulent flowing river , the dye plume would cover a larger area in the turbulent flow . three dimensional 3D vortex dynamics play a very important role in turbulence and for most cases you can not represent a turbulent flow as a 2D problem . occuring on a wide range of scales This is perhaps the most important distinction . When I say scale , I am referring to a characteristic length and velocity of an eddy , or swirl . Turbulence is produced at larger scales and the transfers its energy to smaller and smaller scales . At some ( very small ) scale , dissipation starts happening and the turbulence decays . A feature of a turbulent flow is energy at all scales , which basically means there are whirls of all sizes and it is the interaction between all of these swirls that gives turbulence . How does it happen ? The main production of turbulence is through mechanical production and buoyant production . Turbulence happens because energy is being put into it via these production methods . Turbulence will decay on its own but will not stop until production ceases . Mechanical production can be envisioned as a shear flow , or air of two different speeds interfacing . This can also be wind against a wall , or around some object . The velocity gradient at the periphery of the jetstream is a shear flow , and the boundary layer that we live in is a sheared environment on most days . Buoyant production is through buoyancy . Relatively warm parcels rise and this is balanced by subsidence and if you follow these thermals and the descent between them and squint hard enough , you can envision eddies on the largest scales . Both of these methods put energy into turbulence at large scales . For boundary layer flows , this can be on the order of a kilometer or more , typically the height of the boundary layer . These big eddies will have perturbations of their own and these smaller perturbations are the next smaller scale . Energy is cascaded downward until the sizes of the eddies are small enough that viscosity dominates over inertial forces and the energy is then lost from the turbulence as heating . The superpositioning of these eddies at all scales resembles a jumbled bumpy mess , and this is precisely how we experience turbulence .
There are specific protocols that procedurally are required to be followed . Insofar as brake inspection is concerned , it would have been obvious from the trucks that there was no brake fire . It 's also obvious that there 's not a major amount of smoke coming from the brakes . As they approached the landing gear , they would have smelled serious brake heating . Glowing brakes would be seen then if not sooner . A close visual inspection for very light smoke and sensing the heat coming off the brakes would give them an idea of the rate of brake vaporization . It 's a subjective judgement based on what they see and feel . As I understand it , tires that dangerously overheat will explode before melting , and that 's why thermal plugs are used which melt and deflate the tire to prevent their exploding . At a landing in Nandi , Fiji ( short runway ) with what turned out to be a tailwind in a 747-200 at near-max landing weight , we had to use max braking , and I called for huffers to cool things down , and of course for an inspection . I exited the aircraft as quickly as possible to see how bad things were . I was amazed and alarmed to see thick dark grey smoke pouring from the body and wing landing gear wheels . I thought we were close to having a fire . However , the ground personnel assured me that there was no cause for alarm , that the smoke was just brake vaporization that would shortly stop as they blew air on them . It did , and after refueling we departed without incident .
An examiner uses the contents of FAA Order 8900.1 - Flight Standards Information Management System ( FSIMS ) as guidance for doing their job . As you might imagine , there is some guidance available for them <URL> : VOLUME 5 ( AIRMAN CERTIFICATION ) CHAPTER 2 ( TITLE 14 CFR PART 61 CERTIFICATION OF PILOTS AND FLIGHT INSTRUCTORS ) Section 18 ( Conduct an Airline Transport Pilot Certification , Including Additional Category/Class Rating ) Paragraph 5-704 ( ELIGIBILITY -- ATP CERTIFICATE -- AIRPLANE , ROTORCRAFT , AND POWERED LIFT ) : C. Good Moral Character Requirement : An applicant must be of good moral character . The inspector must ask an applicant if the applicant has been convicted of a felony . If the applicant 's answer is affirmative , the inspector should make further inquiry about the nature and disposition of the conviction . If an inspector has reason to believe an applicant does not qualify for an ATP certificate because of questionable moral character , the inspector must not conduct the practical test . Instead , the inspector will refer the matter to the immediate supervisor for resolution . The supervisor may need to consult with regional counsel for a determination concerning whether the applicant meets the moral character eligibility requirement . That 's the basic guidance that the examiners have , but there are also legal cases that have delved into this area and give more specific examples . I found a blog which covers it in some detail at <URL> . Falsification of documents , embezzlement , and acting in a malicious manner towards others are cited as reasons that ATP certificates have been denied or revoked .
end question
start question
What is a " frozen ATPL " ?
A frozen ATPL holder is somebody who has passed all the required ( 14 ) exams for the issue of an ATPL but does not have the required flying hours . Strictly speaking , there is no such thing as a ' frozen ' ATPL , though a number of training schools <URL> : A Frozen ATPL holder refers to somebody who has passed all the required theoretical exams but does not qualify him to be issued with a full ATPL until he has logged a total of 1500 hours . A student from a flying school will normally graduate with a CPL ( Commercial Pilot Licence ) and IR ( Instrumental Rating ) ( CPL+IR ) . This Licence is known as the Frozen ATPL . In order to ' unfreeze ' the ATPL , the candidate has to complete a flight time of 1500 hours <URL> : ... ATPL will remain frozen until you have reached 1500 hours of flying time , which is made up of the following criteria : 500 hrs multi-pilot in transport or commuter aircraft 250 hrs PIC ( or 100 Pilot in Command and 150 PIC under supervision ) * 200 hrs cross country flights ( 100 as Pilot in Command ) 75 hrs instrument time 100 hrs night flight as PIC or co-pilot
Detonation , as the name suggests , is an explosion of the fuel-air mixture inside the cylinder . Under normal operation , the spark plugs each ignite a point in the fuel/air charge , which then propagate through the cylinder and provides a consistent , regulated burn in a process called <URL> . This extends the time that the burning fuel pushes on the cylinder , providing a gentle power stroke . During detonation , the fuel/air charge ( or pockets within the charge ) explodes rather than burning smoothly . Because of this explosion , the charge exerts a much higher force on the piston and cylinder , leading to increased noise , vibration , and cylinder head temperatures . The violence of detonation also causes a reduction in power . Mild detonation may increase engine wear , though some engines can operate with mild detonation regularly . However , severe detonation can cause engine failure in minutes . Because of the noise that it makes , detonation is called " engine knock " or " pinging " in cars . ( Source : <URL> , page 6-18 ) Detonation can be caused by a number of factors , but generally they relate to a situation outside of the engine 's design . Using the wrong fuel can cause detonation : the octane rating of a fuel is basically the amount of pressure it can take before it detonates . Similarly , high cylinder temperatures can cause detonation ( 1 ) . This is why mixture is set very rich when at high power levels : the excess fuel cools the cylinders , preventing detonation . As noted above , full power with carburetor heat on can cause detonation , as the increased temperature mimics the effect of high cylinder temperatures . Full carburetor heat is required to provide at least a 90 degree F increase in intake air temperature . Further reading : Page 6-19 of the <URL> . An <URL> at Savvy Analysis 1 ) Detonation is distinct from pre-ignition , where the fuel/air charge is ignited by something other than the spark plug . Notably , detonation and pre-ignition often cause each other , as a detonating engine will have a very high CHT ( potentially enough to cause pre-ignition ) , and if the charge pre-ignites as the cylinder is still rising , the continued compression may cause the charge to detonate .
Given the hours required for the ATP , the chance of doing that rating alone in under a year seems pretty remote . Getting the private and commercial certificates done inside of a year is entirely possible , although not cheap . The writtens for the ATP are no big deal , but the hours simply will take a lot of time , as well as the right employment opportunity , to get . The number of FO 's at smaller ( regional ) airlines who have been flying for several years but who do n't yet have their ATP attests to the time required . You can ( and generally have to ) pay for the flight time to get your Commercial , but paying for all the flight time required for an ATP is simply beyond those of whose last name is n't Gates , Bezos , Trump , or etc. .
<URL> means data read on the basic instruments . Not-raw data means enhanced information built from raw data and/or flight management system . <URL> bars are not raw data , but a computation from basic air data , desired airspeed , roll angle limit , etc. . At the next higher level , the <URL> can use the FD data to fly the aircraft . Similarly desired speed can be determined automatically and thrust can be managed by the <URL> . Taking off and climbing with FD , auto-throttle and autopilot <URL> Takeoff with FD and AP , just after liftoff ( A320 simulator ) . Source : <URL> The green bars of the FD shows what should be the attitude of the aircraft , SRS ( <URL> ) guidance law has been used to determine the desired 165 kt speed . The pilot may fly the aircraft manually using these non-raw data . In the present case the pilot has also activated another layer of assistance : Autopilot and auto-throttle . The AP follows the FD indications , and the thrust is managed by the auto-throttle so that the desired speed is achieved safely as soon as possible . The indication in the <URL> means autopilot , flight director and auto-throttle are currently selected / active . T/O with raw data Flying with raw data implies not using the FD or the SRS mode , nor the AP other modes or the auto-throttle . The crew must determine the attitude to be used after the T/O rotation , and during the climb . They also need to manage the thrust required . For example , the roll angle has to be determined manually , depending on all factors discussed above and the desired horizontal track . <URL> Takeoff without FD ( A320 ) . Source : <URL> Benefits Not using computer assistance helps maintaining and developing pilot skills and prevents dependency on automation that can always <URL> . The correct attitude , speed and thrust depend on many limits -- some are displayed in the <URL> band and the <URL> when they have video displays -- that the pilots must have in mind . So it 's usual that pilots perform manual take-offs and landings and raw-data operations . The frequency of such permanent training may be influenced by the <URL> ( standard operating procedures , SOP ) which can either encourage or discourage crews to use the airplane automatic features at certain phases of the flight . On modern aircraft there are some mechanisms ca n't be inactivated as the direct transmission between controls and corresponding actuators have been replaced , partially or totally , by <URL> . The conversion between actual pilot movements and electrical command signals is subject to some level of filtering provided by the fly-by-wire system . Other raw data operations <URL> . Raw data navigation . This post consistently uses Airbus-based explanations , as terminology varies between aircraft manufacturers ( but principles are mostly the same for this topic ) .
I believe what you are referring to is an acceptance flight , rather than a certification flight . Certification flights ( usually there many ) are flights which the manufacturer demonstrates to aviation authorities that a new design of an aircraft is safe . However , just because a design has been tested , does not mean a new aircraft is produced exactly to the design . Acceptance flight is a test flight which make sure the aircraft has been manufactured up to standard . Acceptance flights are also required after major maintenance work or avionics upgrades . Its purpose is to explore the entire flight envelope and ensure emergency / backup systems work as expected . During a normal flight , only a portion of the systems ' functions are used . A test flight is a complete evaluation of all conditions , such that malfunctions or deviations will not go unnoticed . Of course , the pilots will first examine critical systems ( e.g. engines , flight controls ) on the ground . Depending on the aircraft , the tests to be completed in the air include : Engine shutdown and restarts autopilot roll rates , flap extension speed , engine response etc. . Alternate gear extension Fuel jettison Over-speed warnings <URL> Ground Proximity Warning System ( GPWS ) Auxiliary Power Unit ( APU ) operation at high altitude Cabin service systems
Modern civil cargo flights can be divided into three categories : containerized-load , large-load , and feeder . Containerized-load cargo ( ULDs , standard pallet loads ) This is your typical UPS or FedEx flight ; their flight crew complements are no different than a passenger aircraft flying the same route -- a captain and F/O for a short haul route such as one of the UPS A300s , and a captain , F/O , relief captain , and relief F/O ( " heavy " crew ) for a long-haul flight that needs them , although they may prefer to break such a flight up into segments , performing crew changes on the ground . ( Flight engineers are n't counted here since those aircraft are basically retired now . ) Bulk-load cargo These loads ( vehicles , large equipment , live animals , etc ) require more attention , so loadmasters are more commonly seen on these flights . However , the FAA does not consider a loadmaster " flight crew " in the sense that there are no licenses or ratings for the position ; the training and qualifications for loadmasters are completely up to their employer . Feeder aircraft Feeder aircraft are often turboprop types ( ATRs , for instance ) that are too small to use standard-sized ULDs , so they are loaded in bulk on the main deck . They use a captain and first officer pairing as well . Either way , most cargo aircraft have room for supernumeraries ( aka jump seaters ) , at least on the cockpit jumpseats if not in a forward or upper deck passenger cabin as well ; long-haul aircraft will also have crew rest bunks fitted to that forward cabin area for use by " heavy " crews .
<URL> you need : 500 hours in multi-pilot operations on aeroplanes ; Notice that it does not say anything about the aircraft being multi-pilot/certified for two crew members . An air carrier can specify in their ops manuals that , for their operations , they require a particular airplane to be operated with two crew members even if it is only type certificated for one crew member . If their manual is approved , then it is now a " multi-pilot operation " regardless of the type-certification status of the airplane .
When you look at FAA publications <URL> is pretty simple : A stabilized approach is one in which the pilot establishes and maintains a constant angle glidepath towards a predetermined point on the landing runway . When pilots talk about stabilized approaches we generally mean a little more than that though - for example <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> all include more than just the constant-angle glide path in their recommendations for what makes an approach " stabilized " . Criteria that are commonly included in a " stabilized approach " are : Maintaining a constant-angle glidepath toward a predetermined aiming point on the runway . Maintaining a specified descent rate Maintaining a specified airspeed ( Vapp ) ( Generally being slightly above Vapp is OK , but below is unacceptable . ) Having the aircraft configured for landing ( gear , flaps , etc. ) All required checklists completed The approach can be maintained with only " small corrections " to pitch , heading , or power . An approach is " stabilized " if all the required criteria are met by a specific altitude ( Airbus calls them " Stabilization Heights " , and recommends 500 feet for approaches in VMC , and 1000 feet for approaches in IMC ) . If the approach is not stabilized by the appropriate stabilization height ( or conditions cause the approach to become " destabilized " - a sudden change in winds for example ) the approach is abandoned ( a " go-around " ) . So what makes stabilized approaches safer ? The theory is that a stabilized approach reduces the pilot 's workload as they 're getting closer to the ground : If the aircraft is configured for landing and all the checklists have been completed all the pilot has to do is gently nudge the controls to keep the plane going where they want it , and they can concentrate all of their attention on a nice , safe , ( hopefully ) smooth landing . Are stabilized approaches always safer ? From a workload perspective , yes . It 's hard to argue with " The pilot has less work to do " . <URL> Stabilized approaches generally require partial power to be maintained throughout the approach , and although the engines in modern single-engine piston/jet aircraft have a pretty good track record of reliability there are good arguments for " non-stabilized " approaches ( or approaches that are effectively " stabilized " at idle power ) in single-engine aircraft . Even if you 're not flying a " stabilized approach " the way the airline folks define it you 're well-served by incorporating some of the elements though - going around if your checklists are n't completed by a certain altitude , abandoning the approach if you have to manhandle the controls to try to keep things together , etc. .
The heat dissipaters are used to reduce the infra-red signature of the helicopter engine exhaust . They are also used in other helicopters , like the ' black hole ocarina ' ( BHO ) infra-red suppression device used in AH-64 Apache . <URL> Source : b-domke . de The main purpose of the IR suppressors in use today is twofold : Reduce the IR signature by reducing the exhaust temperature ' Shield ' the hot engine from view . The infra-red suppression systems in service today usually work by ' Bending ' the exhaust , usually upwards , and shielding the exhaust from view by an insulating cowl . In these IR suppressors in Mi - 35 ( export version of Mi-24 ) , the exhaust is turned almost 90 ° . <URL> Source : mamboccv.com Mixing the hot engine exhausts with the cool air , effectively reducing the exhaust temperature . In the Black Hole IR suppression system , the exhaust temperature is reduced from ~ 600 ° C to ~ 300 ° C . The RAH-66 Comanche had the infra-red suppression system integrated into the airframe ( the exhaust was routed through the tail boom ) , though the principle is the same - mixing of engine exhaust with ambient cool air . <URL> Source : sikorskyarchives.com In some cases , the special high emissivity coatings are applied to the engine exhausts for reducing the IR signature . Most of the present IR suppressors focus on achieving a thorough mix of the cool ambient air and the exhaust to reduce temperature and uneven mixing , in order to prevent ' hot spots ' . Cooling of the exhaust pipe itself is achieved in some cases by using film cooling . In most helicopters , the infra red suppression system ( IRSS ) is optional and can be added separately . The figure shows the schematic of the infrared suppression system used in AH - 64 Apache and the associated reduction in IR signature . <URL> Image from Progress in helicopter infrared signature suppression by Jingzhou Zhang et al. , Chinese Journal of Aeronautics , Volume 27 , Issue 2
An exploding tire while the plane is rolling will propel debris in various directions . This happened with the <URL> on takeoff . A chunk of the tire hit the tanks and caused a punctured in it . This then lead to the fire and loss of power .
It depends on what you mean by " optimal " . For a dogfight , the optimal age is probably 30 . At this age a person has lots of experience , but still maintains their full mental agility , ability to calculate and energy . In a dogfight your ability to think fast and calculate your next move is the critical factor . For combat missions , however , 40-45 may be more optimal , because experience , judgement and knowledge becomes more important . Knowing when to attack , how to attack , how to make your approach , how to do your mission setup , and many other things become the product of long experience . For complicated missions in enemy territory , it is better to have someone with long experience , rather than a young hotshot . Once a person hits about 60-65 years in age , their mental ability to calculate declines significantly . Nevertheless , experience can make up for it in some instances . For example , at age 63 <URL> was a candidate for the world chess championship , an amazing accomplishment for a person of that age . Emanuel Lasker took 3rd place at Moscow 1935 , a premier chess tournament , at the age of 66 , which was practically a miracle . These are exceptions , however . In general , once a person gets into their 60s , their mental ability deteriorates . Therefore , the age 50-55 can be considered the maximum age at which experience and judgement can be used effectively in high speed combat situations . Complex Mission Role To investigate my basic assertion that optimal age for a combat mission ( not air supremacy ) pilot is 40-45 I investigated pilot astronauts . Since astronauts are selected from large numbers of candidates and have short careers typically , it is a safe assumption that their average age is what NASA considers to be ideal . According to <URL> the mean age for all selected pilot candidates is 39.90 years old . If we assume a pilot has a 5-year career , then my guess for optimal age matches perfectly with NASA 's selection choices . This may be considered strong evidence that for a pilot executing complex missions , the optimal age range is , indeed , 40 to 45 years . Air Supremacy Role ( " dog fighting " ) To determine the optimal age for air supremacy ( " dog fighting " ) , if we had access to the USAF 's ( or other country 's ) exercise data over time , we might get an idea since we could calculate an ELO rating for each combatant and identify to the top exercise fighters of all time . Unfortunately this kind of data is not released as far as I know , probably because the armed services do like naming or identifying particular soldiers . I do strongly suspect , though , that if such a study was done it would show the " best in the world " air supremacy pilots would be clustered around the age of 30 . To check this , I tried summarizing statistics from WW2 German fighter pilots . Using birth data on 470 German aces I generated the following plot : In this chart , the bar chart is the total number of aces grouped by date of birth . The blue dots are the average number of victories for that birth year group . What this chart seems to show is that performance is remarkably consistent between the ages of 18 and 32 , with a slight advantage to the younger pilots , but then declines significantly . The 1922 group was significantly skewed by <URL> . If we eliminate him as an outlier , the top group is the class of 1920 which would have been between the ages of 19 and 25 during the war . This seems to show my original guess was wrong , and that dogfighting is dependent more on quick reflexes and fast thinking than on experience , which hands the edge to the young .
I think the answer depends on what the birds are doing , but all options are basically " at the pilot 's risk " - the tower is just advising you there are some birds hanging around the airport , but nobody can say how they 're going to react to you trying to land there too . If the flock is airborne and flying across the final ( completely neglecting to coordinate their movements with tower , as birds are wont to do ) you can request an extended downwind until they 've moved on . This has happened to me twice , and in my experience birds tend to be far less interested in airports than pilots . They 're usually gone in a minute or two . If they 're sitting on the runway somewhere you can try a low pass over the field to scare them off , but my preference would be to ask the tower/unicom operator if they can chase them away for me with a ground vehicle ( so I 'm not near the flock in case they decide to disperse " upward " instead of " outward " ) . If they 're just pecking around in the grass near the approach end of the runway looking for lunch <URL> &amp; <URL> have the right idea with a go-around or low approach/overflight to scare them off . ( This is part of why a low pass over an unattended uncontrolled field is often advisable -- you 'll hopefully scare off any critters on the runway that you would n't want there when you actually land . ) If they 're " airport birds " you might want to just land . Some of the airports by me have resident flocks of birds that I 'm convinced just sit there and rate people 's landings - I swear I saw the same birds every day shooting touch-and-gos . These are the kind of birds that are n't going to scatter when you do a low pass unless you hit them with your landing gear , so just be aware of where they are ( in case they lose their minds and try to commit suicide by propeller ) but they probably wo n't bother you . I do n't think I 'd ask for a downwind landing because of birds ( unless we 're talking geese or hawks or something ) , but if it 's a calm-wind day , the pattern is empty , and you 're more comfortable with that idea go ahead and ask . The worst the tower can do is say " unable " .
Definition A second officer ( SO ) is third in line of command on an airplane . The <URL> is : a Second Officer is used on international or long haul flights where more than two crew are required to allow for adequate crew rest periods . I have never seen anyone besides a captain and first officer on a short-haul flight . Such flights normally do n't even require either the captain or first officer to take a break to rest . Duties Second officers are qualified pilots and also type-rated for the airplane they are on , similar to the captain and first officer , but only with lesser experience . I do not know the exact career path for them , but most probably they are promoted to become first officers . This is same as first officers are promoted to become captains . Jobs There are certainly jobs available for second officers , but only on airlines which operate long-haul flights . Regional airlines with flights only for a 2-3 hours do n't require a second officer1 . <URL> is hiring ( also <URL> ) . The experience of a second officer on Cathy can be <URL> . Aviation Job Search is <URL> . SO on Short-Haul Each airline can have its own definition of second officer . What I wrote above is the general meaning . You mentioned <URL> and <URL> ( in comments to the deleted answer ) but I could n't find jobs for SO . Flight Engineer Their role is different than pilots and now they are a diminishing breed . Most of them were not pilots . Again , an airline may label a flight engineer as second officer , though <URL> did not mention that . 1 : The aftermath of Germanwings crash can make some <URL> .
tl ; dr They 're pretty much all considered turbofans with a few exceptions from the '70s such as <URL> . They key difference is a prop can be considered a separate entity in a turboprop , but a fan is integrated into the engine . <URL> Slightly longer answer After a fair bit of thought and research I hope I 've managed to come up with an answer , though to start with a disclaimer . The aviation industry is far too fond of merging and creating new words to describe new engine architecture . Take <URL> for example . To get technical about it , you could look at the similar/reverse argument about the difference between an open rotor turbofan and a turboprop , <URL> . If you look at Appendix 1 : Open Rotor Definition ( Page 86 ) of that document they outlined the following key differences Open rotor module that can not be distinguished as a separate entity However the following was the agreed definition , which is still rather ambiguous . A Turbine Engine featuring contra-rotating fan stages not enclosed within a casing I think the first one is more key , the prop can be considered as a separate entity , attached to the front of a turbine . A fan is an integral part of the engine and can not really be considered a separate entity , as its usually a part of the actual turbine shaft and has functional turbine component passing through the middle of it .
It means that you can land on the runway but must hold short ( read : do not cross ) before some point on the runway . <URL> 6 . A pilot who accepts a LAHSO clearance should land and exit the runway at the first convenient taxiway ( unless directed otherwise ) before reaching the hold short point . Otherwise , the pilot must stop and hold at the hold short point . This is generally issued for smaller planes that do n't need the full runway and a crossing runway/taxiway is also being used . As the pilot you have final say in accepting the clearance , if you feel you will be unable to hold short then you should reply " unable " and request full-length landing clearance . [ same link as above ] 3 . The pilot-in-command has the final authority to accept or decline any land and hold short clearance . The safety and operation of the aircraft remain the responsibility of the pilot . Pilots are expected to decline a LAHSO clearance if they determine it will compromise safety .
The fire sensor 's time to give the alarm is customizable depending upon the fire safety alarm being used . Two widely used types of continuous-loop systems are the thermistor type detectors , such as the Kidde and the Fenwal systems , and the pneumatic pressure detector , such as the Lingberg system . ( Lindberg system is also known as Systron-Donner and , more recently , Meggitt Safety Systems . ) . A typical delay of 10 Seconds is quite common . Here is the <URL> for your further reading
I think what the placard actually says is . Lifeline Extension Belt ( ie , its 2 things , not one ! ) An <URL> indicates the narrow OHB you reference as number 16 . Which is titled " Lifeline " . This line is used to aid evacuation from the overwing exits and more details can be found in <URL> Extension belts are used for infants on their carers laps , an extra belt loops round the child and attaches to the carers lap belt . <URL>
With respect to avionics and fault logs , flight legs is just one more data point . It 's not any more important than any other piece of data , but it does have value . Avionics are not structure and do n't care as much about pressurization cycles , but it can be a factor - the pressure change between sea level and 8000 cabin altitude does have some effect . It 's just that avionics can easily count flight legs and it makes for an easy way to organize the fault logs along with flight phase . It is useful data when trying to find the root cause of an intermittent fault in a piece of avionics . Fault logs typically log at least 20 legs before they " roll over " and overwrite old data . With some aircraft flying 6 or more legs a day , that ensures the plane can get to a base with maintenance before the fault gets overwritten . The value is the ability to help detect patterns . I 've seen faults that only occur on the first leg of the day after the plane was parked overnight at a very humid airport . Re-creating the conditions allowed us to duplicate the fault . The problem was a flaw in the conformal coating ( sealant ) on a circuit card that allowed moisture to cause a short . Once the unit had operated for an hour or so , the heat had dried it out and it worked fine .
For GA aircraft with straight , rectangular wings , the stall usually starts at the root and progresses towards the tip . So , at some point , only a portion of the wing will be stalled . This is sometimes referred to as partial stall , though it is not a common term . <URL> Image from boldmethod.com This is usually achieved by having a washout or a wing cuff . In case of root-first stall , the wing tips are still producing lift , helping to prevent rolling motion ( which may occur if the whole wings stalls at once ) , which in turn prevents the aircraft from entering a spin .
That would be an <URL> , a small jet engine that is used to provide power on the ground when the engines are off and when there is an emergency in the air .
end question
start question
What component of an aircraft is most likely to fail ?
Aside from the obligatory <URL> answer , there are some components on an aircraft that will certainly fail at a higher rate than other components . From the Piston GA side of the equation I can name a few ( some of which are also applicable to turbine aircraft ) . Incandescent Light Bulbs A lightbulb is a supremely unreliable device : A delicate bit of wire is suspended in a thin glass envelope and heated until it glows - then subjected to vibration ( from the engines , turbulence , etc. ) in flight . We use them all over the airplane -- Position lights , landing lights , cockpit instrument lighting , etc. . If you think about how often incandescent light bulbs burn out in your house it 's probably not surprising that they fail quite often on aircraft . <URL> . We still use incandescent lightbulbs because they 're cheap : A $ 0.25 light bulb can be replaced multiple times before its cost even approaches the capital investment in a better solution . Modern aircraft are incorporating an increasing number of LEDs to replace incandescent lightbulbs - these solid-state devices have a lower failure rate ( and other benefits ) . Batteries Much like your car aircraft rely on batteries for some functions ( like starting the engines or the APU ) . Batteries have a finite service life and will eventually fail to hold a charge and need to be replaced . Sometimes <URL> . We still use batteries because hand-propping aircraft can be dangerous , and getting the APU turbine up to speed without a battery would be nearly impossible . Also if the engine-driven generators fail the battery is a useful source of electricity to help you get to a safe landing site . Spark Plugs Piston engines are spark-ignition , and spark plugs have a variety of failure modes ( they can become fouled with lead or carbon deposits , the internal resistor can fail , or the electrodes can simply wear out ) . These failures are not uncommon : Statistically if you fly piston aircraft long enough you 'll probably encounter at least one of them . We use spark plugs for obvious reasons : Unless the fuel is ignited it does n't generate any power . Without power the propeller does n't turn ( at least not very fast ) , so there 's no thrust . No thrust means no flying . Tires Tires are another aircraft component with multiple failure modes . Interesting ones include leaks ( air leaving the tire at a rate fast enough to be a problem ) , " catastrophic " failures where the tire explodes or disintegrates while rolling , and " self-protective " failures ( where the tire reaches a temperature that melts the fusible plug and causes it to deflate to prevent it from exploding ) . Tires are also used for an obvious reason : Aircraft that constantly belly-land require expensive maintenance ( to say nothing of the damage they do to the airport ) , and the alternatives - skis , pontoons , or flying boats - are limited in the areas from which they can operate . Air Filters On piston engines there is normally an intake air filter which is designed to keep dust and grit out of the engine . These filters can fail by becoming clogged ( which I suppose is n't really a failure : The filter is doing its job ) , and certain paper filters can fail by disintegrating and being ingested into the engine ( the FAA has issued <URL> on this subject ) . We still use air filters - even the paper kinds that can disintegrate - because ingesting dirt into a piston engine greatly accelerates wear . The required maintenance on the air filter costs less than increased overhaul frequency .
In order to state the plane is airworthy you must be able to show that all AD 's have been complied with and that the aircraft is within annual ( or 100 hour ) inspection ; these proofs are typically found in the logbook so no , without the logbook your aircraft is probably not airworthy . It may be possible to fly the plane legally in the US anyway if you receive authorization from your FSDO ( which , I believe , would be a " ferry permit " ) . It 's not legally required that your logbook be complete to the beginning of time , just that it shows the current requirements are met ( along with the signatures/cert numbers of the AI 's that are stating them to be met ) . However , an incomplete logbook is very important from a resale point of view . Not having complete logs will make a plane very difficult to sell and will certainly affect the price most purchasers would be willing to pay .
When ACARS communicates via INMARSAT satellite ( other options are VHF or HF to ground stations ) , the satellite can ping the receiver on the aircraft and determine the distance from the delay of the reply . The satellite is geostationary , meaning that it is a fixed point 35786 km above the earth . Based on the distance from the satellite you can calculate a circle where the aircraft must be on . This has been done for MH370 . <URL> Since the geostationary orbit is so high , a single satellite covers a large portion of the earth . Only a single satellite covered the MH370 flight .
Besides aluminum alloys , most of an airplane 's weight is steel , titanium , and composites . Here is a chart comparing the 747 and 777 structural weight , with a breakdown <URL> : <URL> Steel is used in components where strength or part life is most important , like landing gear and other important structural elements , as well as many fasteners . Titanium is used where weight and high temperature are important , such as around the engines . Composites are traditionally used for many less-structural applications such as panels and fairings , but may also be used in the empennage ( tail surfaces ) or on the interior as floor beams . Other materials will include alloys like nickel , as well as specialty materials like rubber , plastic , and fabric , which are used mostly in the cabin . New aircraft like the 787 and <URL> use composites much more extensively , replacing much of the aluminum . Titanium is also used more in these aircraft because it does not tend to corrode in contact with carbon fiber composite like aluminum does . <URL> Federico pointed out that the two graphics differ in the amount of aluminum on the 777 ( 70 % on the first vs. 50 % on the second ) , because the first chart shows only structural weight , while the second is overall .
<URL> shows the following table for two aircraft ( the large commercial jet the B747-100 , and the military jet the C-5A ) . You can see that if differs quite a lot between the B747 and the C-5 already , so it 's hard to give a definitive answer for all aircraft in general . Also , it depends a lot on how you break down the components , for example , here the Nacelle and Propulsion system are shown seperately , but if you combine the two ( and some others as is done in the dry engine weight , I think ) things could change . The Aerospace Engineering e-Mega Reference points to <URL> as the source for the numbers . Perhaps you could find some information there about what belongs to which group . However for both aircraft , it can be seen that the Wing and the Airframe are significant contributors ( and for the B747 furnishing is also a large part of the weight ) I think they included all the wiring in the Avionics part ( that would make sense to me ) , but still it is a relatively small part of the total weight . <URL>
A <URL> ( MOU ) is n't an aviation term or practice , it 's a general business/legal term for a ' pre-contract ' of some kind . Before two companies commit to a legally binding and perhaps very expensive contract , they 'll often prepare an MOU to make sure that everyone involved has the same understanding of what will be in the contract . That way , there should n't be any big surprises or fundamental disagreements when the real contract is prepared . In the context of aviation , that could be things like how many aircraft will be purchased and when , or what the price is anticipated to be , or anything else that both side consider important . That means that the information in an MOU could be very interesting for other parties ( " can you explain why our competitors are paying you $ 50m less per aircraft than we do ? " ) , so they 're usually confidential . Another common use for MOUs is for PR/Marketing purposes . If two companies are discussing a joint business venture they might come up with an MOU and use it to generate market interest or even raise capital ( " I know we 're a small company but we have an MOU with Boeing to jointly research alternative fuels " ) . Given that background , I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll get any specific answers to your questions . An MOU could include all the things you mentioned but only a real contract is enforceable .
It will be hard to list everything that is said , but I can try to start with some of the basic examples : Pilot is ready to taxi to the Runway P : Tower , N12345 , has information Tango , at South Parking , ready to taxi . T : N12345 , taxi to runway 13 via Alpha , Delta . Pilot is ready to take off P : Tower , N12345 , is ready to go at runway 13 . Request SouthEast Departure T : N12345 , cleared for takeoff , SouthEast Departure approved . Pilot wants to cross another airspace P : Tower , N12345 , is 10 miles to the East , 1,500 , request transition east-to-west T : N12345 , transition approved as requested . Pilot wants to approach an airport to land P : Tower , N12345 , is 10 miles to the South , 1,500 . To Land T : N12345 , make Left-traffic for runway 17 ; report a 2 mile final
The vortex generators are used in commercial aircraft ( Boeing especially ) , for a number of reasons , which are usually not applicable to GA aircraft . For example , vortex generators are used for anything from stall alleviation to <URL> to noise reduction , some of which are not applicable for GA aircraft . Also , they are <URL> , which is much more expansive compared to the GA aircraft . That said , vortex generators are found in some aircraft , like the Piper Malibu Meridian , as shown below , <URL> . <URL> Image from www.nasa.gov Another point is the a <URL> for GA aircraft . A number of GA aircraft have been retrofitted with them . <URL> By Ahunt at English Wikipedia - I took this photo and release it to the public domain , Public Domain However , they are quite costly and require extensive tests for certification , with the result that they are not used much compared to commercial aircraft .
That is a static pressure line . The " shuttlecock " device on the end pulls the line out behind the aircraft , where it can get a more accurate pressure reading , away from the air flowing around the aircraft that affects the regular <URL> . It will also be more accurate during flight conditions that normal aircraft rarely experience , but need to be accurately analyzed during testing . <URL> Static pressure has an effect on the performance of the aircraft , so during testing that is one value they want to measure accurately during flights . Once testing is complete there is no longer a need for that information , and the regular pitot-static system takes the measurements needed . The line can be seen in <URL> , and in <URL> , you can see the reel inside the rear of the aircraft that is used to pull in the line when it is not in use .
Aircraft incidents are an extremely remote event ( they say that you 're more likely to be killed in a car accident on your way to the airport than a plane crash ) . Within all the incidents that engineers foresee , some are more likely than others . These incidents are included in pilot training ( and passenger briefing if applicable ) to increase the likelihood that it can be handled properly . Loss of cabin pressure is one of them . Technically air pressure inside the cabin can not be " lost " , but the term is used to describe a significant drop in air pressure . The masks deploy when cabin altitude is around 14,000 feet . Cabin pressure is provided by two methods : The engine actively pumping air into the cabin The fuselage is sufficiently sealed to contain air pressure inside ( it is not 100 % sealed , but the pump is powerful enough to overcome the small leakage ) Failure of any of these two components would lead to a loss of cabin pressure . Historically , causes of cabin depressurization has included : Failure of all engines , whether due to <URL> , <URL> , or any other reasons Failure of all air conditioning units on the aircraft <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Most accidents are referred to by flight number It depends who it is that is referring to the accident , and on who they are addressing . News media and the general public Newpapers and other media use flight numbers because that is the number known to friends and relatives of the individuals concerned and because most members of the public who have flown as passengers are very familiar with the concept of flight numbers but not really familiar with aircraft registration numbers . Investigators Investigating authorities have their own numbering schemes for accidents they investigate . Aircraft registration numbers change when an aircraft is sold to a purchaser based in another country . The only number that stays with an aircraft for its entire life is the manufacturer 's serial number . All these numbers can appear in official accident investigations reports . The registration number is usually prominent . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Its a bit dated but here is a <URL> . Keep in mind these are navy pilots , often considered the best of the best and in peek physical condition . Based on the publish year I would suspect all subjects were male as well . Here is <URL> on reaction times for pilots on low sleep . This is <URL> , might be of some help . An additional question I have related to this is , how can one design an aircraft to make it difficult for pilots to enter PIO 's ? This is an interesting question and in some regards could be its own question here . One of the big debates ( mainly between Boeing and Airbus ) is if systems like this should exist and who has the final say in terms of control deflection . Airbus takes the approach that the computers should prevent the pilot of say pulling back on the stick and stalling the plane . While Boeing generally allows pilots to be the final say and while their systems will warn of a stall you can ultimately pill back the column until the plane stalls . In terms of how you would design something like this you would have to limit control input after an approach to oscillation was detected .
Wake turbulence can affect aircraft in the most critical phases of flight such as landing approach . For example , consider this <URL> On June 12 , 2006 , while on visual approach at Kansas City International Airport in Kansas City , Mo. , the pilot of a Piper Saratoga crossed below the flight path of a Boeing 737 that was landing ahead on a parallel runway . The Saratoga encountered wake turbulence so violent that it tore apart the aircraft in flight . The pilot and his passenger were killed . The effects are most severe for small aircraft entering the wake of a large aircraft but large aircraft can be affected too . Skybrary <URL> of incidents involving wake turbulance .
As you say , the FAA certifies an aircraft for certain " kinds of operation " . For a normal category airplane certified under 14 CFR 23 , it basically says that it must be " established appropriate to the installed equipment " : § 23.1525 Kinds of operation . The kinds of operation authorized ( e.g. VFR , IFR , day or night ) and the meteorological conditions ( e.g. icing ) to which the operation of the airplane is limited or from which it is prohibited , must be established appropriate to the installed equipment . The installed equipment required for IFR flight ( beyond that required for VFR flight ) is listed in <URL> ( d ) and is mostly equipment used to communicate with ATC and to maintain control of the airplane when flying without visual reference to the ground ( so no navigation equipment is specified ) : § 91.205 Powered civil aircraft with standard category U.S. airworthiness certificates : Instrument and equipment requirements . ... ( d ) Instrument flight rules . For IFR flight , the following instruments and equipment are required : ( 1 ) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , and , for night flight , instruments and equipment specified in paragraph ( c ) of this section . ( 2 ) Two-way radio communication and navigation equipment suitable for the route to be flown . ( 3 ) Gyroscopic rate-of-turn indicator , except on the following aircraft : ( i ) Airplanes with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of 360 degrees of pitch and roll and installed in accordance with the instrument requirements prescribed in § 121.305 ( j ) of this chapter ; and ( ii ) Rotorcraft with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of ± 80 degrees of pitch and ± 120 degrees of roll and installed in accordance with § 29.1303 ( g ) of this chapter . ( 4 ) Slip-skid indicator . ( 5 ) Sensitive altimeter adjustable for barometric pressure . ( 6 ) A clock displaying hours , minutes , and seconds with a sweep-second pointer or digital presentation . ( 7 ) Generator or alternator of adequate capacity . ( 8 ) Gyroscopic pitch and bank indicator ( artificial horizon ) . ( 9 ) Gyroscopic direction indicator ( directional gyro or equivalent ) . As far as converting an airplane from VFR to IFR , the Type Certificate Data Sheet ( TCDS ) must specify that the airplane is designed for IFR flight , and then you could add the missing equipment to make it qualify .
The FAA has a document on their website which breaks knowledge tests down by FSDO rather than state , and it gives a good idea of where the most training is taking place . It is called : <URL> , and lists the following Regions/FSDO 's as processing the most knowledge tests ( in descending order ) 1 : Southern 28,333 Orlando 9,996 South Florida 5,958 Alabama &amp; NW Florida 4,680 Atlanta 3,882 Tampa 2,504 Western Pacific 18,416 Scottsdale 6,053 Riverside 1,556 San Diego 1,463 Sacramento 1,460 Long Beach 1,327 Fresno 1,270 Los Angeles 1,142 San Jose 1,121 Southwest 15,943 Dallas 2,731 Fort Worth 2,581 Houston 2,438 Oklahoma City 2,347 San Antonio 2,321 Eastern 14,552 Richmond 1,956 Greensboro 1,366 Farmingdale 1,280 Philadelphia 1,198 New York City 1,069 Boston 1,041 Great Lakes 11,860 Fargo 2,120 Dupage 1,414 Indianapolis 1,358 Minneapolis 1,142 East Michigan 1,111 Northwest Mountain 9,784 Denver 2,205 Portland 2,131 Salt Lake City 1,964 Seattle 1,611 Central 9,019 Nashville 4,293 Wichita 1,304 Alaskan 812 Based on this data , I would say that the areas surrounding the Orlando , Scottsdale , South Florida , Alabama &amp; NW Florida , Nashville , and Atlanta FSDO 's are the most popular training areas , with the Southern region being the most popular by far . 1 To improve readability , all FSDO 's with less than 1,000 tests have been removed . See the source data for the complete list .
Dogfight is about energy management . You care less about climbing than about being able to turn your nose and weapons into the right direction as quickly as possible without falling out of the sky . Maximum climb would be required in those scenarios : Fly as efficiently as possible . Flying higher means flying faster and in colder air , so the engines are <URL> . Note that todays airliners climb as fast or faster than fighter aircraft in WW II . Evade ground threats . After delivering its ordnance , an attack aircraft would desire to get away from hostile fire as quickly as possible . Sometimes this is achieved by flying with the <URL> , though . Break off combat : If you know you can climb faster than your opponent , you can choose whether you fight or get away , a luxury the other guy does not have . Intercept : If you were ordered to intercept an unknown aircraft flying high above , maximum climb speed is helpful . If you need to be fast as well , your optimum climb profile is that of <URL> , though . I interpret minimum rate of climb as maximum descent rate . Typical scenarios are : Pressure loss in an airliner , when higher density air should be reached in order to <URL> . Dropping parachutists : If the aircraft lands ahead of the skydivers , it can fly more often and earn more revenue . Extreme case : Dive bombing . Actually , most dive bombers employed air brakes to limit the speed in a dive .
Q : Could it fly between any two suitable airports on Earth , i.e. further than 20038km ? A : Not likely <URL>
I do n't think there is any regulation on max flying hours , just regulations on <URL> . The <URL> is the most frequent check , and according to Wikipedia : This is performed approximately every 125 flight hours or 200 -- 400 cycles . It needs about 20 -- 50 man-hours and is usually performed overnight at an airport gate or hangar . The actual occurrence of this check varies by aircraft type , the cycle count ( takeoff and landing is considered an aircraft " cycle " ) , or the number of hours flown since the last check . The occurrence can be delayed by the airline if certain predetermined conditions are met . The other checks include : B check - every 4 -- 6 months , requiring about 150 man-hours and is usually performed within 1 -- 3 days at an airport hangar C check - every 20 -- 24 months , requiring about 6000 man-hours , taking 1 to 2 weeks to complete D check - major maintenance check , occuring about every 6 years , requiring 50,000 man hours , generally spanning a couple months . Note that all of these times are approximate , depending on the exact maintenance plan filed by the airline and the aircraft type . Also cycle count may be factored into the maintenance intervals in addition to flight hours so aircraft that do many short-haul flights may have more frequent maintenance . So in any case , only looking at the A checks , if you can land , refuel , service , and get back in the air in 2 hours between 10 hour flights , the plane could stay in the air for 20 hours/day . Every 6 days , it will need some downtime for the A checks , let 's say the airline puts enough people on it to get the check done in 5 hours . So that 's 125 hours per cycle : 120 hours flying , 5 hours in maintenance . They can fit 4.83 of these cycles in a 30 day month so the aircraft could be flying up to 580 hours in any given month ( but that last A check gets deferred to the next month , so that means less time in the air that month . With longer flights ( which reduces the overhead from turnaround times ) and tighter turnaround times , the flight hours per month could be higher . If you really want the maximum for a month , then if you assume 125 hours per maintenance inverval and that the plane is kept in the air as long as possible with 0 turnaround time , that 's around 690 flying hours out of 720 total hours in a month . Of course , this makes a big assumption that the A check interval really is 120 hours , and that the time to do the maintenance is 5 hours , in the real world both numbers will vary based on aircraft , airline , and maintenance staffing levels . Plus , over the longer term , you need to factor the other , less frequent but also more time consuming maintenance checks ( B through D checks ) , as well as allow downtime for unexpected repairs .
Skew is essentially when the flap does n't extend or retract straight back . Picture a situation where you have a 1 meter wide board you 're pushing down a track that 's slightly wider than the board . Your left hand is about a quarter of the way in from the left edge , and your right hand similarly in from the right edge . As long as you push straight down the track , evenly , with both hands , the board slides along and does n't contact the edge . Now suppose that your right hand pushes harder than your left hand : the board will start to turn , and the edges of the board will contact the edges of the track . The skew sensor detects that this sort of misalignment is starting to happen , and causes the flap drive to stop . Ideally , this takes place before the flap makes physical contact with any other hardware , so nothing is damaged ! Edit : <URL> . You can see that there are multiple flaps on each wing , and while normally everything moves in synch , you can envision how if one actuator stopped working , the errant flap could get turned pretty far out of alignment , make contact with other hardware , and cause some significant damage . So before this happens , the skew sensor sends the command back to stop everything from moving . From Boeing 's <URL> : The 757-300 has incorporated a flap skew detection system . Flap skew occurs when either the inboard or outboard edge of the flap moves farther than the rest of the flap . The flap skew detection system monitors , detects , and shuts down the flaps if a skew condition occurs . The heart of this system is the flap slat accessory module ( FSAM ) , taking the place of the flap slat electronic unit ( FSEU ) number 3 . The new LRU was introduced because the existing configuration of the FSEU would not accommodate the addition of the flap skew circuits . The flap skew sensors are mounted on the trailing edge of the flap jack screws ( fig. 4a ) . The sensor ( fig. 4b ) is fixed to the flap track , and a target ( which contains magnets ) is mounted to the jackscrews . As the jackscrew begins to turn , the target also turns . This will pulse the sensor , and a signal ( distance traveled ) is sent to the FSAM , which compares this signal with the opposite side of the same flap . If the distances traveled by either side of the flap differ by a predetermined amount , the FSAM will shut down the flap system to help eliminate damage to the flap and surrounding structure and the possible loss of a flap in flight . The alternate flap mode will override the normal flap skew detection function , allowing maintenance personnel to move the flaps after maintenance has been performed . Maintenance personnel must verify the flap fault and also ensure that moving the flap will not cause any damage .
<URL> says 38 knots for the 777 . <URL> says 25 knots for the 777 autoland system . <URL> says for the : 737-200 , crosswind limit is 31 knots ; for the 737-300 thru -500 , 35 knots ; for the 737-600 thru -900 , 36 knots ; and for the 737-600 thru -900 with winglets , 33 knots .
end question
start question
Who is India 's equivalent of the FAA ?
This regulatory oversight is performed by the Civil Aviation Authority of a country . In India , this function is performed by the <URL> ( DGCA-India ) . Typically certification information is available to the public , but only high level information will be given . Searching on the DGCA-India website I found <URL> that lays down the requirements on Cabin Crew Training .
The answer is indeed ( a ) . For tailwheel aircraft , what typically happens is typically the following : With all 3 wheels on the ground , you start gaining speed by increasing thrust . Very soon ( e.g. much sooner that the minimum take-off speed ) , you push the stick to lift the tailwheel off the ground and put the aircraft at more or less zero AoA . When you reach the rotate speed , you pull to increase the AoA and to lift off ( as with tricycles ) . The required pitch up angle is much smaller than what would be needed for the tail wheel to touch the ground again . Alternatively , you may keep the tailwheel on the ground all the way until liftoff . Since with the tailwheel on the ground your AoA is positive , you just need to reach enough speed to generate the required lift for take-off . This may not be possible with all tailwheel aircraft or may increase take-off run length , though .
One possibility is to contact the FAA <URL> . They provide information as part of the US Aeronautical Information Services ( AIS ) . NFDC Support Desk email is available on <URL> , below the login data boxes . See also this question : <URL> for other aeronautical data sets in case you need them too .
As several commenters have noted , medical rules are different in each country . ICAO provides guidelines and recommendations , but it 's up to each country to actually implement them . ICAO 's personnel licensing requirements are in Annex 1 which is <URL> but their <URL> implies that transgender pilots should be considered ' higher risk ' : Applicants with disorders of behaviour ( for example regarding habit , gender identity , sexuality ) should be assessed on the basis of their ability to put aside the disorder ( or any conflicts related to the disorder ) in order to attend to the aviation task at hand . These persons may have significant conflicts with their environment , leading to further difficulties , which may become an impediment for them to hold an aviation licence . Looking at specific countries , the FAA may be an unusual case by explicitly mentioning gender identity issues . I could n't find any mention of them in the <URL> , <URL> or <URL> medical requirements . But all countries ' medical requirements include something general like this ( this example is from EASA ) : ( g ) Personality or behavioural disorder Where there is suspicion or established evidence that an applicant has a personality or behavioural disorder , the applicant should be referred for psychiatric opinion and advice . That catch-all clause would - I assume - include <URL> and therefore require psychiatric evaluation of the pilot . And in cases where a pilot has had gender reassignment surgery and/or drug treatment , the surgery and drugs regimen would almost certainly trigger additional testing and investigation ( so would any other major surgical procedure or long-term drug treatment ) . Finally , it 's worth noting that whatever the general rules are , every case is different and the only way to get a specific answer for an individual is to consult with an aviation medical examiner for that jurisdiction . ( Disclaimer : I know nothing about medicine except that it 's complicated . Consult an aviation medical specialist if you want a real answer . )
There 's no singular right answer , it 's up to the individual and how he or she learns best . The biggest difference between the two you 'll find is that part 141 schools are always very structured in their training regiment . That is not to say part 61 is n't ( nor does it imply that it 's better for everyone ) , it 's just that part 61 does things according to what they wish with less FAA oversight . You might know that under part 141 , the earliest you can get your ticket is 35 hours , while part 61 requires a minimum of 40 hours . Do n't let that red herring influence you ; almost everyone takes more than 40 hours regardless of the school type .
FAA Funding is currently a mix of General Fund ( taxes everyone pays ) and Airway Trust Fund ( ticket taxes and fuel taxes ) money . The breakdowns are shown in : <URL>
The FAA has <URL> to mean that the operator must have a line-of-sight view of the model aircraft at all times , and that FPV does not qualify . Based on the plain language of the statute , the FAA interprets this requirement to mean that : ( 1 ) the aircraft must be visible at all times to the operator ; ( 2 ) that the operator must use his or her own natural vision ( which includes vision corrected by standard eyeglasses or contact lenses ) to observe the aircraft ; and ( 3 ) people other than the operator may not be used in lieu of the operator for maintaining visual line of sight . But also note that this does not apply if : ... the aircraft is operated in accordance with a community-based set of safety guidelines and within the programming of a nationwide community-based organization ; The above is from the linked NPRM released in June 2014 . <URL> has the same requirements . So members of an organization like <URL> are exempt from that rule . The AMA <URL> to be used when flying FPV .
The closest EASA equivalent would be the Design Organisation Approval ( DOA ) . According to <URL> : A Design Organisation Approval is the recognition that a Design Organisation complies with the requirements of Part 21 Subpart J. Privileges : A DOA holder can Perform design activities within the scope of approval Have compliance documents accepted by the Agency without further verification Perform activities independently from the Agency
What is the purpose of runway grooving ? The channels help to remove water from the runway . They also provide an area for the water to build up . With out these channels the water runs the risk of forming a thin surface covering the runway which can be very dangerous . As mentioned by john here in the comments this is usually known as hydroplaning and is the same as what happens to a car . How does the airport drainage system work ? This is a bit of a guess but I assume they work like any other road drainage system and it will depend on where the airport is located . <URL> that you may find of some interest . Here is <URL> , it 's a bit long but should cover what you are looking for . Why do airports remove rubber from the runway ? Tires obtain the best friction when they come in direct contact with the runway surface . Excess tire rubber that wears off and sticks to the runway can affect the tire/runway interactions . <URL> covers the main points pretty well .
First , one small clarification : ATC does n't offer any services to an aircraft on a VFR flight plan unless you call and request them . <URL> from AOPA has some useful comments : Controllers do n't know anything about your VFR flight plan VFR flight plans are for search and rescue purposes only Even if you call ATC and request flight following , they only enter the destination into their system , not your route ( I assume that 's because your route could be ' follow that river and then that interstate ' ) The key point is that VFR flight plans are recorded and managed by FSS , not ATC . So , does FSS accept whatever they 're given ? I could n't find a direct answer to that question , but the FAA 's <URL> for receiving and handling VFR flight plans ( see Chapter 6 ) do n't include any steps to " validate " the plan ( whatever that would mean anyway ) . Although there 's a lot of detailed , tedious information there so I may have missed something :-) In fact , <URL> implies that no one even looks at the route unless it 's as part of the SAR process : ETA plus one hour Within a half-hour of becoming overdue or at ETA plus one hour , the search is widened by sending an INREQ ( information request ) to flight service facilities along the route ( which is why the route of flight is specified on the flight plan ) . If [ the pilot ] had been on an IFR flight plan , the INREQ would have gone out at ETA plus 30 minutes . The bottom line seems to be that no one really cares about your VFR flight plan unless it 's actually needed to find you . So even if you can enter a nonsense plan , it would n't be a very good idea .
This regulatory oversight is performed by the Civil Aviation Authority of a country . In India , this function is performed by the <URL> ( DGCA-India ) . Typically certification information is available to the public , but only high level information will be given . Searching on the DGCA-India website I found <URL> that lays down the requirements on Cabin Crew Training .
A <URL> mentions that the UK borrowed the numbering system from the US . I believe the magnetic headings were adopted by the RAF in the UK early in 1944 and were inspired by American practice . Prior to that , RAF runways were numbered clockwise from north . From the <URL> on page 515 from the snippet view ( unfortunately ca n't find a fully scanned version ) there 's mention of a plan based on recommendations to number the runways . <URL> This is confirmed by <URL> : <URL> So the when is circa 1943 , the who is US Department of Commerce . It caught on by regulation based on recommendations . Naming runways north-south or 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 were probably very confusing as the number of users grew .
Unfortunately , countries tend to want to decide themselves how stuff is supposed to work once you 're within their borders . That 's why we have different rules and laws , and when you go somewhere else in the world , you might need to know some of the differences . In England they drive on the wrong side of the road , imagine that ! :) Anyways , in order to have things run smoothly in something so utterly international as aviation , there 's this organization called <URL> ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) where I believe most countries of the world are members , where the rules are that the ICAO drafts recommendations ( I believe they are called ) which the member states should incorporate into their respective laws and regulations . If they choose not to , they need to inform the ICAO of such deviation , do n't know exactly what happens then , but I believe the idea is to at least let everybody know there 's a discrepancy . Anyway , the ICAO Annex 5 specifies units to use , including units for altitude and actually specifying meters as the primary unit , with feet being accepted as non-SI alternative . Why on earth you 'd want to go against the majority on this I do n't know , perhaps due to the fact that it 's an SI unit and they want to be as much SI as they can . So it 's basically up to each country how they want to play it . Most countries stuck with feet .
Unless the pilot has had their certificate revoked or suspended by the FAA for their medical condition or has failed an application for a medical certificate1 , they would probably be fine after seeing a physician . <URL> states that sport pilots using a driver 's license to satisfy medical requirements must : ( ii ) Have been found eligible for the issuance of at least a third-class airman medical certificate at the time of his or her most recent application ( if the person has applied for a medical certificate ) ; ( iii ) Not have had his or her most recently issued medical certificate ( if the person has held a medical certificate ) suspended or revoked or most recent Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate withdrawn ; and ( iv ) Not know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make that person unable to operate a light-sport aircraft in a safe manner . If the holder has a valid US driver 's license , it would ( presumably ) be taken upon the certificate holder to have " reason to know " by virtue of having a checkup with a physician to check that this condition does not affect their ability to fly safely , especially if the person involved was in any sort of doubt as to their medical condition . However , if they have had a checkup with a physician that finds no particular issues , and that condition does not affect the validity of their driver 's license , they should be fine . 1 : By section ( ii ) , the pilot must still have a medical test and pass for at least a Class 3 medical certificate , if the FAA has revoked or found unsatisfactory their previous medical under a Class 1 or Class 2 certificate .
Definitions always depend on their context , that is why documents often included a list of definitions . It allows authors to define terms in the context of the document . A definition context is not always a document , it could for example be a field of expertise as well . The Commercial Aviation Safety Team / International Civil Aviation Organization ( CAST/ICAO ) <URL> ( CICTT ) <URL> as : The aircraft is moving on the aerodrome surface under its own power prior to takeoff or after landing More detail can be found in the <URL> definition document . This is definition can be applied in many situations . The Eurocontrol definition you link to comes from the Air Traffic Flow &amp; Capacity Management ( ATFCM ) and Airport Collaborative Decision Making ( A-CDM ) domains where statistics about gate-to-runway time play an important role for planning purposes . In that context it is not really interesting to distinguish the time that was spend in pushback from the time spend actually taxiing to the runway . The taxi-out time is hence defined as the time between off-blocks and take-off .
Like @mongo , I am not aware of a regulation and do n't recall seeing anything about it in the AIM . However , the Airplane Flying Handbook ( FAA-H-8083-3B ) says this about engine start : Prior to engine start , the pilot must ensure that the ramp area surrounding the airplane is clear of persons , equipment , and other hazards from coming into contact with the airplane or the propeller . Also , an awareness of what is behind the airplane prior to engine start is standard practice . A propeller or other engine thrust can produce substantial velocities , result in damage to property , and injure those on the ground . The hazard of debris being blown into persons or property must be mitigated by the pilot . At all times before engine start , the anti-collision lights should be turned on . For night operations , the position ( navigation ) lights should also be on . Finally , just prior to starter engagement , the pilot should always call " CLEAR " out of the side window and wait for a response from anyone who may be nearby before engaging the starter .
I assume that your FAA private license was issued under <URL> , and that section also includes the requirements for adding instrument privileges : ( d ) Instrument ratings issued . A person who holds an instrument rating on the foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may be issued an instrument rating on a U.S. pilot certificate provided : ( 1 ) The person 's foreign pilot license authorizes instrument privileges ; ( 2 ) Within 24 months preceding the month in which the person applies for the instrument rating , the person passes the appropriate knowledge test ; and ( 3 ) The person is able to read , speak , write , and understand the English language . If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons , then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant 's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft . The " appropriate knowledge test " in this case is the Instrument Rating - Foreign Pilot test , it 's described <URL> with a few sample questions . Some more information is <URL> , including the point that you do n't need any prior authorization to take the test : • Requires NO instructor endorsement or other form of written authorization . I 'm not sure about the exact process involved ( I guess you just do the test and send the certificate to the FAA ) but the FSDO that validated your foreign license for VFR should be able to give you all the details .
For the current format , it was 1993 when it was standardized . On July 1 , 1993 , a new , revised Terminal Aerodrome Forecast ( TAF ) format and code replaced the existing TAF code . This new code is in effect in most countries . The exceptions are the United States and Canada . These two countries issue Terminal Forecasts for domestic use and TAFs for the military and those airports serving international aviation . On January 1 , 1996 the U.S. and Canada will convert entirely to the new TAF code . After that date , the new code for weather reports ( METAR ) and TAFs will be used worldwide . The North American code used in the FT ( and SAO ) will be discontinued . Although the new TAF code is being adopted worldwide , each country is allowed to make modifications or exceptions to the code for use in each particular country . The TAF code , as described here , is the one used in the United States for those airports serving international aviation and will also be used after the January 1 , 1996 conversion date . The World Meteorological Organization 's ( WMO ) publication No. 782 " Aerodrome Reports and Forecasts " contains the base METAR and TAF code as adopted by the WMO member countries . ( <URL> ) <URL> also confirms the date for the US . The WMO publication No. 782 can be <URL> .
The locks release and typically the gear falls free into place . It is often aided by hydraulic motors ( i.e. to overcome anything that might be trying to hold the gear up , such as slush from the takeoff runway that froze after the gear was in the well ) , but most landing gear will freefall into place within a couple of seconds even without hydraulic assistance after the uplocks are released . What you 're probably hearing is the sudden onset of the wind noise -- when retracted the landing gear is streamlined , but when extended there is now an open cavity where the gear had been , and this open area in the fuselage creates a lot of wind noise from the suddenly turbulent airflow . Going from a relatively quite state to a loud one suddenly gives the impression of a " bang . " This is possibly enhanced by whatever noise is made by the uplocks that hold the landing gear in place releasing , and perhaps some louder noise as the initial moments of the gear extension may be noisier than the steady-state noise of being fully extended . Also , the noise due to the turbulence will subside as the airspeed slows , and extending the landing gear often comes during a phase of flight when the airspeed is being reduced in preparation for the final approach segment and the subsequent landing .
<URL> covers all the regs pretty well . But in short the key point on class G ( uncontrolled ) is Although ATC has no authority or responsibility to control air traffic , pilots should remember there are visual flight rules ( VFR ) minimums which apply to Class G airspace . Class G airspace also holds no specific entry requirements ( aside from VFR minimums ) , no specific aircraft equipment ( no radio , no transponder etc ) and no minimum pilot certificate requirement ( but you still need a license ( one of a few varieties ) you just do n't need anything in addition like the instrument rating requirements for class A ) . On the contrary glass G airspace ( uncontrolled ) is not a free for all and you are not free to do as you please in some regards . While ATC has no reach into Class G the FAA does and you are still bound by the regulations the FAA puts forth that apply to class G airspace . Likewise the definition they provide for controlled is Controlled airspace is a generic term that covers the different classifications of airspace and defined dimensions within which air traffic control ( ATC ) service is provided in accordance with the airspace classification . If you are wondering what the specific purpose of ATC is they define that as well , The primary purpose of the ATC system is to prevent a collision between aircraft operating in the system and to organize and expedite the flow of traffic .
end question
