start question
How do I get the filling inside pâte à choux ?
They are a little hard to find , but if you can find a " Bismarck " pastry tip , they have an elongated tip that is perfect for poking into your cream puff to fill . And , on a side note , a couple ways to keep your pastry tube from getting so messy ... Put it inside a drinking glass and fold it down over the sides to fill it . This holds it open and you 're less likely to spill all over the edges . Then , once you gather the open end , use a rubber band to tightly hold it closed . This reduces the mess dramatically .
If you are speaking of a salmon filet , you must remove the pin bones one by one . The easiest way to do it is with tweezers or needle nosed pliers . This <URL> demonstrates the technique : Run the back of your knife across the line where the bones are , from tail to head , to make them pop out more . Pull each bone , on an angle towards the head of the fish
Are you just using eggs for your filling ? Most quiche fillings are a custard , with milk , cream , or other dairy as well as eggs , and often cheese as well . It sounds like you are over beating your egg or custard mixture , and inadvertently incorporating air . In general you want minimum air in a quiche filling , so whisk or stir it briefly until it comes together , but not extra . Its harder to tell from the description , but you may also be over baking the quiche . You want to cook it until the center just barely jiggles , about 180 F / 82 C.
Many of the dried noodles that are marketed as " udon " -- at least in my experience in the USA -- are actually mislabeled , thinner noodles like <URL> or even <URL> . I would suggest buying the semi-dried variety that are usually packaged in vacuum sealed plastic . This variety is shelf stable , but it can often be found in the refrigerated section of Asian mega-marts . The noodles will already be almost full size before cooking .
I keep it on low heat after I 've gotten it up to boiling initially . It will stick sometimes , but after I stir it , the stuck stuff will be reabsorbed into the water . I try to get as much stuff as possible unstuck when stirring , and then a moment later the remainder will have magically become unstuck . I guess it sticks because the water rises and the oats precipitate down to the bottom of the pot ; conversely , it magically unsticks because the stuck oats get reabsorbed into the water . I find it 's okay as long as I stir it every few minutes . I turn the heat off after a bit , usually when big , slow bubbles start to balloon up or it just looks like it 's thick enough . At this point it wo n't be totally thickened , but it will have absorbed enough heat to make it the rest of the way , so I just let it sit on the stove for another 10 minutes or so , maybe more . I also go 2:1 water : oats . . actually a bit more water than that , probably 2.2:1 . This is partly to compensate for the small amount of water that will boil off even though the lid is on when I 'm not stirring it .
They are a little hard to find , but if you can find a " Bismarck " pastry tip , they have an elongated tip that is perfect for poking into your cream puff to fill . And , on a side note , a couple ways to keep your pastry tube from getting so messy ... Put it inside a drinking glass and fold it down over the sides to fill it . This holds it open and you 're less likely to spill all over the edges . Then , once you gather the open end , use a rubber band to tightly hold it closed . This reduces the mess dramatically .
Refrigerate it and the fat will get on top of the water .
The difference between sweet and tart cherries is not so much the sweet , but more the tart . If you look at the nutrition information you 'll find that tart cherries have about 2/3 as much sugar as sweet , but twice as much Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) which is what gives them their tart flavor . With this in mind , most sweet cherry pie recipes include lemon juice , while tart cherry pies recipes do n't need the lemon juice for balance . Recipes for both type seem to use between 1/2 to 1 1/2 cups of sugar , so as Stephie says , " It 's mostly a matter of taste " From personal experience - I made 2 cherry pies using a tart cherry pie recipe , except substituting Bing cherries . I got more great reviews for those pies than you would believe . ( It might have something to do with the sweet tooth gene on that side of the family )
Depending on where you live , there is a pretty simple approach you can try . In the next few days , head out to places that specialize in particular kinds of foods and in making them appeal to you . A farmer 's market , a butcher 's , a cheese shop , a bakery , etc. . Chat with the staff and buy whatever speaks to you in the store . When you come home , make whatever meals you feel inspired to make according to what you 've bought . Be creative and impulsive and seasonal . Keep doing that until one day you notice there is n't any food , and either go out and shop or eat something canned and go to shop the next day . In probably a week 's time , one of two things will happen . Either you will be feeling free , creative , inspired etc and so happy you are doing things this new way , or you will have thrown out a lot of expensive food that spoiled before you could use it , and be feeling very stressed and unhappy at 4 or 5 pm each day because you have to figure out what to make . If it 's the former , mission accomplished . If it 's the latter , you now have your motivation for the planning and the list making , and should find it more pleasant since you know its purpose and what it is saving you from . Either way , the " I hate having to plan my meals " feeling should diminish drastically .
I 'm with KatieK . That said , this ' how hot ' can be mysterious for Professionals as well . In " Seven Fires , the Argentine way of Grilling , " a book about cooking on open flame heat ( outside mostly ) , the author mentions traveling around to a bunch of Argentine steak places to time and measure what the chefs did mostly by touch and feel . So , even for a pro , getting it just right takes a lot of time and experience . If you 're persnickety , maybe you should get an infra-red thermometer .
As SAJ14SAJ said , the best solution is to simply not live in a place like that - it can be a bit dangerous . But since you 're there , about the only thing you can do is get a decent fan and use it to direct air out of the kitchen toward rooms with open windows . Depending on the layout ( and the fans ) you may need multiple fans , and might want one of them to be a box fan in the window helping push air out . For things you think may be smoky , you might also consider cooking outside if possible , on a hot plate , a camping stove , or a small grill . ( Or you could just not do them at all . )
Yes , cream soups are typically roux-based . If you add some flour ( roughly an equal amount to the butter ) to the fats , whisk and cook the flour for a couple minutes and then slowly whisk in the milk , it will be much less likely to separate . The soup will also be thicker , which I would imagine is a good thing .
As someone who has raised beef cattle ( here in Oklahoma ) I must say the TFD is ( unfortunately ) mistaken , ( at least here in the U.S. ) Most cattle fall into one of two varieties , Beef and Dairy ( there are also some breeds that are almost exclusively show cattle ) The most popular ( and common ) Beef varieties are Angus , Limousine , Herefords , Longhorn ; This list , including cross breeds ( for instance , limangus , what I raise , is a cross of limousine and angus ) and constitutes somewhere around 90 % of beef production with in the US . ( not include ' beef ' used for things like dog food ) . I would consider that list to be in descending order of beef quality ( but that is a matter of opinion ... ) There are several varieties of cattle which are raised for dairy production , and these do not generally produce quality cuts of meat , but do produce copious quantities of milk . These breeds are led by Holstein-Friesian , Brown Swiss , Guernsey , Ayrshire , Jersey , and Milking Shorthorn . Buffalo ( or Bison ) is a separate breed altogether and is no longer all that exotic . I regularly use bison to make chili . Yes , cows are ' females ' but not all cows are heifers , a heifer is a female that has not yet given birth to her first calf . And @Scivitri while feeding and ranging cattle do make a difference the driving force in beef flavor is still the breed . I can tell the difference between breeds by flavor but the difference from feeding and ranging is really more about tenderness and texture .
Chicken fat is what you want , and -- this is important -- no cream or milk . Use chicken fat to make a roux , and then chicken stock . This will get you a yellowish colour . For extra bonus points , make your pastry with schmaltz as well . They do this at the gourmet supermarket down the road , and their chicken pot pies fly off the shelves .
The trick that works for me consistently is to put the beets in a sealed container while still hot and let them cool down that way , they continue to cook a bit and the steam from them keeps the skins loose . Also , peel them while they are still warm , if they cool too much the skins may adhere again .
There are a couple tricks I 've learned from Cook 's Illustrated about making oven fries : Soak your cut potatoes in warm water to rinse off excess surface starch . Drain them and dry them very well ( I use a salad spinner and paper towels ) . Use a heavy duty sheet pan on the bottom rack of a hot oven to focus the heat on crisping the bottoms of the potatoes . Oil your sheet pan well , and sprinkle salt on it . This will act kind of like ball bearings under the potatoes to prevent them from sticking too hard . For the first 5-10 minutes , tightly wrap the sheet pan ( with the potatoes ) with aluminum foil . This will essentially steam the potatoes and help get a really nice creamy interior . After that , remove the foil and flip the potatoes halfway through . Make sure you use a thin metal spatula when you flip them . These techniques work well for potatoes in general , and really do turn out some fantastic spuds .
I have to make both mayonnaise and aioli every day at my job . We sometimes do R&amp;D on off days and we spent quite some time trying to imitate our favorite gourmet mayonnaise . I think that we were successful , here are some tips : Lemon juice comes closer to that crisp tartness that I taste in even cheaper mayonnaise . Try using the juice from lemons , limes , or both and see where that gets you . The store bought brands do n't taste like mustard , but let me emphasize that mustard is vital to getting you closer to that taste . There is a specific " tang " to store bought mayonnaise that does n't come from the acid -- you can get very close to this tang with mustard . I use a good quality dijon when I make mayonnaise and the difference is noticeable . Keep adding dijon in small amounts and observe the change in taste . I end up 2 - 3 tablespoons to my batch . Experiment with fresh garlic and/or garlic and onion powders . Try adding white pepper instead of black pepper and see where that gets you . I add a little water at the end . I find that it tones down some of the intensity of the acid and dijon . Also , you do n't have to add your acid in the beginning . In fact , I almost always add mine after the initial " setting " of the emulsification . It is easier to control the thickness and flavor of my mayo ; I use my acid for my first thinning and then add oil to adjust from there .
That 's a really good question . I imagine it was probably stabilized with something that stays solid at high heat , b/c hot cheesecake would be fairly soft . Was it warm all the way through ? My wild guess would be they rewarmed it in the oven , then ( if needed ) blasted with a blowtorch for crispiness .
If you want your Kombucha be strong , consistent , and to taste like a commercial one , then you need to use the same SCOBY contained in a commercial kombucha . Remember , making Kombucha , just like brewing wine , mead , or beer , is nothing more than glorified yeast herding . You give the SCOBY what it wants to eat , and it does the rest . It 's really that simple . You just need the same starter as a commercial company . Now , many companies spend years perfecting their strains of yeast/bacteria , and trying to raise your own or getting a starter from " some guy " often just wo n't compare because it is either weak , or it has n't been fed properly , it contains too much acetalbacter , etc. . So , how do you do it ? You use the SCOBY that commercial kombucha makers provide you in the bottle and propagate it . In homebrewing we use a similar procedure called " washing yeast , " where you take a commercial beer , drink the majority , and then use the dregs of yeast at the bottom to ferment your own beer . Start with an unpasteurized , raw commercial bottle of Kombucha that you like that has not been sorbated or sulfited . Check the bottle for wisps of sediment in the bottle , indicating that it contains some mother , the more the better . Then , you prepare food ( black tea and sugar ) , and mix the two . Cover with some cloth , store in a warm ( I would guess at 65-70 degrees F based on my experience brewing wine/beer and alsoo purposely making vinegar ) and dark place , and let the mother start to grow . It 'll take 2-3 feedings before you have a strong mother , but it should form . If it does n't ? Grab another bottle of kombucha and try again . This link explains the process in better detail . <URL> Once you have the mother , just continue feeding and do whatever you can not to break the cycle of feedings so it does n't get stressed . You are dealing with living things , and so they will have a tendency to fall into cycles . If you break the cycles , they 'll get stressed .
It sounds like it was gassed to stay bright green and firm but the seeds are showing how old it actually is . The pith ( the whitish veins on the sides ) is also firm on a fresh pepper , if its limp probably due to age .
end question
start question
Browning Beef in Beef Stew ?
Making a stew without browning is relatively safe since the prolonged cooking should kill off most pathogens . This is especially true if you are careful about your kitchen cleanliness and cut the meat down from a larger piece yourself instead of buying pre-cut " stew meat " or ground meat . Whole cuts of meat such as steaks or roasts usually only have E. coli on the surface , which makes the E. coli easier to kill by cooking . When the meat is ground or mechanically tenderized , E. coli on the surface can be transferred to the inside of the meat . This is why ground meat and mechanically tenderized meat are more likely to cause illness than whole cuts of meat . Like ground meats , prepackaged " stew meat " can contain tissues from multiple individual animals , thereby increasing the chance that there is E. coli present in the package . Each additional surface is another place for E. coli to grow while that package is sitting at the store or in your fridge . Browning , however contributes a significant amount of flavor to the stew , which will be lost . The good news is that you <URL> ... One alternative that I use is to buy the quantity of meat I plan to use as a whole roast ( instead of pre-cut " stew meat " ) then sear the entire roast before cutting it down to stew-size chunks . You get the flavor benefit of the Maillard browning with less time spent browning little pieces and less overcooked meat . If you use a lidless , oven braise technique , as suggested in Harold McGee 's On Food and Cooking , you will get further browning on any pieces that are n't totally submerged as well as flavor concentration from evaporation . Check out these previous posts on similar topics : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Tamarind gives a sour and slightly molasses note to food , including rendang . To replicate it , you thus need something sour , like lemon juice , and a dark sugar flavour , like black treacle , molasses , or dark brown sugar . For your recipe I would add 2 tablespoons of lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of dark brown sugar .
It can . There 's nothing wrong with braising or stewing with a stainless steel pot . Just know that if you brown your meat before stewing it , it will cook faster in a stainless steel pot than in a cast iron or enameled cast iron pot , because cast iron retains heat well and conducts it evenly . So be careful not to over-brown your meaty bits . Sometimes , braising on the stovetop is desirable , especially if you want to further reduce your liquid . When we cook in our commercial kitchen , half the time we braise in the oven with our enamel-ware , the other half we do in a stainless steel stockpot on the stove .
Rendered beef fat can be used in a lot of ways . You can use it in place of oil in a lot of recipes , but finding out which ones you like will take some experimenting . Around our house , I use rendered fat from beef or bacon in place of oil when sautéing , for example with onions and peppers , garlic or mushrooms . I 've also used it to add some kick to gravies . You could use it to pop popcorn , which I 've heard is delicious but unfortunately have never tried . I 've had <URL> made with beef fat , and they were delicious . Mashed potatoes as well . As far as fat ratio goes , it 's better than butter , but not as good as other fats . Beef fat has a high smoke point and is suitable for frying . The table below is based off of 1 tablespoon . Ratio means saturated to unsaturated . Smoke point can vary depending on a lot of factors ( olive oil <URL> from 300 when unrefined , to <URL> depending on quality ) but the table below should be a good guide . For the oils , I took the refined numbers . sat mono poly ratio smoke Canola Oil 0.9 8.2 4.1 1:12 470 & deg ; F Olive Oil 1.8 10.0 1.2 2:11 450 & deg ; F Chicken Fat 3.8 5.7 2.6 1:2 375 & deg ; F Duck Fat 4.3 6.3 1.7 1:2 375 & deg ; F Lard ( pork fat ) 5.0 5.8 1.4 5:7 365 & deg ; F Beef Tallow 6.4 5.4 0.5 1:1 400 & deg ; F Butter 7.2 3.3 0.5 7:4 350 & deg ; F ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) A lot of people mix it into their dog 's food , or use it to feed birds . Seach for <URL> if you want to find recipes that specifically use it .
Did you let the meat cool completely before attempting to slice it ? Even meat that is completely-fall-apart tender straight out of the ( crock ) pot will firm up quite a bit when cooled .
I 'm not going to comment on whether or not it is safe , because that could be any number of issues other than the brown coloring of the meat . However , the brown in and of itself is not an issue . When meat is exposed to air it turns a brown color . This does not effect the falvor of the meat , but the color turns a lot of people off . Grocery stores will actually throw this meat away , not because it is bad but just because people wo n't buy it . Terribly wasteful . From the <URL> : Optimum surface color of fresh meat ( i.e. , cherry-red for beef ; dark cherry-red for lamb ; grayish-pink for pork ; and pale pink for veal ) is highly unstable and short-lived . When meat is fresh and protected from contact with air ( such as in vacuum packages ) , it has the purple-red color that comes from myoglobin , one of the two key pigments responsible for the color of meat . When exposed to air , myoglobin forms the pigment , oxymyoglobin , which gives meat a pleasingly cherry-red color . The use of a plastic wrap that allows oxygen to pass through it helps ensure that the cut meats will retain this bright red color . However , exposure to store lighting as well as the continued contact of myoglobin and oxymyoglobin with oxygen leads to the formation of metmyoglobin , a pigment that turns meat brownish-red . This color change alone does not mean the product is spoiled
I notice Flank steak already made the list , and once I would have agreed , but it 's gotten trendy , and with the trendiness , expensive . It 's still not fillet-price , but it tends to run in the 7-8 dollar a pound range where I live . The steak I like to grill that I find to be tasty , cheap , and available is <URL> . Do a light marinade , grill it as lightly as possible , cut across the grain of the meat , serve . Your mileage may vary , however . The cheapest cuts are almost always the ones that local cooks do n't know what to do with , and if the locals are hounds for the fajita , you 're not going to be able to find skirt steak at all . My advice is to go to the store with an open mind , and browse the meat counter looking for deals . I came home with 3 pounds of tenderloin tips for less than twenty bucks the other day : if I 'd gone out looking to buy such a thing , I 'd have been disappointed .
I have to admit that I have n't tried a lot of free-form jerky experiments so take what I say with a grain of salt . ( see what I did there ? ) Jerky is a double action meat preservation method . You soak the meat with way too much salt and then dehydrate it . Bacteria do n't stand a chance . As Alton says in that episode " Club med becomes club dead " . Not one of his best puns but it gets the point across . Salt ( or soy sauce , same thing ) is n't required for the drying process but it is important for long term preservation . I have seen recipes that try to reduce it but I would never leave it out altogether . I would expect a reduced salt recipe to not have the longevity that most jerky has - If stored in an air tight container it will last nearly forever . The non-salt ingredients do n't really matter as long as they wo n't oxidize or pick up bad flavors during dehydration . The type of sugar also does n't matter - although the recipes I prefer do n't include any . I honestly do n't know about viscosity - I would expect it to need enough liquid to carry the salt into the meat . That would take some experimenting . It is very important that there be as little fat as possible . The leaner the meat the better and do n't add any to the marinade . Fats will go rancid quite quickly when exposed to so much air . Lastly - I think I 've posted this recipe before as the answer to some other question but it bears repeating . This family recipe is my favorite by far and I use it as a starting point for any experimenting : Auntie Fern 's Beef Jerky 3 lbs . deer meat or beef , sliced thin 1 T salt 1 tsp garlic powder 1 tsp onion powder 1 T pepper ( I like coarse ground ) 1/4 c. soy sauce 1/3 c. Worcestershire sauce 1/3 c. liquid smoke ( hickory flavor ) Combine and marinade 12 hours . Drain . Dry .
You can get extremely edible results , which is good enough for me . The smoke-ring may be lacking from a competition grade result , but the flavour will be fine . Presume you have a big-enough BBQ to have at least two burners . Only use the burner the meat is not on . If you have any prevailing wind and are not completely sheltered , make the hot side the upwind side . Either get a smoke-box , or do what I used to and use foil . Soak 1/3 to 1/2 your wood chips in water to slow them down . Foil worked just fine for me , made a pouch , put in the chips and poked the up-flat-side with a knife to make smoke holes . If you have a larger BBQ , consider adding in bricks or stones ( no river stone ! ) to help maintain even heat . By having less air and more thermal mass , you will do better . Let me meat come to room temperature before you put it on . Also no need to smoke right away , as the meat will not take it until it heats up further in the BBQ . Happy Eating
Transfer of heat . First you need a hot pan ( sprinkle some drops of water on the pan , it should sizzle ) . Then you add a drop of oil and swirl it around . When the oil forms a striated pattern , it 's hot . Then you put the meat in . The hot oil helps to transfer heat from the bottom of the pan to the meat . You only need a spoonful of oil .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
If your question is specific about acid : Nothing . The conventional way acids work is by dissolving them in water . I even have some vague memories that it 's not technically correct to call a substance an " acid " before it has been dissolved in water - for example , pure HCl ( a gas ) is not an acid , but once it is dissolved in water , it becomes hydrochlorid acid . pH , the well-known measure for acidity , is defined as the logarithm of the number of protons swimming around in the aqueous solution - and before you dissolve the acidic substance , the protons stay firmly attached to their host molecule . I have never heard of an acid working without water being present . I am not a chemist , and maybe there is an way to get acid to work using some other polar solvent instead of water . So I do n't want to tell you that it 's absolutely impossible to have an acid without water ( although this could be the case , I just do n't know ) . But : The acid itself is by definition water-soluble . You ca n't bring acid and water two together and not get a new , weaker , acid-water solution . I ca n't think of any edible polar solvent besides water . Ethanol could qualify , but most people do n't consider 96.4 % ethanol to be " edible " . If it does n't matter to you what the other liquid is ( not an acid ) , you can easily use anything non-polar . In food , any fat will do . You could start by floating solid-fat spheres in water and then pouring them into oil . The problem here is that they will take quite a long time to dissolve ( although this can be circumvented by using warm oil ) . The other way round will work better . Take something which dissolves in water quickly , and make the hollow sphere out of it . Float it in oil . Then you 'll pour it into the water to release the fragrance . Crystals are best for dissolving rapidly in water . I think that either salt or sugar will work well for your spheres . Of course , you are left with two problems : 1 ) how to manufacture the hollow spheres , and 2 ) what fragrance to use which will not dissolve the spheres themselves . For 2 ) , you are probably looking at essential oils ( warning , use foodsafe ones , not all are ! ) . For 1 ) , you probably need some precision candy-making techniques . Update : letting food react with acid . The answer above assumed that you are really looking for stuff which will dissolve in acid . The commenters pointed out that this is not necessary , as you can let the food react with the acid instead . It 's an interesting idea , but it wo n't be easy to get done . From the major food groups , you can exclude all proteins . We are made of protein , and any acid strong enough to quickly corrode spheres of gelatin or similar will ulcerate our mouths right away . You can also exclude the sugars . They are water-soluble . The polysaccharides are a better bet . Especially the hemicelluloses should be good candidates , as they are insoluble in water , and the result of the hydrolisis is edible ( sugars and some polisaccharides ) . But they typically need very strong acids for the reaction . You might try to use a concentrated edible acid for the reaction , then dilute the result for consumption , but you 'll have to pay lots of attention to proper ratio . Also , I do n't know how you 'll manage to physically shape one of the insoluble polysaccharides into a water-tight capsule at home . The fats are also bad candidates . They are largely unimpressed by acids , in fact their most interesting reactions are with bases ( saponification , etc. ) The short unsaturated ones will probably react with an acid , but you 'll need a fairly strong one , and the result wo n't really disappear . The probably easiest way to do this is with salts . Especially the sodium salts tend to be edible and to react readily with acids . Plain old calcium carbonate sounds like a promising material , and with a bit of heating you can get it to react very quickly with acid solutions dilute enough to drink afterwards . Again , you have the problem of somehow making spheres out of it .
TL ; DR Vitamin C ( ascorbic acid ) works to slow , even halt the browning of avocados , even in the face of salt , vinegar ( in salsa ) , and lime juice , all of which have been shown ( or will be shown ) to speed browning . At a concentration of 100mg per 50 grams of avocado , it is also virtually tasteless . You can buy pure <URL> , which I did and then promptly lost , or you can use a spice grinder to grind very pure tablets , which I also did . My tablets weighed .59 grams per 500mg tablet , so close enough . I also tasted the powder and it really had no unpleasant chemical flavor , just a bit of acid effervescence feeling . You do n't need to dissolve the powder , you can just stir it into mashed avocado . To keep sliced or diced avocados green , mix 1/2 tsp of the powder in 1 TBS of water ( it will take some effort to get it mixed , but it will mix ) and paint it on the surface or dunk in chunks , let them dry and refrigerate , covered . As shown in earlier experimentation , cutting off all air significantly slows browning . That means not just a lid on Tupperware , but vacuum sealing , a sealed Ziploc bag with the air removed , or at least Saran Wrap * actually on the surface of the avocado . The same principle applies to adding a layer of water , sour cream , or salsa over the surface of the avocado . Enclosing the avocado with diced red onion significantly slows browning as long as the container stays closed . * I specify the brand name of the plastic wrap because I have learned that permeability of plastic wrap varies , and Saran Wrap is the brand I 've tested . As <URL> answer says , diced red onions slow down browning significantly , as long as the container that holds the onions and avocado remains closed and airtight . The onions release propanethiol S-oxide gas ( that 's what causes tearing ) , and as long as that gas does n't dissipate , that gas prevents the avocado from browning . This picture is of otherwise untreated avocado after nine hours in the refrigerator , tightly covered in tupperware containers . Even the containers are identical . One side has the onions , the other does n't . I removed the lids to snap the picture . I replaced the lids , and within thirty minutes , I could see the avocado starting to brown on the side with the onion . By morning it was all over . So , if you want to make guacamole in advance , one option to keep it fresh looking is to enclose it with diced red onion . Do n't remove the lid until time to serve . I specifically say red onion because that is the only onion type I tested . Stored like this you can taste the onion , but I find that flavor complimentary in guacamole . Nine hours is n't necessarily the limit ; the onion experiment gets even better ; I 'll cover it more in the section that covers Vitamin C. I had read that salt speeds browning , and I knew from earlier experimentation that lime juice and vinegar speed browning . I looked at Vitamin C as possibly being effective against browning . I added the factors of salt and Vitamin C to the testing of scoops of avocado left uncovered at room temperature . At 2 hours the results are evident . Lime juice and salt both speed browning . Uncovered and unrefrigerated the Vitamin C does n't seem to make much of a difference . Per each 50 grams of avocado ( as indicated ) , I used 100mg of Vitamin C powder , 250mg salt or 1/4 tsp freshly squeezed lime juice . Refrigerated and covered , Vitamin C is a whole different ball of wax . I made guacamole using my favorite method . Into mashed avocado I mixed salt , lime juice , fresh cilantro and drained Pace Brand Hot Salsa . ( Per 100 grams of avocado I added .5 grams of salt , 1/2 tsp of freshly squeezed lime juice , about a TBS of chopped cilantro and 2 TBS drained salsa ) . I treated half the guacamole with 100mg of Vitamin C powder ( ascorbic acid ) to each 50 grams of guacamole . Tightly enclosed in little Ziplocs , with no air exposure at all , both samples are still acceptable at 4 full days ( 96 hours ) . The Vitamin C treated sample shows no browning at all : Since the layer of red onion kept avocados from turning brown for 9 hours if the lid was n't removed , I kept the lid on guacamole samples enclosed with red onion for the same 4 days . Again , both samples are acceptable , but the sample with added Vitamin C shows no browning at all : Vitamin C so effectively stops avocados from browning that refrigerated just in a regular Tupperware container ( just with the lid on , nothing on the surface ) that even in the face of salt , salsa and lime , the guacamole is still perfectly fresh at four full days . So , the bottom line is this : Add Vitamin C to guacamole to keep it fresh and green for a full four days . With the addition of Vitamin C , it actually stays green for even longer , but I suspect that other freshness issues would start to come into play at that point . Use a baggie , a Ziploc bag , Saran Wrap , Tupperware , whatever , as long as it 's covered . OK , I do n't necessarily advocate eating week old , homemade guacamole , but it 's late and I 'm
In the oven , that heat is coming from all directions more or less equally . On the stovetop , the heat is coming only from the bottom . This can potentially cause convection , and almost certainly requires occasional stirring ( especially for larger batches ) , meaning that the ingredients are being moved around . The combination of the ingredients being heated more when they 're at the bottom and the movement can cause them to start breaking apart , and generally cook unevenly . Personally , I only find this to be an issue with beans and meat ( and it 's not something that 's going to cause failure ; it 's really just a refinement ) but if you are making an especially large batch of stew , you may want to try the oven .
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders . It 's just the cooking times are shorter , that 's all . Set your oven to 250-275F , and roast those ribs until they 're done . I 've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours , but as many as 5 . Optionally , you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook , with some liquid in the foil pack . Just be aware that they 'll cook faster if they 're foiled . And depending on your preference , you may want to take them out of the foil to finish them .
Here 's a picture of some raw ground beef from the Wikipedia <URL> article so that you can see for yourself . Basically it is beef that has been run through a meat grinder , great for making taco meat , hamburgers , and the like .
I can see this as being similar to a sweet potato pie . Best bet in that case would be to cook the carrots , then puree and mix with eggs , milk , etc. just as if it were a sweet potato or pumpkin pie . Two alternatives that come to mind would be to treat it like a fruit pie , as you say . Because of the texture of the carrots , I would grate them with the large holes on a box grater , toss with sugar , raisins , some tapioca and whatever spices your heart leads you toward . An alternative would be to make a molded gelatin like pie , similar to a refrigerator lime pie . Lots of gelatin and grated carrots . I , personally , would n't like it , but I am not fond of jello with carrots in it either . Happy experimenting .
There is n't a way to predict this . Non stick pans are produced in different quality and can be anywhere from " water pearls off the surface " to " as bad as enamel " . And all of them lose their non stick properties over time , at wildly different rates depending on quality and usage patterns . If you want to know it for your case , you 'll have to try it . Worst case , you 'll have to thoroughly clean a pan from clingy residue . If it burns onto a white ceramic coating , it can also leave a permanent discoloration , but this is a purely cosmetic problem . Update : You can certainly save your meat even if it starts to stick . Use Joe 's method from his comment , or simply stir it constantly with a flat edged spatula ( I do n't know which method is better ) . If it is patties , loosen them again and again using a spatula , maybe turning them often .
Browning ingredients ( both meat and vegetables including the aromatics ) before doing a braise or stew ( which is what slow cookers do ) helps develop depth of flavor , through the <URL> where proteins and carbohydrates react together to create a myriad of flavorful compounds . Vegetables that are high in sugar , such as onions or leeks , and even carrots may also have some <URL> , where sugars react with each other , again creating flavorful compounds . Especially with beef , these deep browned flavors are often what people associate with the product , and what they expect to taste . On the other hand , browning almost by definition overcooks the outside of meat well past well done , so it is somewhat drier and tougher , although this can be mitigated by a long braise Some experts recommend browning only on one side of cubed meat , to compromise between getting flavor development , and getting good texture . The one thing browning or searing does n't do is " seal in the juices " ; that is a myth that is well de-bunked . The choice to brown or not brown is one of taste and balance . It is traditional in many recipes , especially of Western European heritage . There are many traditions where browning is not as frequent , including true Mexican cuisine and many Asian cuisines . Choose what seems most appropriate and tasty to you in a given dish . Personally , I like the flavor development , and almost always opt for browning .
end question
start question
How do I get rid of that calcium chloride taste in my tomato sauce ?
To begin with , you can microwave the tomato before cooking it in the pan ; this will also shorten the cooking time . Doing this , the tomato " grains " will already be hot inside when they begin to cook from the outside in the pan . You 'll still get the external " roasted " feel but with a softer texture . You can compensate for the citric acid , and for the excess of the tomatoes ' own acid , by adding some sugar . In order to hide the metallic taste , add some herbs . Try one leaf of bay laurel ; or a combination of dry herbs like savory , fennel , basil , thyme , and oregano .
Tomato paste is just tomatoes with the water removed , essentially . I 'd slice the tomatoes in half and roast them ( cut side up ) at 350 degrees F for an hour ( this will concentrate the flavour nicely and you can add s &amp; p/olive oil/herbs/garlic if you want ) . Then mash them through a sieve or food mill to get a smooth consistency . Then put that tomato puree in a pot and just boil them down until it 's as thick as you want . As it gets thicker , you 'll need to stir it regularly to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pot and burning .
Supermarket ' stew beef ' is notoriously unreliable . Its often just scraps of beef that the butcher or market ca n't sell otherwise . My stews were hit and miss for years while I tried to tweak cooking time and such . But then one day I watched a movie on rouxbe.com ( paywall , sorry ) and they talked about not using ' stew beef ' - its often too lean and does n't have the ' stuff ' to produce tender , but juicy bits . They strongly recommended cutting up your own from a chuck ... and they were so , so , so right . In short , cutting up your own chuck is by far the better route - if you 're looking for ' stew beef ' .
I 'm sorry to say this , but I think prevention is the best answer . Once you 're vegetables freeze things happen at the cellular level that changes the nature of the vegetables . For example , ice crystals pierce cell walls which destroys some of the structure , which is responsible for the crispness and crunch of the vegetable . I do n't think there is really a way to " fix " this , once it happens . That said , cooking does something similar to vegetables . Cooking destroys cell walls , which is why cooked carrots are so much softer than raw carrots . I would think that vegetables that stand up to cooking would survive freezing the best ( such as your mushrooms ) . On the other hand , somthing like lettuce is a lost cause , once frozen .
A souffle by any other name will fall as quick . ( Sorry , I could n't resist ) . But this is absolutely normal , there is nothing in this recipe to support the structural integrity of cooling air bubbles . You can reduce the amount of rising , which will result in a smaller collapse . To do this , beat the mixture less ( prepare it by hand instead with a mixer to be sure ) and ensure slower , more even heating in the oven . But of course , the collapse will occur . There is some advice floating around which is supposed to reduce the falling rate of souffles . You could try following it even if your recipe does n't involve whipping the eggwhites . It involves things like not crowding the oven and carefully buttering the form , usually with layers of butter and sugar ( or parmesan for savory souffles ) . It wo n't hurt to use them . But do n't expect a risen pudding after it has cooled . Update . I read Charlotte Farley 's answer and thought that it would be great if it works . I had a hunch that it might not , but it would be so awesome if it helps ! So I made the experiment . I made the bread pudding exactly per the recipe given here . I did n't separate the eggs , but took care to whip them for a long time before adding the milk , to ensure a good rise . I baked it in silicon muffin cups , exactly 5 gram of bread and 45 gram of egg mixture per cup . After 45 min at 150 ° C , I quickly removed three cups from the oven and left the remaining three cups there for another 45 min . As a control , I used a simple cheese souffle ( basically a mornay sauche with whipped egg whites ) and repeated the procedures , using 50 g mixture per cup and baking for 20 min at 175 ° C . The results : These are the bread puddings . The directly removed are in the lower row , the ones which remained in the oven are in the upper row . I did n't measure them , but they are nearly the same height . In the oven , all had risen maybe 1 cm over the cup edges , so they all lost ~ 50 % of their oven height . The first group collapsed the second they were out of the oven , the others deflated slowly in the oven , but were already low when I took them out . I weighed both groups after cooling . The " direct from the oven group " weighed 116 g , or 11.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . The " left in oven group " weighed 101 g , or 16.3 g average moisture loss per pudding . When I tried them , I liked the moister ones better , but both groups were OK . Neither was unacceptably dry or egg-white-rubbery . These are the cheese soufflés . They rose more in the oven , to maybe 2.5-3 cm above the cup edges . Again , directly removed ones are in the bottom row , the oven cooled ones are in the top row . There is no visible difference , they all seem deflated to the same size . The weight results are similar as in the bread pudding case : 122 g for the three directly removed souffles , 109 g for the oven cooled ones . Again , I felt that the moister ones tasted better , but this could be a subjective preference . I would n't consider the oven-cooled ones " bad " on their own . Conclusion : The slow oven cooling does n't work :( Estimated 5000 calories worth of egg dishes plus a small package of American bread ( opened ) available for free , collect in person only .
Short answer : tomato sauce is a <URL> . Another interesting link can be found <URL> . Tomato sauce in an interesting creature . Think about ketchup . You try you shake some out and nothing . So you tap the bottle a little bit , still nothing . Tap it a little harder , and a little harder , and suddenly boom : a flood of ketchup . The " jumpiness " of tomato sauce is caused by the same physics . Basically , tomato sauce has two things in it that contribute to this characteristic : water and tomato pulp . At first , the tomato pulp is just lying around every which way , which makes the sauce act a lot thicker . But when the strands of pulp are aligned , it makes the sauce act a lot more like water . Heating up the sauce increases the pressure on the sauce , allowing areas of the sauce to become much more fluid , resulting in bubbling , popping , and the flinging of tomato sauce all over your clean white shirt . The same effect is what makes ketchup come flying out of the bottle - when you whack it hard enough , the pressure changes the state of the ketchup , and the ketchup literally flows like water . Edit : updated with relevant information Unfortunately , when I managed to get a hold of Mr. Steingarten 's lovely book , <URL> , * I discovered that the passage regarding tomato sauce as a non-Newtonian fluid was exclusively regarding ketchup , and not general tomato sauce as I thought I remembered . However , this description is still a valuable one , and it does help explain this particular characteristic of tomato-based sauces ( after all , ketchup is a tomato based sauce ) [ p 96 ] : It was only after I had send a stream of ketchup streaking across my wife 's favorite tablecloth , a lovely hand-printed Indian cotton from a shop on the rue Jacob , that I telephoned Professor Malcolm Bourne at Cornell for a lesson in non-Newtonian fluids . Sir Isaac Newton wrote the laws governing liquids that flow like water : the more force you exert on them , the faster they flow . But ketchup is different . Composed of tangled red tomato fibers suspended in a sweet and acidic colorless serum , ketchup behaves like a solid both at rest and under low levels of pressure : but then , at some higher threshold , it suddenly begins flowing like an ordinary fluid . That 's why the frustrated ketchup lover who loses patience with gentle taps on the bottle 's bottom and prematurely shifts to a powerful wallop ends up with a gush of ketchup over everything . Ketchup and mayonnaise are known as Bingham fluids , named after the scientist who characterized them early [ last ] century . * Personally , I think that The Man Who Ate Everything is a must-read for anyone interested in culinary science , and a should-read for anyone interested in food . Second Edit : Due to a handful of downvotes that I received while I slept last night , I guess some clarification is needed : I just want to be absolutely clear here , I am in no way implying that . I offer this information as an example of how tomato pulp suspended in liquid acts . The fact that " tomato sauce is thick " does n't really hold up . The question even clearly states : " Of all the sauces and creams I prepare in a hot pot , tomato sauce is the most jumpy " , which presumably includes thick ones . If thickness was the only factor ( and I 'm not saying that it is n't a factor ) , we would see similar actions from cheese sauces , bechamels , gravies , and a variety of soups . While these sauces/soups do splatter , tomato sauce is significantly more " splattery . " Put a pot of tomato sauce next to any other sauce/soup , take your pick , and heat them to the same temperature . I can pretty much guarantee that given similar conditions , you 're going to be wiping up a lot more tomato sauce than the other one . One last edit : <URL> on Slate indicates that it 's a combination of the above ( being a " plastic liquid " ) , the viscosity , and pectin , as pointed out by Brendan in a comment below .
Charcoal can get to 700 degrees F but in normal use you 're more likely to be in the 500F range . In order to get to the higher end of charcoal 's abilities there are a couple things you can do : Use natural <URL> , not briquettes . Lower the grill grate to within 1 " of the hot coals If 1 &amp; 2 do n't get you enough heat , consider using the Alton Brown <URL> ( Setup starts around the 8 minute mark )
I suspect your sourdough starter is just too acidic . I have no similar problems with sourdough in the past , but my starter is n't particularly acidic . Have you tried discarding with a large refresh and then shortly ( in bakers terms ) trying a new loaf ? Trying to isolate just the yeast and not the sour part . The loaf may not taste sourdoughy , but it should determine if that 's the issue .
This scum is made from proteins . Meat contains muscle fibers ( the proteins actin and myosin ) as well as some loose proteins swimming in the fluids within the meat ( the cell plasma ) . When you cook meat , the protein-rich fluids are expelled ( that 's why overcooking makes meat dry ) . Under hot temperature , the proteins in the fluid coagulate , making it firm . It is especially noticeable in your burger , because there is more liquid flowing out quickly from your cut-up meat , but it also happens with whole pieces of meat , albeit more slowly . It is also very noticeable when cooking stock , because the stock is cooked for a long time and the liquid has time to come out from the meat . The coagulated liquid can form a single piece ( as it does with steak on a slightly oiled pan ) , but when it flows into water or oil , it mixes with it without dissolving , creating small loose particles . They float to the top , creating the frothy scum you describe . The process is perfectly natural , you 're not doing anything wrong . You can in fact eat the scum without any ill effects , but the taste is n't that great . So it is better to fish it out from the oil ( or water when making stock ) . In dry cooking ( aforementioned steak ) it is exactly this stuff ( after getting nicely browned on the hot pan ) which makes gravy taste so well , together with the dripped fat .
American versions of Mongolian BBQ are often pretty sweet ( this does n't sound like an authentic recipe ) . More soy sauce ( or more of everything but the sugar ) would cut the sweetness . Chili oil would certainly give it heat , but is n't going to temper the sweetness much . Any of the following would offset the sweetness and be appropriate for this type of dish : Any tart apple ( a common ingredient in the Japanese version of Mongolian BBQ ) Onions ( not caramelized ) Rice wine vinegar
Normally , in industry , you combine the butter and flour , and cook it for a bit ( usually gets a nice nutty aroma ) . Then , you heat the milk to a boil , and add some of the milk to the cooked roux ( fat and flour ) . This will be VERY thick . You can easily whisk the lumps out of that . You then add this back into the other milk , which thickens the milk . Also , in industry , there is often just a big pail of roux , and a shortcut is to heat the milk , and then add the roux in a bit at a time , whisking like hell to get out the lumps . You can control the thickness of the sauce better that way . When you have the desired thickness , you then season .
This often happens when the tomatoes used are not fully mature . Although apparently are completely red , the parties less red lighten the sauce . Alternatively , depends on the quality of tomatoes . The Native Americans tomatoes were yellow ( hence the Italian name " golden apple " = " pomo d'oro " = " pomodoro " ) . Through the selections have become red . But remaining mixed colors , which are " not red " but " reddish " . Or yellow - orange . In the United States , the orange tomatoes are sold seasonally in the markets of agricultural producers : it is " heirloom tomatoes " or " tomatoes tradition " ( heirloom tomatoes ) , ie those that were cultivated before 1800 and which for centuries delighted the palates of our ancestors . The study conducted by the chemist Betty J. Burry and biologist Betty K. Ishida has shown that orange tomatoes contain more lycopene ( an important antioxidant molecule ) of the common red tomatoes . The difference is due to the chemical form of lycopene in red tomatoes that occurs in the trans form while in the orange tomatoes in tetra-cis form . Research conducted in California and in Ohio ( USA ) have shown that the form of the tetra-cis lycopene is more efficiently absorbed by the body compared to the trans form . The research group has also assessed the oxidative damage : lycopene and other antioxidant molecules , in fact , may protect both the cells and the essential fatty acids from oxidation . Using a procedure known as " TBARS assay " the researchers noted that oxidative damage is decreased by consuming tomato sauce and tomato sauce red orange , but the damage reduction was greater in the diet that included the consumption of orange tomatoes . ( * ) <URL> Data di pubblicazione : 05/07/2012 Autore : Emanuela Fontana Copyright : www.freshplaza.it Personally I can say that in the diets of very young children less red tomatoes ( fresh , peeled and seeded ) are preferred , because they are more digestible and light . PS A very prolonged cooking of the sauce , on the contrary , gives a very dark and indigestible sauce ( tomato paste ) which is used more as a seasoning for cooking of regional recipes . Is never used on pasta , as the taste is altered and too strong . EDIT Yes it happens very often , and we all start with deep red tomatoes , san marzano and so on . But often the salsa comes oranges . <URL> that it comes from blending tomatoes after mixing with oil . But I never put so much oil to think that it could depend by oil . And it happens to me too . And the other persons disagree too . Everyone does buy san marzano tomatoes ( or similar ) , very mature and red . But when you cut them , inside they can be hard and a bit pale , not really red . And flavonoid and lycopene are into any tomato , just in different or more or less visible quantity . ( flavonoyd becomes from latin : flavus = yellow or blond / leukos is from greek = white ) . To me , since the original DNA is yellow , it could be that some genetic trait has remained , not limited to only one quality but in general the whole botanical species , and sometimes emerges . The major dietary source of lycopene is represented by the tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) from which it takes its name , and its derivatives , in which represents 60 % of the total content in carotenoids . The lycopene content is influenced by the level of maturation of the tomato , has been calculated that in fact red and ripe tomatoes are present 50 mg / kg of lycopene . But of course , i can wrong . <URL> / <URL> <URL> " The date of his arrival in Europe in 1540 when the Spaniard Hernán Cortés returned to his homeland and brought the specimens , but its cultivation and propagation waited until the second half of the seventeenth century . Arrives in Italy in 1596 but only later , finding favorable climatic conditions in the south of the country , you have the color change of its color from the original and distinctive gold color , which gave its name to the plant , the current red , thanks to selections and subsequent grafts . " EDIT II @ MandoMando Yes , I agree . What you say agrees with my experience . I must say that it is false that " many often " happens , it just happens sometimes . Normally remain red . But I never use electrical equipment , only hand devices , like these : The first is precisely for the tomato sauce . The second pass any cooked vegetables . But if you want , you can tray the ancient recipe , that I use only when I have guests and I want to offer some pasta with a fresh made sauce . You must blanch the tomatoes in boiling water until the skin breaks down ( usually 20-30 seconds ) . Then remove the tomatoes from the water and peel them right away , still intact and hot . This is the method used by our grandmothers who were canned . After removing the skin , you can put the whole tomatoes into the jars and sterilize them . Or you can make a sauce with olive oil , salt and herbs ( as I do ) or with other ingredients such as carrots , celery or whatever . I do not think that modern industries for storage of tomato sauce stil
Are there different qualities in prepared Hoisin sauces ? Think of it like barbecue sauce or chili powder : every company has their own recipe , and it 's always hard to know the precise justification for a specific price . The high price on one may be part of their premium brand image , and have nothing to do with the quality of the ingredients . Ultimately , you just have to try a few brands and decide which flavor appeals to you , and whether you find the price reasonable . If so , would I be better served by making my own ? As far as I can tell , hoisin sauce does not need to be fermented , so it 's going to be much easier to make authentic hoisin sauce at home than something like soy sauce or Worcestershire sauce . It 's more like making your own barbecue sauce . A few different websites have minor variations on this recipe : <URL> Is it worth the effort ? That 's a matter of personal opinion . It 's probably hard to justify on purely economic terms ; do you really use more than a few cents worth of hoisin sauce in any given meal , and are the ingredients that much cheaper than the product itself ? But of course , there are other reasons to cook than just to save money . I think you 've just inspired me to try making my own hoisin sauce :) If I make my own , how long will it keep for ? Each of those ingredients can last months on its own , often without any refrigeration , and together would create a highly acidic and antimicrobial environment . The worst that might happen to homemade hoisin sauce in several months of refrigerated storage is it might separate a bit and have to be remixed .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
Baking soda seems to work well for me , but the best thing is to get rid of old food that is causing the smell , and seal strong-smelling foods in airtight containers .
By maximising first the flavour of every single nut and then maximising the surface : Gently roast the cashews , then grind them finely . If the resulting " gritty " texture is not to your taste , grind them further until you get a nut butter , which should dissolve nicely especially in cream-type soups .
The most commonly used method is the Swiss Water Process : A batch of unroasted beans is soaked in hot water . Caffeine is water soluble , so it 's extracted from the beans . However , some of the other substances that give coffee its flavour ( " coffee solids " ) are also water-soluble and are also extracted . The first batch of beans is discarded and the caffeine is filtered out of the water/caffeine/coffee solids mixture by a carbon filter . Another batch of unroasted beans is added to the hot water/coffee solids mixture . The water is already saturated with coffee solids , so only the caffeine is extracted from this batch of beans . The now-decaffeinated beans are removed , the water/caffeine/coffee solids mixture is filtered again to remove the caffeine and the process can be repeated with another batch of beans or the same batch to remove even more caffeine . There 's no universal definition of " Decaf , " but it generally means beans that have had at least 97 % of the caffeine ( by weight ) removed .
Cook the pancetta on a large pan , so that it fries in its own fat . It must turn red , but do n't cook it too much as you are going to cook it a bit more later on . Open two eggs . If you like the color of the carbonara intense , throw one white away , and keep one white and two yolks . Put them in a bowl , then add grated parmigiano and mix with a fork . The amount of parmesan should be at least the same volume of the eggs , maybe even more ( twice does not hurt ) . This will give you a rather firm but still flowing compound . Firm is better than too liquid . Cook the pasta . Spaghetti is the norm for carbonara , but also penne is a good choice . Get them " al dente " or some second later , as you prefer . Drain the pasta and put it in the pan you used to cook the pancetta ( where the pancetta still is ) . Pour the egg/cheese mix on top of the pasta and put the pan on gentle heat , while you continue moving and mixing . Detach any layer of cooked egg from the bottom of the pan while you mix . The perfect carbonara must not be liquid , and it must not be clumpy solid , so keep mixing or you will get a pasta omelette . Once you are done , turn off the heat , and take spaghetti up with a large fork , so to disentangle them while you transfer them on the dishes . move them in the dish with a small oscillating movement to disentangle a bit more . Continue like this for all the dishes you have to serve . At the end you will have the pancetta remaining in the pan , and you put it on top of each dish . Add more grated parmigiano and some ground black pepper and eat as soon and hot as possible ! Additional notes : try to stay a bit scarce on salt in the pasta water , and do not add salt to the egg . The fact is that the pancetta is already pretty salted , and you risk to obtain a very salted final result . Carbonara should be salty , but not too salty . I heard about modification with butter and cream , but I have never seen them used , at least in my family and circle of friends .
A big factor besides the dough is the temperature at which you bake the bread . If you are not baking it at some recipe specified temperature you are probably playing on the safe side and your breads wo n't raise much . You have to heat the CO2 pockets quickly so that they expand before the dough hardens . The more temperature you can give it the better . Another possible factor may be the yeast . Are you waiting enough ? Are you using enough ? Like temperature , more yeast and longer fermentation times ca n't go wrong .
end question
start question
What types of snails are made into Escargot ?
For escargots , land snails are used . Most common are the species Helix pomatia , Helix aspersa and Helix lucorum * . There are two restrictions : it should be edible ( problem solved if you work with one of those three ) and it should be large . Larger snails have more flesh to work with . You have to be a bit lucky for this . There 's quite some variation . I think - for the dish that you mean - the snails should still have their house as well . However , I would n't advice you to go into the ' wild ' and pick your own . Just buy them at the supermarket . It 's safer , since snails can have digested toxins that take some time to leave their bodies . The word " escargot " is French for " snail " . You can find different preparations for snails , they would be called " escargots à la ... " with ... being the name of the sauce or preparation . The standard ( at least here ) drops the last part , since it 's the basic preparation ( herb butter with garlic ) . There are other types of snails/slugs that are edible , for instance <URL> are also sold and eaten here , they live in the sea , not on land , but it 's a whole different preparation . * <URL>
Note that wheat is a type of grass , and is technically a grain . Grains without gluten Not all grains have gluten -- only those closely related to wheat do . Grains which do not have gluten include : Corn ( maize ) and its variants or derivatives such as cornmeal , polenta , hominy , or masa Rice ( all varieties ) A note on rice : some varieties are called " glutinous " . This just sounds similar to " gluten " , but is in fact used to indicate the rice 's stickiness . Glutinous rice does not have gluten , not even as traces , its stickiness comes from a special type of starch . Millet Sorghum Oats ( although many oat products are processed in plants that may have had wheat ) Sometimes confused for grains Note that the following gluten free seeds are not grains , although sometimes they are confused for grains : Wild rice Quinoa Buckwheat ( despite the name , not a wheat nor a grain ) Amaranth Non-grains used as gluten-free starches and flours Therefore , all grain-like , starchy , or flour-type foods which are not grasses are always gluten free , including wild rice , quinoa ( despite any other issues ) , and so on . Additionally , flours or seeds based on non-grain seeds , nuts , and legumes are always gluten free , although there may be other dietary sensitivities . These include : Almonds Soy beans Peanuts Chickpeas Mesquite flour Amaranth Quinoa Wild rice Finally , starches and flours based on roots , rhizomes , and so on are gluten free , including : Potato Sweet potato ( True ) yams Tapioca Grains containing gluten The following grains are all wheat relatives , and have gluten to a greater or lesser degree : Wheat Spelt Rye Tritical Barley Kamut Note that the following are all processed wheat products or specific wheat varieties , and should be avoided to maintain gluten free diets : Farina Durum Semolina Couscous See also : <URL> <URL>
Meat is pounded as a mechanical means of tenderizing by damaging the connective tissues . It also makes the meat thinner and flatter , which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly . Pound tougher meats ( cheaper steaks ) , and meats of uneven thickness ( chicken breasts ) . Avoid pounding the bones in the meat . You do n't want little pieces of bone chipping off into meal . Do n't pound already tender pieces ( premium cuts , dry aged steaks ) . Think tenderize , not pulverize . You should not be making any holes in it . If you 're going to marinate , do that after pounding . Wrapping the meat in wax paper first will help prevent a big mess . Do both sides of the meat .
I am not a chemist , but my grandma always used to make bread ( and similar stuff ) with sparkling water instead of still water . She always mentioned that the result will be more fluffy and airy . This only addresses the question about the ( important ) consistency though , but I guess you should just try it out yourself . Edit : Some benefits of using sparkling water in the kitchen As this answer got downvoted to zero I guess my grandma was not convincing enough . So I asked a befriended chef who works at a luxury hotel chain in Germany . Here 's what he explained : Desserts can be made more creamy without actually adding cream . Here he gave examples of pudding/mousse-ish desserts Vegetables steamed with sparkling water results in less loss of color ( i.e. brighter colors ) , more crispyness , and stronger taste . He particularly recommended to try it with carrots , broccoli or cauliflower . You can add sparkling water to thick soups shortly before serving to get them more foamy . Similar with Salad dressings Last but not least he confirmed precisely what my grandma said . For doughs and similar stuff ( for salty or sweet dishes ) you would get a nice fluffy texture . Kudos to my grandma at this point .
Mustard is one of those simple condiments to make , and is fun to experiment with . At it 's most basic mustard is two ingredients : Mustard Seed Liquid There are endless variations from there . Mustard seed comes in white , yellow , brown and black variations . I suggest buying whole and grinding them yourself using either a mortar &amp; pestle or coffee/spice grinder . ( Do n't use a coffee grinder that you use for grinding coffee ! You 'll end up with mustard flavored coffee ) . Liquids can be water , vinegar , wine , or even beer . Using vinegar/wine will help it last longer than water or beer would . Once you 've fine ground ( of course there are coarse ground varieties too ) your mustard simply mix it with the liquid until it is the desired consistency . Additional ingredients can be added to taste . Honey , turmeric ( gives yellow mustard its color ) , sugar , etc. are all possibilities . Update : I forgot to mention that mustard needs time for the flavors to mix . This can take anywhere from a few hours to weeks . A fresher mustard tends to be hotter , but an aged mustard can often taste " better " with a slight loss of that initial heat . Refrigerated mustard will keep it 's heat longer . Also note , mustard made with water should definitely be refrigerated and consumed quicker than others .
Almost any normal sorbet recipe will contain a decent amount of sugar , and strawberries are no exception . I 'd guess probably 1/2 -2 / 3 cup per pound of strawberries . Use a substitute if you have an aversion - honey , agave , raw cane sugar , whatever you prefer . ( Of course , anything liquid is going to contain some water , and cause a bit of ice , but it 's still doable . ) A sorbet without any extra sugar , even when frozen normally in an ice cream maker , is going to end up with a very icy texture , which will probably keep you from experiencing the flavor as much . The sugar helps soften it . The other common way to soften a sorbet is alcohol . Rosé wine ( thank you , David Lebovitz ) works quite well in a strawberry sorbet . Vodka can be your go-to liquor for any impromptu sorbet with other fruits , since it 'll add alcohol without any flavors that clash . Beyond that , either look for recipes , or look for mixed drinks containing the fruit you 're using . You might also be having problems simply because your strawberries are n't that great . Did you freeze them , or were they storebought ? If you bought the strawberries yourself , you 'd know they were decent before freezing , while not all storebought frozen fruit is as flavorful . Finally , it 's possible that your frozen strawberries collected some extra water in the form of frost , which then makes your sorbet icier . If there are obvious big chunks you could scrape them off .
Classic puff pastry absolutely needs a final resting and cooling time in the fridge before you use it for your croissants , palmiers , danishes ... Most recipes give a minimum rest of 30-60 minutes after the last " fold " , but overnight in the fridge is absolutely fine . I 'm not sure whether storing it for two days might have negative side effects , but up to one day is no problem at all .
According to Cooking The Roman Way by David Downie , Fettucine Alfredo is a traditional Roman recipe called " pasta del cornuti " ( cuckold 's pasta ) . What either Alfredo Di Lelio III , or Mario Mozzetti , depending on whom you believe , invented in 1914 , was the dramatic tableside preparation of Fettuccine Alfredo , which is what made the dish a hit with visiting Americans in the 20 's and 30 's . The tableside preparation is really what makes Fettuccine Alfredo what it is : the hot pasta is tossed with the butter and cheese in front of the diner , and then served to them immediately . Again , according to Downie , the only ingredients of Fettuccine Alfredo are egg fettuccine , lots of butter , lots of Parmegiano-Reggiano , and ( if necessary ) a little salt . Recipes which add cream or milk are Americanized recipes designed to allow restaurants to hold orders of Alfredo for a long time under heat lamps ( and turn it into a gooey pasty mess ) . Italians , from my experience visiting Italy , rarely put cream or milk on pasta ( a real Italian could speak up here ) . Downie has a fun 3-page digression about the ongoing lawsuits between the Roman families who claim to own the name . It 's worth a read . Alan Davidson , predictably , says nothing about Fettuccine Alfredo . The Glorious Pasta of Italy likewise does not cover the dish . Wikipedia supports Downie 's story , except only attributing Di Lelio , and adding the tidbit that Di Lelio apparently called it " Fettuccine al burro " ( fettuccine with butter ) , and the Alfredo name was appended later when it was copied in the USA . Wikipedia also says butter and cheese only , on fettuccine pasta . So , to answer your question and the questions asked in the comments : Fettuccine Alfredo is an Italian dish , if more popular in the USA than in Italy . It is a variation of a traditional Italian dish . In its traditional form , it has only egg pasta , butter , and cheese . The pasta for Alfredo is egg fettuccine .
White pizza sauce is n't nearly as defined as red sauce . It 's largely whatever you want it to be . It 's literally any sauce you top a pizza with that is white . It is often dairy based ( cream or cheese added ) , but it could also be a thin parsnip puree . It may contain herbs , it may contain butter , its up to you . Again , thickness is up to you and whatever works for your dish .
For escargots , land snails are used . Most common are the species Helix pomatia , Helix aspersa and Helix lucorum * . There are two restrictions : it should be edible ( problem solved if you work with one of those three ) and it should be large . Larger snails have more flesh to work with . You have to be a bit lucky for this . There 's quite some variation . I think - for the dish that you mean - the snails should still have their house as well . However , I would n't advice you to go into the ' wild ' and pick your own . Just buy them at the supermarket . It 's safer , since snails can have digested toxins that take some time to leave their bodies . The word " escargot " is French for " snail " . You can find different preparations for snails , they would be called " escargots à la ... " with ... being the name of the sauce or preparation . The standard ( at least here ) drops the last part , since it 's the basic preparation ( herb butter with garlic ) . There are other types of snails/slugs that are edible , for instance <URL> are also sold and eaten here , they live in the sea , not on land , but it 's a whole different preparation . * <URL>
They would totally end up tasting like oniony beef ! In fact your whole kitchen does - that 's part of the magic of making jerky . I ca n't think of a way to prevent this as the whole idea of dehydrating is to pull water out of the food and blow it away into the air . If the flavors are compatible ( or milder , like fruit ) I have done different things together at once . If they do n't take the same amount of time , I 'll just take the done items off earlier when I check it .
Delicious variations abound , so it is hard to make absolute statements of what is " officially " a ladyfinger . In my pastry class , we were taught that the classic recipe for ladyfingers is close , but not identical , to genoise . Store-bought ladyfingers can be anything from , essentially , a meringue to a shortbread cookie . Foam-based batters -- i.e. , those that do not use chemical leveners or yeast -- can be divided into two categories : whole-egg and separated-egg . The main difference in results is that the latter tend to be stiffer and can better tolerate being overcooked a little . The primary example of whole-egg batter is the genoise cake . Because the whites are whipped together with the yolks ( and sometimes extra yolks are added ) , it is a finicky batter , requiring more skill to assemble properly than others , but when it works , it is more tender . Separated-egg batters are far more common , as they are easier to assemble ; the key is that you whip the whites into medium-to-stiff peaks , then fold it back into the rest of the batter . Examples include chiffon , dacquoise , and the French " biscuit " cakes . Most recipes for ladyfingers use a separated-egg batter ; others use a simple meringue . The meringue version will make a crisp cookie , the version with with the yolk , soft . Either will work well for uses like tiramisu or trifle . Here is a recipe for <URL> from Allrecipes.com and a recipe for <URL> from Epicurious . For my ladyfingers , I add a pinch of salt and some flavorings , such as vanilla or nut extract , but the base recipe is essentially the same .
I like the first answer , but feel the need to clarify the ' pepperoni ' reference . Yes , they are slices of bagels . However , if you cut a bagel vertically in half as it rests flat and treat each half as if you were slicing a curved salumi , all of your chips will be inconsistently thick on one edge and thin on the other ( thanks to the properties of a torus ) . While that leaves them all consistently round , their thickness varies , which makes evenly toasting them a problem . The more conventional approach : take the whole bagel as it lies flat on the cutting board , and slice it vertically but thinly from one side to the other . There will be much more variation in chip shape , but it 's much easier to maintain the right thickness for even toasting . This is also why most ( if not all ) bags of chips are sliced in this manner , and you see such wild variation of circles , ovals , etc in chip shape . A Gildy 's Blade or a tightly serrated bread knife will do the job . Along with a bit of patience .
Aha ! Found the answer myself ! <URL> includes the step " Garnish with toasted sesame seeds or fried salty mung beans . " -- I googled " fried salty mung beans " and found the picture below , which is exactly what I was looking for :
I do n't remember the exact science behind the potatoes not turning to mush ... I know it was discussed on an episode of America 's Test Kitchen , and they even discussed the amount of vinegar and how it affected the window for cooking times . ( I want to say it was on an episode where they were making an Austrian potato salad ) ... and it 's not specifically vinegar , and not solely potatoes . Acids will stop quite a few items from softening when cooking . I know the list inclues onions ( pre-cook onions before adding acids if you want them to disolve into a sauce ) , potatoes , apples ... I 'm guessing there 's others . For potatoes and apples , most recipes claim it 's to slow down browning . You see it in potato salad , but not mashed potatoes . You 'll see it in apple pies , but not in applesauce ... because they 'll come out lumpy . Matt already mentioned three uses for vingear : as half of a chemical leavener tenderizing / marinades preservation / picking coagulation ( eg , when poaching eggs ) But also : stabalizing eggwhite foams ( might just be a variation of coagulation ? ) denaturing / " cooking " ( eg . in the case of ceviche ; a variation of marinating ? ) flavor ( might not be a ' science case ' ... but sour is one of the primary tastes ; especially helps to balance out fatty dishes ) cleaning / disinfection ( might not be a ' cooking ' use )
The King Arthur website lists the ingredients for that item : <URL> It looks like the " sour " flavor comes from several acids ( acetic , lactic , and citric ) . I assume the recipe calls for " sour " flavor instead of being a sourdough recipe like a traditional rye bread would be . Pickle juice may be a good substitute , since it 's mainly vinegar [ i.e. acetic acid ] . The " bread improver " also includes wheat gluten , which may be helpful if you 're using a non-bread flour ( bread flour contains more gluten than whole wheat or AP flours ) .
The generic term for sugar-water pastes used to decorate food is <URL> . Rollfondant sounds like ready-to-roll icing , but it could be <URL> , which contains egg white . Modellierfondant sounds like modelling paste . There are various recipes which use different additives to the core ingredients of sugar and water in order to obtain a suitable consistency and to dry without cracking .
One of my favorite topics , having grown up close to two apple orchards ... Most likely , by " quick-cooking , " the recipe intends you to use a pie or sauce apple , i.e. one that softens readily with heat . Sauce apples . Use these for a pie if you like VERY soft pie contents . Personally , I prefer applesauce that has some chunks in it , so I do n't use " sauce apples " for sauce ; however , the standard is to list for sauce those apples that practically dissolve ( like McIntosh ) . Pie apples . An apple listed for pie is typically one that retains its shape but softens well ( like Cortland , Mutsu , Empire , Jonagold , or Fuji ) . Consider the taste . Some apples ( Gala , for example ) lose a lot of flavor when cooked , and are best for eating raw . Others gain tremendous flavor when cooked ( Empire ) . Which apple to use is certainly a matter of preference . Some people like their pie apples to remain quite firm ( using , say , Granny Smith ) , while others like them to be VERY soft ( and thus use a " sauce " apple ) . Here 's some apple lists/charts ... I 'd say look up the varieties readily available to you , and see which ones are listed for sauces or pies . <URL> <URL> Look up the website for your local orchard - they may link to a usage chart for the apples they grow !
This is a complex question , because there are several different ways to categorize soy sauces : COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ( Chinese and Japanese are the ones most commonly contrasted -- but as you saw in Wikipedia , there are many more ) , COLOR ( light , dark , white ) , VISCOSITY ( thin , thick , jam ) , and MANUFACTURING PROCESS ( This has the most name variation , but there are just two options : fermented or chemical . Fermented is the " real thing " and also is called naturally brewed , or slow-aged . Chemical is the quick and , as usual , inferior-tasting alternative that abbreviates a months-long process into several short , chemically-laden days . Additional names for this unfortunate approach are non-brewed , non-fermented , and artificial . To avoid this type , <URL> and avoid anything containing those non-savory corrective ingredients like corn syrup and caramel coloring . ) To muddy the waters further , add into the mix the fact that flavor is most deeply influenced by the proportion of soybeans to grains -- yet this crucial factor is not typically used directly as a categorization tool . To focus my research , I tried to find a site that felt as though the writer was speaking directly to you : one that would encourage , and not overwhelm or confuse , as you decide whether to become a soy sauce affectionado . Specifically , I wanted a resource that clearly addressed FLAVOR PROFILE and USAGE . Surprisingly , a blogger named Barbara came to rest as my # 1 recommendation : <URL> . I like the simplicity and clarity of her writing style , as well as her experiential platform ( complete with honest explanation of her biases ) . The endless comments after her post provide additional insights that might be helpful , as well . Of course , <URL> always provides wonderful more scientifically-based , yet still somehow understandable , explanations . He takes 5 full pages ( 496-500 ) in his book <URL> to discuss soy sauce in all its layered glory .
For burgers I buy 2-3 different cuts - usually some sirloin and the end of a tenderloin ( fattier and cheaper ) and whatever else looks good . Slice thinly and stick in the freezer for 20 mins or so before you start grinding . I then mix in some finely minced onion and garlic , salt , pepper and a little Worcestershire sauce ( all optional and to taste ) before grilling .
end question
start question
How do I know when my avocado has gone bad , and how can I keep it fresh ?
An avocado will keep a few days in the refrigerator after it has been cut . The cut portion will turn brown/black due to oxidation , you can just cut that off , it is not harmful . From <URL> to keep the avocado from discoloring sprinkle it with lemon/lime juice or vinegar and wrap tightly in plastic wrap or place in an airtight container . From <URL> storing a cut avocado with a piece of cut onion in an airtight container will stop the oxidation . I do n't know why this is , but I suspect that it has to do with the sulfur compounds that the onion releases . This is the same sulfur that makes you cry when you chop onions , but it is also used as a preservative . The onion 's smell and taste do n't seem to transfer to the avocado , as far as I can tell . But I 'm not overly sensitive to onions , so you may want to check this out first if you are . When not to use , from WebMD if your avocado 's flesh has become very dark or the flesh has become stringy you should avoid eating it , particularly if there is any sign of mold . Avocados have a very high fat content , so they oxidize and become rancid very quickly at room temperature and will need to be thrown away .
I 've never done anything in particular . I just do n't use soap on it .
Keep it airtight in a cool , dark place and it should remain good infefinitely . You 'll certainly be fine 1-2 years .
If you are intent on cooking the bird whole ( as opposed to butchering it into pieces which you can fry in a pan ) , then your only option would be to braise the bird in a large pot , preferably a <URL> . There are myriad recipes online ; <URL> or <URL> . As <URL> , the only other option to keep the chicken whole would be to use a barbecue/grill .
Dust the fruit with a little flour before adding to the cake . It will act like a glue and prevent the fruit from sinking .
I think I found the exact answer somewhere on the net . From my experience , I know frequent stirring and also adding cold milk when it cools down will prevent it . Also , I notice this also happens for soy milk and the layer from soy milk is used to create lots of different soy products <URL> After you 've heated a glass of milk or hot chocolate , sometimes the milk forms a skin on top of the liquid . The skin is comprised of solid proteins that combine with the milk 's fat molecules , which begin to evaporate as the milk is heated . These proteins , casein and beta , clump together when the liquid reaches a temperature of around 113 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit ( 45 to 50 Celsius ) . As the heating continues , the soft protein layer begins to dry out , which is why the milk forms a skin on the liquid 's surface . This layer of skin forms a hard barrier , causing steam to build up beneath it and increase the liquid 's temperature . When left alone , this often causes the milk to boil over . Though milk forms a skin when heated in most cases , there are several ways to prevent this skin from forming . If you plan to heat the milk over the stovetop , frequent stirring will break up the protein and fat molecules , so that the membrane will not develop . If you are heating milk in a microwave , you can place a wax paper lid known as a " cartouche " on top of the container , which will slow the evaporation process and maintain the milk 's liquid form . The milk forms a skin only on heated milk that contains fat . If you are heating skim milk , there is no danger of a skin forming on top . Because skim milk contains no fat , the protein molecules have nothing to bond with , and are unable to coagulate . When made with full-fat , unpasteurized milk , the milk forms a skin that is thicker than the skin on top of low fat milk . The layer of film that develops after heating whole milk can result in a traditional English delicacy called " clotted cream , " which is spread on scones for afternoon tea . To make your own version of clotted cream at home , you can combine two parts whole milk with one part heavy cream , warming the mixture on low heat until the milk forms a skin . Leave the mixture alone overnight , and in the morning , the milk combination will be covered with a rich , creamy layer that can be spooned onto scones or muffins .
Some quick research indicates there are enzymes in freshly-squeezed juice that will degrade it fairly rapidly , and that they can be deactivated by heat . Of course , that also changes the flavor ( especially since you 're not going to be able to quickly heat and cool it , as it apparently only takes 30 seconds , but any method doable in a home kitchen will keep it hot much longer than that ) . So heat-deactivation is out . Even commercially-produced ( that is , both pasteurized and enzyme-deactivated ) juice is only supposed to keep 6 days in the fridge , so that 's out . Your best bet , then , is to freeze it . According to the University of California 's Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources <URL> , you can freeze in clean glass jars or rigid plastic freeze containers . They also note that navel oranges ( and their juice ) do not freeze well -- they will become bitter . Well , either that , or store the fruit instead , and only juice it as needed .
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
How long this will last depends largely on the ratio of sugar to water in the final syrup . Sugar can inhibit the growth of microbes by reducing the <URL> of the solution , but this is dependent on the amount of sugar . According to a <URL> that I consider quite reliable on these matters , a syrup composed of equal parts sugar and water ( by mass , not volume ! ) will generally keep unspoiled for about 2 weeks . A syrup with 2 parts sugar to 1 part water will keep as long as 3 months . These both assume that you 're keeping the syrup refrigerated in an airtight container , which it sounds like you are . Unfortunately , unless you know the exact ratio , it 's tough to predict exactly how long this will last . Discard immediately if you notice any of the following : Any visible mold ( hopefully this one 's obvious ) A cloudier appearance ( harder to judge since you have some suspended particles ; you might try running it through a fine-mesh strainer ) Any gas bubbles or outgassing when you open the container ( this is a sign of <URL> ) You might also consider adding a small amount of alcohol . This provides another hurdle to microbial growth , and would extend your syrup 's shelf life to somewhere between 3-6 months . I generally add about 1/2 oz of 80-proof ( 40 % ABV ) vodka per 8 oz or so of syrup . Regarding a mason jar , the main advantage these have is that they wo n't trap flavors the way that plastic can when re-used . A strongly-flavored substance stored in plastic for a time can contribute some of its flavor to the next . Since you 're storing a strongly-flavored ginger syrup in a former soda water bottle ( which is nearly tasteless ) this probably is n't a concern , but if you used the bottle again whatever you put in it might come out tasting subtly of ginger . Glass does n't have this problem .
Up to 7 days ( homemade mayo as well ) . Egg whites/yolks out of the egg ( but not combined with the acid ) can last 3-4 days refrigerated , and eggs in-shell are good for 2-4 weeks depending on processing .
Here 's something useful to know . A good typical salt level for most savory foods is in the neighborhood of 1 % by weight . So if you know how much your dish weighs in grams , then add 1 % of that in salt and you should be very close to a good result . Adjust down if you are using any ingredients that are already salty , like capers . Adjust up if after the first few times you try this , it is a little light for you . You will also learn how much your salt weighs by volume so soon you can just use a measuring spoon or a pinch instead of weighing the salt .
If your quartering of the chicken was done quickly then you are just asking how long you can keep a chicken in the fridge . <URL> Your 40 hours is fine .
That advice is n't " wrong " and millions of people keep keep fish sauce in a cabinet for decades . Regarding safety , it 's generally OK to store fish sauce at room temperature for years , but that is n't recommended by government worrywarts for best quality . <URL> . Pathogens run in fear faced with this stuff , but it can ( rarely ) develop " offness " . It is conservative to even bring up this article from <URL> : The fish-sauce-making process is carefully controlled to prevent the growth of dangerous bacteria . First , whole , tiny fish ( predominantly anchovies ) are combined with salt in roughly a three-to-one ratio . The mixture is then tossed into either concrete or wooden tanks . Enzymes contained within the cells of the fish flesh degrade the proteins , fats , and other molecules into amino acids ( compounds responsible for the deeply savory flavor in fish sauce ) , eventually liquifying the solid tissue . The salt accelerates this process , known as protein hydrolysis , by causing the fish cells to open up , which releases the enzymes . The briny conditions in the tank keep most microbes and all pathogens at bay , but some harmless , extremely salt-tolerant bacteria , known as halophilic bacteria , survive . These occur naturally in the guts , mouth , and skin of the decomposing anchovies . They too break down the fish proteins , yielding various acids , alcohols , and nitrogen compounds that give fish sauce its characteristic cheesy , meaty flavors . But by the end of fish sauce 's six - to twelve-month fermentation period , the salt has managed to kill even the hardiest halophilic bacteria . At this point , the clear , amber liquid in the tanks is filtered , and any sediment is discarded . The fermentation process does such a good job of killing off bacteria that no pasteurization is required . There is no legal requirement in the U.S. for fish sauce to bear an expiration date , but most manufacturers put dates on the label anyway , since people are more inclined to trust foods that tell us when they should be discarded . These dates tend to be three to four years from the date of manufacture , which is actually on the conservative side in light of industry guidelines . The Handbook of Indigenous Fermented Foods in the ASCA Countries ( published by the Association for Science Cooperation in Asia , a science-policy organization ) ascribes to the condiment a shelf life of five years . This is is n't to say fish sauce will always be good , either before or after the use-by date ( though you should always refrigerate it after opening ) . It can deteriorate in quality over an extended period of time due to chemical reactions , resulting in color changes or the development of " off " flavors . On rare occasions mold or yeast might develop on the inside surface or lip of the bottle where there 's excess moisture and less salt . These growths are usually innocuous , but as with any food , if it looks strange , smells strange , or tastes strange , you should throw it out . So , grudgingly , I say throw this batch out 'cause it 's fuzzy . But do n't lose any sleep over it . Next time buy a bottle that you 're likely to use within a couple of years and keep it in the fridge after opening .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
The best recommendation I have seen is plain plastic wrap . If you have an oil mister , mist the wrap before using it . If you do n't , pour oil into a bowl , enough to form a puddle , and toss your ball of dough in the oil . Then transfer your dough to the rising container ( if you use the same bowl you used for oiling , take the dough out , pour out the superfluous oil , return the dough into the bowl ) . In the best case , the bowl will be deep enough for the dough to rise without the middle touching the wrap , but if it rises more ( even with the dough pressing against the wrap ) , dough with enough gluten development will peel off the oiled wrap with minimal losses , even if it is wet . The wrap will keep your dough surface moist in both the fridge and outside . It does n't allow breathing , but this should n't be a concern in most cases . If you overyeast the dough , the collection of fermentation byproducts in the bowl will probably make for worse taste than if they are allowed to dissipate , but the correct solution for this problem is to not produce them in the first place . With your " very long times " , this is probably not a problem in your case . You can also use this method for the secondary fermentation . But in the final proofing stage , you have to make sure that your dough never rises enough to touch the wrap , or else the loaf will deform while you are removing the wrap . Also , if you are proofing in banettons , do n't oil them , use flour combinations to prevent sticking . If you are out of plastic wrap , substituting alu wrap is a bad idea , because yeast is very sensitive to metallic ions . Today 's non-reactive metal utensils are safe enough for use with yeast dough , but untreated aluminium can be problematic . Try baking paper instead ( you may have to tape it to the outer bowl walls ) .
To prevent this from happening , apart from what <URL> , check the temperature with a thermometer . Eggs start coagulating around 60ºC . If you keep the temperature around 55ºC you are pasteurizing the eggs at the same time .
I may be wrong but I 'll give it a shot . When you heat chicken ( or any other muscle for that matter ) it tenses up . As it tenses up it is essentially squeezing juices out , because all the fibres are closer together . Just think what happens when you slice a rare steak without letting it rest , there will be blood everywhere . In general I believe boiling anything is bad practice . A slow simmer maximum is required to retain all the desired qualities . Hence the saying " low and slow " which I take quite literally band apply to just about everything culinary wise . From cooking stew to proving bread , the longer the better . Edit : I wrote that then went in the shower and remembered pasta &amp; potatoes , so maybe low and slow unless it 's a starchy carbohydrate . Or if you are searing , but often a blazing hot seat is accompanied by a nice rest .
If it grows a grey or pink mold around the edges , or a black mold , throw it out . That 's an undesirable mold . Those molds are n't usually dangerous , but they can make the cheese taste bad . With gorgonzola cheese specifically , the mold is injected in to the cheese via needle-like things , and then it grows veins from there . If a mold is a different color and it 's coming from somewhere other than the veins , that is probably not a good mold . See also <URL> . .
Brining is great to begin with . Use a bone-in , skin on chicken breast . Once it 's done you can remove the skin and carve off the bone if you like . Also , set up 2 heat zones in your grill ( either by banking your coals or by turning off a gas burner ) . Brown it for a few minutes over the hot zone , then transfer to the cooler zone to finish cooking , until temp comes to 165-170 degrees . Then remove from heat and wait at least 5 minutes to slice .
Surprisingly , the answer seems to be a qualified yes , however the texture is not the same . The dried gnocchi turned out to be much better if fried after boiling ; see below . Here are the results of my experiment : I dried a small amount of the fresh Gnocchi by placing them in a 150 degree ( Farenheit ) oven for about an hour , then turning off the oven and leaving them in all day . It is very dry here , so that did the trick . I boiled the dried gnocchi after several days of storage . They took about ten times longer to boil than their fresh counterparts . Even after they were fully cooked , they were not as soft as the fresh gnocchi , and they never regained their original size or shape . Overall , they were denser , firmer , and less sticky . Not desirable traits necessarily , but they were quite edible . I decided to pan-fry a small batch in about a tablespoon of oil , and these turned out wonderfully ! I have pan-fried gnocchi before , and it tends to be hard to keep them intact and keep them from sticking . The previously dried gnocchi , however , did not stick and held up to vigorous frying . The result were gnocchi with a crispy exterior and soft ( if somewhat dense ) interior . The crispy outside and flavor reminded me of samosas . These were n't just edible , they were great . I plan to dry about half of my next batch and use the dried gnocchi exclusively for frying .
end question
start question
Does milk ( fat ) change in Winter ?
I do n't know about weather , but non-factory produced milk changes with the season because of the feed , which <URL> . Over the winter , the cows are fed hay or corn , while over the summer , they 're pastured , so get fresh grass . In the Netherlands , there are designations such as ' <URL> ' ( literally , ' grass chesse ' ) , which is made from the milk when the cows are first released to pasture in the spring . I know there is a designation for winter vs. summer cheese as well , but it 's not coming back to me .
Gelatin works by creating a very fine mesh of proteins , between which the ( hidrophilic ) liquid gets trapped . A mixture of fat and water is n't a liquid . It can be either a rough two-phase mixture , with visible fat droplets swimming around in the water , or it can be an emulsion , with invisibly small fat droplets dispersed through the water . Emulsions appear smooth , e.g. milk . When you try to use gelatine on the mixture , two things can happen . In an emulsion , the fat droplets can be smaller than the protein mesh . Then they get trapped as well as the water , and the result is gelled emulsion , just like you 'd expect . But if you have big globules of fat , they ca n't be trapped between the proteins . So it looks like they got squeezed out of the mesh and bubbled up to the surface , if it had n't been there all along . On the surface , gelatine molecules could n't find each other between globules of fat to crosslink , or maybe the motion of the globules broke any nascent links in the small amount of water between them , so it could n't gel . So the conclusion is : you ca n't set soup/stew with gelatine . ( I know that concentrated stock hardens from its own gelatine , but it has the fat filtered out first ) . On the practical side , if you want to have thick stew juice , you have to use something else than gelatine . It is probably simplest to create an olive oil based roux with the stew juice . Or you can gel with xanthan . Both will result in a " juice " which is creamy , instead of solid wobbly blocks of juice , with xanthan retaining the authentic taste and a roux-based sauce being a novel variation . If it is real jelly you are after , you 'll have to emulsify first and use gelatine after that . Xanthan itself should emulsify well , or you can probably use lecithine . AFAIK , there is no problem to use lecithine and gelatine together , but somebody with more experience in gelling agents should confirm that . In any case , emulsifying will lead to your liquid getting quite opaque . This is inavoidable , as it has to do with the way the collection of individual micro fat droplets break and reflect light rays .
The only thing that is even remotely possible in my mind is to use it akin to buttermilk or sour cream ( which are intentionally fermented products ) in baking . However , since the culture that fermented the milk was uncontrolled , I would not do so . I recommend discarding .
The simple answer is no , you can not convert monounsaturated/polyunsaturated fats into saturated fats through cooking alone . Before I can even begin to answer in detail , I have to start by pointing out that " saturated " and " unsaturated " fat is already an oversimplification . These are very rough classifications of fats and the chemical reality is far more nuanced . I 'd encourage you read the Wikipedia entry on <URL> for a relatively basic explanation . Fatty acids are actually classified , chemically , in three different ways : The existence of double bonds ( CH = CH ) somewhere in the molecular structure . Fatty acids with double bounds are unsaturated . Fatty acids with single bonds only are saturated . The chain length ( number of Carbon-Hydrogen groups ) . Another distinguishing characteristic of saturated fatty acids is that they are generally ( maybe always ) long-chain . The reverse is not necessarily true , however ; not all long-chain fatty acids are saturated . The configuration , either cis or trans . Trans fatty acids are not actually a different type of fat in the same sense as saturated vs. unsaturated ; they are actually unsaturated fatty acids , just in a different configuration . Although certain studies suggest that it is possible to create TFAs from edible oils with prolonged heat , it is also extremely difficult , to the extent that it 's nearly impossible to do in meaningful quantities by accident . I will refer you to <URL> which says that after 8 hours of heating at 180 ° C , the researchers found up to 6.5 mg of trans isomers per 1.0 g of oil , which comes out to a grand total of 0.65 % by mass . This is practically nil as far as a home cook is concerned - these quantities only matter if you 're doing commercial processing of vegetable oils , or maybe if you 're using the oil for deep-frying and you reuse it dozens of times ( far beyond what any experienced fry cook would recommend ) . The study also says that edible oils ( i.e. the ones you cook with ) experienced less isomerization than other kinds . So really , the amount of isomerization you 're going to get ( conversion of the " good " cis isomers to " bad " trans isomers ) is minuscule and simply insignificant as far as mainstream baking or frying applications are concerned . So forget about trans fats . Can you create saturated fats ? That would effectively mean breaking down the double bonds into single bonds . In order to do that , you need to add hydrogen ( that 's why saturated fatty acids are " saturated " - more hydrogen ) . There 's a name for this process , which you actually stumbled upon in your question . It 's called <URL> . It 's adding hydrogen atoms to an unsaturated ( double-bonded ) fatty acid . Hydrogenation requires a substrate ( involving benzene or some other hydrocarbon ) , a hydrogen source ( that 's pure , dangerous , H2 gas ) , and a catalyst ( heavy metal ) . My guess is that your kitchen has none of those things , unless you 're cooking in a chemistry lab . So there is simply no chance for you to accidentally hydrogenate your oils . What you really need to be more worried about with oils ( unsaturated fats ) is <URL> . That 's the oxidative breakdown and , eventually , rancidity of fats , and polyunsaturated fats are particularly prone to this . Heat is a catalyst for peroxidation , so if you " burn " your oil ( or other fats ) , you may end up creating the same sorts of free radicals normally associated with rancidity due to improper storage . The long-term effect of these free radicals is not firmly established but the consensus seems to be that <URL> ( cancer risk and so on ) . So do n't worry about converting your oils when you cook with them . It 's practically impossible . You should be more concerned with overheating them or letting them go rancid in storage .
I ca n't find any definitive answers to this question online . All the discussion I could find are speculation . Factors that cause soy protein to coagulate are heat , acidity , and the presence of magnesium or calcium salts . Additionally the proteins are more likely to curdle if they are heated very quickly . I will assume that you heated your coffee and milk identically with and without the salt . If you had changed the order of adding boiling water , for example , it could have prevented your curdling . If you have hard water then there will be a good amount of calcium salts in your water . Coffee itself also has a good bit of magnesium . These salts will coagulate soy proteins more readily than acidity . Sodium chloride does not cause soy proteins to coagulate . Sodium chloride ions will replace calcium ions - this is used in water softeners and soaking beans . My suspicion ( which to prove would require more experimenting than I have time for right now ) is that the sodium ions are preventing the calcium and magnesium ions from coagulating your soy proteins .
When metal is exposed to microwave radiation , an electric potential difference can develop as the microwaves generate electric charge in parts of the metal . Flowing electricity can cause sparks as electrons migrate to places of lower potential . Solid metal is susceptible to this because its electrons are relatively loose , making it a good conductor of electricity . Calcium ( Ca ) in milk is bonded with other atoms ( mostly as calcium phosphate ) , so it does n't behave as a solid metal would : first because its electrons are secured in bonds with other atoms , and second , because the Ca atoms are not aggregated together but intermixed with nonconducting ones .
Lemon juice thickens condensed milk in the same way it would " thicken " regular milk , i.e. , by curdling . Basically , milk has two general types of proteins : casein and whey . The casein is what forms the " curds " in " curds and whey . " Both proteins are somewhat unusual in that they do n't tend to coagulate with heat ( as eggs proteins do , for example ) . Thus , they will survive largely intact even with the processing of condensed milk . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking explains what happens when they encounter acids , though : The casein family includes four different kinds of proteins that gather together into microscopic family units called micelles . Each casein micelle contains a few thousand individual protein molecules . . . . Around a tenth of the volume of milk is taken up by casein micelles . Much of the calcium in milk is in the micelles , where it acts as a kind of glue holding the protein molecules together . One portion of calcium binds individual protein molecules together into small clusters of 15 to 25 . Another portion then helps pull several hundred of the clusters together to form the micelle ... One member of the casein family is especially influential in these gatherings . That is kappa-casein which caps the micelles once they reach a certain size , prevents them from growing larger , and keeps them dispersed and separate . One end of the capping-casein molecule extends from the micelle out into the surrounding liquid , and forms a " hairy layer " with a negative electrical charge that repels other micelles ... If [ milk ] gets acid enough to approach pH 5.5 , the capping-casein 's negative charge is neutralized , the micelles no longer repel each other , and they therefore gather in loose clusters . At the same acidity , the calcium glue that holds the micelles together dissolves , the micelles begin to fall apart , and their individual proteins scatter . Beginning around pH 4.7 , the scattered casein proteins lose their negative charge , bond to each other again and form a continuous fine network : and the milk solidifies , or curdles . Thus , if you add lemon juice to regular milk , it will curdle and thicken , just as milk does when it sours naturally or when it is fermented into yogurt , kefir , cultured buttermilk , etc. ( which all involve bacteria that acidify the milk ) . The same process happens if you add acid to condensed milk .
The mixture should lighten in both color and texture , and it should be ' fluffy ' . It should also increase in volume . The point of creaming is to incorporate the sugar with the fat , while at the same time adding air to the mixture . The air bubbles introduced during creaming expand during cooking , making the cookies rise and giving a lighter texture . Cookies baked with under-creamed butter would therefore remain fairly flat and dense .
For protection against heat , you can stabalize the milk with starches . ( eg , a white sauce made with milk wo n't curdle , even if you boil it ) . I unfortunately do n't know how much you 'd have to add , and of course , it 'll end up affecting the texture of your soup ) . For soups , you 're likely better off making a corn starch/milk slurry before adding the milk , so you do n't have to cook it like you would flour to get rid of the raw flour taste . You may also want to consider the heat that you 're cooking the soup at -- you likely want a low simmer , not a full boil .
So , there 's no method to get sugar out of milk , as far as I know . You can look for milk products where some of the sugar is used up ( fermented , like Chris H mentioned ) , but this will significantly change taste and texture - sugar is a major part of what milk is , fats and sugars and proteins , and you 're removing most of the actual substance . You 're likely to do better with an unsweetened nut milk or rice milk , especially if you make your own so you can tweak to taste . These may have more fats , depending on your choice of recipe , but will likely have sugar closer to your desired range One thing you might try , if you 're really determined , is to dilute your milk ( maybe up to half ) and add artificial sweeteners . You 'll still get some of the flavor components from the added milk , and some sweetening to make up the difference in taste , but there will be less sugar because the actual amount of milk is less . Hopefully the added artificial sweetener might make it taste less watery , but maybe add just a half a pinch of salt if it still tastes too thin . in the end , ~ 6g sugar per cup , I guess ? Another possibility is to use unflavored whey powder to flavor the diluting water ( again , probably no more than half of your " milk " ) , then adding artificial sweetener to taste . The whey should have some of the flavors from the proteins in milk , and at least from the powder I checked it does n't have much of the sugar or fat you 're objecting to . It might help the diluted milk taste less watery . ~ 7g sugar , because I think the whey powder has a gram and a half per serving . Final possibility I thought of - you can maybe grab some creamer powder and use that to flavor your diluted milk ( again , not more than half and sweeten to taste ) . Or even use it on its own , if the flavor works for you . The amount of sugar is n't stated , but it has to be under 1g because that 's all the carbs there are per serving - though it does add a half gram of fat back in .
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
Fat floats , so if you dump the water into a bowl and let it sit for a bit , you can see how much floats to the top . You can then remove the fat in any of the normal ways ( this is exactly the process you use to defat a stock or a soup ) , and measure it . Of course , I quickly looked up the nutrition information on ramen , and it has ~ 7g fat , ~ 3g saturated . An egg is ~ 6g fat , ~ 2g saturated . The fish is ~ 27g fat , ~ 6g saturated . Check your red curry seasoning as well ( varies a lot by brand/type ) So it seems like your approach is misguided , but nutrition questions are off-topic here . edit : From thinking about your comment , you may want to try switching to spaghetti . You can just break it until it fits in the bowl , and it should be cookable in a bowl in the microwave , or even soaking in boiling water . You wo n't get perfect al dente or anything close , and my Italian ancestors will be after me for even suggesting this , but it will cut down on the fat . You can even get whole-wheat spaghetti .
What you describe are definitely symptoms of coagulating protein . Not all proteins in quark are coagulated , else it would n't be creamy but rubbery like mozzarella ( actually , more like cottage cheese , because it would still be grainy ) . My first guess is that the blueberry acid curdles the protein . Blueberries are also known to act a bit strangely due to their high pectin content , I once left blueberry-banana puree in the fridge with the intention to freeze it to sorbet when I come back from work , only to find it gelled too hard to go through the machine . But I doubt that this was the culprit in your case , if anything , hydrating pectin would have bound the water and prevented the proteins from the curdling . Setting pectin would have created a mass which is firm , but not grainy , and without a separate watery phase . As for the bitter taste , many fruits will create an unpleasant taste when exposed to dairy for a long time . Kiwis are especially bad offenders , but some melon cultivars are just as bad . I have n't noticed it in blueberries , but I do n't know if I have ever mixed them . Also , there are different plants known as " blueberry " , most of them just different cultivars , but the American and European variety are distinct species . It is possible that only some of them have this problem . If you want to prevent the curdling problem , you can add stuff which will get in the way of the proteins looking for a buddy to curdle with . Fat and sugar are very good in this respect - this is why you can make lemon tarts pretty well , you do n't curdle the custard despite the acid lemon juice just because the sugar content is so high . If you are trying to create a low-calorie snack , you can try gelling agents instead , which will not only reduce the curdling rate , but also sponge up the water when a bit of curdling occurs , leaving the final texture more pleasant . But it will also change the texture a lot , making it less creamier ( the one creamy binding , starch , ca n't be used without cooking ) and more like a jelly . Also you might get weird synergies between the natural pectin and the new binding agent , ending up with surprisingly firm food . In short , the best option is to just eat it right away . Everything else has drawbacks , and is not a complete solution in the sense that it probably wo n't stop the curdling completely .
There are a couple of fluff pieces on the web that appear to indicate the George Forman Grills remove fat from foods , due to the tiled bed allowing draining : <URL> <URL> In my opinion , both have the feel of echoing press releases from the manufacturer . Neither compares the effectiveness of the tilted bed grill to a more traditional grilling method . Consider griddling a hamburger on a flat griddle or in a flat style panini press , with or without raised grooves . Even without the grooves , as the hamburger cooks , it expresses fat and other liquid as the proteins in the meat tighten . With a fatty hamburger , this can be a considerable amount , even though it is not draining away . The issue in expressed fat is not the tilt , but rather the squeezing effect the cooked proteins have , forcing the fat out of the food . This happens regardless of the angle of the bed . Consider also that it is the contraction of the meat that is important in expressing the fat . If the fat were simply liquefied but the proteins not fully tightened , less or no fat is expressed . This can be seen in low temperature sous-vide cooking . Adhesion and capillary action would keep the fat in the meat otherwise . The logical conclusion is that the tilt of the bed is irreverent in expressing the fat , but does help clear it away and collect it . This may have some minor effect on the amount of fat adhering to the outside of the food item , but is not the major effect . You can argue whether the clearing of the fat away during cooking is a positive or negative for culinary quality , but it does n't affect the amount of fat .
Martha 's Vinyard Magazine suggests that the diamater of the stalks is not directly related to their age as one might suspect : Some might assume thinner spears are younger and therefore more tender . The diameter , however , has more to do with the age of the plant itself and the particular asparagus variety . They go on to cite Cook 's Illustrated , saying : [ T ] hin and thick spears as equally sweet , nutty , and grassy , but ... thicker spears have a slightly better , more tender texture . The reason is that the fiber is somewhat more concentrated in thinner spears . You can peel asparagus if you choose to . Personally , I peel the base of thicker stalks . Mark Bittman recommends peeling from just under the flowers to the base of the stalk on the thicker stalks . Thinner stalks may be easier to saute or grill , and thicker ones more suited to steaming , poaching , and so on , but this is more related to the time it takes them to cook through . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
The majority of the alcohol evaporates during baking . McGee 's On Food and Cooking says ( pg 532 ) : In making beer and wine , the carbon dioxide escapes from the fermenting liquid , and alcohol accumulates . In making bread both carbon dioxide and alcohol are trapped by the dough , and both are expelled from the dough by the heat of baking . I also found <URL> , which states that some alcohol ( 0.04 to 1.9 % ) may remain . However , the report is from 1926 , so 1 . it may not be really representing modern day situation 2 . the data , methodology etc. is not reported : it looks more like an informal news than a real research article , so I can not critique on whether the results are realistic .
If the milk is modified by removing the lactose , it is no longer considered milk , and must be sold under a different name , such as milkdrink . The fat content can be modified while still considering it milk however . The swedish FAQ of Valio ( the biggest dairy producer in Finland ) is very clear on this . <URL> I could n't however find the same quote in the Finnish FAQ ( Via google translate ) . <URL> While the legislation could in theory be different between the two countries , I believe this is probably regulated on EU level .
If you take your coffee sweet , ice cream works wonders , and it lasts in the freezer . Chocolate is my favorite . I recommend melting it before adding the coffee . This makes sense because ice cream is mostly milk and cream , with some flavorings -- usually of higher quality than are in artificial coffee creamers . I should add the trick I used in the dorms some years ago , when I had no refrigerator ( and an aunt to buy it ) : Bailey 's Irish Cream . Of course , the effect is somewhat different :-)
To add to Stephie 's answer , sometimes dairy is incorporated for a variety of reasons . In some cases , like a coffee cake , sour cream or yogurt can account for a good amount of the moisture and fat in the batter . Rich dairy products like cream and sour cream usually lead to very tender baked goods , due to helping to incorporate more fat ( the fact that it 's already emulsified helps too ) . Soured dairy , like yogurt , sour cream , and buttermilk are frequently used so that their acidity will react with baking soda in the recipe for leavening . Finally , yogurt and buttermilk often have stabilizers like guar gum , xanthan gum , and carrageenan . These will retain moisture after baking to help the finished product be more moist . Whether a substitution will work would depend on which functions the dairy ingredient is filling , and which characteristics the substitute matches .
end question
start question
How can I get my bread to be more fluffy and less dense ?
A big factor besides the dough is the temperature at which you bake the bread . If you are not baking it at some recipe specified temperature you are probably playing on the safe side and your breads wo n't raise much . You have to heat the CO2 pockets quickly so that they expand before the dough hardens . The more temperature you can give it the better . Another possible factor may be the yeast . Are you waiting enough ? Are you using enough ? Like temperature , more yeast and longer fermentation times ca n't go wrong .
<URL> by Andrew Dornenburg and Karen Page has a large section on food pairings . For carrots they mention orange , ginger , lemon , basil and mint . I think any of these could work well , if done right . My suggestion would be first to use really good , flavorful carrots -- preferably from a farmer 's market . Second , I would tone down or even leave out some of the usual carrot cake spices so that you do n't cover up the carrot flavor or the subtle flavors of your possible additions . Maybe fresh or candied ginger in the cake itself would be good . Orange or lemon curd and/or zest would work particulary well in offsetting the cream cheese icing . I 'm thinking basil and mint might be better saved for another dessert .
You have a few options to lower their explosiveness : Pierce the skin , like you do <URL> . Lower your frying temperature can help a bit , but you 'll probably always need to use a temperature higher than the boiling point to get any kind of crisping action . Dehydrate the liver a bit before frying . You could use a dehydrator , a low-and-slow oven bake or a low temperature , low oil sauté to get them to release their juices ( like you do for browning some mushrooms ) . I do n't know which of these will work best for liver , but naturally you 'll lose a little bit of the final juiciness . You mention the splash guard , which I ca n't recommend enough . These numbers are cheap and easy to find . <URL> But you can also protect your hands directly . I recommend something articulated , like this pair of silicon mold Storm Trooper styled oven mitts from Think Geek : <URL> <URL>
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
I can not tell you how they do it at that specific location , how your method differs , or what you 're doing wrong . I do n't really even know exactly how you 're brewing your coffee . However , I can tell you how to brew a consistent cup using the best possible practices . Here 's a list of things to consider Grind your coffee immediately ( not the night before ) before brewing Use a Burr Grinder , not a blade grinder . This will ensure that the grounds are of a consistent size , and provides even extraction . There is no reputable coffee shop that uses a blade grinder , and with good reason . Get a Burr grinder . If you do n't want to drop the cash you can get a hand mill for about ~ $ 20-30 . Weight your beans , do not measure them by Volume . Beans from different regions and varieties vary in density , and size . This can really throw off volume measurements . Use filtered water . Most coffee shops will have a filtration system for the entire store to prevent mineral build up in their coffee and espresso machines , as well as providing a better cup of coffee . Learn how coffee hits your palate , and learn how to adjust your brewing variables ( grind size , water/coffee ratio , brew time , temperature ) . Ditch the auto-drip . Learn how to do a manual pourover or press pot . You 'll have much more control over your brewing variables , and be able to pin point the extraction method that fits your palate best . I deeply urge you to try coffee that is n't Starbucks . Starbucks might be a notch above grocery store coffee , but is n't at all interesting ( to put it lightly ) . Try Stumptown , Blue Bottle , Intellegensia , Ruby 's Colorful Coffees . You 'll likely forget about Starbucks soon after trying coffee 's from any of the roasters I listed . Like I said . Starbucks is n't really interesting coffee . Its pretty bland , brewed with a standard auto-drip . If it tastes different it could be for many reasons , such as sitting in a thermos for a long period of time , or the grounds may sit too long after being ground . Typically larger auto-drip machines use a coarser grind because the hopper is larger . This can affect taste . There 's too many variables to nail down how to brew exactly like that starbucks store . In the mean time , I urge you to try more interesting bean varieties . You 're really missing out . For the record , Starbucks main competition ... McDonalds . Give it a read <URL>
Almost all bread is best eaten on the day it is prepared , whether leavened with baking soda or with yeast . ( Exceptions might be some whole-grain dense breads with strong flavors that " settle " and improve after a day or so . ) Fermentation time does in fact have a small impact on how fast bread goes stale , though . Staling generally encompasses two things : ( 1 ) degradation of the crust by excess moisture migrating from the interior of the loaf , and ( 2 ) hardening of the crumb due to recrystallization of certain starches . The first aspect is n't that significant in soda bread , since its moisture content is high and its rising power ( compared to yeasted bread ) is relatively low , so it rarely develops the kind of crackly crust you might find on a French baguette . In that respect , soda bread 's crust wo n't degrade noticeably faster than , say , a typical moist yeasted sandwich bread . The second aspect might make soda bread more likely to stale faster . A long fermentation allows time for various enzymes to do some work in breaking down some starches in the bread and converting them to sugar . If the starch content in the final bread is lower , staling will be reduced somewhat . For example , amylase enzymes are naturally part of yeast fermentation and will break down starches , though sometimes they are added to improve bread texture and shelf life . ( Home bakers often use amylase in the form of barley malt . ) Is this effect significant , though , assuming you do n't add enzymes to your bread dough during fermentation ? I 'd guess that it probably only becomes significant for yeasted breads with long fermentation times , including those that use preferments or sourdough starters , or where fermentation takes place overnight in the refrigerator or something . The long fermentation will allow time for the natural enzymes to activate and do their work . So , some yeasted breads will have noticeable slower staling due to the process of yeast fermentation . However , if you compared a soda bread recipe vs. a yeasted bread recipe with similar ingredients that is only fermented for a couple of hours , the difference in shelf-life between the two would probably be negligible .
Some years ago I tried a lemonade in southern Peru . It was very tangy and creamy . I asked the waiter how they made it and he replied that they blended a whole lemon with its peel . The juice was then strained . It was g
I use a liquid oil instead of a spray oil ; you 're far more likely to get hot spots with a spray , which is bad for any kind of cooking . That stuff works better as a grease than an actual cooking oil . I also tend to have pretty good success by frying the tortillas up to just a hint of golden-brown ( dark brown spots is overdone ) and then finishing it off ( i.e. to melt the cheese ) in a low-heat oven . As an added benefit , if you 're making a largish batch then that makes it easy to keep them warm until they 're all ready to serve . YMMV , but I find this to be the case for a whole lot of stovetop cooking ; with the direct heat , it 's very easy to dry foods out before they 're cooked to the stage you want . It 's far easier to control the heat in an oven and just use the stove for an initial ( or final ) fry/sear .
I have no trouble making lovely light lemon cake gluten free , and many other gluten free cakes too , I make them for a living . There is a substitute for gluten and it 's called Xanthan Gum . You can buy this separately to add to your flour ( about a teaspoonful for every 250g ) , or in a ready mixed flour blend , at least you can in the UK . A mixture of flours such as rice , potato starch , tapioca and maize/cornstarch works much better than a single flour when substituting for wheat flour . Each flour has its own unique characteristics and brings different properties to the cake . The combination of these , if got right , makes a light , moist and tasty cake , often better than wheat flour ones - this is feedback from my customers who are not coeliac ! There are recipes to be found on the web for making one 's own flour blends if needed , but look for a recipe that contains Xanthan Gum and it will not turn out like a brick . And there 's no need to cream the fat with the sugar and whisk the eggs separately etc. . I just use an all-in-one everything in the mixer bowl and mix .
To make you pancakes spread more , and thus be thinner , increase the amount of liquid in the recipe . This will make the batter less viscous , so that it will spread more before beginning to set , thus giving you thinner pancakes . I would start slowly , perhaps a couple of tablespoons extra milk ( or just plain water ) until you find the consistency that you like . You will also have to experiment to determine the appropriate cooking time , as the additional liquid will somewhat need to be cooked off to get the best texture . Of course , there is nothing wrong with using the bottom of your ladle to help the batter spread out a bit more . This is normal , and will somewhat even out as the pancakes cook .
In general , it is a good idea to go light on spices when trying a new recipe , if you 're not intimately familiar with the flavor and spice combinations in question . It 's a great deal easier to add spice later than it is to mask it once you 've added too much . Assuming you are reading this because you did n't do that , and have now ended up with a sauce that 's far too spicy , then read on . The pertinent question here is where is the spiciness coming from ? There are actually several kinds of compounds that can produce that general aroma and/or sensation . In most dishes they 'll tend to fall loosely into one or more of the following : <URL> , which is the active alkaloid in black pepper . This has poor solubility in water , however , it has better solubility in alcohol . If you can incorporate wine or better yet , brandy or vodka or some other strong alcohol , this can go a long way toward reducing the heat from pepper . <URL> , the heat-producing compound in most types of hot peppers , is the highest on the <URL> ; extremely piquant and can produce a " burning " sensation in very small quantities . It is also poorly soluble in water , but is far more soluble in fat , especially oils . Adding some olive oil or a good quantity of butter to your recipe is a good bet for reducing capsaicin/capsicum heat . Garlic , onion , and other members of the <URL> family put out a volatile sulfur compound called <URL> . Although this is not " spicy " in the same sense as pepper , many people perceive it as such . Like piperine , it is more soluble in alcohol than in water . However , and here 's the catch : That allicin breaks down into various <URL> when cooked , and those polysulfides are fat soluble . So if you 're trying to mask a strong garlic or onion flavour , it 's best if you can add alcohol and fat to cover all your bases . If you 've added too much Ginger - another ingredient often perceived as spicy - then you 're dealing with <URL> and <URL> , the latter of which pack a much bigger punch . One of the things you can actually do with ginger is <URL> which converts those into much milder <URL> . In other words , add some water to the sauce and then boil it to reduce the sauce again - you 'll lose some flavour but in the process you 'll break down the ginger spice . Alternatively ( for ginger ) , all of the above compounds are alkali soluble , so if you add a buffering agent - say , <URL> ( additive E331 ) , it will improve the solubility a great deal . If , like most people , you do n't happen to keep food additives in your kitchen , you can try using something like baking soda , but too much of that will completely ruin the taste , so be careful . In fact , do n't add too much of any buffer because the acidity of most sauces is an integral part of their flavor . I think that about covers it for common " spicy stuff " that goes in sauces . If you want to fix a dish that 's too spicy , you need to know where the spice is coming from and choose what 's most appropriate for that particular sauce . You can also try to mask or balance the spice with something sweet , for example roasted vegetables or plain old sugar . That will not eliminate the heat at all , but does seem to make it more tolerable for many .
A big factor besides the dough is the temperature at which you bake the bread . If you are not baking it at some recipe specified temperature you are probably playing on the safe side and your breads wo n't raise much . You have to heat the CO2 pockets quickly so that they expand before the dough hardens . The more temperature you can give it the better . Another possible factor may be the yeast . Are you waiting enough ? Are you using enough ? Like temperature , more yeast and longer fermentation times ca n't go wrong .
I do n't know if there 's an ' official ' way of doing this , but I 've heard a few different techniques ( eg , putting the crock together the night before , then fridging it ) . Personally , if I 'm going to prep things in advance , I try to take advantage of the extra time , such as by giving the meat a dry-rub . In theory you can mix the meat and vegetables ( as they 'll all be cooked to sufficient temperatures to make the meat safe ; the problems are when you cook the vegetables for less time ) ... but I find that makes it difficult to specifically layer the crock the way that I want to . ( I typically put a carrots across the bottom to lift the meat a little off the bottom of the crock ) . When it comes time to put everything into the crock , I start it on high for a little while so it 'll come up to temperature in a reasonable time , and then switch it over to warm before leaving it to work . ( it 's possible that the new programmable crockpots do this automatically with ' fuzzy logic ' ... I 've never tested it specifically ) . ... So , to summarize : prep food the night before store in containers relative to how you 'll want to layer things in the crock . ( if not layering , all together is fine ) . do n't use the crock as one of the containers in the fridge . on the morning of , layer things into the crock about 30 min before you need to leave . add the appropriate amount of liquid . place the lid on . turn the crock on high . once the temperature is up to around 130-140 ° F ( 57-60 ° C ) , switch it over low . leave it for the appropriate amount of time . switch it to warm if you need extra time before it 'll be served . If you overslep or otherwise need to get out the door quickly ... put the liquid in the microwave to heat up ( or stovetop ) while you assemble the stuff in the crock , and assemble it while the crock is on low . ( you wo n't burn yourself right away , as it takes a few minutes to warm up ) . Once the liquid is warm ( you do n't want it at a boil ... we 're looking for near our target 130-140 ° F / 57-60 ° C ; a couple of degrees over if you have the time ) , pour it in slowly , working your way around the outer edge of the crock . Drop on the lid , and then go to step # 9 .
It sounds like you rendered too much gelatin into the soup , a couple easy fixes are to either : prepare another batch of the soup omitting the ham and bone and then marry the two over a medium/high heat thin with a low fat/nonfat liquid like milk or water ( unfortunately a side effect will be of increased separation in the soup as it cools ) the lower the fat content of what you add the more it will separate . ie adding 2 % milk will cause less separating than skim milk
Dry herbs are slower to release their flavors than fresh herbs ; they will need extra cooking time to impart their full flavors , so add them to the dish sooner . Since they are less delicate and need the moisture , you may also want to add them along with a liquid , to help extract out the flavors . Crushing the larger-leaf herbs up a bit may also help . Use less dried herb than you would with fresh , because they are more concentrated . Although these will help , the sad truth is that even the best-dried herbs will not have the subtle flavors of fresher ones . Edit : One other technique you might use ( if there 's minimal cooking of other ingredients ) is to soak them in oil for a long time to extract flavors . I would suggest an overnight soak in olive oil . You can get more flavor out if you heat the olive oil before letting it sit to soak ; something like 50C/125F is a reasonable temperature to dissolve more flavor compounds , without damaging the more delicate ones .
I had the same problem with floating chillis so I now soak mine in a cafetiere .
You can add a handful of pumpkin seeds or sunflower seeds . You do n't need to adjust any of the other ingredients . Sunflower seeds contain a ton of good stuff , including fibre , according to <URL> : " In addition to linoleic acid ( an essential fatty acid ) , sunflower seeds are also an excellent source of dietary fiber , some amino acids ( especially tryptophan ) , Vitamin E , B Vitamins ( especially vitamin B1 or thiamine , vitamin B5 or pantothenic acid and folate ) , and minerals such as copper , manganese , potassium , magnesium , iron , phosphorus , selenium , calcium and zinc . [ 5 ] Additionally , they are rich in cholesterol-lowering phytosterols . "
Normally , you would not be doing a final proof overnight -- that is , the proof that you have done to form the loaf . Instead , you would do the first ferment or proof overnight , then form the loaf , let it have its final proof , and then bake it . The dough wo n't be wasted , but you do n't want to bake a formed loaf that has over-proofed and fallen . This is because the gluten network will have collapsed and you will have a very poor structure and strange texture . You will need to reknead the dough , form the loaf , and reproof it : Per <URL> , you can almost certainly just punch the dough down , and let it proof again . It may actually have an improved flavor . <URL> concurs : Using your fingertips , gently punch down the over-proofed dough and reshape it into a ball , then allow it to proof again for the recommended amount of time although it warns your final loaf may be about 20 % smaller .
For a chewy pizza base , use bread flour . Do not use oil . Bread flour has a higher protein content that will help gluten form . Gluten makes the connections that keep dough together . Fat inhibits gluten formation . A recipe of just water , flour , salt , and yeast mixed , kneaded , allowed to rise until doubled , and then rolled out will get you what you want . Make sure to roll out quite thin . Preheat your oven absolutely as high as it goes with a stone inside . Put your toppings on maximum one minute before they go into the oven so that the sauce does not make your dough soft . Place pizza on preheated pizza stone - cooking time at high temperatures will be quite short ( max 10 minutes ) .
Not sure how much rice you are making , but if making about 2 cups of rice , first heat 3 tablespoons of peanut oil over Medium High heat . Add the rice and toast it in the oil until it releases a nutty fragrance - about 1-2 minutes . Then I like to use Chicken stock ( 3 cups ) to finish it off . Personal preference but I like to add scallions ( green onions ) and cilantro to the rice when it is done . Cooking it this way I have not noticed a tremendous taste difference from different brands of Jasmine Rice .
end question
start question
What should I look for when buying a pasta roller ?
There are a few consideratons that I can think of : How durable the device is . Generally , this is going to mean that you want something metal &amp; heavy , but I 'd really look at reviews of any model that you plan to buy online , particularly from something like Amazon which lets you see those 1 star ratings , and you can see why people rated them so poorly . How it clamps down to the work surface . I do n't care how heavy it is , if it 's a hand-crank , it 's going to walk all over the place unless it 's well secured to your counter . If you do n't have a counter that 's got a lip that you can clamp to , and you do n't have a table that you 're willing to possibly mar from the clamps , you might have to look for something else ( or bolt/screw it down to a large board ) Size ( width ) of the feed . There are some that are larger , which might be useful for making some pastries as well as pasta . ( and then there 's dough sheeters , which are huge and expensive , but are 18 " or wider , typically ) . How many different thickneses the dial has , and what the min/max thickness is . Again , a thicker one can be used for other pastry applications , but it also makes it easier to work the ball through that first time . ( I 've only ever used one where the thickest size was a pain ... so it 's not a common problem . All I remember was it was a friend 's , and it was n't an Italian company ) Hand crank vs. motorized -- almost every hand crank roller can be converted ( as the handle detaches for storage , so the motor just connects there ) , but the difference in cost is significant . ( ~ $ 50 vs. ~ $ 150 . If you already have a Kitchen Aid stand mixer , they sell an roller kit , but it 's in that $ 150 range . ) Even if you got a motorized roller , I 'd look to make sure that the motor detaches and it had a hand crank ... as it lets you keep working should the motor go into thermal shutdown , but it also means typically means that the company sells the roller and motor individually should one part die down the road . ( you should try to verify that , though ) Accessories -- so , other than an add-on motor , the two main accessories you 'll see are cutters ( fettucini and something thinner are typical ) , and ravioli stuffers . Personally , I 'd say the raviolli stuffers are n't worth it . If you want consistently sized ones , get one of those little forms that you run a rolling pin over to cut , as the cleaning of the attachment ones means it 's not worth it unless you 're making a huge batch . ( which you can do , then freeze 'em , but I never have ) . I think the cutters are worth it ( and are typically included in even the $ 40-60 models ) if you 're going to make fettucini . For the thinner strand pastas , I actually prefer extrusion over rolling . ( although , I think capellini/angel hair may need to be rolled vs. extruded , but I 'm not a fan of that size of pasta ) . For wider noodles , it 's generally not a big deal to hand-cut 'em . As for the question on price ... not really . There are a few major price bands for the good motorized vs. non-motorized , and most stores keep 'em in those ranges . The really cheap ones are going to break , or jam , as they just have a lower build quality . If you see something much over $ 150 , I 'd question it . Unless it had an exceptionally wide roller ( and that was a feature you wanted ) , I ca n't think of a reason to shell out that much . I 'd try to stick with a model that I could find well reviewed ( with at least a dozen people having reviewed it if it 's purchaser-submitted vs. something like Consumer Reports or America 's Test Kitchen ) , and preferably , a model that 's been on the market for years , as there 's very little innovation -- a brand new model was likely made to trim costs , or because it 's something the company never made before ( and thus , untested ) .
Volume Volume is usually the primarily advertised statistic for rice cookers . This indicates the volume of cooked rice that can be prepared in one cycle . Common sizes include 5.5 cups and 10 cups . 5.5 cups is completely adequate for a family of five people for a single meal . Bowl quality Bowls in entry-level models are typically aluminum . Higher end models will be stainless steel . The same heating properties present in pans are relevant here . Aluminum heats quickly , and unevenly . Steel provides a more even heat . Also of concern is the interior of the bowl . Nearly all bowls have a non-stick coating of varying quality . I 've seen the coating start to flake off within a handful of uses on the cheaper rice makers . Higher end bowls can have a durable coating that lasts years or longer . Cooking logic The simplest and cheapest rice makers will have basic static logic . You put rice in , push a button , and the logic simply applies X amount of heat for Y minutes . Higher end models also have additional functions including : Presets for multiple varieties of rice Delayed/scheduled cooking ( like a slow cooker ) Keep warm functionality Digital displays Elapsed/remaining time displayed Dynamic monitoring and adjustment of temperature/humidity Cooking/Heating method Most rice makers use a simple coiled electric heating element located under the bowl . This is a major cause of overcooked/browned/burnt parts where the rice contacts the heated area . This is exacerbated by cheaper aluminum bowls . Higher end rice makers use induction heating . Induction is a rapidly alternating magnetic field which uses the entire bowl as the heating element . This heats much more evenly and is far less likely ( almost impossible ) to burn the rice . The highest end rice makers add pressure cooking capabilities . Pressure cooked rice purportedly is softer , and retains softness longer than regular cooked rice . Brand &amp; price This is probably the most important . In my experience , you actually get what you pay for . Without fail every American brand rice maker ( presumably made in China ) I 've used has been atrocious . The most positive thing I can say about one is " it worked great for the first batch " . There is one Japanese manufacturer that stands out from the pack : <URL> . I can not overstate how amazing their product is . It literally just works , every time . I received the <URL> as a gift over two years ago . I have used the hell out of this thing and have never had a less than perfect batch of rice .
I think for Indian recipes you should in general look for an unstrained , set yoghurt . There are other factors that determine the final taste and texture of the yoghurt ( the bacteria , the type of milk , length of fermentation , ... ) but you may not have much choice w.r.t. other factors than these two : Production process : Set yoghurt is yoghurt that 's made the traditional way , it 's fermented in the pot that it 's sold in . Stirred yoghurt on the other hand is fermented before being packaged ; it 's a more industrialized production process which is cheaper , but results in a more sour , thinner yoghurt . Stirred yoghurt has a smooth , pourable consistency ; whereas set yoghurt is firmer . I got a bit confused when I was using stirred yoghurt the first time I tried making <URL> and the recipe told me to whisk the yoghurt till it was smooth . The pretty sour taste of the yoghurt also did n't go well with the spices , and the juice from the cucumbers made the already-thin yoghurt too watery . You could try fixing both problems by straining the yoghurt a bit and adding sugar , but it 's better and easier to just buy set yoghurt . The yoghurt 's packaging might say explicitly what type of yoghurt it is , but if it does n't or you do n't understand the language : avoid yoghurt that comes in " milk carton " - like containers , that most definitely means it 's stirred yoghurt . A plastic pot does n't mean it 's set yoghurt though , but it 's a better bet . Thickness : Strained yoghurt ( like " Greek-style yoghurt " in Europe and the USA ) is yoghurt from which the whey has been removed . It 's pretty thick and sometimes also referred to as " yoghurt cheese . " In India it 's used for example in the dessert <URL> , but if a recipe does n't specify that you should strain the yoghurt , you should assume it 's unstrained or briefly strained . Wikipedia <URL> : " In south Asia , regular unstrained yoghurt ( dahi ) , made from cow or water buffalo milk , is often sold in disposable clay pots . Kept for a couple of hours in its clay pot , some of the water evaporates through the clay 's pores . But true strained yoghurt ( chakka ) is made by draining dahi in a cloth . " Should you really only find strained yoghurt , you can probably just thin it back with water or milk . I should maybe add I do n't have first-hand experience with what yoghurt from India tastes like , but I 've observed that the ethnic shops in my area and one Indian take-away where I could peer into the kitchen all sell/use the exact same brand of yoghurt , which is an unstrained , set yoghurt with a mild ( not too sour ) taste .
Using both is fine . I would reserve some of the green end to sprinkle on top for presentation . The white part is stronger so you may want to add it a little at a time .
I have tried a number of similar tools and find that the Pampered Chef " <URL> " to be the best-in-breed for choppers . It is sturdy , it is well built and will last . reliable , after cleaning it assembles easily and works consistently easy to clean , opens up easily and is dishwasher safe . I find this model works well for small chopping tasks , such as those advertised with the " slap chop " . If you have more than " a handful " of material to chop you will do well to divide it into smaller bundles . Much more and it is time to move to a larger device . Mine if 5-6 years old , with no signs of slowing down . I am not a Pampered Chef rep I do not broadly endorse their products . Many of their items are " not so good "
Pros Any colour you like ( even black ) . With some machines you can make rainbow stripes just like toothpaste tubes do Any consistency you like , and more or less eggs , or just egg yolks . Add baking soda or Kansui to make stronger , more shape-able pasta ( not more than 0.5 % or it tastes soapy in a sauce ) Any flavour you like ( herbs , spices , extracts , extra egg ' y ... ) Any flour you like ( wholemeal and buckwheat is my favourite ) Any shape you like , make lasagne sheets to fit your favourite lasagne pan , or make your own extruder dies ( not trivial , but possible ) Easier and quicker to cook Extruder machines give your arms a great work out Fun to do with children , and educational You control what ingredients go into it ( more and more commercial pasta are including ' weird ' ingredients for no reason I know of ? ) The extruder you want :-) Cons Expensive to make if you account for your time ( you should ) Flour is flour . The base tastes more or less the same Large amount of time to make decent pasta , especially in tricky shapes Pasta machines can be hard to clean Special hardware ( roller , drying racks , extruder etc. ) required for anything but the basic flat noodles
easiest way is to mix it with the sauce and heat both up together . Usually I 'd do this in a pan , but you could use a microwave . If you have to heat the pasta up on its own , what I usually do is do it in a pan and add a little boiling water , just a couple of tablespoons , enough to stop it sticking , and keep stirring until its warmed through . If it starts to stick add a little more water . You could do this in a microwave I 'd bet , but I do n't have one .
If I plan on storing my pasta in the fridge with the sauce , I take the pasta out of the boiling water and immediately rinse it in cold water . I rinse until the pasta has cooled completely . Make sure to drain it well . Afterwards , I either mix a little sauce in the pasta to help keep it from sticking or just put the sauce on top . Basically I 'm trying to stop the pasta from continuing to " Cook " in the sauce .
If you 're using plain cocoa powder , which does n't really dissolve , I would mix it with the coffee powder before adding to the water , and as long as the coffee powder will tolerate it , add it all to the water before heating . Mixing the two powders should help avoid clumps in the cocoa powder , and adding it early will give it time to release flavor into the water . You 'll still have to stir a bit to keep it from settling out , though ! If you 're using instant cocoa mix , which is sweetened and processed to make it dissolve evenly , you can just add it at the end . There 's no benefit from adding it earlier , and it 'll be easiest to stir and dissolve it in already hot water .
Look for a strong motor and thick blades . If the blades are thin , they 're likely to warp over time . The motor needs to be able to spin those blades through the liquid . Look for a thick glass container . The plastic ones are unlikely to deal with the heat of things like soups and sauces being dumped in . Check the gasket between the glass container and the piece that attaches the blades . A thin , flimsy gasket is likely to start leaking before a thicker , softer gasket . Look at the number of teeth on the connection from the motor to the blade . The more teeth , the greater the surface area being used to distribute the power to the blade mechanism and is less likely to wear out . Overall , as with many things , one of the quickest ways to tell a good one is to weigh them both . The heavier item is better . No one pays for shipping extra weight unless it 's there for a good reason . ( note that the " heavier " rule does n't apply to electronics like cellphones/computers , etc. where the cost of making it small is actually higher )
Firstly , it strikes me as odd that your recipe has no raising agent - no baking powder , no bicarbonate/baking soda , no self-raising flour . Unless you 're whipping a lot of air into the batter , the cakes will barely rise , and you will end up with ' cookies ' . I would add 2 teaspoons of baking powder and 1/4 teaspoon of bicarbonate of soda ( baking soda ) and see if that helps . As for the temperature of your oven , I would n't go so far as to halve the temperature and double the time . The idea is that you need enough heat for the cakes to rise at a decent rate then form a crust on the outside . 100 degrees will do little but slowly dry the cakes out . Domestic ovens are rarely well calibrated , so your oven may be running hotter than the dial indicates . Invest in an oven thermometer to make sure you are setting the temperature correctly : I have had an oven run 40 degrees hotter than the dial said before now ! If you have n't got the time to get a thermometer , try setting the oven about 20 degrees cooler on the dial , to around 180 degrees .
Lemon juice and lemon zest have a different taste . Lemon juice has obviously more water , is tart ( adds fruitiness and freshness to the dish ) and the aroma is not as intense as in the zest . If you bake a cake or cookies it 's often more desirable to use lemon zest because it does n't mess up the water-solids-ratio and what you often want is a rather sweet cake/cookie than a tart one . In contrast often the cookie glaze should be somewhat tart - you can use both zest and juice . I have the impression that the zest has a bitter component . So you have to decide if you want to have a tart component in your dish and whether the dish tolerates additional liquid . Acid is not only important in taste but also in the further " food chemistry " . As Jay pointed out , acid can make milk curdle . Also , cooking with acid in aluminium <URL> ( and probably health-wise , too , but that 's another topic ) . Someone else asked a question in the opposite direction : <URL>
To my knowledge wasabi paste is just wasabi powder that has had the water added to it by the factory . So if you are looking at paste vs powder I would go powder . The question to me would be to make it a paste before you add it to your ice cream base or to add the powder directly to the ice cream base . I would venture to say you should be just fine adding the powder directly to the ice cream base . Now , for the ugly truth . Pretty much all you wasabi powder sold in the US or Japan for that mater is n't really wasabi ( or contains very little wasabi ) . It is horseradish , that is colored green and has some sort of mustard or turmeric added . And really not what I would want to try in an ice cream . Plus the flavor of the pastes are not like fresh ( even with horseradish ) . If I were doing an ice cream , I would want to stay away from the powder all together . I would visit my local specialty food market or online specialty market and see if I could source real wasabi . But cost might be prohibitive for you as it is very expensive . Next the good news is , there are some powders out there that are actually dried ground wasabi powder such as <URL> . It was most likely something like this that your friend used if she did use a powder . Anyway , I hope this is helpful to you . And good luck .
Modern non-stick pans should not have problems with coatings flaking off . Spend $ 50 on a non-stick pan and it will last you for a very long time . Coatings on good pans should hold up to any non-metallic utensils . Very expensive pans suggest that you can hit them with a hammer and not hurt the surface .
In the pastas that I have made the structure of the noodle is built out of protein - usually entirely from gluten from wheat flour . In fact the base of my pasta is just flour and water ( or juice or pureed vegetables , etc. ) Egg noodles , obviously get structure from the egg . Quinoa has no gluten and will impart no structure to a typical pasta . You could easily add it to a normal pasta recipe as long as it was not in so high a concentration as to compromise the gluten structure . Without experimenting I do n't know what ratio this would be . A cursory google search found several quinoa pasta recipes . The ones I looked at were similar in that they relied on a variety of starches and egg for structure . I imagine these would taste fine but they would be more like dumplings or egg noodles than al dente Italian pasta . The results of the quick search : <URL> <URL>
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
The USDA <URL> that " all plastic and wooden cutting boards wear out over time . Once cutting boards become excessively worn or develop hard-to-clean grooves , they should be discarded . " Other advice they offer for avoiding food contamination from cutting boards : Avoid Cross-Contamination The Meat and Poultry Hotline says that consumers may use wood or a nonporous surface for cutting raw meat and poultry . However , consider using one cutting board for fresh produce and bread and a separate one for raw meat , poultry , and seafood . This will prevent bacteria on a cutting board that is used for raw meat , poultry , or seafood from contaminating a food that requires no further cooking . Cleaning Cutting Boards To keep all cutting boards clean , the Hotline recommends washing them with hot , soapy water after each use ; then rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels . Nonporous acrylic , plastic , or glass boards and solid wood boards can be washed in a dishwasher ( laminated boards may crack and split ) . Both wooden and plastic cutting boards can be sanitized with a solution of 1 tablespoon of unscented , liquid chlorine bleach per gallon of water . Flood the surface with the bleach solution and allow it to stand for several minutes . Rinse with clear water and air dry or pat dry with clean paper towels .
Salt is not necessary , it 's just a flavour thing , a common personal preference I suspect you 'll get a saltier taste by putting it in the water , than putting it in the sauce for the same volume of salt Hot water is not necessary too , you can prepare dried pasta with cold water . But it does n't taste right to me , so does salt less pasta :-)
Every tea can have potentially various grades and different teas will have different qualities . I 'm not sure what is available where you are , but if you 're fairly new to drinking loose leaf teas , I 'd for starters find a store that lets you see , smell and possibly sample various teas . Once you have a better idea of what you 're looking for , then online dealers will be easier to navigate . So , firstly , find a reputable store , one where they are knowledgeable about their product , and difference in grades . Ask to smell the teas . Please DO NOT stick your head in the tea , waft it with your hands or the lid of the tin . If you like the aroma , it 's a good starting indicator of how you 'll like the tea . Look closely , are the tea leaves fairly even in size ? An unbroken leaf is generally graded higher than a leaf that is broken/crushed . Though since you 're specifically asking about black teas , note that certain black teas are deliberately cut , to encourage a stronger flavour . If the leaves are torn , crushed , it may be a sign of a rough machine harvest , or poor handling . This could result in bitterness . The lower grades ( small crumbs and dust ) generally end up in tea bags . So , note that . Most importantly , taste it ! If the store offers a few different sampler sizes , go for that . Ask the people there , about how they 'd recommend you prepare it . And try a few different kinds and grades . Note , if you 're new to loose leaf tea , it should taste different than what you 're used to . Trust your taste buds and your nose first ... Regardless of what it looks like and the price and what the description says , if you do n't like the way it tastes &amp; smells ( which is often subjective ) the rest is pretty meaningless .
Clarified butter is rather simple to make . It 's simply butter that has had the milk solids and water removed . It does last longer than regular butter , and can be stored for several weeks in the refrigerator . It also has a higher smoke point than regular butter , so you can use it when higher temperatures are called for without it smoking or burning . Slowly melt your butter and let it sit for a bit to separate Skim off the foam from the top Gently pour the butter off of the milk solids which have settled You 'll be left with about 75 % of what you started with . I 'm not sure what you mean by huge batch , but I usually make about a sticks worth at a time , as needed .
end question
start question
What flavour can cut through salt ?
The classic way to compensate for saltiness ( especially in Asian cuisine ) is to add something sweet ( usually sugar ) , which tricks one 's taste-buds into thinking that the food is both less salty and less sweet . ( Ever wonder why a can of cola has 45 + mg of sodium ? It 's there partially to mask all the sweetness which gives you a sugar rush , and simultaneously make you thirstier ! ) I seem to recall reading a section on this phenomenon in <URL> , but my copy is back home . I 'll try and post an excerpt later today . Update # 2 : I ca n't seem to find any mention of saltiness inhibitors in OFaC , however , there is a section on sweetness inhibitors ( cf. page 663 ) so I must have been confusing it with that . Update # 1 : I have n't gotten a chance to look at OFaC yet , however , I did find this study : <URL> by Keast and Breslin . Journal of Food Quality and Preference , 14 ( 2 ) 111 -- 124 . March , 2003 . Elsevier . It is a survey of research on both perceived and chemical reactions between different tastes . When compounds eliciting tastes are mixed many outcomes are possible , including perceptual enhancement and suppression , unmasking of a taste not initially observed , or possibly chemical synthesis of a new taste . The survey notes ( see Sections 3.2 and 3.3 ) : At medium and high intensities/concentrations sweetness was generally suppressive of other basic tastes . and also Sweetness suppressed salty taste at moderate intensities . It goes on to note that at even higher concentrations sweetness and other tastes are symmetrically suppressive ( i.e. , their tastes cancel each other out ) .
I think the truffles that are exported are of better quality on average than what you 'll find on the european market . I 've never tried the american ones consciously ( they 're not imported to Europe as far as I know ) . You could also take into account that the fresher the truffles are the better the quality , so in theory it would be better to eat american truffles in the USA and european truffles in Europe . Given the mind boggling price differences and the supposed high quality of the stuff <URL> , you 're likely going to be well off picking the local stuff .
My guess is that you dropped 2lb of carrots into the water . This drops the water temperature under the boiling-simmering point . So , you 're not blanching correctly . You should have taken about 3/4lb portions and blanched them successively . ( Or you should have used more water on a bigger stove top . )
Salting the water in which you cook starches ( pasta , rice , potato ) is an effective way of enhancing the flavour of the finished product - boiling starches absorb salt well ( which is why adding chunks of potato to an overall salty stew will lessen the apparent saltiness of the dish . But salt does other things . When I am making roasted potatoes , I parboil them for 5 minutes before drying and roasting them in oil . if you divide them into two batches and boil one half in unsalted water and the other half in well salted water ( 1tbsp/2 quarts water ) , the salted potatoes will brown and crisp much better than the unsalted ones . I 'm not sure why this is , but I would encourage you to try it because it 's amazing to see .
Many chefs and restaurants follow <URL> obsessively , at least in part because they 're required to . Using ingredients that have been stored longer than considered safe can result in customers getting sick , in which case they probably wo n't return , they 'll tell their friends or use social media to spread the word , and they may take legal action if they got really sick . If a health inspector catches such violations , they wo n't be happy either , and they have a number of potential penalties to impose . Food cost is on par with labor as being one of the <URL> of running a food service business . I 've always heard the " rule of thirds " as a guideline for operating costs in a restaurant setting : 1/3 food cost , 1/3 labor cost , and 1/3 profit ( which is not always pure profit and may involve reinvesting back to the business ) . <URL> bear this out as well . My point with all of this is that chefs have two strong , competing incentives : Do not waste food , because it 's expensive in the short term ! Do not serve bad or spoiled food , because it 's expensive in the long term ! Obviously there are bad chefs out there who simply do n't care . They may not be invested in the business , poorly trained , or just checked out . And many of us have seen reality TV exposes that show how awful some kitchens are . But , the good chefs that I 've worked for and with have a couple different approaches to using up prepped ingredients and avoid throwing things out : Good labeling and storage . This is really fundamental anyway if you want to ensure that you know how old everything is . Some ingredients ( blanched or hearty vegetables ) will easily keep for a day or two after being prepped if they 're kept cold . All you need do is store them correctly ( which depends on the exact food ) and use some <URL> to keep things straight in the fridge . Recycle them into a different dish tomorrow . Lots of restaurants have specials or rotating items . If I shelled a bunch of beautiful fresh peas for a risotto on the dinner menu and I simply do n't sell many , I can turn the extra peas into a delicious soup tomorrow . If I 'm smart , I 'll also use up some of the ham that I diced for a different dish , and the vegetable stock that I use everywhere and have to make more of anyway . On which note : Turn them into basic or pantry ingredients . Some chefs are really good at this . There are certain things that you can use everywhere : stocks , breadcrumbs , etc. . And they are n't necessarily picky about their base ingredients being in prime quality . I might make vegetable stock every couple of days using whatever pre-prepped vegetables I 've got on hand , supplemented as needed with fresh ( also an excellent way to use up odds and ends that ca n't be served on their own , like celery stalk bottoms ) . I might take a surplus of julienned carrots that would have been garnish and pickle them for later use . I could take fresh herbs that are starting to wilt and use those in a marinade for meat . This is a really defining quality for a great chef for me : cleverness with a broad range of ingredients and preparations , and a willingness to experiment . After all , if those pickled carrots do n't work out , I would have had to throw them anyway . Compost them . Not feasible for everybody , but growing their own food is something of a trend and obsession for certain chefs . Rather than having things go to waste I can do what a smart home gardener would , and turn my sad wilted vegetables into healthy compost for my rooftop herb garden . Most chefs who do these sort of things are also very good about monitoring how much they sell and doing their best not to order or prep more than they need , so they do n't have tons of waste in the first place . Chefs who are n't as passionate simply wind up throwing more out . This leads to the curious assertion ( but I 've seen it quoted from Gordon Ramsay as well ) that you can learn a lot about a chef by going out back and checking the dumpster . Oh , and since your question asks specifically about line and prep cooks : ideally , they are doing exactly what the head chef tells them to . That 's basic kitchen discipline . If they go off on their own and prep three times more potatoes than they were told to , they wo n't be prepping potatoes or anything else for too much longer .
When you 're grilling food at high temperatures on a barbeque most of the smoke comes from fat that strikes the hot surface of the coals/vapourizer . It 's only when you 're slowly barbequing food , cooking it at cool temperatures , that the difference becomes important . With a gas or electric barbeque you 'll need to add a source of smoke ( eg . wood in a smoker box ) if you want to add any smokey flavour . Even with charcoal it 's normal to add wood to the coals in order to increase the amount of smoke . When cooking on an indoor griddle or frying pan , unless something goes seriously wrong , there 's usually no smoke so the flavour will different than when grilling on any sort of barbeque .
Specifically , steel cut oats look like little pellets , whereas rolled oats have the familiar flat shape from going through a steel roller . The rolled ones expose more surface area and therefore cook faster , but produce a different final texture . I do like the steel-cut ones better , but they take upwards of half an hour to cook . You can make a large batch and reheat it for 2-3 days if you like . I think some folks also use a pressure cooker to speed them up .
The classic way to compensate for saltiness ( especially in Asian cuisine ) is to add something sweet ( usually sugar ) , which tricks one 's taste-buds into thinking that the food is both less salty and less sweet . ( Ever wonder why a can of cola has 45 + mg of sodium ? It 's there partially to mask all the sweetness which gives you a sugar rush , and simultaneously make you thirstier ! ) I seem to recall reading a section on this phenomenon in <URL> , but my copy is back home . I 'll try and post an excerpt later today . Update # 2 : I ca n't seem to find any mention of saltiness inhibitors in OFaC , however , there is a section on sweetness inhibitors ( cf. page 663 ) so I must have been confusing it with that . Update # 1 : I have n't gotten a chance to look at OFaC yet , however , I did find this study : <URL> by Keast and Breslin . Journal of Food Quality and Preference , 14 ( 2 ) 111 -- 124 . March , 2003 . Elsevier . It is a survey of research on both perceived and chemical reactions between different tastes . When compounds eliciting tastes are mixed many outcomes are possible , including perceptual enhancement and suppression , unmasking of a taste not initially observed , or possibly chemical synthesis of a new taste . The survey notes ( see Sections 3.2 and 3.3 ) : At medium and high intensities/concentrations sweetness was generally suppressive of other basic tastes . and also Sweetness suppressed salty taste at moderate intensities . It goes on to note that at even higher concentrations sweetness and other tastes are symmetrically suppressive ( i.e. , their tastes cancel each other out ) .
It 's reminding you that flipping meat halfway through the defrost cycle will help prevent the bottom half cooking , while the top remains frozen solid .
Trying to get to the bottom of the issue , I decided to take a few pictures of a few different types of salt . The pictures shown below were taken by me and are all proportional ( the camera was the same distance away from each type of salt , so you are getting an accurate size comparison ) . The picture illustrates my suspicions , which is the difference is the surface area ( ignoring of course mineral content and different types of grinding salt ) . Standard table salt is a compact little cube , effective when it 's to be dissolved in a liquid , but not so much when it comes to direct contact with the taste buds . Place one cube on your tongue and you get 1/6th of the surface area in contact , meaning , a lot of salt without much saltiness . Sea salt , with a more rectangular shape is closer to 1/4th the surface area touching your tongue . Ground salt is more like shards of glass , so nearly half of the exposed area could be in contact making things taste that much more salty . Also with a much finer texture , you are left with many more particles in a wider area , meaning , a saltier taste with less salt . It 's a good way of finishing a dish when the salt is going to be lightly dusted on top or mixed with an oil where it will not dissolve at all . When you are dissolving it in a liquid , it really makes little difference which type you use . When it comes down to it , it 's all about how picky you want to be with it .
Very high fat , thoroughly marbled ribeye is a good start , but there 's a fair amount of variation . The extremely thin slices are also not something that every butcher is accustomed to producing , but that should get you to the right beginning .
Definitely do n't rinse the salt off . One of the nice things the salt does is pull juices to the surface of the meat -- not enough to dry things out , but enough so that when the steak hits the hot pan you have a nice protein-laden coating ( it 's called a pellicle when talking about smoked fish -- not sure about steaks ) on the outside to caramelize . If you rinse it , you 're rinsing that right off . If your steak was too salty , then just salt more lightly . You do n't need a ton , as what you get on there will melt some and mix with the juices and spread out . I think I probably use 1/4 tsp or less per side , and some of that bounces off/misses . And you wo n't lose the crust with less salt -- you wo n't even lose it with NO salt . It 's just easier to get if you use the salt to pull some juices to the surface . If you have trouble getting good salt distribution , use your fingers and sprinkle it from a little farther up -- like 8 inches from the steak . That 'll make it easier to get an even sprinkle without dousing it .
I just made a stew with lamb neck and was not really impressed ( also , I think I damaged by knife trying to hack the bones up ) . I plan on using shoulder next time . Anything with a lot of connective tissue works well for " low and slow " cooking like braising/stewing . Cuts that are already tender like rack and short loin are better used in other preparations . Shank would work well , but you 'd have to pull it apart before serving . The shoulder could be cut up before hand . Shank works better just braised by itself . I 'd order them something like : Shoulder Shank Leg Rack Short Loin
I used hon-mirin exclusively when I lived in Japan , simply because it tasted better . My Japanese neighbor was surprised that I could tell the difference , and confessed ( somewhat embarrassedly ) that she used aji-mirin since her family could n't tell the difference . However , I can not buy hon-mirin in the US ( I 'm not 21 , and hon-mirin is sold as wine while aji-mirin is cooking wine ) so I 've been using aji-mirin without detrimental effect .
You 're going to have to start over with new chocolate . I 'm sorry to say it but there 's no way to remove the salt from the chocolate .
I think the cost effective-ness and worth it portion of the question is quite subjective since there is n't a way to directly compare salt with cookware grade salt block . These salt blocks are considered unusable when it becomes cracked and fall apart , not when all the salt has been used up . Thus the price is for the novelty of using these blocks to cook food rather than the actual salt content . And whether the flavor is worth it is complete up to you to decide . Due the obscurity of Himalayan salt blocks , I will provide a little background information for those who are n't familiar . Due to the Himalayan salt blocks ' unique lattice formation , it has very low moisture and porosity . Due to this property it can be heated up to extremely high temperatures ( up to 900 degree Fahrenheit ) . Also because of the lack of porosity the saltiness that comes off of it when cooking on top of it is minimal and will impart only a moderate amount of sodium . On top of that , it has many trace amount of other minerals including but not limited to sulfur , calcium , potassium , and magnesium . These additional trace minerals are what given the Himalayan pink salt its unique flavor . Now if you want to cook using the block merely to try out its taste , i would recommend you use <URL> instead . It is a bag of Himalayan pink salt that is meant to go into your food as seasoning . How long a salt block last purely depends on how well you take care of it and luck . This <URL> explains proper heating and washing techniques . Because these blocks are naturally carved out of the earth , fault lines ( sometimes not visible from the outside or even with the human eyes ) can exist on it . These fault lines will naturally grow bigger as the block is continuously heated to high temperatures . Because of this unpredictability , there is n't a " real " answer . However some can crack after just several uses ( on one testimonial , one woman claimed it broke after two uses . But she was able to get it replaces for free ) while other can last much much longer ( others have report using it for over a year ) . Usually you can get a replacement if the block cracks in a short period of time . Find out about this warranty period from the supplier before buying .
When I use fresh onions , we store the unused parts for up to a week in our fridge in either a ziploc or a sealable rubbermaid-style container . For particularly pungent onions they go in the crisper drawer to keep the smell from being too strong in the rest of the fridge , but usually they 're just on one of the shelves . <URL> 2-3 days but my personal experience says otherwise . Generally in our house , they do n't last long enough for the flavor to degrade too much , but they will get a little dried and the smell will get stronger over time . After a week , they should n't be bad in the sense that you 'll get sick - but you 'll want to use them in a meal where the onion is the star , as the aroma will take over the dish . Another option that I 'm a big fan of is to dice or strip the leftovers ( or , a 5 lb bag at once ! ) and freeze them on a cookie sheet ( instead of in a bag , where they 'll turn into a giant clump ) . Once fully frozen , dump them into a plastic freezer bag , and store in the freezer for easy access to a handful at a time . For most applications , you can defrost them right in the pan/pot/casserole as you cook , so they 're very handy and accessible . We do the same with peppers in our house for convenience .
Moist salts are naturally harvested sea salts from which not all the water has been removed . They are noticeably wet , often caking up or forming more of a " slush " than a powder . Some aficionados only believe that sea salt is " real " and " natural " if it is moist . Me , I have enough humidity in the apartment .
Steel cut oats take a lot longer to cook than rolled or quick oats . It 's unlikely they will completely cook before the cookie is done . You could try it , but I 'd recommend presoaking them in hot water for an hour , or maybe even parboiling them for a few minutes . You 'd need to adjust your wet ingredients accordingly as well .
I believe it 's another name for the tenderloin . <URL> Also , if you check out this other fillet of beef recipe from the same show : <URL> You can see a much better picture of the meat . That one is clearly a tenderloin . So The Fillet Mignon is part of that technically ...
end question
start question
How do I cook for just one person ? any good cookbooks ?
So , my other question was more general techniques and advise ... but for the actual cookbook question ... the whole ' cooking for one ' has been a pet peeve of mine for some time ( I missed getting my entry together for the first Food Network Star competition , and they have a restriction in the application form that 's kept me from entering ever since ) But , a couple cookbooks that seem to still be in print : <URL> : Mostly cookbook with lots of simple recipes , but lots of advice and tips in the beginning and scattered throughout . And brings up a good point : Actually , cooking for yourself is n't difficult -- like anything else , it just sounds difficult if you have n't mastered the basics . Solo cooking is really much easier than cooking for others : It takes far less time , is less costly , and is less emotionally charged ( if your food does n't come out well , you 're the only one who knows it . ) It 's probably one of the arenas of your life where you are totally in control . You can eat when and what you like every night . <URL> : a little more complex recipes ... also includes pictures of the food on some plates in the middle , so if you prefer cookbooks with pictures for inspiration , this one might be a better choice . ... also look for the ' low number of ingredient ' type cookbooks . ( the concept 's been around for longer than <URL> ... I have plenty of this sort of cookbook , but most are out of print . ( and I do n't actually have that one ) ) ... and if you 're not looking for the fine dining type cooking for one , some of the ' college cookbooks ' and other <URL> tend to be more suited for low effort ( or low skill ) , and fewer people , but most still insist on making 4-8 servings , even for the college ones , so take <URL> . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , not exactly cookbooks ... more food writing , plus recipes , but specifically of the ' cooking alone ' variety : <URL> ( about 1/2 cookbook , half stories ) <URL> ( mostly stories , a few recipes ) ... I have some other ones , eg , " The Bachelor 's Dinner : Good Food for Single People " , by David Jones which strives to be more fine dining ( a little too much in that direction for my opinion ) , but they 're out of print , and that one does n't even show up when I search by ISBN . Also , if you follow any of the links , Amazon makes recommendations of similar books , as there 's lots of books on the topic ( just they 're ones I have n't read )
Why actually , I have just the link for you . <URL> Is exactly what you are looking for . And <URL> for supplies .
You can not easily cool and reheat a decent sized lasagna in 3 to 4 hours and get down to 4C for any length of time to make it worthwhile It was mostly sterile from the baking process . If you leave the oven door closed it will stay clean and warm for a few hours . Simply be re-heated 30 minutes before serving . You could under-cook it slightly to allow for this , but for lasagna is usually improves with more cooking You could also consider leaving the oven on low , and keeping it hot till serving time . This may degrade some foods , it depends on what 's in it . Keep it above 70C ( 160F )
The problem is that there are different types of olive oil that are used for dramatically different purposes . A high quality ' cold pressed extra virgin ' oil often has fruity notes that are destroyed when you heat it , but is great for drizzling over things at the last minute , or cold applications such as salad dressings ... but note that the US labeling laws are lax , so something labeled as ' extra virgin ' in the US may not qualify as such in Europe . For most cooking , I use a good grade olive oil ( ' virgin ' , but not ' extra virgin ' ) for cooking with , not the extremely expensive stuff . For frying , there 's ' extra light ' olive oil which has a higher smoke point but little to no flavor on its own . It 's refined to such a point that you might be better off just going with any neutral flavored oil ( canola/rape , soy , corn , etc. ) Price depends on a lot of things , and a lot of it 's marketing and worthless -- if you can , I 'd look for other signs of quality ... like if there 's a packing date . Older oil is more likely to have deteriorated , and in a worst case , have gone rancid . ( more likely if it 's in a clear glass bottle ... if you 're buying large amounts of oil , keep it out of sunlight , or even better , buy it in a can ) Note that packing dates can also be cheated -- they might press the oil , then hold it for months before it 's actually bottled for sale . Also beware of ' blended oils ' . This is when they cut olive oil with something less expensive , but still try to pass it off as ' olive oil ' . ' Imported from Italy ' is another suspect label , as it might be foreign olives that were sent to Italy before being imported . ( but there 's nothing wrong with non-Italian olives ... the Greeks and Spanish make some great olive oils , and we 're starting to see more <URL> ) . ... Also note that olive oil can be classified like wines -- some companies might press a single variety of olive ( eg , Kalamata , Castelvetrano ) , which can have dramatically different flavors . They might be fruity , grassy , buttery , or even peppery . Regions can also have an impact , as some areas press olives while green , and others wait until they 're black . I wo n't get into these , as that 's more a matter of personal taste .
When I was a kid , we used to run over them with the car . Put a bunch in the driveway and drive over them so they got a single pass from a tire . That usually crushed a few beyond help , but just split the majority open nicely . They were still a lot of trouble to pick from the hulls , and ultimately not very nice to eat , IMO .
You may use all sorts of pumpkins and squashes ( a Cucurbita moschata or Cucurbita pepo may be called either , depending on variety ) to make a pie . The Halloween types may not be the best choice : they tend to be stringy , not very sweet , and sometimes over treated with pesticides . Instead look for the small varieties ( around 5 lbs . ) called Sugar , Long Pie , or Trickster . When making the pumpkin pur&eacute;e for a pie from scratch it is important to deal with the water content of the pumpkin . After you <URL> , you may need to use a cheesecloth to wring the pur&eacute;e .
Crouque-Monsier or the similar " Hot Brown " sandwich is perfect for my needs . That will use up the sauce in a completely different way . It will also make a great lunch . Thanks SAJ14SAJ for the tip .
There are a few factors that could effect this : 1 ) How the meat is cooked and how lean or fatty it is . If you overcook the meat ( although I doubt that you would ! ) or if it 's leaner or fattier . If its a fattier meat add say an extra 2 tbsps or so of sauce and if it 's leaner ( or overcooked ) I would add a tbsp or so less of sauce . 2 ) The viscosity and composition of the sauce . If it 's a white wine sauce ( thinner , less rich ) you would want to add more , however if it 's a hollondaise sauce ( thicker , richer ) you may want less . 3 ) Opinion , some people like more sauce , some people like less . It may depend on the type of sauce which you may want more or less of . Saying this I would say around 4 tbsp of sauce , then account for the additions and your own personal preference . Any more sauce and it may become swamped , any less and you will not have enough sauce to taste or keep the meat moist . It is a very subjective subject so do keep that in mind .
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
Venison is , generally , an extremely lean meat . This means it responds well to two cooking methods : very very fast and very very hot ( grilling , perhaps roasting with a lot of basting , or lard the meat first ) , or very very slow and moist ( braising ) . This is of course dependent on the cut ; loin is best grilled , shoulder is best braised ( due to the connective tissue ) , leg is best roasted . I would n't use plain water as a braising liquid . 50/50 water and red wine , or stock and wine , or just stock ... cider would be lovely , so would various juices .
Mirltons are a member of the squash family , but have a traslucent , soft-crisp texture which is n't really exactly like any other squash . In recipes where they are an incidental ingredient , you can generally substitute zucchini ( especially if you peel and seed it ) without too much trouble , but in recipes where they are a main flavor they are hard to substitute . And , as Mien points out , it never really works to substitute the main ingredient in a recipe . I suggest that your daughter wait for midsummer and check out Mexican or Indian groceries until she finds some .
Yes , you can temper the callets . Couverture is couverture , and the only thing that 's really different about the callets is their shape - they 're specifically intended to be melted easily , unlike the bars which they ( sort of ) expect people to eat directly . The bars are less likely to melt during shipping which is why they also sell them in that form .
First , potato is not the same as potato . Conventionally , potato salad is always made with waxy potatoes , because mealy potatoes ' outer layers disintegrate when tossed with the sauce , much like making risotto . They are also less creamy in texture . But there is also the school of using mealy potatoes , because they absorb more seasoning , and also because some people like the soft texture . If you decide to go with mealy , use an acid in the cooking water ( depending on your seasoning , choose vinegar , citric acid , or the neutral tasting cream of tartar ) . This will firm the potatoes . It is n't necessary for waxy potatoes . Second , the cooking time depends strongly on size . You must cut them very evenly . Else you will have both undercooked and overcooked potatoes in the pot at any given moment ( up to the time when you only have overcooked ones ) . Smaller pieces are easier to work with . Third , you want to heat them as gently as possible . Start them in cold water , and cook them at a simmer , not at a boil . There is no way to predict when the potatoes will be ready . Even if you cut them to the same size every time , the sort and the age of the potatoes will result in varying cooking times . When the time is near , you must look after them and try them constantly . Take out a piece , cut it in half , cool it in cold water , and chomp on the exact center . If it is n't crunchy , stop the cooking immediately and remove the water . The time window in which they are just right is quite short . Season them while they are hot , they will then absorb the sauce instead of just swimming in it the way cold potatoes do .
First , finely chop the onions . This makes them smaller , faster-cooking , and less of a textural presence in the dish . Do it by cutting straight through the poles of the onion , resulting in two halves . Then chop off the knobs and peel off the outer layer . Run the knife 8 or 9 times along the vertical ( from pole to pole ) , but do n't sever one end completely . Cut finely across these verticals to make a fine dice . Run the knife over the pile a few times if your cut is n't small enough . Second , cook the onions . The purpose of sweating is to draw moisture out , concentrating the flavor and enhancing conversion from starch to sugar . Heating the onions releases their aroma and reduces the chemical bitterness they exhibit when raw . Heat up some oil in a pan to medium-low heat . Add the onions . Add salt . I would n't cover the pan , since the lid will prevent steam from escaping . Stir/shake to prevent sticking or burning . The onions will get soft and then translucent . ( Eventually , if you kept going they would get limp and browned ; this is referred to as caramelized and considered a different thing than sweated , so although it 's just further along the same spectrum , you should n't go that far for this recipe ) . That 's how I 'd do it and why . I do n't know if it 's a textbook answer .
I 've always cooked it on top of aluminum foil , at 350 ° F ( ~ 175 ° C ) for 20 minutes . Flipping it once at about the half way point . If you prefer crispier , go for 25 minutes .
Nigel Slater 's book <URL> might be useful to you . He devotes each chapter to a separate vegetable , and for each one he includes : Specific recipes Discussion of different varieties Comments on different cooking techniques Comments on effective seasonings and pairings There 's also some discussion of his attempts ( successful or not ) at growing different vegetables in his own garden .
In my view this is pretty simple : make things you want to eat . As long as you cast your net wide enough as you look for recipe ideas , there will always be new things that you 'd love to eat and will learn something from making . And as long as you want to eat the food , you 'll be motivated enough to actually follow through and do it . Most of the time , this will mean making things where you 're mostly comfortable with the recipe , but there are some new parts you have n't tried before . It might be new combinations of ingredients and flavors , which will broaden the creative side of your cooking . It might be new techniques , which will enable you to make more things in the future . To oversimplify , when you look at a recipe , if practically every step sounds new or difficult , maybe save it for later ; if most of it gives you an " I can do this " feeling , go for it ! It 's fine to take on bigger projects too , of course , as long as you go into it with the understanding that you might want to try parts of it by themselves first ( or that things might fail the first time ) . Either way , be sure to cast a wide net : skim cookbooks , read food blogs , browse recipe database sites or food photography sites , and so on . There 's always a lot out there that you 'll surely want to try and just do n't know it yet . But above all , just seek out things that look good to you ( or your friends/family ) . The rest will follow .
Yes , the original recipes involved an enormous amount of trial and error . People baked , swapped recipes , and the good ones were desirable and became widespread , while the bad ones died out . The advanced knowledge of food chemistry was n't even available at the time - Hannah Glasse published her cookbook more then 100 years before Mendeleev published the periodic table . Luckily , you do n't have to go through the same process if you want to invent a good recipe now . There are only a few basic ingredients in baking - eggs , sugar , flour , water - and you can be sure that all possible ways to combine them , as well as most secondary additions and substitutions , have been thoroughly explored . People have distilled the knowledge of this exploration in books , and you can use this basic knowledge to build new recipes which will function with a high probability . Before you develop a baking recipe , there are four things you have to know . Technique . If you want to create a cookie recipe , you will have to use creaming . If you want to make a new kind of eclair , you have to know how to prepare a basic pate a choux . There are cookbooks teaching these techniques , some of them are explained in questions here on SA . Base ratio . For most baked goods , there are ratios which give you the best results . For example , for a crepe you want 1 part flour , two parts egg and two parts liquid . As long as you keep that , you can let your imagination run free by using different liquids , or adding spices , or even plopping pieces of fruit in the pan and pouring the batter over them . You can learn about this from Ruhlman 's book Ratio , or use a known-good recipe for a plain variant of the good you are trying to make as your starting point . Flavor combinations . You can add any ingredients you want , but there is no guarantee they will work well together . Choosing the right ones is a combination of talent ( being able to imagine what a combination will taste like before you have had it ) and experience . You should try to be more analytical about the flavors of things you eat - which tastes can you distinguish ? Which aromas ? What makes them go well together ? Is it their similarity , or the contrast ? - and when you have done that long enough , you will be able to predict the goodness of a combination . A book to help you along is The Flavor Bible , which describes good combinations . You can also take popular combinations and transfer them across types of food . For example , if you like apple-cinnamon pie , you can try to make cinnamon cookies glued in pairs with apple butter . Ingredients ' structure and their role in the baked good . This knowledge is maybe the least usual among home cooks . When you create new recipes , you will always dilute the base formula , or use substitutions . If you do n't have this knowledge , it will be hit-or-miss whether your new recipe will work or not . It is a bit like rebuilding a house 's interior without knowing which walls are load-bearing and which are n't . If you know what each ingredient does in a recipe , you will know when a substitution is possible and when it is n't . For example , many people will tell you that applesauce is a substitute for eggs . And you can indeed bake a cake with applesauce instead of eggs , but do n't try to whip a mayonnaise with it . This is because eggs have a different role in cake and mayonnaise . Learning about these roles requires a lot of effort , and a curiosity about these things . Most people will find it easier to just try whatever they feel like , and live with the occasional failed new-recipe attempt . If you would rather learn about them , I can recommend two sources . One is Cooking for geeks by Jeff Potter , which is short and does n't go into the depth of things , but offers lots of useful information and is easy to read , or the really exhaustive book called On Food and Cooking by Harold McGee , which runs to about 800 pages and goes into detail most people do n't want to know about , but is a must-read if you are fascinated by food science . And , of course you can always just run into the kitchen and experiment . Do n't forget to document along the way so you can reproduce your results ! Basically , you can always have luck and hit a good new recipe , the knowledge I listed above ( combined with some baking experience ) helps you increase your first-try success rate from about 2-3 % as a full amateur to somewhere about 80 % or more . It is your decision how to divide your time between reading and baking , any combination can function , depending on your learning style .
Tamarind gives a sour and slightly molasses note to food , including rendang . To replicate it , you thus need something sour , like lemon juice , and a dark sugar flavour , like black treacle , molasses , or dark brown sugar . For your recipe I would add 2 tablespoons of lemon juice and 1 tablespoon of dark brown sugar .
Yup , tomatoes can most definitely be a bit grainy . It 's not a hard graininess like sand , but a softer graininess . The best comparisons that come to mind are hydrated but uncooked cornmeal or slightly wet breadcrumbs . Instead of being juicy and smooth ( whether firm or soft ) , you 'll notice a bit of small texture . It 'll probably also be less juicy , and the flavor may not be as fresh and full as you 'd like . If you 've never had one , awesome - you 've had good tomatoes ! It 's also a common texture in some varieties of apples , especially when not too fresh . It 's especially noticeable there ; instead of a crisp crunch as you bite through it 'll feel a little crumbly . They 'd be all right for things where you 're going to cook them thoroughly so you wo n't notice the texture , like spaghetti sauce , though again the flavor may suffer as well . For anything remotely fresh , they 're still edible , just noticeably not as good .
end question
start question
How do I determine the cut of a pork steak prior to purchasing it ?
The bone structure is an excellent clue -- each of these three cuts have completely different bones -- and you should be able to learn to distinguish the muscle structures easily as well . ( There 's almost certainly a price difference , too -- I 'd expect a shoulder steak to be the cheapest , followed by leg , then loin and rib . ) I 've made some quick structural drawings , and I 'll try to describe them in detail . Rib and Loin <URL> The loin is a long piece of muscle running alongside the backbone and atop the ribs . It will be cut vertically , giving a oval/oblong cross-section somewhere around 4 " diameter . That oval is solid muscle , although there may be some streaks of fat . There will usually be another strip of muscle above it , and a strip of fat along the top and one side ( this was the pig 's insulating back fat ) . Opposite the fat will be a rib bone , if it has n't been removed . The bone will not be split , but it will be cut short at some point . It is convex towards the fat , and usually has some of the fat running down along its length . If the rib is there , the steak ( or " chop " ) will have a smaller oval of muscle below the loin , separated by fat , which would otherwise be served as part of the rib meat . As the cuts of the loin move backwards towards the leg , the tenderloin may begin to be incorporated , and the rib will disappear . The tenderloin is perhaps half the loin 's size , and appears on the opposite side from the loin of a slice of the backbone , which has a rib-like sideways protrusion . This cut is the " porterhouse " , also known as the " T-bone " if the steak were beef . It may also be called a " loin chop " , as opposed to the " rib chop " from futher forward . Rib/loin chop summary description : oval/oblong of solid meat with a strip of fat at one side , possibly an intact bone on the opposite side , curving towards the fat . Possibly two ovals of meat , one half the size and on the opposite side of a protrusion of split bone from the larger . Ham or Leg <URL> The part of the leg you 're getting for steaks is the upper part , i.e. the thigh , sliced horizontally . This has a single cylindrical bone -- the femur -- running through it , which will be around 1 1/2 " diameter and off-center . The thigh is basically oval in cross-section , and made up of several large muscles , with fascia ( silver skin ) and a small amout of fat between them , so you will see four to half a dozen large pieces of muscle in the steak . There may be a strip of fat along one side , and perhaps even some skin attached to that . A leg steak is the same cut as a " ham steak " , although " ham " is often used to mean that the meat has been cured , and possibly even cooked . Leg summary description : Oval-shaped steak with a circular slice of bone off-center . The steak is composed of half a dozen sections of meat , possibly separated by thin strips of fat , and may have a strip of fat on one outer side . Shoulder or Blade <URL> The shoulder is a beautiful cut of meat on a pig , made up of dozens of pockets of marbled muscle , connected and wrapped by intermuscular fat , as well as an extension of the loin . Like leg , a shoulder also has just one bone , the blade ( which connects via a socket to the arm-bone near the bottom of the shoulder ) . The shoulder blade ( scapula ) is somewhere in the center of the shoulder , and is , as you would expect , a thin , arrow-head-shaped formation , with a flat ridge running down its center ; from the top , it looks a bit like U +22 A6 : ⊦ . ( This protrusion or spur points to the outside of the pig . ) Therefore , a slice across this shoulder muscle will be made up of several pieces of white-streaked muscle , held in a web of fat , and it will either have a fully-enclosed thin segment of bone in it , or a split where the bone was removed . With the bone left in , I believe the cuts are usually made horizontally , and the muscle segments may appear larger ( they are mostly longer than they are tall ) . With it removed , the slice could be made vertically , in which case you will see more , and smaller , pieces . There may also be a strip of fat along one side of a shoulder steak ; this is the same under-skin fat that you saw in both other cuts . Shoulder summary description : Vaguely rectangular piece of meat , with a thin slice of bone in the center . The bone may have a perpendicular ridge . The meat is in many small pieces and is webbed with fat . For less diagrammatic images , this <URL> seems to have some good photos of the various cuts , grouped by the section of the pig .
You should be able to get a reasonable steak stovetop using a cast iron grill pan , if you have a strong enough exhaust . Oil the cast iron pan ( with canola or such ) , then heat it very hot , until it starts to smoke . Make sure the meat is completely dry on the outside ( wipe with a paper towel , water will prevent browning ) and gently place in the pan . Leave it there for a minute or two ( it 'll smoke quite a bit ! ) , rotate 90 ° to get the nice grill marks . Leave for another minute or two . Flip , and repeat for the other side . It may splatter , have a splatter screen handy . It will smoke , quite a bit , make sure the exhaust is on high . You will probably have a medium-rare steak now . Using a thinner cut will make it more well done ( you can cut a thick steak in half with your chef 's knife , making two thin steaks ) ; so will plopping it in the oven ( not sure if you want the oven before or after searing , I like 'em medium rare ... ) . Remember to let the meat rest for 5 minutes or so before serving . Also , if your steaks are coming out ridiculously tough , you 're probably using the wrong cut of meat , or some terrible grade . What cut are you using ? [ edit : I should note that , in case it was n't obvious , the burner should be up pretty high ] Edit by rumtscho There is a reason this answer specifies a cast iron pan . If you are limited in your cookware choice , pay attention to the maximum temperature your pan can tolerate . If you are using a non-stick pan , you have to go on medium heat and wait longer , else you 'll damage the pan . ( And sorry , but you ca n't get it as tasty as on high heat that way ) .
First , the recommended minimum cooking temperature for pork is 145 so you can cook them a little less than you already are . Also , keep in mind that meat continues to cook after it is removed from the pan/cooking element . The residual heat will produce what is known as " carry over cooking " which can range from 5-15 degrees , depending on the size of the item and how long it sits . Pork chops are n't going to continue rising as high as a large roast that has a greater amount of residual heat built up . Also , it is very difficult to get an accurate reading on temperatures for chops and steaks with a thermometer so it 's really best to learn to determine doneness through touch . For pork you 're looking for a medium doneness so touch your middle finger to your thumb . That will contract the fleshy part between the thumb and index finger on the same hand . Poke that with the index finger from your other hand . It should feel somewhat springy with just a little firmness . That 's how your pork ( or medium-done steak ) should feel when it 's ready to be removed . As for other things you might consider ... Brining will pull moisture into the pork so that it 's less likely to dry out during the cooking process . A brine is a mixture of water , sugar , and salt . Additional flavors may be added but this would be a basic moisturizing brine . Through osmosis , the liquid is pulled into the cells of the meat . As the meat cooks it retains it 's juiciness due to the fact that salt helps to retain water . The flavor is enhanced through any seasonings that were also introduced to the brine as they will be carried into the cells of the meat as well . Basic Brine : 1 qt . water , 1/2 cup kosher salt , 1/2 cup sugar . Add the sugar and salt to the water and stir until dissolved . Submerge meat in brine and refrigerate if brining for an extended period of time . Plan on about 1 hour per pound of meat . When you 're ready to cook , remove the meat from brine , pat dry and then season as you normally would and rub with a little oil before broiling , grilling , searing , etc. . I hope that provides some help !
<URL> He writes it better than I can , so I 'll just quote him . I 've used the second method he describes , but after watching the video below , the other looks much easier ... The breast halves should each have a flap of meat called the chicken tenderloin ( or chicken tenders or strips ) . Lifting the tenderloin should reveal a white tendon . I recommend two ways to trim off this tough tendon . The most popular method is to grab the tendon with your fingers and pull on it while scraping with your knife to release the tendon from the breast . Continue to lift and scrape until the tendon is completely removed . Alternatively , you can use a sharp boning knife and slice along both sides of the tendon ( without slicing through the tendon ) . Then lift any part of the tendon that has been separated from the breast and use your boning knife the cut any parts where the tendon has not cleanly separated from the meat . <URL>
When I make quiche ( and for a while at an old restaurant I was baking them almost daily ) to which I am going to be adding anything other than the actual custard and flavouring , I look for three things : will these other ingredients release a lot of water when cooked ? Will these other ingredients release a lot of fat when cooked ? Will the other ingredients be fully cooked ( if desired ) in the final product ? In the first instance , most vegetables will release a significant amount of water when cooking . This has two unpleasant side effects : first , it creates steam pockets around the vegetable , preventing the custard from adhering and leaving empty spaces . Second , the steam itself can mix into and loosen the custard , preventing it from setting properly . Neither of these , as Brown would say , are good eats . Of course some vegetables let off more water , e.g. tomatoes , than others . Second , dealing with fats , we generally have meats . Many meats will release fats while cooking , a process known as rendering . Bacon is of course the fattiest of meats you are likely to use ; sausage would be similar . The release of fats into the custard will have many of the same effects as the release of water . In addition , quiche is often served cold , and excess animal fats feel unpleasantly greasy in the mouth when cold ; unpleasantly oily and greasy when hot . Cheeses are not , for reasons I do not fully understand , generally a problem when the release their fats into a quiche . That being said , I have never tried baking a quiche with very fatty liquid cheeses such as brie or camembert ; cream cheese and the similarly textured soft goat cheeses present no problem at all . Finally , we must consider whether the ingredient ( s ) will end up cooked in the final product . Custards set at quite low temperatures , so this is an important safety consideration when dealing with meats . It is less important for safety with vegetables , and becomes an issue mainly of texture ; do you want your vegetables to be crisp and crunchy or soft and limpid ? For all of these reasons , I always cook meat before including it in a quiche , unless it is charcuterie which is relatively low in fats and is safe to eat without further preparation , such as prosciutto ( but not , I 'd point out , jamon Iberico , if cut traditionally by hand , as it so often includes so much glorious fat that just melts lusciously ... I digress ) . And I almost always cook vegetables ; tomatoes , spinach ( and other leafy greens ) are always fully cooked to remove as much water as possible . Other vegetables depend on what I feel like . I generally will only blanch broccoli long enough to set a vivid green colour , as I like the contrast of soft custard with the crunchy broccoli . Your tastes may vary , of course . Short version : Meat : always cook ! render out excess fat ! Vegetables : always blanch at least ! cook out excess water !
Definitely do n't rinse the salt off . One of the nice things the salt does is pull juices to the surface of the meat -- not enough to dry things out , but enough so that when the steak hits the hot pan you have a nice protein-laden coating ( it 's called a pellicle when talking about smoked fish -- not sure about steaks ) on the outside to caramelize . If you rinse it , you 're rinsing that right off . If your steak was too salty , then just salt more lightly . You do n't need a ton , as what you get on there will melt some and mix with the juices and spread out . I think I probably use 1/4 tsp or less per side , and some of that bounces off/misses . And you wo n't lose the crust with less salt -- you wo n't even lose it with NO salt . It 's just easier to get if you use the salt to pull some juices to the surface . If you have trouble getting good salt distribution , use your fingers and sprinkle it from a little farther up -- like 8 inches from the steak . That 'll make it easier to get an even sprinkle without dousing it .
I certainly would n't want to be chewing through avocado skin . Unless you plan on throwing it in a blender and liquifying it , it 'd be pretty nasty .
I once left a whole New York strip in the walk in cooler for two weeks and it was great . Chances are that the salt and acid in the marinade preserved the pork well enough it would still be safe to eat after six days . I would check for slime and foul odor . There are several other factors involved such as how it was handled before put in the refrigerator . For example , a piece of pork that was at room temp for one hour with a semi sterile knife trimming it might not last three days . I always go with whether it has an off odor or not . I find that meat which has aged a little in the fridge will have a more robust defined flavor . If you run your finger across it and feel any type of slime just get rid of it .
Sweet , semisweet , etc. are American terms for the different chocolate " grades " and are determined by the amount of cocoa mass in the chocolate . In many other countries , terms referring to " darkness " are used . But do n't go ahead and use just any chocolate labelled " dark " , because there are huge differences between brands . I have seen 40 % chocolate marketed as " very dark " or " bitter " chocolate . You should look at the ingredients instead . They list the amount of cocoa mass ( = the sum of cocoa solids + cocoa butter ) . White chocolate is always clearly labelled as such , and seldom has a percentage listed for the cocoa mass . This is OK , because you can easily distinguish it . Milk chocolate has around 30 % cocoa mass , and contains milk in addition to the other ingredients . Semisweet chocolate has at least 35 % cocoa , but can be anything between 40 % and 65 % depending on availability and taste . Here you get into " real chocolate " territory . The only ingredients should be cocoa ( can be listed as cocoa butter , cocoa solids , cocoa mass , cocoa liquor , or cocoa particles ) , sugar , and maybe some vanilla . Different forms of sugar are OK , for example organic chocolates often use raw cane sugar . Stay away from anything with vegetable fat , emulgators , and/or E-numbers listed on the package . If you have the choice , prefer chocolates with higher cocoa butter to cocoa solids ratio ( but this information is seldom available ) . Bittersweet chocolate is somewhere in the 70 % to 99 % range . It has the same ingredients as semisweet , just in different proportions . Unsweetened or baking chocolate is essentially 100 % cocoa mass , and may or may not be processed or conched to the same smooth texture as chocolates intended for eating or candy making , depending on the manufacturer . Be aware that the limits are somewhat arbitrary - some authors count a 72 % chocolate to the semisweets , not to the bitters . But I have found these ranges to work well . Usually , you have some leeway , because the texture of whatever you bake ( and even of conditor chocolate items ) does n't change all that much with ten percent difference in the cocoa amount , there are factors which bring in a larger error anyway . To warn you , almost none of the popular chocolate brands for eating are good for serious baking , including the ones you linked . Cadbury , Milka , Hershey 's and so on are no good . Also , what you see in the baking aisle sold under the name " baking chocolate " or " block chocolate " is probably no good either . At least here in Germany , it is made mostly out of hardened vegetable fat mixed with some cocoa solids . Pure chocolate is too expensive to gain popularity . The cheapest one around here is Lindt excelsior ( not the Lindor line which has vegetable fat ) for around 2 Euros per 100 g . If you are in the supermarket , you should try looking through the ingredient lists of the " premium " brands to see if one of them is good enough . Else , you can try to find good chocolate online . Some stores will even sell true conditor chocolate ( Varhlona , Callebaut ) in household amounts , but this is still very rare .
@Adam A is close -- it 's not an issue of surface area on potency , it 's an issue of damage to the garlic . The ' strong ' taste of garlic comes from a reaction as chemicals are released so they can mix ( alliin and alliinase ) When you cook the garlic whole ( as you would for roasted garlic ) , you will never get this reaction , as you 'll break down the chemicals . Also , the chemicals break down over long cooking , so even if you add a head of crushed garlic at the beginning of a batch of slow-cooked tomato sauce ( 4 + hrs ) , it 's not going to have as strong a garlic flavor as adding a clove or two at the end . One other way that the garlic prep can affect the taste is when you 're sauteing , stir frying or other cooking over high heat -- larger bits can be cooked longer before they burn ... and burned garlic is bitter , acrid and will ruin any dish . ( if you burn garlic , stop immediately , trash everything , clean the pan , and start again -- there is no way to save it that I know )
The secret to crisp sweet and sour pork is mostly how you serve it Roast , BBQ , grill ( whatever you like ) the pork so it fully cooked , but on the lighter side of done . Cut into bite sized pieces If you want to deep fry ( not actually required ) use a thin and light tempura style batter ( flour , baking soda , beer mixed for ten seconds works OK ) . Drain well . This can be done the day before and keep it in an airtight container , but reheating is as much trouble as fresh deep frying . Remember , when using a thin light batter deep frying only takes a minute If not deep frying , finish and reheat under the grill ( broiler ) till it just starts to smoke Use a hot Chinese style serving platter and poor in all your sweet and sour sauce fresh from the wok . The sauce and the platter should be piping hot , it does n't matter if the the pork is not that hot Pile the middle of the platter with freshly shredded raw cabbage and onion . This should make a low flat island in the sauce just breaking the surface of the sauce . You can use wok fried capsicum , onion , carrots etc instead of cabbage ( not as good ! ) Carefully pile the pork pieces onto the island For extra zing add more shredded raw onion on top For a coastal style , and some fresh shredded coconut and/or mango ( not to everyone 's taste ) Serve immediately with a large serving spoon , so guests can scoop up the sauce and pork all in one go
You could probably get away with pork shoulder , although you will want to consider that the texture may not be what you want -- it may either have too much fat and connective tissue , or it may fall apart too much , depending on how long you braise it for . You will probably have to alter your cooking times , I 'd imagine . Pork hocks are somewhat similar in texture to the shank , so that a possibility . Though you will probably run into the same availability problems . It may take a small amount of modification , but your best bet may be to go with country-style ribs . They are tender and flavorful when braised , and are readily available in any grocery store .
Cut it in half before peeling , so that only the end is exposed . Wrap the exposed end with plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator . The skin may darken , but that is okay . You should get a day or two easily . Or put all the half bananas in the freezer , and when you have enough , make banana muffins .
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
I do n't endorse beef in the microwave , but that said , the best possible way to cook it is going to be on one of the microwave plates that raise your food off the plate . ( the ones that look like the inside of a george foreman grill ) You are going to have to play with your power settings a bit to achieve a optimium patty . In mine , it 's 2:30 at 40 percent power and 1:30 at full power but depending on wattage , your particular times are going to vary . The trick to having an edible patty come out of the microwave is use low power to achieve the desired temp and then hit it at full power to get the outside done . It will always produce a slimy-er patty than cooking it on a stovetop or in an oven . Make sure that you cover the patty during cooking as it is going to spatter like crazy . You do n't want to clean that mess up . If you have access to a toaster oven , you can cook a patty in that in about 15 minutes and you will have a much closer to delicious product .
I suggest that you try to go against your habit ! :) Cereal bars and the like do n't really need to cool on a rack : just put the baking tray in your fridge when you 're done baking the bars . That way they 'll set much better , as the heated ( and thus very soft ) sugary components can cool down and firm up . You will find that it 's much easier to cut the bars once they 've been in the fridge for a while . It also helps a lot to use a sharp and wet knife when cutting . That way you will slide through the bars more easily and the bars wo n't stick to the blade of the knife .
You can try to set up my at-home on-the-cheap monkey-at-the-controls sous-vide machine . I take a nearly full 22 quart stock pot with an analog instant read thermometer to monitor the temperature and watch the temperature and adjust the dial accordingly . With this only needing 30 minutes you probably just want to get the water to exactly 72 degrees C and then immerse the potatoes without adding any heat . The amount of energy in 20 quarts of water is phenomenal and you wo n't lose a lot of heat to the air . Alternatively you could get 72 degree water and a beer cooler and try that way for the extra insulation .
Slice off 1/2 " of the top of the onion ( opposite the root ) Place onion root side up , and make slices all the way through , staying at least 1/2 " away from the root Flip it over and spread apart the leaves This is best described with <URL> . Alternatively , if you 're willing to drop a few hundred dollars , you can buy a bloomin ' onion cutter . This is what restaurants use . There are cheaper alternatives , but I ca n't vouch for their quality or ease of use .
Disclaimer : I am not an expert on foams . I 've made a couple before , successfully , but never anything like a lobster bisque foam . So I would advise any casual readers to do their own fact-checking and try this on a small scale - at least until somebody can verify it . Now , onto the questions : I have Lecithin and Mono/diglyceride from a set . It says they 're both emulsifying agents . Which should I use ? What 's the difference ? First of all , what you want for a foam is a stabilizer , and <URL> . Personally , I have never heard of mono/diglyceride being used for a culinary foam . Some research suggests that it is actually an <URL> ! Stick to the lecithin . Note : For the sake of completeness , lecithin is also considered a <URL> , which means it facilitates the foaming itself in addition to stabilizing it . This is especially important when making foams out of things that do n't naturally foam , like teas or juices . What 's the appropriate ratio of emulsifying agent to liquid ? How does changing the ratio affect the foam ? <URL> suggests starting with a 0.6 % ratio , but most people ( myself included ) use a ratio of 1 % - in other words , 1 g of lecithin for every 100 mL of liquid . See <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . The ratio is not quite as sensitive as some other hydrocolloids where you need to measure out sub-grams , but it is still important ; too little and your foam wo n't hold at all ( seems to be what happened to you ) , too much and you 'll end up with soy-flavoured soap . Note : When making a foam out of something that does not naturally foam , such as juice , you may need to up the ratio as high as 2 % . Milk-based foams rely partially on the foaming ability of milk itself . Does temperature effect how the foam forms ? Sort of . Actually , if you 're making a milk-based foam then it 's pretty much the same as just <URL> - i.e. for a cappuccino . The only difference is that you 've added a stabilizing agent , so it will stay foamy . So basically you just need to keep it under 80 ° C or 175 ° F , otherwise it will burn . Lecithin can dissolve in cold water , so you really do n't need to be very precise , but anecdotally , it 's best if it 's slightly warmed , say around 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) . What consistency should my bisque be to make a good foam ? Does it need to be thin , or will it work thick ? You want a very thin consistency , close to the consistency of water , for the same reason that it 's better to use skim milk for frothing and egg whites for meringue . Generally speaking , it 's the proteins that are most active in creating culinary foams ; large amounts of fat ( such as in cream ) can interfere with the foaming action and also add weight , which is not at all what you want in a foam . I have n't made lobster bisque , but I believe it 's very thick and made with cream - not a good candidate for foams . I looked at <URL> which involves tomato paste , corn starch , and cream ; if making a foam I think I would substitute a thin tomato sauce or juice , reduce or eliminate the corn starch , and use skim milk instead of cream . Remember that you 're not trying to serve this bisque , you 're using it in a foam . What else should I know before trying to make this ? I do n't have a Vitamix , and maybe it can do a lot of cool things that one ca n't do with an ordinary blender , but nevertheless , I 've never heard of a culinary foam being made in an actual blender . A stick blender ( AKA hand blender , immersion blender ) is much more reliable for foaming .
Funnily enough I made some of these just a week ago . They 're not at all difficult to make and you can use any rind , which your butcher should be able to supply . Depending on your health considerations , you can oven cook them or you can part oven cook part fry . Oven cook method : Cut the rinds into 4 by 4cm pieces Place in a pan of boiling water for 10 minutes allow to cool , then place in the fridge until the skins feel ' dry ' approx 2 hours Preheat the oven to 220c ( 425f ) and place the rinds on a baking sheet . Season and place in the oven Turn the oven down to 180c ( 350f ) and cook for about an hour . You will need to drain the fat a couple of times . Let them cool and add more seasoning , if needed . The Oven/Fry method Cut the rinds into pieces that will fit on a rack over a baking tray ( not small pieces ) Half fill a baking tray with water and place the seasoned rinds on a rack over they tray Roast these in the oven at 220 to 230c ( 350 to 450f ) for 10 to 15 minutes . When they 've changed colour and start to bubble they 're done . Remove form the oven and cut into 4 by 4cm strips In a pan half filled with very hot veggie oil or a deep fat fryer , cook in batches until they ' puff ' up around 2 to 3 minutes . Remove and let the oil be taken-up by paper towel . Season and you 're good to go . I tried both methods and I preferred the second , something about frying them just ' felt ' right :)
end question
start question
What is the measure for scaling cinnamon if you double a recipe ?
If you never prepared the recipe as written ( which appears to be the case ) , you have no basis to tie the way it tastes when doubled to doubling it , rather than to the proportions of the original recipe . Based on many years of making many things in many sized batches , if I double a recipe and want it to taste the same as the original recipe , I double the cinnamon . I conclude that the most likely case here is that the original recipe had a lot of cinnamon , and that what you tasted is simply the way it tastes . Depending what travels the recipe might have had before you met it , there 's also a not-uncommon error that occurs with US measurements sometimes - the confusing ( by some transcriber in the past ) of T and t in hyper-abbreviated notation , which can make a factor of 3 difference ( T = Tbs = Tablespoon = 15 ml , t = tsp = teaspoon = 5 ml . ) The copy of the recipe you are looking at need not be hyper-abbreviated for this to have happened to it at some point in its past
You can stuff any pepper which is large enough . Poblano are moderately spicy . You can use bell peppers , but they will not be spicy . You might want to make up for that by including some spicier small peppers in your stuffing , perhaps a serrano or a jalapeno or seventeen , depending on your personal taste .
If you whisk very cold cream in a very cold bowl , and keep it very cold , it should hold for about 3-4 hours . Longer than that and it can start to separate .
Good Eats ( Alton Brown ) has some good descriptions of the various difference 's between potatos . He has an <URL> Main thing is the starch content in them . He has an example of each of the three groups ( High , Medium , Low ) , includign a brief description and sample application . He mentions mentions frying in the High Starch content group , specifically Russets . He then has another <URL> , where he actually talks about French Fries and again mentions the Russet ( High Starch ) . While you can make fries out of different types of potatoes ( some of the more " all purpose " potatoes ) , if you want a really good classic french fry , you 're going to want to look for a Russet , with a similar starch content . Here 's a <URL> . Maybe you can look to see what you bought ? The age will probably affect it . A younger potato will in fact be sweeter So , to answer your specific questions . I 'm betting you did in fact buy a potato . It 's probably just a sweeter variety . If it does n't say at the market where you bought it what kind they are , I 'd ask the people who work there . Also , look at the third link I have above , it does have a few pictures as well as good descriptions on what they look like .
Crack the egg into a cup or bowl , whisk it , and measure out half of the contents . If you use eggs frequently , you could probably save the other half for a day or two - otherwise , it 's like 8 cents out of your pocket . Not really sure what other solution you 're expecting here ...
They 're likely referring to di-ammonium phosphate , which is used in wine making and mead brewing , as it provides nitrogen to accelerate the yeast growth . I found a site giving <URL> as a replacement , but it might be easier ( and safer ) to just go to a shop that specializes in brewing or wine making supplies and getting the right stuff . ( I have no idea how expensive it is , as I 've never done it ) Your other option would be to find an alternate recipe that does n't call for it ... it might take longer to brew , though .
The best is the <URL> If you ca n't find that flour locally , there are sellers online . I find a mix of bread flour &amp; semolina works very well too . This is my favourite pizza dough recipe : <URL>
True chocolate , made with cocoa butter , especially of the non-milk variety has a very long shelf life when stored in dry , cool conditions . The fact that the shape is a chip rather than a bar or disc or callet is not really relevant , except for the total surface area on which <URL> can occur . Chocolate is very , very dry , which discourages mold , bacteria , or other micro-flora or micro-fauna from growing , not even counting the preserving effect of theobromine and other alkali in the chocolate . It also resists rancidity very well . Stored properly , it can last for many years safely . Many brands of chocolate chips are not true chocolate , because the manufacturer may have used less expensive fats than cocoa butter , which do not have such excellent storage properties . Assuming you have a quality chocolate chip made from real chocolate , the issues you may find include : Sugar bloom , where the sugar comes to the surface due to moisture dissolving it and then leaving it on the surface when it evaporates Fat bloom , where the cocoa butter separates out onto the surface for reasons not thoroughly understood The chocolate can lose its temper from warming and cooling cycles , if it gets too warm ; this will change its texture to softer , more gritty , and less pleasant The cocoa butter could go rancid ( which I have never experienced ) The first three are aesthetic and cosmetic issues , but the chocolate can still be used in recipes or melted down and re-tempered . Having it go rancid would be cause to throw it out -- but chocolate is very hardy , and resists rancidity -- so if it tastes fine , it is still usable . After two years , you are quite likely to have experienced bloom . The chips will look like they have a white coating , and may feel gritty . While this makes it less pleasant to eat out of hand or in applications where it wo n't be melted down , it will still perform well in recipes where it is melted . They are certainly safe to eat ( again , assuming real chocolate , and no rancidity ) , but they may not have the same pleasant texture and crispness that you would expect . This is why manufacturer 's give them a best by date . Note : you can tell whether they are real chocolate by the ingredient list ( at least in the US , and other places with comparable labeling laws ) . Real chocolate will consist of : Cocoa solids , cocoa , cocoa mass , cocoa butter , cocoa nib , or chocolate liqueur ( all words indicating products of the cocoa bean ) Sugar Flavoring ( such as vanilla or salt ) Perhaps lecithin as an emulsifier Signs that the product is not real chocolate include other ingredients , especially other fats in lieu of cocoa butter ( which is comparatively expensive , and marketable to the cosmetics industry ) . Milk chocolate , which also contains milk solids and milk fat will not last as long , but still probably has a shelf life measured in years when stored under proper ( cool , dry ) conditions . White chocolate chips do not have the additional preservative effects of the cocoa solids and their alkali , and also have dairy solids and possibly milk fat , so they have the shortest shelf life of all . It also tends to pick up off flavors if not in a perfectly sealed , air tight container . White chocolate , I would not keep more than year or so . Of course , chips that are made from other ingredients than true chocolate are going to have a shelf life based on their ingredients , but I can not speak to that , and anyway , in my mind , they are not worth storing . See also : <URL>
I think it would depend on the cheese . For a reasonably hard cheese , like cheddar , I have done it , and never gotten sick ( your results may vary ) . If it 's pre-grated , then I would not touch it anymore . For a softer cheese , like a brie , I would not risk it .
Yes , it depends on brand , humidity , etc. . My local variety is 1:4 to 1:4.5 ( polenta : water ) to get to that softness level Add nothing else until you have the polenta at the desired consistency and softness
In a small toaster oven , using a pizza stone is likely to be a tradeoff : Toasting -- counter-productive , because it will shield the bottom of the bread ( or other item ) from the direct radiative heat from the bottom elements ; you would want to remove the stone for this use . Broiling ( or as it is called in the British parlance if I understand correctly , grilling ) -- Probably not a good idea . In a full sized oven , the stone would be left far enough from the heating elements that it would not be subject to intense radiative heat . In a toaster oven , it might be too close to the elements when the oven is used this way , so might be subject to cracking due to a higher temperature gradient and uneven thermal expansion . General baking -- will require a longer a pre-heating period for the oven/stone to come up to temperature , but once at temperature , will provide a buffering effect for more even heating . Convenience -- in full sized ovens , people often leave the stone in all of the time , and cook on a different rack if they do n't want direct contact with the stone . This may or may not be possible or convenient in a toaster oven , so you may be constantly removing or putting back the stone based on your current use Note that all of the above is just reasoning based on known facts ; I have n't tried a pizza stone in a toaster oven , and would n't do so , as they have a generally low thermal mass . I tend to think of them as tools for toasting and reheating , not for primary cooking , baking , or roasting .
I suspect it depends what kind of cheese the whey came from . Whey has all of the water soluble components of the milk . It loses the casein and fat . How much of the albumin and lactose it loses depends on the cheese . If the milk was heated enough ( 190F I believe ) then the albumin will denature and not be in the whey . If the cheese was acidified with a bacterial inoculation then the bacteria will have converted some of the lactose into lactic acid which will both be in the whey . Riboflavin is water soluble and is what gives the whey that greenish tint . Either way - most of the nutrients that bacteria like are not in the whey and it is always highly acidic . I have personally kept whey for a couple weeks with no ill effect . I usually use my whey soon by making ricotta . If the cheese it came from did n't denature the albumin in the milk then you can gently heat the whey until the the albumin precipitates out . A gallon of whole milk makes almost a pound of mozzarella and then a little less than a cup of ricotta . That 's a lasagna right there .
The notion that salt or spices specifically do n't scale linearly sounds like nonsense to me . In any recipe involving salt and water , the salt is dissolved , so all that matters is the concentration , and that concentration is going to be the same with linear scaling . Scaling in general is problematic when scaling more than 2x or 4x . When you take into account that : Recipes targeted at home cooks are imprecise to begin with and often use volumetric measurements that are sensitive to heat , humidity , and other environmental conditions , so the imprecision is magnified at larger scale ; Larger portions of food may get cooked less evenly and/or at less consistent temperatures due to the volume/surface area ratio ; that part is correct , but it has nothing to do with salt , it has to do with your equipment . On the stovetop , most of the heat is coming from the bottom of the pan unless you use induction , and even in an oven you 've got one or two heat sources radiating heat in a specific pattern . Cooking times are also going to vary due to changes in things like rates of evaporation . The total amount of heat you 're able to deliver at any given time generally does not increase as quickly as the amount of heat you need to deliver , so very often you need to increase cooking times . I 'm sure you probably already know all this , but the reason I 'm pointing it all out is that I 'm pretty sure that this odd-sounding assertion about non-linear salt/spice scaling is due to some mutation or misunderstanding of general scaling issues . Probably , salt and spices are typically present in very small quantities in most recipes , and those quantities are already wild guesses much of the time , so the effect of compounding all this wild inaccuracy , especially with volumetric measurements , is actually pretty noticeable at large scale . Scaling sucks with these ingredients because the initial quantities and scaling method are both nonsense . Assuming you have a precise recipe that gives weight measurements , and you scale by weight , then you 're not going to have any problems as long as you either cook it in batches or adjust your cooking time/temp accordingly . I suppose I could be wrong , but I spent 20 minutes digging for some evidence to contradict my claims above and came up dry ; you 'd think that somebody would have presented some evidence if the claim were true .
Dijon has a strong taste from the liquid they use in it ( it 's not quite vinegar , not quite wine ) . I 'd probably try a blend of some other mustard + a little white wine vinegar ( not white vinegar ; white wine vinegar ) or champaigne vinegar or apple cider vinegar . ( Maybe even a dry white wine , if you have that on hand ) . If you have dry mustard powder , and some time to let it sit , you could also try making your own ; most of the recipes online seem to use a dry white wine as their base , a few use white wine vinegar .
In southwest of France , we serve confit with " pommes sarladaises " , which are more or less fries cooked in duck fat in a pan . There is also garlic and parsley . You can use confit in " cassoulet " as well . This is something like chili con carne with white beans instead of red ones , onion , carrot , tomato , garlic ( and many other secrets which change from home to home ) . EDIT : A variant of " pommes de terre sarladaises " includes mushrooms , in particular " cèpes " ( <URL> ) together with potatoes .
The term " double " is not specific to pork - it 's also used with lamb - but it means something different in each case . A lamb double chop or loin double chop differs from a regular loin chop by including both the top loin and tenderloin , but not the flank . It has n't actually been cut twice . A pork butterfly chop is sometimes called a " double chop " because , as the name implies , it 's been <URL> . A very thick cut is taken from the loin eye and then cut again to make the butterfly . Of course , if you cut a butterflied pork chop in half , and served just one half , it would basically be a regular pork chop . So if you that 's what you actually got , I 'd call it a marketing gimmick . I 've never actually heard the term " double-cut chop " - there are some vague references to it on Google , but as far as I know , it 's not a proper butchering term . Perhaps the term got relayed through several people and mutated somewhere along the way .
Personally , I 've switched almost entirely to <URL> for all types of stirring and scraping spoons . They do n't stain , they are fine up to quite high temperatures , they clean up easily and can go in the dishwasher . They are also wo n't scratch the surface of non-stick cookware . It is true that they do n't feel quite so nice as a good wooden spoon , but the convenience is outstanding . ( On the other hand , I stick with metal for the type of spatula one uses to flip a fritter , because silicone ca n't have a thin enough leading edge , it is too flexible . )
Another route for day to day cleaning is vinegar . I use a spray bottle with half white vinegar and half water at night on my counter tops before bed . ( Use soap after cooking or prepping . ) The vinegar does a good job cleaning bacteria , mold , and germs . Once you get accustomed to the smell of vinegar , you will realize it deodorizes after the vinegar smell goes away . A nice touch is rubbing a lemon on the counter beforehand , but it really does n't do much other than smell nice and break down oil .
I have just used the same mix and the same baking time , just using a mini muffin pan in place of a 9x9 or 9x13 pan . It worked quite well , although I suggest using the mini muffin liners in the pan , because cleaning all those individual spaces in the pan after brownie baking goes much smoother . I found that without the liners , the tiny brownies seemed to stick quite a bit , even in my good Pampered Chef pan .
I am not a chemist , but my grandma always used to make bread ( and similar stuff ) with sparkling water instead of still water . She always mentioned that the result will be more fluffy and airy . This only addresses the question about the ( important ) consistency though , but I guess you should just try it out yourself . Edit : Some benefits of using sparkling water in the kitchen As this answer got downvoted to zero I guess my grandma was not convincing enough . So I asked a befriended chef who works at a luxury hotel chain in Germany . Here 's what he explained : Desserts can be made more creamy without actually adding cream . Here he gave examples of pudding/mousse-ish desserts Vegetables steamed with sparkling water results in less loss of color ( i.e. brighter colors ) , more crispyness , and stronger taste . He particularly recommended to try it with carrots , broccoli or cauliflower . You can add sparkling water to thick soups shortly before serving to get them more foamy . Similar with Salad dressings Last but not least he confirmed precisely what my grandma said . For doughs and similar stuff ( for salty or sweet dishes ) you would get a nice fluffy texture . Kudos to my grandma at this point .
end question
start question
Can I let my bread dough rise in the mixer bowl ?
Your metal bowl sitting in your 70 ° F room is 70 ° F ( at least , if its been sitting there for a bit ) . Your plastic bowl , or glass bowl , or ceramic bowl , or any other bowl sitting in the same room is also 70 ° F. They 're all actually the same temperature . Now , given , when you touch the metal bowl , it feels cooler than the plastic one . This is because your finger is n't 70 ° F , and your body heat is transferred away quicker by metal than ( say ) plastic . If the dough is room temperature , it wo n't matter -- heat is n't flowing out of it . The dough itself does n't generate much heat . If your dough started above room temperature , it will cool a little quicker in a metal bowl . But , if you wanted to keep it from cooling , putting it in a warm place is much more effective . A stainless steel bowl is fine . I 'd avoid aluminum ( and copper , if anyone makes a mixer with such a thing ) due to them being reactive , especially if you 're making sourdough .
Kneading dough has a few functions . First , it distributes the ingredients together evenly and allows the flour to become hydrated . As the flour starts to absorb water , enzymatic reactions occur and some proteins begin to mesh together . The two most important in this process are glutenin and gliadin . When these proteins start to get tangled up together , they form gluten , which is the protein that allows bread dough to stretch and trap gas bubbles produced by yeast . These reactions will occur on their own to an extent , as in no-knead recipes , but kneading accelerates the process . Kneading also allows you to control the texture of the bread . A vigorous knead can help to produce a bread with a fine crumb as the kneading an tighten the gluten , keeping the air bubbles more uniform . Doing short kneading periods ( or folds ) spaced by time for the dough to relax and rise can give you more extensible dough which can help give you a more open crumb structure . Finally , kneading is sometimes used to add inclusions to the dough that would disrupt it 's activity if added to early . This can be things like seeds , which would cut gluten strands if included too early in the process , or things like butter in a brioche , which would shorten the dough if included before the gluten had already developed .
I have n't used goat milk in my baking because I do n't like the taste of goats milk . I suspect it would be a good idea for you to taste goats milk first to see if you like it if you have n't already . Other than that , there 's no reason to not use it . As far as fat content goes , I only use full-fat dairy in my bread . No adjustments to the recipe are needed .
The best seems to be a 1:1 ratio of normal wheat-based flour and rice flour - <URL> . First the wheat flour sticks to the dough and creates a nice smooth surface . Then the rice flour ( which does n't adsorb very quickly ) creates small ' rollers ' that keep the dough from dragging , like ball bearings . This is similar to semonlina or cornmeal for working with pizza . A key part of the technique to a banneton is to sprinkle and rub some flour mix on the surface of the dough first , then sprinkle some flour mix in the basket , then put it seem side up in the basket . No sticking . This same mix and similar technique works wonders for using a peel as well .
I 've got one of the professional series Kitchen Aids ( and my parents have the traditional version to compare and contrast ) . If money is n't a huge deal , then getting the professional series comes with a more powerful motor and a heavier base that will stop the mixer from " walking " around the counter if you put dough or something dense in the mixer . One odd thing that I did n't expect is that the mixer is really inconvenient for small things . It can whip up like a triple batch of whipped potatoes , but it has the darnest time whipping up a little bit of whip cream or a little merangue . Kitchen Aide 's attachments are pretty rock solid ... One of our more " fun " attachments that we have is the ice cream bowl . Freeze the bowl , dump the ingredients and set the paddle on low . Again , with the professional model , the motor is strong enough to churn a bit longer than traditional other ice cream churns ... IMO , if you 're a big dough cook , go w / the stronger model , otherwise the smaller models should be great . EDIT In an interesting note , my sister has one of the smaller models and it did infact " walk " off the counter a few weeks ago ... The whole machine went crashing to the ground ... She picked it up , dusted it off , but the only damage was a small piece of plastic broke off ... Got ta give it to Kitchen Aide
I can think of a few things , but I 'm not sure how well they 'd work for water bottles , specifically , as I do n't know what the temperature of the liquid is how long it needs to function as a container , and how long it needs to be on the shelf before use . ( and what liquid you 're using , so it does n't make things taste really foul ) . If we 're just using water , I 'd be inclined to use : Nut butters : ( eg , peanut butter ) The high oil content will repel water . Of course , if it 's being held for long times , you 'll have issues with rancidity . And it does n't really harden up at room temperature . Chocolate : so long as it 's not a hot liquid , it 'll resist water for quite a while . This is one case where ' coating chocolate ' may be better than real chocolate as it 's got a higher melting point . I personally would n't use honey as it 's water-soluble , and will start disolving into even a cold liquid .
Yes you will damage plastic . At the very least , you will scratch them . At worst , you will get plastic dust in your food . Do n't do it . If you do n't believe me , take empty plastic bowl ( one you do n't mind damaging ) and push pestle against it 's wall . You will see for yourself .
The easiest method , and most common in a commercial setting , would be to add a small amount of yeast in addition to the sourdough starter . You will probably have to reformulate a bit , as the dough will mature faster leaving the starter less time to develop flavor . This is usually overcome by also increasing the proportion of starter ( and adjusting the final dough 's hydration based on the hydration of your starter ) . For instance , if your original recipe included 30 % starter ( in baker 's math ) , the faster version might have 40 % starter and .5 % yeast . If you use a liquid starter , you may then cut the water by 5 % or so , and if you use a solid starter no further adjustment may be needed .
The answer is almost certainly yes . The almost is because I have n't made pita bread this way - but I have seen chapati made on a skillet , and under the right conditions it will puff up , even into one big pocket - so pan cooking does n't specifically preclude that kind of development . Beyond the need for it to puff up into the pocket , I do n't imagine pan-cooking pita bread is that much different form other kinds of pan-cooked flat-breads . it looks like <URL> is preferred , since it can be heated very hot and has the thermal mass to hold the heat steady while the pitas are cooking - but I honestly expect you can make them with any skillet you have on hand . Stove-top pitas may be a touch drier , slightly <URL> ( and toasty-flavor ) than oven-baked pitas , because they 're in direct contact with the heat , instead of being cooked by radiant heat . You can press the surface gently with a clean towel to <URL> if it is n't forming quickly or fully enough for your tastes .
Bread hydration varies widely . The " standard " bread using all-purpose ( plain ) flour has a ratio of water to flour weight ( hydration ) 60-65 % . Flour with a higher protein level , labelled as bread , strong , or high-gluten , tend to use 65 % hydration . Ciabatta and rustic breads generally use more water than normal . The extra water gives them more large , uneven holes in the interior of the bread ( called the crumb ) , and generally leads to a higher-rising bread . These wetter doughs are often referred to as " slack " doughs in baker 's parlance . Here are a couple sample hydrations from Hammelman 's bread baking : Baguettes with poolish , 66 % hydration , all bread flour Ciabatta , 73 % hydration , all bread flour Pain Rustique ( rustic bread ) , 69 % hydration , all bread flour Country Bread , 68 % hydration , all bread flour Roasted Potato bread , 61 % hydration , 85 % bread flour / 15 % whole wheat flour / 25 % roasted potatoes Whole wheat bread , 68 % hydration , 50/50 whole wheat and bread flour Semolina ( Durum ) bread , 62 % hydration , 50/50 durum and bread flours Mind you , it is quite possible to make a bread with even higher water content , if one is a skilled baker . Wetter breads ( 70 % hydration and up ) generally can not be hand-kneaded normally , and require a mechanical mixer , stretch-and-fold kneading with a spatula , or autolysis . Autolysis is when you mix water and flour before adding yeast , and then allow it to sit . This allows enzymes in the flour to develop gluten before the rising begins , and can supplement or replace normal kneading . Another approach , called double-hydration , is to add only part of the water before kneading . This allows you to knead the bread to develop gluten structure before it becomes too wet to knead . For extremely wet breads , these methods may all be combined . I 'm looking right now at a double-hydration , mechanically mixed , autolyzed , poolish-using ciabatta recipe that sits at 76 % hydration .
Professional bakers use straight razors . Chances are they are sharper than your knife , and easier to keep that way ( or cheaper to replace , at least ) . Also : wet the blade before making slashes . This helps lubricate the blade as it cuts , and keeps the cut bread from sticking .
You ' can ' cook it from frozen , knowing that a few things will suffer . First , the outside will be somewhat dried out and over-cooked before it is done in the center , depending on how hot the oven is and the cooking time . That being said , if your Haggis is pre-cooked , it should be OK . You can also ' Hurry up ' the defrosting process by putting it under running water . This can affect texture , depending on what you are defrosting . Finally , you can speed-defrost something by using warm running water , but this carries SOME SERIOUS RISK if you do n't cook it right away . The bacteria will love the warmth and will start to multiply , but I have done this many times when I knew I was using a meat immediately .
The goal is to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . A wet towel works fine but plastic wrap is cheaper and easier than constantly cleaning wet towels . I have used both methods and have n't noticed a difference in the bread produced . In very dry climates , when I made bread with multiple rises I sometimes had to redampen the towel which was an added inconvenience . Lately I have been proofing large batches of bread in a large stock pot and just use the lid of the pot as the only cover .
Breads get their structure from glutens -- a type of protein formed by the combination of glutenin with gliaten . Kneading and resting the dough helps the formation of glutens -- I assume by shifting glutenin and gliatin molecules around , this increases the odds of bindings occurring . Oils can bind to glutenin and gliatin and inhibit these reactions , so fats -- oils and butter -- definitely play a role in the texture control . It prevents the dough from getting too elastic , which controls texture . This elasticity change would also change the maximum air bubble size . Altering resting times and yeast quantity also change these , but trading off for a different flavor . Oil may play other roles , but these are what I recall reading about off the top of my head . Yes , it does contribute to flavor as well .
Soak in a mild borax solution . fill the sink and throw in gummed up juicers , colanders and tea-stained spoons as well . If your kitchen is humid , a bit of an oil rub after thorough drying should slow down the rust .
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
My bread machine recipe books come with conversion instructions to make the bread traditionally . Here is a link to a site that will do the same : <URL> Best of luck with your bread making !
Unbaked lumps probably mean you are n't mixing it enough . Try starting with a little less flour and knead in more as you go . Another issue is you may not be kneading it enough . Next time try using the <URL> . You do n't have to do this every time , but if you 're having trouble with a specific recipe this will help you figure out how the dough should " feel " when its ready by giving you a visual indicator . I 've found that when I have dough rising problems , it 's usually because I did n't knead long enough . This should also help fix your mixing issue . That being said , there are two good methods to see if dough has risen enough . One is to let it rise in a marked container ( though this does n't work well for shaped loaves or if you are n't supposed to let it double ) . The other is the poke test . From a <URL> : To test for doneness , use the finger test : Poke it with 2 fingers ; it holds the indentation , it 's ready . Generally I poke it and if it pops right back out , it 's not ready . For sourdough , if it holds its shape for a moment and then slowly starts to expand back , it 's perfect . For other breads , holding the indentation is a good indicator . This is n't necessarily advisable for delicate doughs . If you 're working with a delicate dough , try the test on one loaf that you do n't " need " to be perfect . You can use this as a relative time measurement for the future .
It is because of the way starch retrogrades . It does so in stages . The first stage needs between 1 and 2 hours , the second one a few days . You have probably seen it more clearly in starch-thickened puddings : they thicken a bit on stovetop , but are only ready to unmold after a few hours , else they wuold n't keep their shape . In a bread , the starch granules are the same way : right after baking , they contain too much moisture . Sure , if you eat the bread right away , the aroma is very good . But the texture is problematic . It gets doughy and dense at the smallest amount of pressure . Tearing instead of cutting helps a bit . And if you are at home , eating with your family , go for it and eat the tasty still-hot bread . It is especially good with soft , low-gluten breads made with AP flour with the least amount of bran ( 50 % milling grade or even less ) , my grandma would say that they " melt in the mouth " when they are hot . But if you serve bread slices to guests , or want to spread something on the bread , wait for its starch to set . On a side note , the second stage of starch retrogradation is the reason why you should use day-old bread for crumbs for thickening , and the third stage is the one which makes bread inedible . But this goes too far away from the original question .
A very sharp blade with minimum drag . The traditional tool is called a lame - basically just a curved <URL> on a handle . If you make a lot of bread you might consider buying this unitasker . ( <URL> ) You can use a kitchen knife if yours are very sharp but I 've had the best results with a straight razor blade . I 've read of people using serrated blades but they always mutilated my bread . A little bit of non stick spray will do wonders at keeping the blade from binding up in the dough . The rest is technique . Make each score in a single cut if possible . Instructions often say to make " deliberate slashes " . Plan out where you want the cut then slash confidently . Multiple slashes or slow or halting cuts will do more damage to the loaf .
end question
start question
How to make my chicken noodle soup thicker ?
None of the answers so far mention collagen -- specifically , using a stock made from roasted and cracked poultry bones . You do n't have to roast the bones , but you do need to crack them -- use a large , heavy knife or cleaver ( not a chinese vegetable cleaver , you 'll screw up the edge ) to chop the bones up into about 2 " to 3 " pieces ( 5 to 7cm ) . Put them in cold water , and slowly bring it up to a simmer , and just leave it simmering for a few hours . You can add vegetables , too , but you 'll want to pitch them , as they 'll have been overcooked by the time the simmering 's done . Then strain everything , and use that as the base of your soup . If your refrigerate stock that has enough collagen in it , it 'll set up like jello , and hold its own shape . Starches can work , but they 're not ideal for soup -- flour ( unless cooked as a roux ) leaves a raw flour taste and cloudy soup ; tapioca leaves little granules in there ; corn starch will break down if you cook it too long .
As with all raw-meat or sushi dishes , this will never be 100 % safe to eat ; at best we are talking about a calculated food safety risk , with steps taken to mitigate that risk when possible . For this reason , it is CRUCIAL that the chicken be kept at fridge temperature as much as possible . When cutting , use a pre-chilled cutting board if possible , and serve immediately . For extra safety , blanch the chicken to kill surface pathogens , and slice off the cooked exterior . Given the slimy , gelatinous texture of raw chicken , I believe the best results would come from finely dicing the chicken ( small cubes ) or very thinly slicing it . These approaches seem to work well for sushi and tuna tartare , which have similar textures . As with sushi , you need a shaving-sharp knife to get clean cuts . For flavorings , your goals are twofold : add flavor and kill pathogens . An acidic sauce or marinade is obligatory , to reduce the pH below 4 and render it hostile to pathogens . The acidity should also reduce the slight sulfurous notes in raw chicken , by reacting with the sulfur in the molecules and making them less volatile . Taken to an extreme , this could produce a result much like ceviche , where the acid denatures the proteins and produces a texture akin to cooking . Fresh cut , finely-minced garlic is delicious and also hostile to pathogens . Many aromatic herbs also have antimicrobial properties , with fenugreek being a notable standout in this area . There are a couple ways you could develop this into a full dish from there : Do it up like a ceviche : fresh lemon/lime juice , garlic , chili flakes , onions , salt , and maybe a little cilantro or coriander . Go European : white wine vinegar , thyme , rosemary , parsley flakes , garlic , black pepper , salt , and maybe a little olive oil Go sushi ! Marinate it in rice wine vinegar , soy sauce , and spices , and serve it in sushi rolls , accompanied with a LOT of wasabi and pickled ginger . Those condiments help mitigate the food safety risk with their antimicrobial/antiparasite properties . Go sushi part 2 : marinate it as above , but serve alone with a horseradish-based sauce containing lemon . EDIT : Apparently there is a real recipe along these lines . Toriwasa , or chicken sashimi . I found several recipes using wasabi ( horseradish ) , soy sauce , parsley , and sake . The chicken 's exterior is cooked , but the interior remains raw . I should add a couple caveats to this : I have serious doubts about raw chicken as an ingredient , even with the best cooking possible . At best I think it will be edible but not delicious . The problem is that raw chicken is incredibly bland , and where it is n't bland , it has an unpleasant , slightly sulfurous flavor . The texture is somewhat off-putting too . I might be wrong , of course , but I think this is better handled as a theoretical exercise and not an actual dish . If you try any of these ideas and get food poisoning , it 's your own dang fault for eating raw chicken ... you boob .
Custard should taste eggy . This is a feature , not a bug . However , from your mention of flour , I think what you 're talking about is a souffle , not something like a creme brulee or along those lines . Would that be correct ? Edited based on subsequent clarifications : Ah . Your method is sorely lacking , and your ingredients are off . You need to temper the yolks first , you need to use yolks only , and use cream instead of milk . Here is a smaller version of what I use at work for creme brulee : - 1L 35 % cream - 11 egg yolks - 1C sugar - 1 vanilla bean , scraped Bring cream to a simmer with the vanilla seeds and pod ( you can use approx 1.5 tsp vanilla extract , pure not artificial , instead ) . While it is heating , beat the yolks and sugar together until just incorporated . Pour the cream into the eggs whisking briskly to prevent curdling . Pour mixture through a fine chinois . Skim off foam , pour into ramekins . Place ramekins in a pan , add water to 1/2way up the sides . Cover pan with foil . Bake at 275 ( convection ) or 325 ( non convection ) for approx 40 minutes , until wobbly in the centre but set . Chill until set , eat . The deflation is caused by a souffle effect coming from including the egg whites , which are never used in a custard -- custards , creme anglaise , etc , are always yolks only . When you include the whites , air will be trapped inside temporarily , and will escape/collapse when the mixture cools . If you bake until fully stiff with my method , you will get hard and rubbery custard by the time it is set in the fridge . Also , save the whites -- they freeze well -- for meringues or souffles .
Rubbery chicken is normally a sign that it is overcooked . Frying is a challenging method to cook chicken , because it is very rapid , and easy to overcook the chicken . Some of this , you will simply learn by experience , based on the typical size of the parts you are frying , and the type of breading you use . You will learn to recognize from the pattern of bubbles and how the breading looks when it is done . In the mean time , if you have a quality instant read thermometer , you can take a piece out and measure its temperature . White meat should be about 158 - 160 F , dark meat about 165 - 170 F ( depending on your preference ) .
Well , looking at the recipe ... The sugar ( brown sugar + honey ) level looks roughly appropriate compared to the flour so that 's unlikely . The fat level looks a tad low for the cookies I normally do , but I 've never used oil in cookies before . You might try increasing the oil just a bit to lend extra tenderness , but I do n't think this is the real issue . ( Using oil in cookies also means you 're not <URL> , which is typically important in most cookies ... so its a bit odd , but I do n't know that it would cause them to be ' crumbly ' . ) The <URL> definitely is n't helping it to keep structural support . The recipe is basically banking on the fact that it needs to be moist to hold together . There 's not really enough liquid to form gluten to add structure ( which you do n't usually want for cookies anyway ) . Since there 's nothing in the cookie to give it ' structure ' , if you dry it out its just going to fall apart on you . I suspect your problem is from the directions of ' Do n't overbake these , or they 'll dry out a little . ' They dried out a bit too much and lost all support . It 's easy to over bake cookies and this is a recipe with very little room for error in that area .
I suppose that depends on what you 're defrosting it for . The microwave ( on low power ) is safe and quick . The downside is that you 're using a microwave , which means there 's a good chance you 'll actually cook the outside slightly in the process , and you 're killing enzymes that are normally part of the flavour . The lower the heat , the less the impact of this , but it 's still a problem . If I 'm preparing the meat for marinating , stir-fry , etc. , something with a powerful or thick sauce , then I would n't worry about it , but if it 's going onto a grill with just a little bit of seasoning , you might want to avoid this . Running it under warm water would seem to work , but I 've found that it takes forever to defrost this way ( the exterior will loosen up but the interior stays stubbornly frozen ) , and you 're soaking it in the process . This really is n't suitable if you need to pound or fold the meat or do anything complicated with it . I would use the microwave if desperate , but it 's really best to thaw the meat in the refrigerator or , if you 're in a bit of a hurry , the sink . It takes longer , but it 'll turn out much better than the microwave in terms of flavour and tenderness . P.S. . One other word of advice : If you 're making a dish that requires the chicken to be cut or sliced , it 's best not to defrost it all the way . It 's easier to cut when frozen , and will defrost very quickly once it 's in pieces . I 'm mainly talking about the breast here , this does n't work so well with meat stuck to bones . Update : I 'm noticing a lot of recent hubbub about the dangers of defrosting in the sink / on the countertop or using warm water and I wanted to clarify something . Please note that that the advice above applies to chicken that will be immediately cooked after defrosting and that the defrosting is done over a period shorter than 2 hours . Raw chicken must not be kept at any temperature above 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) for more than an hour or so . Do not defrost a chicken breast in the sink and then toss it back in the fridge . Definitely do n't try to defrost a whole bird this way - stick to the refrigerator or very cold running water . As long as you follow the above precautions and cook the chicken thoroughly ( up to an internal temperature of 165 ° F ) , you 're not in any serious danger of salmonella poisoning , even if the original piece of meat was contaminated - and most chicken sold today is contaminated , for the record . If the meat is going back in the refrigerator for marinating or you plan to delay cooking for any other reason , then you need to either thaw it very fast ( using the microwave ) or at a very low temperature ( using the refrigerator or cold running water ) .
Use a meat thermometer . If you overcook the chicken , it will dry out . The standard temperature for chicken breast is 160 degrees Fahrenheit .
It is possible , whether it fits your definition of easily is questionable , though . Whole grain flour is made by grinding whole wheat/rye / ... berries until you get a fine flour , a technique used since the neolithic age . The method that is still in use today is basically " rubbing the grains between a firm base stone and a moving upper stone " , either shaped like a rolling pin or round and flat like a millstone . ( Increase the scale and you get a classic mill . ) So your mortar and pestle will work , even if they are not made of the types of sandstone , basalt or limestone that have the " right " mixture of coarseness and durability to make good millstones . The drawback ? Scale and time . You will probably need a lot of time , to get enough flour for a bread . For a starter , it should be ok , though . If you think about buying a mill because you decide your super-fresh flour is worth the effort and cost , note that good manual mills with ceramic stones are almost as expensive as electric ones , but are way less comfortable . I make a lot of things myself and by hand in my kitchen , but I would draw the line at cranking a mill for half an hour just to get flour for one bread . For a very " kitchen hack " style of grinding flour ( but obviously not " stone ground " ) , consider your food processor ( but check the manual first ! ) : Pulse a cup or two of wheat berries untill you see " flour " and " grits " forming . Sieve off the finer parts , return the coarser to the food processor , add more grains and continue . You can even use the coarser parts for some kinds of wholegrain bread - a question of taste and recipe .
If your chicken burns , the issue is likely not that you cooked it too long , but that you cooked it too hot . How long to cook it depends on the total amount of meat , the size of pieces that it is in ( anything from bite sizes pieces for a stir fry up to an entire chicken ) , and how you 're cooking it - oven , saute pan , braising ... Roasting in the oven or braising in a stew are generally the most ignorable techniques - if you overcook a roast it may dry out , but wo n't burn , and if you overcook a stew the meat ( especially chicken ) may dissolve into shreds but burning is less likely . Since undercooked chicken can be unsafe , you should choose cooking techniques that are sure to fully cook the chicken without burning it .
It depends on what kind of settings your crock pot has . A low simmer on the stove is probably equivalent to something fairly low on your slow cooker , though . If all you have is warm , low , and high , you want low - in some cases it might be too hot , though . You 're aiming for just short of boiling , so a setting that gets you a few bubbles now and then is good . More than that and you 're cooking a bit vigorously , and on a " warm " setting you likely are n't heating it enough to cook properly and stay safe . If you have some kind of continuous settings , you can possibly adjust to get exactly where you want !
My guess would be that you boiled the soup at some point , possibly for an extended period of time . If you bring it to a full boil the fat from the meat will emulsify and distribute itself through the liquid . This is the same stuff that foams to the top , the " scum " that a lot of recipes ( usually ones that say bring to a boil , then simmer ) tell you to skim off . I would venture to say that this distribution of the fat into the liquid is also why it tasted heavier . When making stock or soups , the most I 'll heat them is to just below boiling and keep them at that simmer for a little longer to make up for not bringing it to a boil . When making stock , I strain once through a chinois and again through a piece of cheesecloth in a chinois to help reduce the floating particulates , but this wo n't really solve the cloudiness problem ( though it will help some ) . You can also try putting it into the fridge overnight so that the fat comes to the top and solidifies , but I do n't think this will solve the problem , only help reduce it . If it 's just the stock that 's gone cloudy , <URL> has some suggestions on how to clarify it , but honestly unless you 're presenting it to guests , I see no reason to even bother . I 've made cloudy stock and clear stock before and except for a slight " heaviness " difference , the taste is generally about the same . The cloudy stock sometimes has a more oily mouth feel , but it 's not a major difference - and I 've found some people seem to prefer the soups or rices I make with a cloudy stock . If you have a hard time controlling the temperature on your range-top , you can use an oven-safe stock pot and cook it in the oven at 180 & deg ; F to keep it just below a boil . One other trick , depending on what kind of soup you were making - if you were making ( for example ) chicken soup , consider trying to turn it into a cream of chicken soup to hide the cloudy broth :)
What I would suggest is rather than adding a syrup , to take some of your cooked beans , cook them a bit more , then liquify them in a blender . This should give you a thick sauce that tastes like the beans , therefore compliments them perfectly . You can then thicken them very slightly if the consistency is still too runny , be sparing with the flour though . In fact , you could probably make something satisfactory by simply using less thickener . If you have a pasty , sticky sauce it 's a classic symptom of too much thickener . Try making a roux with some butter and flour , cook it awhile for a dark roux which gives deeper color and more flavor . You can then add the roux in small amounts to your cooking liquid until you get the right consistency . If you are pressed for time and have some available a couple big spoons of refried beans may just do the trick too .
You can add quite a lot of tomato paste/puree but this will mask the fresh flavour of your tomatoes . I think I 'd just reduce the soup down once it was made or add carrots . Carrot flavour really complements tomato soup and many tomato soups recipes require carrots . The starch will then help you thicken the soup .
Soft bread is soft because CO2 produced by yeast and water that gets turned to steam by the baking process gets trapped into pockets by a mesh of gluten , causing the dough to expand . The dough then solidifies , keeping its shape . If your bread is not soft then it has n't expanded enough for one or more reasons : Dough too dry : as much as the yeast , water is responsible for getting a good rise in your bread . Gluten requires moisture to relax and stretch , forming the structure that traps the air that causes a rise , dough that is too dry wo n't form good gluten . Also , dough that is too dry wo n't have the elasticity to rise . Yeast needs water to do its work , dough that is too dry will inhibit the yeast . Also , the expansion of water into steam is as important for a good rise as yeast . If there 's one mistake many bakers make ( including myself for years ) it is making dough too dry . Yeast inactive or inhibited : if your yeast is old , came into contact with salt , or does n't have enough water to work then your yeast wo n't work well for you . Yeast does several things for you : it converts sugar into CO2 causing a rise , it improves the structure of your dough , and it adds flavor . Put the salt on the opposite side of the bowl from the yeast to avoid inhibiting it . Also , adding the yeast to sugary water does n't work well , especially with more modern yeasts . Just get quick acting yeast and add it to the flour bowl , then add water to that . The dough is not worked ( kneaded ) enough : Kneading improves the structure of your dough by stretching gluten molecules and getting them to link together , making your dough stretchy and pliable , and forming a structure that will trap air for a rise . Under-worked dough wo n't have enough structure the dough has been worked too much : as a home baker using hands this is unlikely , but still possible . Once you have the structure of the dough you need , stop and let it rise as any further working will form too much of a structure , making it too strong to expand Dough under-risen : the times in baking recipes are just guidelines , you need to go for a result rather than a time . I 've had books say 45 minutes but it takes 3 hours , especially if my yeast was old Dough over-risen : if your dough rises too long the yeast will exhaust the sugars in the dough and die out , leading to the loss of all the air . This will make the dough dense . For a nice soft sandwich bread I start with a really sticky dough . I then use it 's stickiness to stretch the dough , smearing it all over the countertop and using a pastry scraper to bring it back together . This is a really quick way to build some gluten . Then I knead in flour bit by bit , kneading for at least 1 minute between adding flour until I have a soft dough that still sticks a bit to the counter . That stickiness means that there 's enough moisture in the dough . I 'll add a bit more flour to that and then stop adding flour to avoid drying the dough . If I want to knead it more I 'll knead with a bit of vegetable oil instead to keep it from sticking . It 's consistency you 're looking for , not time . Time is relative depending on your strength and kneading technique , 5 minutes for a skilled and strong baker may translate to 15 minutes for normal humans , so knead until you have the consistency you want . When you start kneading the dough it will pull into pieces easily , and have a rough texture . As you knead that roughness disappears and it will stretch longer without breaking . For a sandwich loaf I 'll knead until I can stretch the dough from the middle of my torso to my knee without it breaking . Next , rising your dough may take much longer than recipes say as it all depends on the ambient temperature of the room , humidity , the activity of the yeast , and other factors . Again , make this results driven , not time driven . A good sandwich bread dough should rise a lot , not the " doubled " many recipes say . For me tripled is more like it . Make sure you put it in a big enough bowl ! This advice goes for the initial as well as the secondary rise in the pans . Let it rise enough in the pans until it looks like the recipe picture , that 's about right . Ideally your oven will have been pre-heating for 30 minutes by now . Now , slash your loaves the long way with a razor blade like a carpet knife , about 1/2 an inch down . Do it quick and avoid punching down the dough . Slashing will split the top skin and allow the dough to rise efficiently after you put it into the oven . Once you put it in the oven it 's going to rise a lot as the yeast goes crazy before the heat kills it , and the moisture in the dough is going to vaporize into steam . If you do n't slash you wo n't get as good a rise .
Vanilla sugar is incredibly easy to make . Store a whole vanilla bean in a jar of sugar , shaking it up every so often , until the sugar is vanilla flavored . That 's it . The time , I think , would depend on your bean and your taste .
If you <URL> , you will find many , many recipes and descriptions . The basic idea is that you use a half-empty beer can as stand for the chicken , placing the chicken 's cavity on top of the can before roasting or grilling . The idea is that the aroma from the beer will transfer to the chicken , and the steam will help keep it moist . You can even buy commercial racks to do the same thing without the beer can . My personal opinion is that both of these ideas are bunk : Very few if any aromatic molecules will transfer to the chicken , and even if they do , they will not penetrate past the surface The steam will not keep the chicken moist , as the dryness of the meet is essentially a function only of the temperature to which you cook it , and very little else . If the chicken is cooked to too high a temperature , then the proteins will tighten up and express water making the chicken tough , rubbery , and dry tasting . The minimal amount of steam can not change this fact .
It 's my opinion that the " proper temperature " is a number set by lawyers , not by chefs . The government standard for a roast bird is 180 ° F ( 83 ° C ) ! Are you kidding me ? HTST pasteurization is 161 ° F ( 72 ° C ) for 20 seconds , but my turkey has to get to 180 ° F for safe human consumtion ? What the hell kind of bacteria do they think live in there ? 165 ° F ( 74 ° C ) is a common number , and a pretty decent one , though I always take mine out before that for the reason below . You need to remember that the internal temperature of the bird will continue to rise for a while after you take it out of the oven : the heat on the outside is still migrating inward . If you wait to take it out until the internal temperature is the " right " temperature , by the time it peaks , it 'll be 10 ° F ( ~ 5 ° C ) HIGHER than the right temperature , and that 's in the dry zone . We 're talking 190 ° F ( 88 ° C ) thanksgiving football . Blech . Dark meat almost always handles being overcooked better than lighter meat . The breast is the hardest part of the turkey to cook correctly . If you haggle with the temperature , and your white meat is still on the dry side , you might try brining the bird for 24 hours or so . It makes a big difference in terms of juiciness .
By hunting chicken in a game preserve ? ;-) <URL> The essence of poaching chicken is a gentle boil in water , stock or other flavorful liquid . I really like poaching chunks of chicken in a thin sweet-and-sour sauce , then thickening the sauce , adding pineapple chunks , and serving over rice .
It sounds like you rendered too much gelatin into the soup , a couple easy fixes are to either : prepare another batch of the soup omitting the ham and bone and then marry the two over a medium/high heat thin with a low fat/nonfat liquid like milk or water ( unfortunately a side effect will be of increased separation in the soup as it cools ) the lower the fat content of what you add the more it will separate . ie adding 2 % milk will cause less separating than skim milk
I would not eat any soup containing meat more than a day or two after it was cooked , and certainly not if it smelled suspicious . The logic with this kind of thing is simple . If you have any doubts , chuck it out . Not getting food poisoning is worth losing a little soup over .
end question
start question
What are bagel chips ?
I like the first answer , but feel the need to clarify the ' pepperoni ' reference . Yes , they are slices of bagels . However , if you cut a bagel vertically in half as it rests flat and treat each half as if you were slicing a curved salumi , all of your chips will be inconsistently thick on one edge and thin on the other ( thanks to the properties of a torus ) . While that leaves them all consistently round , their thickness varies , which makes evenly toasting them a problem . The more conventional approach : take the whole bagel as it lies flat on the cutting board , and slice it vertically but thinly from one side to the other . There will be much more variation in chip shape , but it 's much easier to maintain the right thickness for even toasting . This is also why most ( if not all ) bags of chips are sliced in this manner , and you see such wild variation of circles , ovals , etc in chip shape . A Gildy 's Blade or a tightly serrated bread knife will do the job . Along with a bit of patience .
With flax seeds I like using 1T of seed ( ends up being 2.5 T of powder ) to 3T of water , and use it for thing that are suppose to be light like cake or something that needs a nutty flavor . But with chia seeds I use exactly 1T of powder to 3T of water ( ends up looking like egg whites ) and use it in brownies , cookies and so on . Also chia does n't add flavor like flax does . ** For me chia is definitely stronger . The first time I used a chia egg I thought it was like a flax ( 1T seed = 2.5 T powder ) but I was wrong , my baked good came out very dense in the middle and tasted raw . You can still use a chia but you have to be exact . Also a chia egg will become very thick and gloppy once it 's mixed with water whereas a flax just get gooey .
No , it is n't possible to over soak wood chips , chunks , planks , or any other size that you want to throw on the grill ( within reason , I would n't soak them for weeks because the water would get scummy ) . In fact , the directions given often grossly underestimate optimal soaking time . I assume this is because the manufacturer does n't want to scare people off by saying " soak for 12-24 hours before use . " Wood smokes better when it 's wet . If it 's dry , it catches on fire and produces less smoke for a shorter period of time . What you really want is for the wood to be thoroughly wet so that it smolders rather than flames and produces lots of smoke for a long time . As you would expect , the larger the piece of wood , the longer it will smoke and the longer you need to soak it . My general soak times are as follows : Small Chips - These are very small , coin sized . Generally get totally saturated in 2-3 hours . Large Chips - Between Small Chips and Chunks . Soak for 12 - 24 hours . Chunks - These tend to be about 1/2 to a whole fist sized . These want to soak for at least 24 hours . Planks - For plank smoking . Soak for 8 - 12 hours . You can always soak for less time , you just wo n't get quite as much smoke production . Judge the need based on what you 're cooking . If you want a little smoke on a steak that you 're only cooking for 5-8 mins , then you do n't need to worry about it . If you 're trying to smoke salmon , it matters more . If you want to smoke a butt for 12 hours , it matters a lot .
True chocolate , made with cocoa butter , especially of the non-milk variety has a very long shelf life when stored in dry , cool conditions . The fact that the shape is a chip rather than a bar or disc or callet is not really relevant , except for the total surface area on which <URL> can occur . Chocolate is very , very dry , which discourages mold , bacteria , or other micro-flora or micro-fauna from growing , not even counting the preserving effect of theobromine and other alkali in the chocolate . It also resists rancidity very well . Stored properly , it can last for many years safely . Many brands of chocolate chips are not true chocolate , because the manufacturer may have used less expensive fats than cocoa butter , which do not have such excellent storage properties . Assuming you have a quality chocolate chip made from real chocolate , the issues you may find include : Sugar bloom , where the sugar comes to the surface due to moisture dissolving it and then leaving it on the surface when it evaporates Fat bloom , where the cocoa butter separates out onto the surface for reasons not thoroughly understood The chocolate can lose its temper from warming and cooling cycles , if it gets too warm ; this will change its texture to softer , more gritty , and less pleasant The cocoa butter could go rancid ( which I have never experienced ) The first three are aesthetic and cosmetic issues , but the chocolate can still be used in recipes or melted down and re-tempered . Having it go rancid would be cause to throw it out -- but chocolate is very hardy , and resists rancidity -- so if it tastes fine , it is still usable . After two years , you are quite likely to have experienced bloom . The chips will look like they have a white coating , and may feel gritty . While this makes it less pleasant to eat out of hand or in applications where it wo n't be melted down , it will still perform well in recipes where it is melted . They are certainly safe to eat ( again , assuming real chocolate , and no rancidity ) , but they may not have the same pleasant texture and crispness that you would expect . This is why manufacturer 's give them a best by date . Note : you can tell whether they are real chocolate by the ingredient list ( at least in the US , and other places with comparable labeling laws ) . Real chocolate will consist of : Cocoa solids , cocoa , cocoa mass , cocoa butter , cocoa nib , or chocolate liqueur ( all words indicating products of the cocoa bean ) Sugar Flavoring ( such as vanilla or salt ) Perhaps lecithin as an emulsifier Signs that the product is not real chocolate include other ingredients , especially other fats in lieu of cocoa butter ( which is comparatively expensive , and marketable to the cosmetics industry ) . Milk chocolate , which also contains milk solids and milk fat will not last as long , but still probably has a shelf life measured in years when stored under proper ( cool , dry ) conditions . White chocolate chips do not have the additional preservative effects of the cocoa solids and their alkali , and also have dairy solids and possibly milk fat , so they have the shortest shelf life of all . It also tends to pick up off flavors if not in a perfectly sealed , air tight container . White chocolate , I would not keep more than year or so . Of course , chips that are made from other ingredients than true chocolate are going to have a shelf life based on their ingredients , but I can not speak to that , and anyway , in my mind , they are not worth storing . See also : <URL>
This is a complex question , because there are several different ways to categorize soy sauces : COUNTRY OF ORIGIN ( Chinese and Japanese are the ones most commonly contrasted -- but as you saw in Wikipedia , there are many more ) , COLOR ( light , dark , white ) , VISCOSITY ( thin , thick , jam ) , and MANUFACTURING PROCESS ( This has the most name variation , but there are just two options : fermented or chemical . Fermented is the " real thing " and also is called naturally brewed , or slow-aged . Chemical is the quick and , as usual , inferior-tasting alternative that abbreviates a months-long process into several short , chemically-laden days . Additional names for this unfortunate approach are non-brewed , non-fermented , and artificial . To avoid this type , <URL> and avoid anything containing those non-savory corrective ingredients like corn syrup and caramel coloring . ) To muddy the waters further , add into the mix the fact that flavor is most deeply influenced by the proportion of soybeans to grains -- yet this crucial factor is not typically used directly as a categorization tool . To focus my research , I tried to find a site that felt as though the writer was speaking directly to you : one that would encourage , and not overwhelm or confuse , as you decide whether to become a soy sauce affectionado . Specifically , I wanted a resource that clearly addressed FLAVOR PROFILE and USAGE . Surprisingly , a blogger named Barbara came to rest as my # 1 recommendation : <URL> . I like the simplicity and clarity of her writing style , as well as her experiential platform ( complete with honest explanation of her biases ) . The endless comments after her post provide additional insights that might be helpful , as well . Of course , <URL> always provides wonderful more scientifically-based , yet still somehow understandable , explanations . He takes 5 full pages ( 496-500 ) in his book <URL> to discuss soy sauce in all its layered glory .
The main goal with temperature is to kill anything nasty . Those nasties die based on temperature and exposure . Much like a human could live forever at 95 degrees , for a long while at 110 , shorter while at 150 , and would die instantly at 750 , so for all the stuff in Pork . 160 is considered a safe temperature because at 160 , everything dies instantly . The FDA has a chart for all this , <URL> . You 'll see that even 120 degrees is safe IF you cook it for 21 hours ! I cook a lot of sous vide , so these temperatures and times are easy to get and be precise about . The thing you need to be careful about is that the time table shows the amount of time that the whole piece of meat needs to be at a given temperature , so make sure you heat it through before you start counting . I 'll regularly do pork chops in the 135 range , and it 's lovely and moist without the stringy overcooked texture you get when well done .
Usually that would mean potatoes that have been simmered to fork tender , but you could use potatoes that have been baked too . It 's faster to dice the potato before simmering , but for some things it actually tastes better ( tiny difference ) to simmer first , then dice . Be careful if you dice first , they will overcook and become waterlogged quickly . If the recipe does n't specify , you can use peeled or unpeeled potatoes . I almost always prefer scrubbed , unpeeled potatoes . Do n't forget to salt the water ! EDIT : One more little note . 1/4 inch dice is small for simmering potatoes . If you do it that way , get them out of the water just before they are completely tender , carry-over cooking will get them the rest of the way . You might also want to rinse them in cold water to stop the cooking .
Speaking as a Brit - we are a nation of chip lovers :) Use an oil which can cope with the high temperature such as groundnut . For that proper chip experience ( * heart attack alert * ) add some beef dripping or lard . I add a small amount to give the chips a nice flavour . Whilst heating the oil regulary dip a chip in the oil . When it starts to bubble then it 's time to cook . If the oil is too cold the chips will absorb it and they 'll go soggy . ( This is easier to achieve with a traditional chip pan or I prefer a deep saucepan ) . For the perfect chip the potato variety is important but this is personal taste . Last seasons reds will make dark delicious chips but I prefer new potatoes which make a crisper lighter coloured chip . ( The potato variety also affects the colour when cooked ) . Finally , drain on kitchen paper and a sprinkle of salt .
While it depends on your taste and recipe , I can tell you what 's my favorite amount . I tend to chop chocolate to pretty big pieces ( cubes approximately 2cm long ) . I tend to put as many chocolate chips as it takes so that some of them fall off when mixed with the dough . I then additionally push leftover chips in dough when forming cookies . I try to avoid chips that are too small and chocolate powder ; somehow the cookies are better when chocolate powder is not mixed into dough . I suppose the contrast between the dough and chocolate chips is what makes them tasty .
Actually , <URL> are often white , and may be purple or other colors . . In the US , what we get labeled as yams are actually sweet pototoes . ( They were similar to the african yams that people were used to , and the name stuck , sort of like how ' pepper ' is used for chilies , but they 're not even close to the same thing . ) update A <URL>
In comments , how you described what you 're looking for is exactly what they are . It 's dried fruit , usually candied or packed in syrup . Commonly seen in baked goods are dried candied cherries , candied pineapple , candied citron , currants and raisins . This <URL> will show you a lot of examples of fruit used like that . This <URL> will show you the actual products the recipes ask for .
The following are sugar substitutes that are not considered " artificial sweetners . " The links provide interesting information that should be pondered before using any of them . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> For actual unrefined cane syrup or sugar ( considered healthier than sugar by those who consider less refined to equal more healthy ) , look to <URL> <URL> For artificial sweeteners , you could consider : <URL> ( you can get this in quantities suitable for baking at most grocery stores ) If you 're looking to lower your sugar , before going to artificial sweeteners do n't discount just teaching yourself a lower sugar diet by eating smaller portions of sweets and making your own sweets with a lower sugar content .
<URL> by the guys over at <URL> ( and also a <URL> ) with almost everything you 'd ever want to know about chips . That first recipe is supposedly good even after they 've cooled off : Our standard fries are good even when cold . Another option is to cook a lot of chips but stop after their first frying and freeze them ; when you want to eat them , simply put the frozen chips into the fryer for the second frying . This also has added benefits : Freezing acts like partial dehydration . When the frozen fries are finished , they liberate water freely , leading to rapid dehydration and good crust formation with a porous interior . Pre-frozen fries are crunchier than fresh and stay crisper longer after they are fried , but they tend toward hollow fry .
For your application you may want to use agar . It is easy to find , gels at room temperature , and will remain so to about 90C . The acidity of the orange juice will slowly ( a few days ) break down the agar , but it should give you enough time for a dish . Other agents include : sodium alginate carrageenan xantham gum A good description of the gelling agents from a cooking perspective can be found in the sites on molecular gastronomy such as tech blog of the <URL> or <URL>
Assuming by your wording , you do n't have a bbq on a balcony . Another alternative to the broiler , is a blow torch to get the nice charing . :-) <URL>
Chocolate is in is most essential form made up of cocoa butter and cocoa solids . The chocolate you buy is tempered , the crystals in the cocoa butter are aligned and properly formed , this is what keeps it shiny and gives it a snap . When the chocolate melts , without tempering , in the cookie the crystals in the cocoa butter melt but do not form properly again , this means the chocolate becomes soft , dull and ' blooms ' fat which is where the cocoa butter rises to the surfaces forming a white layer ( this will disappear upon melting ) . Also in a cookie there will be a high proportion of fat and when the chocolate melts it combines with the fats ( in the butter ) and will create essentially pockets of chocolate glaze , which obviously does n't set hard .
I have made Asian coleslaws multiple times , and they work very well . My main suggestion would be to heat the dressing before adding it to the slaw . Particularly if you 're using scallions , the heated dressing wilts it just enough to cut some of the sharpness of the raw veggies . I 'd probably make my own dressing from rice vinegar , neutral oil ( such as canola ) and a touch of sesame oil . Add in spices such as garlic , ginger , etc. . You can also vary recipes such as <URL> . You could also try using unexpected ingredients . I make a salad from cubed jicama , apple , and ripe avocado , topped with lemon juice , olive oil , and a touch of chili powder or cayenne . You get the crisp sweetness and some creaminess from the avocado . If they 're not fans of cucumbers , how do they feel about pickles ? Those could also be a nice addition to a coleslaw . Or you could try marinated mushrooms . Either of those would add a vinegary sharpness that would cut nicely through the creaminess of the rice and the satay . This also brings to mind a preparation I 've seen for vegetables in a prepared salad . Blanch your veggies and shock them in an ice bath . Then give them a vinegary dressing and lay them on the plate in attractive ways . This could include green beans , carrots , beets , broccoli , cauliflower , asparagus , potatoes , etc. . You could achieve similar effects by serving roasted vegetables . ( Either from the grill or oven-roasted . ) These are quite good cold or warm .
Unfortunately , the function depends on the manufacturer . While turning off a set of elements may be common , another option is that the setting may just increase the cook time . Bagels are thicker and have more mass than sliced bread , so a longer toast time is necessary to have a similar level of toasting . In particular there are Cuisinart toasters where the bagel button only lengthens the time of the toasting and does not change the pattern . From <URL> Bagel button The bagel feature adds extra time to the toasting cycle to allow for thicker breads . You may also use the bagel button for English muffins and other thick breads .
The tricky thing with flax seeds is to grind them fine enough . I 've found that my coffee grinder , for example , wo n't do the job because the seeds have a very hard coat . You can buy vacuum packed pre-ground meal and that may be a good option . Once you have ground flax seeds , they can be added in small amounts to baked goods very easily . Adding say 1/4 to 1/2 cup to a muffin , quickbread , or yeast bread will work nicely and add a nutty flavor . They can also be sprinkled on salads or grain dishes . You could add a little sea salt and use them somewhat like <URL> .
I ca n't give you a list with good substitutes for common dishes . First , I doubt that my common dishes are your common dishes . Second , it would be too long . If you want to substitute alcohol in a dish , you have to understand what it does in the specific recipe , and then use your imagination to think of an ingredient which will have a similar effect . Alcohol has mostly three effects in a dish . First , it is a liquid , and its bulk must be considered . In recipes where the ratio is important ( mainly batters ) , if you leave out the alcohol , you have to add some other liquid to maintain the original ratio . Second , alcohol adds its own taste . A small part of it is the taste of the ethanol itself , but cooks mostly use beverages with a strong taste of their own as a component of the dish . Third , alcohol is a solvent . It can get more taste out of your other ingredients than pure water . ( Ever wondered why vanilla extract is alcohol based ? ) This is especially important in recipes which give it a longer time to interact with the other ingredients , such as the slow boiling of a coq au vin . Depending on which of these effects are important to you , you have different options to act . Just leave it out . If you are n't baking , you probably are n't that interested in the ratio . And if you expect the result to taste well enough without the alcohol , the simplest solution is to skip it . Use a liquid substitute . This is especially important in baking and confectionery , but you can decide to do it in any case . Depending on the original kind of alcohol and taste you are aiming for , you can use pure water , a liquid trying to stay close to the original taste , or a liquid which gives a completely new taste profile to the whole recipe . For example , in a sweet dish like your foster dessert you can use caramel dissolved in apple juice instead of dark rum if you want to mimic the original , or cherry juice to create a cherry-banana dessert . Common liquids to use are sugared water ( when the original recipe had a sweet liquor ) , a fruit or vegetable juice , a herbal infusion , clear stock , or pickle liquid . Do n't be afraid to use more than one liquid to get closer to the effect you want . If the recipe already uses some other liquid , you can just use more of it . Use a spice or condiment . This is when your main concern is the taste , and you do n't care about the missing liquid . Again , you could be trying to mime the original closely ( using orange zest instead of Grand Marnier ) , or just using any strong spice so the dish does n't become bland . It is up to you . A special case is to use only a taste " essence " : for some beverages common in baking , you can buy a propylene-glycol based condiment which approximates their aroma . Rum essence is widely available , but I 'm quite sure that the whiskey flavored ice cream in the supermarket is n't full of real whiskey . Leave the alcohol in the recipe ( possibly reduced ) . Obviously impossible in some circumstances , like a wine sauce , but quite feasible in others . You do n't have to drown the dessert in rum and flambe it . If you use 20 ml of rum per 1000 g of other ingredients , a child who eats a normal serving ( 150 g ) will consume somewhat less than 1.2 g of ethanol if no alcohol at all is cooked out - and in practice , if the recipe calls for cooking , maybe half of the alcohol will evaporate , and a very young child will probably not eat the whole serving . I do n't think that such miniscule amounts are problematic for children . Of course , you are free to combine these solutions in any way you see fit , depending on which effect ( s ) of alcohol you are trying to imitate . For example , if a baking recipe calls for 50 ml of calvados , use 15 ml of calvados , 35 ml of apple juice , and a breath of powdered cinnamon . Or baste a roast with a mix of tomato and carrot juice instead of red wine . The possibilities are endless , you just have to be clear on why you are choosing whatever you are choosing .
end question
start question
Can I use this Ikea glassware on stove top ?
No , you ca n't . You should always assume glass is not safe to use on the stovetop . Essentially none of it is , and while there are a very few exceptions , they 'll say so explicitly . ( For example <URL> says stovetop-safe in the description . ) That bowl is nothing special , definitely not stovetop-safe - it 'd shatter under the thermal stress . If you look carefully on the packaging , you might even find a warning that 's not for use on the stovetop .
Use a boiled cornstarch wash for an in oven glue Egg wash is a great glue , but generally lets go again when heated in the oven . Best used after baking not before
Your best bet for this is xanthan gum , which is an excellent stabiliser . Whilst the distinction between ' natural ' and ' unnatural ' is fraught with difficulties , insofar as xanthan gum is a product of microbial fermentation then it is no more ' unnatural ' than alcohol or vinegar . Be careful not to use too much though ( unless , of course , you want your drink to have the texture of mucus ) , you really only want to use about 0.4 % of the volume of the liquid you 're trying to stabilise : so if you have 500ml of milk then you would use 2g of gum . Add it to your liquid and use a blender or an immersion stick to incorporate , a few pulses should do , any more than that and you 'll just incorporate air and you could just end up with an annoyingly stable foam !
Where do you live ? European Pyrex is made from borosilicate glass , the same as in laboratory 's equipment ; American Pyrex is made from common soda-lime glass . If you are in America , do n't bother trying it at all ; soda-lime glass is sensitive to thermal shock . Even though it 's tempered for kitchenware , it is nowhere near good enough for the burner . In Europe , you could take your chances if you have a bowl you do n't mind risking . However , there is still a significant chance that it will break on the burner some day . While I think that they use the same raw material for both kitchen dishes and laboratory test tubes ( which are obviously OK on a gas burner ) , kitchen stuff is much thicker . This makes it much more likely to break under thermal expansion . If you decide to make the experiment with a borosilicate Pyrex , take care to warm it gradually , starting with a small flame , and do n't pour cold ingredients into it . Proceed at your own risk . And ask yourself if you really have no pots better suited for the task .
Here is a recipe that i tried a while back . I wasnt too impressed with the spicy one . But overall good method and clear explanation . And sure get your extra zest in there too ! <URL>
You will have to put on your asbestos chef 's fingers and roll them while hot I 'm afraid . You should leave them for about 15 seconds once they 're out of the oven . If you leave them for too long to cool you can always pop them back in the oven for a few seconds to re-soften . One thing that might help you is silicon baking sheets . Not only are these very ' non-stick ' , they also flexible , so you can use them as pseudo-oven gloves to roll the brandy snaps up .
Rust , or iron oxide , is not poisonous , unless consumed in large amounts . Thus it is relatively safe to grill on your barbeque . What about the people who get cut by rusty nails and get lockjaw ? That 's not due to the rust , but rather , due to the bacteria on the rust , which is called , <URL> , which is found in the soil , and presumably , the nails have had come in contact with the soil , and so actually contains some of these deadly bacteria , and so , when a wound is made by the sharp object , the sharp object ( nail ) will also infect the wound causing tetanus , or lockjaw . Which is totally irrelevant to your grill , as I assume , it has n't actually come in contact with the soil has it ? So , it 's safe , relatively
There is no difference in food taste when cooking using gas or electric . Gas burns pretty cleanly so is not going to leave a flavor residue you could detect . Cooking over flame as in a barbecue or a pot over a campfire does change the flavor because of the smoke , that 's the only case I can think of where the heat source can change the flavor of the food .
In the oven , that heat is coming from all directions more or less equally . On the stovetop , the heat is coming only from the bottom . This can potentially cause convection , and almost certainly requires occasional stirring ( especially for larger batches ) , meaning that the ingredients are being moved around . The combination of the ingredients being heated more when they 're at the bottom and the movement can cause them to start breaking apart , and generally cook unevenly . Personally , I only find this to be an issue with beans and meat ( and it 's not something that 's going to cause failure ; it 's really just a refinement ) but if you are making an especially large batch of stew , you may want to try the oven .
Ruhlman 's ratios are very useful for baking , where the ingredients play an important role in the physical structure of the end result and a bad ratio can result in a bad cake ( why did n't the bread rise ? , etc. ) They are OK for sauces to ensure a pleasant consistency ( and partially because of the physical constraints of emulsified sauces ) , but much less important there . In fact , I generally make bechamel with twice as much milk as he says , and get a thinner bechamel which I find much nicer than his version . There is no structural problem with it ( the way there would be if I tried to use twice the specified amount of milk in something like crepes ) . In seasoning , there is no need to consult an external ratio at all . Sure , if you find exactly this ratio tasty , use it . But you can add any amount of fat and vinegar to your soup and get a good soup ; your own taste preference is the only reliable guide there . This said , it is rather unusual to add oil as a seasoning to a soup , and most Westerners do n't add vinegar either . A soup is more nourishing when it has some fat , but it usually comes from the meat . It is also popular to sweat the onions ( and sometimes some other long-cooking vegetables like carrots ) in oil before adding the water , and the oil gets incorporated into the soup . The amount of oil in this case is judged by the onions : they should be evenly oiled , but not swim in a puddle of oil . Some acidity usually improves a soup , and if you do n't thicken with yoghurt , vinegar ( or lemon juice ) is a good choice . But most people who add it at all add pure vinegar when the soup is ready ( to the pot or individually to each plate ) , and generally just add a squirt , then taste , add again , etc. , until it tastes good to them . There is no ratio to follow . I do n't know of a tradition to add vinaigrette instead of vinegar of this point , but preparations containing vinaigrette are possible . For example , the garlic for tripe soup can be held either in pure vinegar or in a vinaigrette ( but this is less common ) , and it gets spooned together with its fluid into the soup . However , if you decide that you like to use vinaigrette as a seasoning , just go ahead . There is no point of using emulsified vinaigrette for soup ( the emulsion will break ) . If you want to avoid fat bubbles swimming on the soup , make a thickened soup , the flour should bind them . This assumes a " standard " soup , a cream soup should have no trouble absorbing a bit of oil . There is no need to use vinaigrette instead of pepper ( although again , you can do it if that is what tastes best to you ) . It is better to use both , because they enrich the taste of the soup in very different ways . The same applies to any other seasoning : no need to use a ratio , go by your own taste . Use as much pepper and salt as you like , nobody can prescribe you to like it exactly 3:1 . As for the traditional use for vinaigrette , it is a basic salad sauce . It can be used as-is , or turned into one of countless variations ( actually Ruhlman explains it and gives some interesting variants ) . But for salads , it is preferable to emulsify it ( usually with mustard ) , else it wilts the leaves . There was a Food lab article on that , but Ruhlman does n't mention it and gives almost all vinaigrette recipes without mustard ( except for the classic one , which of course has it ) .
Generally any non-oily fish is fine for deep frying . A relatively meaty fish ( though not too meaty like monkfish ) with a good thick fillet is best , because this allows the batter to cook without overcooking the fish . As Yellow Croaker is not an oily fish , you should be fine to batter and deep fry it provided you have a nice thick fillet . Traditional fish and chips usually uses cod or haddock .
No , you can never restore a fruit or vegetable to its original texture after thawing . Physically , this is caused by the water in its cells expanding and bursting the cell walls . When it thaws , the water flows out of the damaged cell walls . It is not actually pure water , but cytoplasm , so it can feel differently from plant to plant , in this case slimy . It is not always slimy , but any thawed plant becomes soft and mushy , and there is no way around it . While it may superficially look like rotten , there is no safety problem with it . You can use and eat it without any problems . The advice you found for using frozen ginger shows that , at least for the recipes it is intended to , the change in texture does n't matter . If it matters for your recipe , then no , you can not preserve it by freezing , because there is no way to restore it to its fresh state .
Is it safe ? That depends on a lot of factors . Generally , no . It is n't . A blog post from the Healthy Home Economist has the opinion of a firefighter : One gal mentioned that her husband was a firefighter and that leaving a stockpot simmering overnight or while they were out of the house was completely out of the question . <URL> <URL> Since you can not get a crock pot my only other suggestion is to simmer your bone broth in the oven . If your pot is oven safe and you trust your oven 's ability to keep a steady low temperature , then try it in there . If you plan on making bone broth more often , a crock pot is a great investment and if you check out your local Goodwill or Salvation Army store you might find an older but still perfectly usable model for an excellent price . It would also allow you to slow cook your broth overnight safely ( and uses less electricity to do it ) .
I agree with yossarian , if I question it , I chuck it . Although in this case , the salmon probably will not harm you , it might just taste bad . Loss of moisture ( freezer burn ) , taking on of flavours , etc. . I would n't eat it because it would n't taste great . My father-in-law would eat it , because you do n't throw out food ( his rule ) . Bottom line , if it has been in the freezer for those two years straight , it wo n't give you food poisoning or harm you . It 's just a matter of palate . But rest assured , it wo n't taste great .
Raw Personally , growing up I 've usually just eat it raw after it 's ripened . That 's the only form that i 've a experienced a persimmon . Nonethless , a quick google reveals use as a sauce : This morning , I cooked the last of the mushy persimmons into a second batch of persimmon sauce . The first , served over bread pudding on a whim one evening , was so popular that it was deemed worthy of the last persimmons . It 's simple and delicious , primarily because , as I discovered , a generous serving of nutmeg and a bit of meyer lemon is the best way to season persimmon anything ! Source : <URL> In this article , Oakland Garden Kitchen blogger , also lists a recipes for <URL> published by David Lebovitz . Lebovitz has a very comprehensive <URL> . Persimmon in Bread In this blog , he provides an adaptation of <URL> , " Beard on Bread " , Persimmon Bread recipe . If you do n't like this version of the recipe . Epicurean has <URL> . Persimmon as an Entree Wine Press NW also once published a recipe of use of persimmon as a <URL> .
Peanut butter cookies do n't spread as they cook , so you have to flatten them before hand . This ensures that the middle will cook through before the outside burns . As for the pattern created , it actually creates slightly more surface area , so you 'll get more browning at the extra edges that you create . Think of it like a meringue , or the top of a shepherd 's pie -- if it 's too smooth , you wo n't get the little bits of browned crispy bits that you 'd get if you rough up the surface .
My wife makes ( made up ? ) a super-quick tasty dish : Sautee spinach , mushrooms &amp; garlic ( 2 cloves if you like it garlicky ) layer polenta on the bottom of a baking dish Add spinach/mushroom/garlic mix Add black beans ( 1 can ) Mix in a little salsa Cover with cheese Bake at 350 for 20-25 minutes until the cheese is melted .
You could try agave nectar -- but I 'm not sure if it will be that much of an improvement over honey . A tiny pinch of salt might also help make the smoothie <URL> . Usually though , if I want my smoothies to be sweeter I just add more juice or fruit ( e.g. ripe berries , peaches etc ) .
When we have had garlic in our garden I have used the garlic leaves . They do have a garlicky flavor but are milder than garlic cloves . I tend to use them more as I would chives or garlic chives as in addition to having the milder flavor than the cloves they make for a quite nice presentation . Regarding drying them , I have never tried it . Off the top of my head I ca n't think of any reason not to dry them for later use but there may be issues that I just do n't know about .
You can use small amounts of cheddar mixed with the other cheeses . But you 'd be disappointed in the results if you tried to use it as the main or only cheese on the pizza . Cheddar cheese does n't tolerate sustained , high heat as well as some other cheeses . It can scorch , which tastes and smells bad , and/or the fats can separate from the solids as a yellowish oil . The sharper the cheese is , the less well it will tolerate heat .
end question
start question
How to cook chicken franks ?
I can imagine a few ways of doing it based on the texture you 're looking for , and what you have to work with . Remove the meat from the casing and fry the meat in a pan . You 'll basically be cooking ground meat which will allow you to easily seasons it and also integrate it into other foods . This method also allows you to season the actual meat if you want to . Cut the sausages into disks and fry them in a pan . This will leave you with more body than the first method , and also allow you to really get some good color on the flat parts of the cut sausage . Leave them whole , poke holes in them , and cook them on anything . I would n't do this for the application you 're looking for . You will eventually be cutting them up , and if you cut them after cooking , you wo n't have the browning that you could have had .
Does it work ? Yes , it does . The idea is to create something akin to an individual " dutch oven " around the chicken or fish you are baking . The meat is " steamed " in his own juices . There are a bunch of different " recipes " for the salt crust , often with some " binding agent " like egg whites . Usually , the skin is removed when serving ( go ahead , give it a try , if you like ) , so rest assured that the meat underneath is not too salty . An alternative to salt ( and arguably more " paleo style " ) would be baking in clay . A quick internet search should yield plenty of recipes for both varieties . ( Remenber : asking for recipes is a big no-no here . )
<URL> Papyri from Ancient Egypt in 1555 BC classified coriander , fennel , juniper , cumin , garlic and thyme as health promoting spices ( 3 ) . Records from that time also note that laborers who constructed the Great Pyramid of Cheops consumed onion and garlic as a means to promote health . The <URL> appears to give history/origing for a large selection of spices .
I do n't think a pork sirloin roast will stand up to that kind of cooking very well . That is a very lean piece of meat , which does not lend itself to long cooking times at low temperatures . That type of cooking is best reserved for cuts of meat with lots of fat and/or connective tissue . If you put a pork sirloin roast in your cooker for 8 hours on low , you 're going to have one tough , dry piece of meat when you are through . You would be better served by cooking it in the oven at higher heat , for a relatively short period of time , like 400F for an hour or so . Bear in mind , you 're not going to get to a fall-apart tender state with a sirloin roast . This is n't a pork butt with which you 're dealing , which you 'd take up to an internal temperature of 195F or more . Rather , you 're going to want to target the safe temperature , and no higher . You want the meat to be juicy . Cut into thinner slices to achieve maximum tenderness .
Pureeing onions makes them release a lot more of their water than just chopping them , and if you added extra water on top of that , you probably had a very wet paste . That makes it take a lot longer to cook - while you 're just boiling away water , it 's not hot enough to brown much . So cook it as long as it takes - it 's not going to become bitter . ( If anything , it 'll get sweeter ! ) And if you want it to cook faster , do n't add extra water . If you watch carefully , you can also turn the stove up hotter at the beginning to boil off water faster , then reduce the heat once it 's drying out enough to avoid burning it . If whatever you used to make the puree does n't work well without the extra water , you can still use it ; just know that it 'll make it take longer to cook . Otherwise , you could try grating the whole onion on a cheese grater , which does a surprisingly good job - it 'll still be really juicy though !
This recipe for <URL> has instructions for cleaning them . You can either cut off the heads , or if you choose to retain them : Make a shallow cut along the head , being careful not to cut too deep and puncture the innards . Carefully but firmly pull out everything inside . Cut the head off , turn it inside out and use a knife to scrape away the innards . In both cases , if a small black , triangular beak does not come out along with everything else , then push your finger up through the middle of the body and the beak should pop out . As explained in <URL> , you will want to cook octopus very briefly so it does not get rubbery , or for a long time , to move past the rubbery stage . If , as mentioned in the question , you wish to fry them , the cooking time may be <URL> . Some recipes suggest <URL> per side . For specific recipes , you can google " baby octopus recipe " .
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
Most people I know who cook scallops actually overcook them . I always buy sushi-grade diver 's scallops from my fishmonger . These can be eaten raw , and are most delicious when done so . However if you want to add a little extra flavor , and liven up the appearance of these then sear these briefly on a high heat . If you can get these from a quality source ( probably not a supermarket ) and you 're not hung up on eating raw/rare seafood you 'll never look back . Unless your scallops have been soaked in a brine , and you 're buying the quality scallops I recommend you do n't need to rinse them . Otherwise , rinse them thoroughly and pat dry with a paper towel . To sear these properly I simply melt a Tbsp or two of butter in a non-stick pan . I use as high a heat as possible ( med-high to high ) you want to put the scallops in just as the butter begins to barely smoke . I 've often seen people suggest using clarified butter , but I 'm too lazy to try . Place your scallops in the pan and cook them for 30-60 seconds per side . Do n't move them around in the pan , otherwise they wo n't sear as nicely . This is for scallops that are the size of a small childs fist . If you have smaller ones you might need to cook them less . Just a brief update because I feel I did n't stress this enough . Fresh , quality scallops are absolutely not intended to be cooked well done . They will be chewy , period . If you are used to them this way , well you 're really missing out .
Sorry , USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage ( 40 ° F ) . Beyond that and you 're tempting fate a bit . You 're gon na have to eat some humble pie for your wife on this one ( just do n't ask here for the recipe ) . <URL>
The exact time and temperature will depend on the size of the breasts and your oven . You should always use a meat thermometer to verify that the chicken is cooked all the way through . For breasts , you want to make sure they 're around 160 F on the inside ( they 're actually safe to eat a bit earlier , but 160 F leaves you with a margin of error ) . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , you 'll need to cut them open to make sure they 're not pink on the inside , and the juices run clear . I 'd start the oven at about 375 F , and start checking on them after about 30 mins .
Sausages are pretty forgiving . As long as you do n't burn them or leave the center raw , they should come out OK . Since they 're pretty fatty ( at least the good ones are ) there 's little chance of drying them out , so when in doubt , cook them a little longer . They 'll feel firm , not squishy , when they 're done . The easiest way to cook raw sausages is in the oven ( at 350-375 ° F , 180-190 ° C or so ) . If you 're doing it on the stove , I 'd brown them first in a little ( very little ) oil , then add some water , or beer , or wine , or whatever you happen to have ( not much - just enough to cover the bottom ) , cover , reduce the heat , and simmer until done . Feel free to cook some vegetables in the pan along with the sausage .
While yes it can be done , I would n't choose to do it over another technique unless that was my only option or I just needed some chicken cooked quickly for a recipe where it is used in the cooked form and will have a lot of other flavors added ( chicken salad ) . Remember that a lot of flavor is due to browning and cooking in the microwave eliminates those flavors . At least with poaching , if the liquid is REALLY well seasoned you 'll still impart flavor . Any cooking technique can lead to tough and dry meat , including poaching where it 's being cooked submerged in hot liquid . Regardless of the technique , if the proteins heat too hot and too quickly they will constrict quickly and squeeze out the juices . The result will be tough , dry , saw-dusty chicken or other protein . This is the same thing that happens when scrambled eggs are rubbery ... cooked too long over too high of heat . The proteins act like sponges that are being wrung out . Personally I think you have much less control over meat cooked in a microwave because the cooking occurs from the inside outward and the residual heat continues to build more intensely than if it was cooked in a saute pan or on a grill . Is this something that professionals do ? No . Microwaves in a professional kitchen are mainly used for melting butter , chocolate , reheating things quickly ... much the same as I recommend people do at home . We do not use them for " cooking " . Although I do use it for sweating onions if that 's the only thing I 'd be dirtying a pan for ... put the onions in a bowl with a little butter , cover and nuke for about a minute until tender .
They can be as young as 8 weeks , and up to a year or more . The preferred cooking method changes with age . <URL> of the ages/weights/options .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
Chicken is difficult to get right in a smoker . Cooking at really low temperatures can result in a rubbery skin . Chicken is one meat where I 've never seen the need to go low/slow . Brine the bird if you 're worried about drying it out or if you want to get some extra flavor into the meat , but it 's not necessary . In any event , make sure you get the skin dry before cooking . Overnight in the fridge should do the trick . I like to rub the skin with vegetable oil and BBQ rub ( or sometimes just salt &amp; pepper ) and cook it at around 300-350f on the smoker . Not only does it cook faster , it also does n't take on an overwhelming amount of smoke .
If you let it sit in the sauce overnight then it 's no longer a sauce , it 's a marinade . That 's fine , but marinating is something you generally do with tough , cheap , and/or dry cuts of meat such as chicken breasts or top rounds ( beef ) . For a full chicken , especially the wings , drumsticks and thighs , a marinade is entirely unnecessary and in my humble opinion simply dilutes the deliciously moist interior and often makes the whole thing soggy and depressing . Generally the goal ( or at least my goal and that of the majority of restaurants I 've been to ) for chicken wings or even a traditional roasted whole chicken is a nice crispy , golden-brown , well-seasoned skin with juicy meat on the inside . You ca n't get that if you douse it in sauce before grilling it . The water in the sauce will inhibit the Maillard reaction that causes browning ( and crisping ) , and as Mike points out , the sauce may even burn . In fact , it almost certainly will burn ; most store-bought BBQ sauces only last a few minutes exposed to direct heat . With that in mind , the best time to sauce a grilled ( BBQ ) chicken is after it 's cooked , or more precisely , when it 's nearly cooked . Go ahead and season it liberally and coat it in butter or oil beforehand , but wait until it is no more than a few minutes away from being done before you sauce it . You 're not trying to cook the sauce , and it takes no more than a few minutes to get the sauce to bind to the skin - i.e. a few coats with 30-60 seconds each to reduce and form a sort of glaze . This is true for almost any meat and any cooking method as long as you 're not marinating - BBQ chicken , fried or convection-baked wings , smoked or oven-braised ribs - you almost always want to sauce it right at the end . If your technique and ingredients are good then the meat , not the sauce , should be your main attraction .
Frying the chicken tends to set the muscle fibers by drawing moisture out . An example of this would be taking a thin ( 1cm ) cutlet and frying it until both sides start to turn golden . It will be pretty dry and hard . Pressure cooking it on the other hand tends to soften the muscle fibers without drawing moisture in ( if anything , its putting moisture in ) . So , ideally , you should boil/pressure cook your chicken prior to frying in oil ( though do make sure to drain the chicken first to prevent splatters ! ) . Additionally , you should undercook the chicken slightly in the pressure cooker since you 'll be finishing it in the fryer . If you are broasting the chicken , then you are going about the recipe incorrectly by frying then pressure cooking it . When broasting , you should pressure fry - if that makes sense .
If your chicken burns , the issue is likely not that you cooked it too long , but that you cooked it too hot . How long to cook it depends on the total amount of meat , the size of pieces that it is in ( anything from bite sizes pieces for a stir fry up to an entire chicken ) , and how you 're cooking it - oven , saute pan , braising ... Roasting in the oven or braising in a stew are generally the most ignorable techniques - if you overcook a roast it may dry out , but wo n't burn , and if you overcook a stew the meat ( especially chicken ) may dissolve into shreds but burning is less likely . Since undercooked chicken can be unsafe , you should choose cooking techniques that are sure to fully cook the chicken without burning it .
Do n't worry about the pork contaminating the chicken , but rather vice versa . A good rule of thumb with chicken is to treat it as a biohazardius contaminant . Because it is . Salmonella is present IN chicken meat , unlike other meats where you will only find microbes on the surface . Your marinade does n't seem particularly inhospitable to pathogen growth , so cross contamination would be a nontrivial concern . OK , if you overcook your pork chops as some insist on doing , it should n't be much of a concern . However , may as well be safe and split the marinade between two ziploc bags . It 's a small effort to mitigate risk .
No , it 's not necessary . You can do it , and if you 'd soak them for about an hour , the cooking time will diminish strongly ( half ) . I 'm not sure if this would affect the chalky taste . Which kind of lentils do you use ?
end question
start question
Can I boil eggs in the same pot I 'm boiling something else ?
I personally reckon it 's fine . Couple of points I like to make here are : Hygiene of eggs : Make sure you wash your eggs before you cook as surface of egg can be very dirty Maybe put the eggs in with cold water , otherwise , put the eggs when the water is hot may crack the eggs
You can use ' no-boil ' pasta straight from the box , alternatively , you can soak it it warm water for a few minutes . The soaked pasta may prove to be a little easier to manipulate when building the lasagne . However , providing there is enough liquid in the sauce , soaking is unnecessary . Personally , I 'd cover the dish with foil until the last 10 to 15 minutes of the cooking process , this will allow the pasta to cook and it should prevent the sauce from drying out . The last 10 to 15 minutes uncovered will provide the colour .
The pot will have more caffeine . You are right that the concentration of the final solution is determined not only by steeping time , temperature , etc. , but also by the amount of water available to dilute the stuff coming out of the tea , including caffeine . It will reach balance earlier with less water . So more water will get more of the different compounds in tea dissolved . For an empirical observation by somebody surprised by the result , see also <URL> .
So with gravy , you are talking about a scorched taste . Once you smell it , it is probably too late to salvage it . If you want to try , the best course of action is to remove it from the heat ( obviously ) and carefully ladle off as much of the top of the pan as you can , leaving the scorched part on the bottom . Then taste what you ladled off and see if it is really edible . In my experience , people try to convince themselves that the scorched flavor is n't really there , but it is , and once it is , all is lost .
To prevent this from happening , apart from what <URL> , check the temperature with a thermometer . Eggs start coagulating around 60ºC . If you keep the temperature around 55ºC you are pasteurizing the eggs at the same time .
Yes , you absolutely can eat turkey eggs . They are somewhat like duck eggs in that they are richer and creamier in taste . However , turkeys do n't lay nearly as many eggs as chickens - perhaps 100 a year as opposed to a hen 's 300 , so do n't expect to enjoy them too often .
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
Cold , it gives the inside more time to come up to the same temperature with the outside , for more even cooking .
I never worry about this . As your stock simmers , the joints , muscle and connective tissue break down and eventually they 'll sink in . Sometimes adding a bit of vinegar to your stock first helps with this . Until then , just stir the stock and move the bones around occasionally .
The standard test for eggs is to slowly lower your egg ( s ) in cold water . If it floats , throw it out . The smell test will only identify severely rotten eggs , while the float test will hint at how well the egg will perform as a binder in baking recipes . If it helps , the FDA standard best-by dates are normally 1 week prior to the use-by ( which is the date the food is considered no longer fit to use ) . The standard use-by date for eggs in the US is 28 days after being laid . After 28 days the chances of bacterial growth within the egg are significant enough that they 're not worth using .
They would totally end up tasting like oniony beef ! In fact your whole kitchen does - that 's part of the magic of making jerky . I ca n't think of a way to prevent this as the whole idea of dehydrating is to pull water out of the food and blow it away into the air . If the flavors are compatible ( or milder , like fruit ) I have done different things together at once . If they do n't take the same amount of time , I 'll just take the done items off earlier when I check it .
First off , the blender should not be damaged by the shells ; if it is , it should have been replaced anyway . The mass of the shells is simply not enough to damage the blender in any significant way . I would not , however , recommend eating the product , for a few reasons : You can not be confident that the egg shell has been completely pulverised . At some point , the blades stop chopping the shell , and simply spins it around Whenever using egg shells for presentation , they should be thoroughly cleaned and sterilized , because you do n't know what is coating it . You may very conceivably contract diseases from bacteria on the shell .
Cook on a lower heat , in a pan with a thicker base , to distribute the heat . Check every now and again , and add water if the soup has become too thick . Also , the occasional stir can only help . Consider buying a slow cooker -- there are very cheap models that do the job well .
Moka coffee pots work well if you use them every day . This way the oils that the coffee leaves inside them do not have the opportunity to go rancid ( all fats go rancid eventually ) and impart that horrible taste to your coffee . If you use them every day , it is true that you do n't really need to clean them , except to remove calcium scale buildup . If you use it rarely , like in your case or the frequent Moka pot left at a vacation house , you need to clean it with dish detergent and a scrubby sponge , you do n't need anything harsher . Make sure that you get all the coffee brown oils out . Yes , it is an unpleasant job . Make sure you rinse it well before putting it away to dry , you do n't want to simply replace the bitterness with soapiness . ... and this is the Italian doctrine ! :-)
You 're basing this question on an incorrect answer . Like you said , the boiling temperature of water is lower at higher altitudes , which means it takes longer to cook things in boiling water , due to the lower temperature . There 's no benefit that I 'm aware of in intentionally lowering the boiling point of water ( which a pinch of salt does not do , anyway ) . If you wanted to cook something in water at a lower temperature , you can always just use less heat to keep it below the boiling point . Put another way , water that is boiling at 190 & deg ; F does not cook food at the same rate that water boiling at 212 & deg ; F does , even though they are both boiling .
Boiling the milk in the microwave is the only way to do this " unattended " , and that requires a lot of trial and error to get the time just right . It also wo n't work with many recipes that involve stirring anything into the milk while cooking . Out of the microwave , I use a non-stick pan , but even that requires scraping the bottom from time to time a bit to prevent solids from forming . ( I use a rubber spatula for this . ) I usually boil the milk on its own and and combine it with the rest of the recipe later .
Ingredients : Potato starch , tapioca flour , leavening ( calcium lactate [ non-dairy ] , calcium carbonate , citric acid ) , cellulose gum , carbohydrate gum Ener G Egg Replacer has always worked well for me . I keep it in the house for times when I do n't have eggs on hand and want to bake something . There is also recipes like <URL> for vegan pancakes .
Cast iron is ideal , but any pot that can take the heat and has a tight lid will work . Like @talon8 said in his comment , it does n't even have to be metal . This article from <URL> specifically uses terracotta for sourdough , not cast iron . Just as an FYI , this related question deals with preheating ( for no-knead bread , not sourdough ) , and the differing answers are interesting . To me it just goes to show that bread-making does n't always have to follow super-strict rules . <URL>
By quick-prepare ravioli , you mean without sauce , right ? It 's fine to ( and you should ) cover the pot to bring the water to a boil . Incidentally , it 's best to start with cold water from the tap , hot tap water will be more contaminated . Once the water is boiling , you add the salt , then the pasta . Now , adding the pasta will bring down the temperature of the water , so you can briefly put the lid back on to more quickly bring the water back up to the boil . Once the water is boiling again , you should keep it uncovered because pasta water is very prone to foaming up and boiling over . It 's a royal pain when that happens , so it 's generally recommended to not cover pasta while it is boiling . If your pot is big enough and you watch carefully , you can save some energy by cooking with the lid on , just be careful because boil-overs happen quickly . Obviously , it 's good to have a stockpot with a glass lid for that . EDIT : Now that I 've covered the conventional wisdom , I 'd also encourage you to read this : <URL> , especially the Serious Eats link . I admit , I have n't done it ( set in my ways , I suppose ) , but considering your set-up , you might find the method works better for you .
By your definition , I would cook them all at one time . From there you have a couple options . Leave them in the shell and peel when needed . This keeps out a lot of the air which extends the shelf life to 2 weeks , but can dry them out a little making the texture a little harder . Immediately peel and dry them as best as possible . Put them in a Zip Lock along with a dry paper towel on the bottom to catch any extra water and condensation . Remove as much air as possible . The texture is much better , but your shelf life if approx . 1 week and is a little smellier . ( also can put zip lock into a covered container ) Lol . Food stores now sell eggs this way . Either way you may want to let them sit on the counter long enough to take the chill off , so it 's not as hard . For me it does n't matter , I can eat them any old way . LOVE EM !
end question
start question
What Side Dish Sauces Should Be Promoted To Their Own Sauce ?
I make a sort-of-vinaigrette that I usually use as a salad dressing , but it 'd probably be good with other things . My usual recipe is to halve a few pints of cherry tomatoes , toss them with some sugar and salt , then drain them into a bowl for a while . After they 've drained , I reduce the tomato juice with honey , shallot , dijon mustard , and cider vinegar , let it cool , then add a little olive oil , salt , and pepper .
From Asian supply shops you can often find small packets of powdered fruits . Check the packet but many are made from actual fruit ! I have seen Apple , Cherry , Coconut , Lime , Mango , Pomegranate , Strawberry etc. . Google for powdered fruit and you 'll find a variety of online sources My favourite is Lime powder ( 99 % Lime , made in Malaysia ) Add Aloe Vera powder to make a thickened drink Add Arrowroot or instant custard powder to make a cloudy " juice " Add Ascorbic acid powder ( Vit . C ) as a preservative ( be careful not to exceed RDI ) Add Citric acid to make it more citrus like Add sugar ( real or fake ) to bulk it out so a simple measure ( e.g. one tea spoon ) makes a glass of drink Experiment with the quantities , but you do n't need much of anything to get an effective result
Anything that 's hard to get off of your counter can make a good food coloring . Regarding natural sources , remember that you run the risk of also adding additional flavors so take that into consideration . Among other companies , <URL> makes all natural foods including colorful fruit snacks . What they use for the coloring in these snacks are : turmeric , black carrot juice concentrate , and annatto . ( I 've cooked with turmeric and annatto before and they DEFINITELY stain . ) Aside from Google searches , you could probably find practical natural food dyes by looking in the ingredient list from other all-natural foods . Back to your specific question about beets , this is from <URL> : 1 Put your fresh beets in a glass or enamel pan with just enough water to fully cover them . Bring to a boil and turn the heat down a bit to simmer for 30 minutes . Make sure the water does n't boil out . Take them off when the beets are not quite done - When a knife goes into them but they 're not as soft as you 'd like for eating . Remove them from heat . 2 Strain the beets , reserving the beet juice . Peel , slice and chop up your beets . Return them to the beet juice . Soak for four hours . 3 Strain the liquid out and take out 3/4 cup . Add your 2 teaspoons vinegar to this . This is your red dye . 4 Use canned beets and you can skip half of the work . Drain the can reserving 3/4 cup liquid . Add 2 teaspoon of vinegar to this and you 're done . You can still eat the beets , too . The fresh ones are n't terribly appealing after this .
Major ways of thickening a sauce -- or , for that matter , some other liquid : Starch ( e.g. , flour , cornstarch , tapioca , arrowroot ) Emulsion ( e.g. , butter , cream , yolk , mustard , blending in lecithin-and-fat ) Coagulated protein ( e.g. , blood , egg , pureed seafood ) Gels/polysaccharides ( gelatin , alginate , xanthan , pectin , agar agar , guar gum ) Suspension ( general puree of solids ) Note that some of the examples of one category can also fit into another .
I 've never heard that . I have picked end of season tomatoes when they were green and let them ripen and used them for any purpose that I would normally use ripe tomatoes . And I know others who do also . It 's much better than losing them to a frost or to animals . If there is any downside , it would be that they might not be as flavorful as vine-ripened , but that still beats losing them . Also consider that most of what we get in grocery stores come from large farms where they are picked green . Just for the sake of saying it , many stores now also sell vine-ripened or locally grown tomatoes but they do cost more .
Bleach is your best bet . Scrub it with a long-handled scrub brush and either liquid bleach or Ajax and water . Let it soak a bit before rinsing it out . Since it 's stainless steel , the bleach wo n't do it any harm and will kill off any organics growing on it . In my experience , the pink stuff is a mold , not flouride .
I know and have read over and over the " correct " method of cooking this type of roast is low and slow ( meaning for hours on end ) not sliced up and on a grill like I did . Its not a traditional steak cut and its not ' supposed to ' be treated that way . If you are looking for the best way to cook this meat , follow all the advice you find online and in the other answers/suggestions here . However , I chose to go against that advice and slice up a chuck roast , tenderize it and marinate it to see if I could cook it like a steak . My results were that you can , and the results were surprisingly good . Your results will vary on the quality of your cut and how you prepare it , but it CAN be done effectively . Because I had beat and cut the chuck into very thin slices , putting them on the grill on low heat for more then 10 minutes was enough to overcook them . Thankfully I only did a few like that and the rest I grilled like a regular steak for a few minutes a side and they turned out better . I do n't believe this had to do particularly with the cut of meat , just the fact that they were so thin already .
Someone made an instructable on how to make what they call a Japanese Golden Egg ( although a search for that just gave me lots of hits on Angry Birds ) ; they spin the egg quickly , breaking up the internal structure , and then boil it to get a scrambled-egg-colored boiled egg . <URL>
Baking them for that long will evaporate a lot of water . This is a good thing . If they were in enough liquid to not dry out at all then they would n't brown and you would miss out on a lot of delicious flavor . That would be braising . These may have been dryer than potatoes in the past if the potatoes were cut into smaller pieces ( more surface area ) or if the cook time was longer . If you want your veggies to be more moist then you can cook them for a shorter length of time or toss them with some fat which will give the illusion of moisture as well as prevent some internal moisture from escaping .
According to <URL> : Whole fruits can be stored for a month in a cool , dry area , or refrigerated up to two months . The seed pips can be frozen in an airtight bag up to one year . Fresh juice should be refrigerated and used within two to three days . In my experience in a very dry climate ( Colorado ) after a couple weeks the skins become desiccated and very hard -- you need to saw through them with a serrated knife -- but the seeds are still mostly unaffected . They will shrink somewhat , but still remain unspoiled and flavorful . However , if you refrigerate them , ensure that you do not let them get too cold . According to <URL> : [ ... ] exposure to temperatures below 5 ° C ( 41 ° F ) during storage and transport for longer than 4 weeks is a major cause of deterioration [ ... ] The minimum safe storage temperature is 5 ° C ( 41 ° F ) for up to 8 weeks , if decay is not a problem . For longer storage , the temperature should be at 7 ° C ( 45 ° F ) to avoid chilling injury , but decay [ ... ] and weight loss may become a limitation . Sorry that the photo is not better quality .
Technically you should be able to make almost anything you 'd be able to make in a metal dish , in a glass dish , but if the preparation calls for one then you ca n't simply substitute the other willy-nilly . It will likely require a good deal of fine-tuning . Glass is an insulator . It absorbs heat . That 's why solar panels are glass and why having a window in your home is not like having a gaping hole in your wall . As a consequence of this , ( a ) it will take a longer time for the dish itself to come up to oven temperature , ( b ) it will cook much more consistently and evenly , even if you have an oven that turns the element on and off to maintain temperature , and ( c ) it will continue cooking the food after you remove it from the oven , unless you remove the food from the baking dish immediately . What this means is that you generally have to extend the cooking time by at least 5-10 minutes ( more if you are baking at high temperatures ) when substituting glass bakeware for metal , to let the dish " pre-heat . " Except if you 're going to let the food cool inside the baking pan , in which case you might actually need to decrease the overall time to prevent burning afterward . It 's hard to be precise because it depends on what you 're cooking , how long you 're cooking it and at what temperature . To be honest , I probably would not use a glass dish for any recipe requiring caramelizing because caramelizing relies entirely on finely-controlled conduction ; ovens are less sensitive than a stove top but nevertheless , a few minutes too long and it 's burnt , a few minutes too short and it 's still solid . Better to choose a material that 's highly conductive for that , i.e. metal . Glass is best when you need slower , more even cooking , like casseroles .
I would not recommend doing so . The technique you describe is known as <URL> , which as you might guess from the name is a <URL> in the French culinary tradition . It translates literally to " mount with butter " and is used to provide a rich , velvety mouthfeel to both white and brown sauces . By contrast , <URL> sauce originates in Japanese cuisine , which is a whole different tradition . Like Chinese cuisine and other east Asian cooking , Japanese cuisine does n't make use of much dairy , <URL> . Teriyaki sauce is generally a <URL> that gets its richness from a high proportion of sugar and can be thickened with cornstarch ( as seen in <URL> ) . You could try mounting a teriyaki sauce with butter , but my suspicion is that you might cause some of the sugar in the glaze to seize and crystallize by introducing cold butter ( as typically recommended when mounting ) and it would not be common in the culinary tradition that teriyaki comes to us from . So you can skip this step without causing any harm to your sauce or offense to any French or Japanese bystanders .
WOW ... this is a published recipe ?? <URL> It is very dangerous to put most bakeware on most stoves . Your best option would be to either originally bake in a stove-safe implement , or to transfer from a casserole to a saucepan at that point . Only , only use cookware labeled as safe for a stove ( usually only metal ) on a stove ! Period ! To do otherwise as asking for potentially deadly shrapnel . I am not kidding !
Making maraschino cherries is a bit involved ... basically , you brine them and then flavor them . To keep them for a long time , you 'll also need to can them . <URL> a great recipe for making the cherries , and <URL> instructions for canning . The canning instructions are specifically for cherry topping , but you would use the same boiling-water canner process for maraschino cherries in their syrup . To pit the cherries , I 'd advise purchasing a cherry pitter ( yes , there 's actually a device for this ) if you 're going to be doing this very much .
Fondant is nearly solid -- it 's rolled out , and placed onto the cake ( with a buttercream underneath as an adhesive ) . The advantage is that it goes on really quickly and smoothly over large items . It can also be cut into shapes with rather clean edges ( modeling chocolate gives sharper edges , but it 's not flexible enough to cover a round cake ) . You often see it on professional non-traditional cakes ( more novelties , when they need a solid color or something that 's strangely shaped . Fondant can also be used to give a solid background can then be piped into ( with buttercream icing , generally ) or painted . As it 's nearly solid , it can also be worked like you would clay to make decorations . Royal icing dries hard as it has no fat in it . It 's generally only used on cakes as a drizzle where you 're not attempting to cover the entire cake . You 'll often see it used on bundt cakes , but you more frequently see it used for cookies when you 're doing a flood-fill . Buttercream icings ( commonly called ' frosting ' in the US ) is likely the most standard for non-professional stacked cakes . It 's spread on , so it takes a little more work to get a clean smooth surface . ( the trick is to wait 'til the surface has hardened , put down some waxed paper , then smooth out all of the spatula marks ... you need to wait 'til the waxed paper does n't stick , but not so long that it has n't set up completely ) . You can also use buttercream in pastry bags to create flowers , ropes , basketweave and other decorations . ... And then there 's other frostings/icings , too , but they 're not as general purpose . They generally go with specific types of cakes -- caramel and other cooked frostings ( eg , used in ' German Chocolate Cake ' ) , cream cheese frosting ( for carrot and other spice cakes ) , whipped cream ( used in black forest cake &amp; strawberry shortcake )
It should be slightly duller than a fresh razor blade . Skill can make up for lack of sharpness , but if you do n't have the skills you 'll mash the fish more than slice . This is why instructors and surgeons can get away with dull knives ; they 've got years of experience cutting flesh . Traditionally , fillet and boning knives are sharpened to a shallower angle than general-use chef knives , to allow a keener edge . The only knife in a cook 's arsenal that should be sharper is the slicer , which sees rarer use , and needs to be super-sharp for thin slices .
When making the slurry , stir cornstarch into cold water until it has the consistency of cream . This can be set aside until it 's needed , but be sure to stir it briefly before you pour it into the sauce to redistribute the starch granules in the water . You should pour it into your sauce toward the end of its preparation . According to McGee you should use roughly 2/3 as much starch as you would flour . If you are n't using a recipe , add your slurry a bit at time until it 's a thick as you like it . Also remember that the sauce will thicken a bit as it cools , so it should be a little bit thinner on the stove than you intend to serve it .
Ideally , wood for smoking needs to be chipped , probably using a wood chipper though you could do small batches by hand using a chisel or bandsaw . Chips allows a greater surface area and gives a more consistent behaviour compared to large blocks of wood . Whether you need to dry of not depends on several factors such as how old the wood is ( I 've never used apple or fig to smoke personally ) and how much sap/sapwood it contains . While I have not tried with green wood , I suspect it would just take longer to catch as the fire you put it on will dry it naturally . Others on BBQ/smoking forums such as <URL> say they have tried it and it works fine but obviously YMMV . As for the bark - I would say for the smaller sticks where the bark is relatively thin then it 's fine to leave on , but with larger branches I would remove it . In some types of tree the bark contains more oil than the rest of the wood ( e.g. Birch ) , meaning you will get a blacker , sootier type of smoke that is generally undesirable for smoking food .
You are trying to add the yoghurt at too high a temperature . Let the dish cool to around 75 deg C before adding the yoghurt , and make adding the yoghurt the last thing you do before serving .
Two Reasons : 1 . ) The faster the food drops below the ' Danger Zone ' the less spoilage it will have If it takes that freshly-cut steak 2 hours to cool down from cow-body-temperature to a safe 40F , that 's more spoilage and less shelf-life for the product . A rapid chill-down means a more valuable product . 2 . ) Ice-crystals damage food , and the faster water freezes , the smaller the ice-crystals If the temperature of the water drops slowly , the water-molecules will have time to organize themselves into nice , neat rows ( imagine a big snowflake ) . At a microscopic level , these ice-crystals will puncture cell-membranes and cell-walls , damaging the food and affecting texture . If , on the other hand , the temperature drops rapidly , the ice-crystals will form more haphazardly , with less well-organized crystals . This means fewer ice-javelins stabbing into your food . Try an experiment sometime : take a serving of ice-cream out of your freezer , let it melt completely , put it in an airtight container , then toss it back in the freezer . Let it freeze completely and taste it . The flavor will be roughly the same , but the texture will be much worse . There will be big , crunchy ice-crystals throughout . The big-time ice-cream makers invest in heavy-duty freezing tech that allows them to freeze the ice-cream faster , and with smaller crystals , the less-granular , and more creamy this tastes .
end question
start question
What exactly is a " fast " oven ?
The idea of a " fast " oven comes from the time when wood-burning stoves without temperature gauges were the most common ones in kitchens . A fast oven is anywhere from 400-425 & deg ; F. Conversion to Fahrenheit Very slow ( very low ) oven : 300-325 & deg ; F. Slow ( low ) oven : 325-350 & deg ; F. Moderate ( medium ) oven : 350-375 & deg ; F. Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 375-400 & deg ; F. Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 400-425 & deg ; F. Various " modern " cookbooks that attempt to explain these terms will often give different temperatures , but the degree of difference is n't usually that great ( usually about 25 degrees in either direction ) ; what was a fast oven to one cook may only have been a moderate oven to another . A " pastry , " " bread , " or " bread-baking " oven generally refers to a temperature range of 360-380 & deg ; F. ( Rounded ) Conversion to Celsius Very slow ( very low ) oven : 150-160/170 & deg ; C. Slow ( low ) oven : 160/170 -180 & deg ; C. Moderate ( medium ) oven : 180-190 & deg ; C. Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 190-200 & deg ; C. Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 200-220 & deg ; C. Conversion to Gas Marks Very slow ( very low ) oven : 2-3 Slow ( low ) oven : 3-4 Moderate ( medium ) oven : 4-5 Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 5-6 Very fast/very quick ( very high ) oven : 6-7 <URL> ( For Use with Dutch Ovens and Charcoal ) Slow ( low ) oven : 6-8 briquettes below / 12-16 on lid Moderate ( medium ) oven : 8-10 briquettes below / 16-18 on lid Fast/quick ( high ) oven : 10-12 briquettes below / 18-24 on lid
They do go above 550F , it 's a question of design and the type of wiring used in an oven . <URL> is commonly used to wire up home ovens , which has a maximum surrounding ambient temperature rating of 105 degrees celsius . So , oven makers need to design ovens where the ambient temperature of things outside of the insulated oven cavity do n't reach a temperature above 220 degrees fahrenheit ( that 's where the wiring lives ) , and not exceed the insulation around the door of the oven , and not burn anyone coming in contact with the sides . So it 's both safety and technical cost reasons . Hotter home ovens are possible , and available , but they 're made a bit differently and the cost to produce them is a bit higher . Since most people cooking at home do n't need something that goes north of 500 degrees , there is n't a big market for them - and the market that does exist is mostly in the commercial space . A residential implementation would have some pretty specific insulation requirements , be slightly larger than most home builders anticipated ( making them harder to install ) and naturally quite a bit more expensive and scarce .
Mid height for cakes in non-convection ovens , slightly above mid height for thin cakes , top for cookies . In a convection oven it does n't matter because the airflow distributes heat evenly throughout the oven 's volume .
This is an unwise practice . While pure fat is actually fairly stable , you do n't know how much residual water and other components remain in your rendered fat . You should collect it and refrigerate it ( it should last at least a week , probably much longer in practice ) in an sealed and air tight container ( to minimize rancidity ) if you intend to reuse it . Otherwise , you should discard it immediately . For the cannonical answer and reasoning , see : <URL>
Speaking in generalizations , without knowing the details of content : Anything with a non-stick coating - I would n't put it in the oven . If you do n't know what the non-stick coating is made of , you ca n't be sure if it will melt . Additionally high temperatures and non-stick coating make for off-gassing . Anything with plastic handles , knobs or any other plastic parts - do n't put it in the oven at any temperature . No way to know how it will react . Cast iron - always oven safe to almost any temp that a non-commercial oven would reach Enameled cast iron ( like Le Crueset ) - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated stainless steel - oven safe to 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Uncoated anodized aluminum - I would say no more than 450 ° F ( 230 ° C ) , to be safe Copper - 500 ° F ( 260 ° C ) Glass - 450 ° F ( 230 ° C )
First , fully generically : The main distinction made by The New Food Lover 's Companion ( Fourth edition , 2007 ) is that a " casserole dish " , can be glass , metal , ceramic , or any other heatproof material , while a Dutch oven is usually made of cast iron . Another distinction is that the Dutch oven may be a kettle , which typically implies the presence of an overarching handle from which the entire pot may be hung ( as over a fire ) , while no such option is offered up for their definition of a casserole . This is generally confirmed by the fact that while , yes , both we and the marketplace ( sellers ) seem often to use the terms casserole and Dutch oven interchangeably , whenever the vessel is equipped with an overarching handle retailers seem to avoid referring to it as a casserole . More specifically , when you turn to high end concerns in service to restauranteurs , such as <URL> , there 's no confusion on the matter . Casseroles invariably lack overarching handles and , unlike Dutch ovens , may come in quite small sizes and do n't necessarily require lids . So while Dutch ovens may or may not have overarching handles , they <URL> have lids and are invariably substantial in size . The compiled side-by-side photos below , as extracted from WebstaurantStore , goes to show just how severe the contrast can be between the two items . Second , to the question of browning : Here are a couple of examples which seem to speak for themselves , as far as how well ceramics or ceramic coatings can be expected to perform when baking breads . <URL> offers a Cast-Iron Loaf Pan ( photo below ) about which it says , The specially formulated black matte interior enamel contains traces of quartz , giving it additional heat resistance and a rougher surface resulting in better browning . <URL> also offers a Bread Cloche ( photo below ) , for which it makes the following claim , Duplicating the benefits of baking in a brick oven , the ceramic bread cloche turns out individual loaves with tender , moist interiors and crispy , evenly golden crusts . I 'm sure there exist any number of additional examples of bakeware , each of which possesses similar properties to these . ( The links provide a good deal more information . ) I hope this however is enough to help you take the plunge , so to speak , toward this option if that 's what you 're interested in doing .
" Sushi grade " means that it is safe to prepare and eat raw . In order to do that , it must be frozen to kill any parasites . That means it either has to be : Frozen at -20 ° C ( -4 ° F ) for 7 days ; or Frozen at -35 ° C ( -31 ° F - " flash frozen " ) for 15 hours . There are n't any official regulations about the fish itself or its quality , and most sushi/sashimi distributors have much more stringent rules of their own beyond the freezing guarantee .
When you do n't preheat , you cook your food at a lower temperature as your oven heats up for the first 5-15 minutes , depending on the target temperature and your oven 's strength . For forgiving foods , like a casserole , this may not affect you much - you 'll just have to bake longer than the recipe says to . As long as you 're careful , you 'll be fine . But if you 're baking something that should be baked for a short time at a relatively high temperature , your results are going to be very different . For example , take traditional Southern biscuits : they 're baked very hot for less than ten minutes . This cooks them all the way through , and browns the top and bottom . If your oven starts out cold , they 're going to be done in the middle before they 're brown ! Beyond under-browning , you 'll also run into problems like lack of rising in steam-leavened foods . Pastries , in particular , could probably be disastrous .
You can stuff any pepper which is large enough . Poblano are moderately spicy . You can use bell peppers , but they will not be spicy . You might want to make up for that by including some spicier small peppers in your stuffing , perhaps a serrano or a jalapeno or seventeen , depending on your personal taste .
There are only three advantages that I can think of for a brasier : The lower sides result in faster evaporation when cooking on the stove top , as it does n't hold in the steam . It 's typically not as heavy for the same surface area . You should be able to fit two of them in your oven ( on different racks ) , which is unlikely for a dutch oven . Personally , I do n't have any of that shape pan in cast iron , and the ones that I do have , I do n't use for braising ; I use them for pilaf-type dishes or casseroles where you want a wide but shallow covered dish . I do n't know if a cast iron vessel would work as well for those dishes , as the thermal mass could make it more difficult to cook the middle sufficiently without overcooking the outside , unless is n't something that you can serve immediately after coming out of the oven .
This depends on a lot of things . The idea of preheating is that you want to get all the surfaces inside your oven ( walls , floor , door , racks ) up to the desired cooking temperature . This makes for more even temperatures throughout the oven , and gives a little thermal mass so you do n't lose ALL your heat when you open the door for a few seconds or put something cold in there . Then there 's the question of what you 're putting in the oven . An aluminum sheet with a few room temperature cookies on it wo n't pull the temperature in the oven down like a 25 pound turkey that 's 40F/5C inside . You want to be more careful to do a complete preheat if you 're going to be soaking up a lot of your starting heat . Our oven , which has a large baking stone in the bottom all the time , takes a while to get uniformly up to temperature , even after the oven says it 's preheated , because the stone does n't heat up as fast as the rest of the surfaces . It takes at least 20 minutes after the " I 'm fully heated " beep before the stone is fully up to temp . We have problems with things baking poorly if we do n't preheat for quite a while , but on the upside , if we put a cold roast in or open the door a lot , the temperature in the oven stays pretty high . If your oven is lightweight , flimsy or drafty , it may be as hot as it 's going to get the moment the preheat alert goes off . 45 minutes is probably a lot more preheat than you 'll need in almost any case . In some cases even 15 minutes is more than you need . It really depends on your oven and what you 're putting in .
Bamboo is n't a tree , it 's a grass ;) A bamboo shoot is just the budding new bamboo that 's harvested before it grows and becomes hard and stringy . Bamboo shoots are generally available in 2 forms , fresh and canned . Fresh ones are sold whole and generally used in stir fries . Canned bamboo shoots are precooked and packed in water . You can find canned bamboo shoots sold whole , shredded , or sliced . For hot and sour soup ( which I assume you 're making ) you 'll probably want the shredded ones . There are also jarred bamboo shoots . You probably do n't want these as they are often fermented and add different seasonings to the shoots . I 'm not sure where you are so I do n't know how available they would be , but you can generally find canned ones in the asian section of major supermarkets . Fresh ones are a little harder to come by and I believe only seasonal
This is not a precise term , you can not go and buy " moist " and " dry " vanilla beans . But the pods can be prepared to different degrees of dryness , similar to prunes . And the ones with more remaining moisture have more taste and are generally higher quality . This is why they specify it . If you only have access to dry pods , I will still try out the recipe with them , just change the source for the next buy . Regarding the comment above , I have never had vanilla beans with a grade denoted on the packaging . But I have had both moist and dry ones , so it is n't a case of only one grade being marketed to end users . It is surely better if you can distinguish them based on some kind of grading , but chances are , you wo n't know what grade you are buying .
It 's actually spelled ' roux ' , and is a mixture of oil and flour , cooked to remove the starchy taste of the flour . It 's a great thickener any time that you do n't need the sauce to be clear , and you have time to cook it down . I typically use it for cream sauce ( including cheese sauces , such as for mac &amp; cheese ) and gravies . As for benefits -- it 's habit at this point , so I 'm not really sure -- I guess it 's made from things I always have on hand . You can also get flavor from the roux , if you cook it longer , but you 'll adversely affect the thickening ability . Gumbo is normally made from a dark roux ( the Cajuns have a series of names for the color of roux , including ' brick ' , ' peanut-butter ' and ' chocolate ' )
The collagen in the ribs needs to get to a temperature of about 160 F to start breaking down into water and gelatin . If your oven can be set as low as 175 or 180 F on a normal bake or convection bake setting that is probably a better alternative unless you have access to an oven thermometer and can measure what temperature the warm setting on your oven attains .
In freezing , it is mostly the bursting of the cell walls as the ice crystals expand . Much like a water balloon holds its shape when it is intact , but becomes flaccid when punctured , so to the cell walls comprising the vegetable . See related , for why a similar thing happens when you cook spinach : <URL> Cooked vegetables are already soft and their metaphorical balloons partially deflated . It is not going to get a lot worse for the freezing . The par cooking is mostly disable enzymes which would change the color of the vegetable to dull olive drab , or negatively affect the flavor . See : <URL>
It 's going to depend on the material your ramekins are made from . If you have glass ones , maybe they 'll break . But the typical porcelain ones should be fine . Keep in mind they 're used for crème brûlée , which is prepared by chilling to set , followed by topping with some sugar , then caramelizing by either a torch or placing right under a broiler . Cold to broiler or torch is a much bigger thermal shock than cold to cold to oven .
According to <URL> , the main reason is that in raw packing , more air is introduced into the jar . This may lead to discoloration over time , which is an aesthetic issue , rather than a safety issue . Regarding hot packing , they describe the benefits : This practice helps to remove air from food tissues , shrinks food , helps keep the food from floating in the jars , increases vacuum in sealed jars , and improves shelf life . Preshrinking food also permits filling more food into each jar . They provide the following guidelines regarding which method to use : Use the hot-pack method , especially with acid foods to be processed in boiling water rather than a pressure canning method . The Raw pack method is fine for pickles and for vegetables to be processed in a pressure canner . See also : <URL> describing the differences , benefits , and reasoning in great detail .
For baking cakes and breads it is important to control the humidity in the oven . In early stages of baking one typically needs the humidity to remain in the baking chamber , which is hard to do with a gas oven . Two of the bakeries near my house use electric ovens with brick lined baking chambers ; the other uses gas . Expansion Gas and electric ovens can be built to bake the same way if cost is not an issue . Most home gas ovens will circulate the combustion products ( mainly water vapor and carbon dioxide ) in the cooking chamber . As the flames burn , combustion products need to be vented out of the baking chamber . Electric ovens also need vents in the baking chamber to help maintain the pressure as the air inside expands . Steam is essential in the initial stages of baking for good crust formation in breads and crack-free cake surfaces . The oven cavity can hold much more steam than released from the gas combustion and it is my inference that the steam content of an electric oven will be higher ( I can not find published steam measurements inside ovens ) . After the dough expansion , the vapor coming off of the dough or batter needs to removed quickly for browning and for the inside to cook well . The constant flow in a gas oven makes it better at that . In an electric oven a peep or two during the last baking stages will handle excess moisture . Two bakeries near my house use electric ovens , the other , which makes excellent French baguettes , uses a gas oven . The baker there has had both electric and gas ovens and he prefers the caramelization of the gas oven . But note that he can handle the moisture problem with the steam injector of his professional gas oven . He also noted that using gas ovens require skill as they have temperature and moisture quirks . Recipes may be adapted to either gas or electric ovens . In the US the majority of recipes are designed for the electric oven ( they 're more popular ) .
My first thoughts are this which is actually a scraper but I would n't use a metal scraper in a bowl . Being flexible plastic , it flexes and molds itself to the inside of a bowl and allows easy removal of dough .
end question
start question
Pre-Cooking Steak in a bag , Any suggestions ?
You 've basically re-invented sous-vide cookery for steak . Steak is about the easiest food to cook sous-vide . You can find a lot of resources describing it on the web , but here 's a few notes 1 ) 170F for 2 hours undoubtedly left your steak very well-done . Not a problem if that 's how you like it , but also not necessary . You can get medium rare by cooking in the 130-135F range for two hours . Cooking sous-vide below 130F ( necessary to get steak rare ) is not recommended for safety reasons , as temperatures that low can encourage the growth of dangerous bacteria . 2 ) With sous-vide , there 's no need to rest a steak after searing it . Resting grilled steaks is necessary to give heat time to move from the outside of the steak to the center , and actually get it cooked to the desired temperature . With sous-vide , you already did that in the water . 3 ) With an impromptu sous-vide setup like yours , you probably do n't want to cook for more than a few hours . You risk your temperature getting too low overnight , and then you 're down in the bacteriologically dangerous ranges . You can get some great effects cooking longer ( I had 24 hour marinated skirt steak last night that was amazing ) , but you should probably do so with powered equipment . There are home sous-vide machines available ( a bit pricy ) or you can build your own . There are dozens of different rigs described on the web . I built mine for about $ 100 . 4 ) Longer cooking times are better for tougher cuts anyway . If you 're just looking to do ribeyes and strips , then two or three hours is fine . 5 ) You can marinade , but obviously not in supermarket bags ( unless the supermarket marinades , e.g. pork tenderloin ) . To do so , you either need to purchase a vacuum sealer ( not too expensive ) , or be clever with drawing air out of ziploc bag and sealing it very tightly .
In a small toaster oven , using a pizza stone is likely to be a tradeoff : Toasting -- counter-productive , because it will shield the bottom of the bread ( or other item ) from the direct radiative heat from the bottom elements ; you would want to remove the stone for this use . Broiling ( or as it is called in the British parlance if I understand correctly , grilling ) -- Probably not a good idea . In a full sized oven , the stone would be left far enough from the heating elements that it would not be subject to intense radiative heat . In a toaster oven , it might be too close to the elements when the oven is used this way , so might be subject to cracking due to a higher temperature gradient and uneven thermal expansion . General baking -- will require a longer a pre-heating period for the oven/stone to come up to temperature , but once at temperature , will provide a buffering effect for more even heating . Convenience -- in full sized ovens , people often leave the stone in all of the time , and cook on a different rack if they do n't want direct contact with the stone . This may or may not be possible or convenient in a toaster oven , so you may be constantly removing or putting back the stone based on your current use Note that all of the above is just reasoning based on known facts ; I have n't tried a pizza stone in a toaster oven , and would n't do so , as they have a generally low thermal mass . I tend to think of them as tools for toasting and reheating , not for primary cooking , baking , or roasting .
Here 's what I ended up using , which I picked up from Home Depot in the Hardware aisle . It fits quite snug , and cost about $ 0.60 for pack of 2 . WARNING : no guarantees this cap is safe for food . Use at your own risk ( even though it is molded plastic , the dyes and treatment process may make the plastic prone to leaking chemicals )
I 've done it in the husk , when it 's fresh ( ie , the husk is n't dried out ) , but I do n't like the grassy flavors that the husk imparts . My neighbor 's clued me into a box of dry wax paper sheets to cover food for the microwave ( so I can be lazy and not have to clean the microwave as often ) , so I wrap the corn in it after it 's been husked and the silk removed . I just roll in around the corn , twist the ends like the paper wrapping on taffy , then microwave it for a few seconds . I have n't done it recently , so I ca n't remember exact times ( and the wattage of microwaves differ , anyway ) ... you just want to warm it through , though . If you were going to try to get it hot , I 'd consider dropping to medium power for a much longer time , so you do n't overly cook the outside , as I vaguely recall having an incident once .
It 's all about balance : the fresh bright and stimulating effect of the early part of brewing , first minute or so , versus the calming deep flavours of the later part of brewing . some folks use more tea for less time to achieve that first effect ; conversely , less for longer for the latter . stewing for 10min spoils a proper English cuppa . One trick worth trying with bags is to dip briefly in a small amount of boiling water and discard : this is to rid the ' dust ' . One can then steep the ' fannings ' longer without too strong a pot . Interestingly , green tea is traditionally rinsed this way more for hygiene than flavour .
I guess it depends upon the definition of " crushed " If by crushed , you mean using a garlic press , then there is quite a difference between chopped and crushed garlic . When you crush garlic , no need for a garlic press , the flat of a knife and a little salt is all that 's needed , you release the essential oils , resulting in a stronger flavour . You can also purée the garlic . It 's also important to consider the type of recipe , in some recipes , such as a pasta sauce , chopped garlic is fine . In Asian cooking , especially Indian cuisine , it 's common practice to use minced or puréed garlic . In roast dishes , using the whole cloves in the roasting tin with the meat , can produce an incredible sauce .
No , for most marinades , there should be no reason you can not make them in advance and refrigerate . It may even allow some improvements as flavors from any herbs or spices infuse into the liquid . You just want to practice good food safety , which means putting it in the refrigerator as soon as it is made .
Leg is usually leaner than shoulder and so does n't benefit from a long slow cook . A quicker , hotter roast is generally best , something on the order of 2-2 .5 hours @ 220C for a good-size leg . Let it rest for a good half hour afterwards .
I think this question is hard to answer exactly . The easiest way to estimate the duration of the steak in the oven is to cook the steak at ~ 260 ° C and after > 3 minutes each side ( altogether > 6 minutes ) to measure the inner temperature of the steak . 57-60 ° C should be medium rare . Of course this his method requires a thermometer . ( source : <URL> and <URL> )
After looking into this much longer than a sane person should have , I 've realized that the strength of the tea does n't depend so much on the quantity of tea . Controlling the strength of tea is normally done by controlling the steeping time . As stated by paul , the best way to dilute the strength of a tea is by resteeping it . The steeping time of a tea is most determined by the coarseness of the tea leaves . Similar to garlic , finer leaves make the taste a lot stronger , whereas large , coarse leaves will be weaker . The instructions on the bag often say what 's been tried and tested . Quite often , one tea bag can make quite a lot of tea , enough for a teapot . I 'd recommend going for two tea bags only if you 're planning to go for larger than a teapot , for tea suited to drinking by itself and with added ice , or with certain weaker teas . For black tea , the common steeping seems to be 2-3 minutes . There 's little harm in steeping too short , but steeping too long will create a harsh bitter taste ( though some people may actually want that ) . For cheap , harsh , unbranded teas , 3 minutes seems to be enough unless the leaves are finely chopped . Also , as bonus knowledge , steeping tea for 45 seconds then throwing away the water and resteeping it is a great way to decaffeinate tea . Do n't shake the tea bag or stir the drink while steeping it , because it will cause the harsh stuff to enter water faster , and black tea should be steeped at 98 degrees C.
There is no single cut of meat that is universally used in Philadelphia . <URL> is common , and it may actually be the most traditional given the sandwich 's Italian origins ( top round is what is used in <URL> and <URL> ) . It is becoming more and more common to use <URL> , though , which is what is used in some of the most popular Philadelphian establishments ( e.g. , <URL> and <URL> ) , which makes sense given its higher fat content . As <URL> mentioned , you should be able to get your butcher to slice the meat into thin ( ~ 1mm ) pieces . If that is not possible , though , you can put an entire rib-eye roast into the freezer for a half hour or so . This will harden the meat without actually freezing it solid , and will make thinly slicing by hand much easier .
After a bit of googling , I found <URL> which suggests that searing twice ( both before and after ) might be preferable .
Full-size octopus are tough and rubbery when cooked , so the purpose of pre-cooking is to tenderize . According to <URL> , this can be done by hanging the octopus out to dry and then beating the crap out of it , but that sounds like more trouble than simply poaching . If your octopus is already cleaned ( i.e. ink sac , stomach , and beak removed ) then all you need to do is pop it into a covered pot on high heat - after a few minutes , it will give up a lot of its liquid . Turn the heat down to low , keep covered , and let it braise for at least an hour ( or more - a restaurant I used to work in that served octopus cooked it sous vide for a good 10 hours ) . If the pot starts to run dry , add a bit of water . You can also add flavoring agents like garlic , wine , herbs , etc. to the braise if you like or just let the octopus hang out in its own juices . After braising , you could either break down your octopus right away or bring it whole to the BBQ ( somewhat diminished in size , but still impressive ! ) and cut it up there . You will want to separate the tentacles from the body and cut the head sac into strips either way . If you leave it whole , it will cook unevenly because of the varying thickness of the flesh . Cook over the hottest part of the grill to finish , just to bring the flesh up to temperature and add a little char . Skewering the tentacles with a little olive oil and salt will work just fine , but the flavor is fairly mild if you did n't add anything to the braise so a sauce or glaze is a fine idea . That same restaurant got rave reviews with a simple sauce of olive oil , garlic , paprika , and a touch of sherry vinegar .
That depends on how large your oven is . I certainly could n't do 6 whole fish in mine , but then I have a 24 " wide oven . If you have a 36 " , it would be completely possible ( these are standard US sizes ; no idea what the equivalent would be in other countries ) . Your main adjustment will be dealing with the extra mass to be heated by the additional fish , which will cause the oven to take some additional time to reheat . Again , this depends on how hot ( BTU ) your oven is ; a hot oven would overcome the extra mass in a few minutes , but an underpowered ( for this purpose , anyway ) oven might take an additional 15 or more minutes , which would not be good for the texture of the fish . So , It Depends . If you have a fairly powerful , large , high-end stove , I 'd be ready to flip them at 10 minutes . Less powerful ovens will take longer . Also , if the fish are individually closer together than 1 " , you 'll have the issue that the edges of each fish will be soggy from the moisture of the fish next to it , and they wo n't get good texture . If they 're touching even slightly , they will stick together . You 'll also want to try to ensure some drainage in the pan , lest all of the liquid runoff collect under one fish and make it slimy .
To answer your question about pressure cooker vs pan cooking , the answer is ... it depends . You 're right about the pressure cooker speeding things up . And if your recipe is pretty basic , you probably wo n't notice much of a difference in flavor between your pressure cooker method and a slow pan cooking . But if there are a lot of spices and time for flavors to meld , maybe even different spices added over the cooking time , then the slow pan method is going to make a difference . While the pressure cooker will make things cook faster , it wo n't necessarily make the flavors extract dramatically quicker , so you may find that the flavor has n't really peaked in the shorter cooking time . Or if you expect wine , for instance , to permeate into the meat , it will do more of that over a longer cooking time , than the short , but more intense time that your food spends in a pressure cooker . An easy way to decide might be to think about if you have one of those recipes that is " better the next day " . That recipe is likely to benefit from the low slow pan cooking . In the end , your best bet is to make it twice , in a reasonably short space of time , and then decide for yourself . But there are some days when you just need to get the food on the table , and as you 've experienced , the pressure cooker is one of the greatest kitchen time savers I know .
You can combine it with practically everything , so the question is somewhat broad . So my answer is equally broad : rice pairs well with fresh tastes and acidity , or with moderately sweet components . Or you can just underline its own slightly nutty notes . Below is a list of specific examples , but it is impossible to make it exhaustive . For fresh tastes , use herbs . Summer savoury and spearmint are the classics , I never make stuffed peppers without them . But other light tasting herbs are also a good choice - lemon balm , oregano . Rosmarin is sometimes good , but somewhat overpowering , it is better for a dish where the rice is cooked together with veggies ( eggplant , zucchini ) . Beside herbs , you can try more exotic seasonings . Lemon zests are good , finelly chopped grape leaves and shoots are great . Coriander powder should give you a similar taste profile to cilantro , but it is easier to keep at hand for when a quick dinner without much planning is needed . The sweet option is also interesting ; if you do n't overdo it , it is OK to serve it as a side dish for a savoury meal . The easiest way to achieve it is to cook the rice together chopped dry fruit . Sulfured raisins are popular , the dish will be somewhat si milar to pilaf . But others work too , I especially like dried apricots because they are slightly tart . Other methods for sweetening do n't really fall into the " dry seasoing " category , but are worth mentioning . You can add fruit juice to the cooking water ( apple or other slightly sour juices are best ; this will affect the starch in the rice , causing it to cook firmer than usual ) or you can add a small amount of sweetener to the cooked rice ( prefer aromatic sweeteners lik honey or C grade maple syrup ) . Or if you prefer it spicier , mix it with a sweet chutney , like mango . If you want a subtler taste , combine the rice with nuts ( cook them together ) . Always use nuts with the brown skin removed . I have found unroasted , finely chopped nuts to work better this way . Hazelnuts and almonds are a very good choice . Para nuts also pair well with rice , but are seldom availablr blanched + chopped . This works especially well if you use the parfrying method for the rice , frying in the oil of the nut used . However , I do n't know if you can parfry rice in a rice cooker , I always make mine on the stove .
Sounds like the technique for <URL> , from <URL> , only with hot sauce added . I do n't think it has a name other than " pan fry/sear in caramelized sugar "
If you want to do as much ahead of time as possible you have a couple of choices . You can definitely peel the sweet potatoes the day before and store them under water , but I would n't recommend slicing them . If they are sliced thinly enough for gratin they 're going to absorb a lot of water which will ruin the flavour . You can make the cream etc. mix up the day before though . The alternative is to make the whole gratin up the day before and keep it in the fridge uncooked and covered . This will mean some of the cream is soaked up overnight and you 'll get a very soft finish , but that might be what you want . Sweet potato does n't hold as much texture as potatoes during cooking anyway so the difference might turn out to be negligible .
When I was a kid , we used to run over them with the car . Put a bunch in the driveway and drive over them so they got a single pass from a tire . That usually crushed a few beyond help , but just split the majority open nicely . They were still a lot of trouble to pick from the hulls , and ultimately not very nice to eat , IMO .
I believe it depends on the source of the leaves . Kuding can be made from both a wax tree species and a holly species . I do not know about the wax tree , but teas made from holly do contain caffeine ( Yerba mate , for example ) .
end question
start question
Court-bouillon : Why delay adding the wine and vinegar ?
Court-bouillon is an old French broth designed for subtle seafood dishes ( crayfish/lobster etc. ) . There is no " standard " for it The finished product should have a note of the wine and vinegar ( make sure you use a good quality wine and vinegar ) If you add the wine and vinegar too early they may have time to overly react with the other ingredients and make their flavours too strong ( ethanol and acids strip good and bad flavours from vegetables and herbs ) . If you add it to late it may have an overly powerful smell of wine and vinegar The simple trick is to add it nearer the end , and gently simmer for longer if the smell is too intense
Freshly grated horseradish is going to lose some of its potency within minutes , let alone a few hours . Isothiocyanate , the hot chemical in horseradish , wasabi and mustard , aerosolizes extremely rapidly , which is why your eyes water just standing over it . So you ca n't preserve all of its potency . The best way to maximize potency while storing it for a day is to make sure it has as little contact with air as possible , and to refrigerate it . Vacumm-packing will do this , as well as simply finding a very small container you can fill to the top with grated horseradish and then seal . If you have access to argon or other neutral gas wine oxidation preventors , then it might be interesting to experiment with them . If you were storing it for a longer period , I would recommend vacuum-packing and freezing , but not for just a day .
I 'd like to refer you to my answer to the question about <URL> , from which I 'll summarize the relevant parts : Typical cast iron corrodes at a pH lower than 4.3 ; pure white vinegar ( 5 % ) has a pH of 2.4 and wine is around 3.2 to 3.8 . If you plan to use either of these in cast iron , you 'd better make sure they are heavily diluted , otherwise you may actually ruin your pot in addition to getting a pretty hefty iron supplement with your meal . Cast iron is still somewhat reactive at borderline pH ranges , i.e. tomato juice or sauce . It 'll leach out about 5 mg of iron for every 3 oz / 88 mL of liquid for typical cooking times . The typical human needs to ingest significantly more than 45 mg over a period of several days to become toxic , so it 's generally considered OK and even healthy to cook dilute tomato solutions in cast iron , but wine and vinegar are another story . Do n't fill your cast-iron cookware with wine or vinegar . A splash for sauce or deglazing is OK , but tossing a significant amount straight into the pan undiluted will ruin your cookware , and your health . P.S. Note that enameled cast iron ( Le Creuset , etc. ) is less reactive ; the specifics depend on the brand . If you have this type of cast iron , I suggest doing your homework before taking the risk .
Grain is a measurement of the acidity of the vinegar . It is the acidity percentage multiplied by 10 , so 45 grain vinegar would be 4.5 % acidity .
Yes . If you would n't drink it , do n't cook with it . Whatever it tastes like out of the bottle , it will add that to the dish . Cook with a wine you might pair with the dish ( light wines for seafood , chicken ; heavier wines for meats and stews ) . Do n't use a fruity wine unless you want your dish to have some fruit notes . Do n't use a very dry wine if you 're making a sweeter dish .
The proteins in a fresh egg are too viscous , even when thoroughly beaten , to wash a baked good . The water thins the proteins so you get a nice glaze instead of a layer of scrambled egg . Older eggs have sometimes degraded enough that they do n't need the water but it is easier to always add water than to make a subjective judgement on the state of your egg proteins .
I do n't think so . ( I also assume that you are talking about dry red wines . ) You let the wine breathe to allow 1 ) things that need to evaporate to leave , 2 ) some air to be dissolved in wine . Which is why wine tastes so different before and after you allow it to breathe . However , when you put the cork back and open the bottle again in a day or two , or even a week , the processes that ages wine for months and years does not have enough time to " unbreathe " the liquid ( consume all oxygen and replenish the substances that evaporate during breathing ) . Which is why I pour immediately from a previously opened bottle and let the wine stay in wineglass for a few minutes .
While almost every fruit and berry contains right yeasts on its peel , according to <URL> article people prefer to make wine from grape due to right acidity , sugar and tannins contents . I also can assume the grape was easier to process manually at almost every stage from collecting to juicing .
It probably wo n't hurt you , but I would n't risk it , just in case . Glazes for food containers are unlikely to contain lead , but may have other metals that are harmful in sufficient quantities . These include cadmium , barium , cobalt , strontium , chromium , and in the case of some older orange ceramic , URANIUM . Blue glaze is probably copper or cobalt based . I found a <URL> on ScienceDirect about high blood cobalt levels in association with lead poisoning from glazed Greek earthenware . This indicates that cobalt can indeed be leached out of the glaze and absorbed into the body . Cobalt is eliminated rapidly , but is moderately posionous , and copper is problematic in large quantities . Which brings this back to where I started : it wo n't kill you , and probably wo n't make you sick , but it 's not really worth the risk . File it in the same category as eating egg salad left out in the heat a few hours ? One other caution : prolonged contact with acid may damage and discolor your formerly handsome crock , in addition to leaching out these metals . To check for this , you can leave white vinegar in the container for a week or so , checking for change in color of the vinegar and the container every day .
The air pressure is lower at higher altitudes ; when you add extra flour to your baked goods , it prevents them from rising too quickly or too much . ETA ( about the water ) : Water boils at a lower temperature at higher altitudes , so the extra water called for in high-altitude baking is to compensate for all the water turning to steam faster than it would at sea level .
It depends on how long the soup cooks for and whether you soak the barley or not . If the soup is going to cook for a couple of hours , you can just add unsoaked barley with everything else . Or you can soak the barley and add it towards the end of cooking . If the soup is going to be cooked relatively quickly , you should soak the barley and add it with everything else . Soaked barley ( soaked for a couple of hours ) needs to be cooked for about 30 minutes . It also depends on how soft you like the barley to be . Some people like it to near-disintegrate , some prefer it a little al dente .
I would check the recipe and see how much stock that requires , and then compare that to how much stock your bouillon cubes make . If it 's close , you 're probably fine . This assumes you make standard stock before using the cube , of course , and not concentrate . Does the recipe give any other clues ? If you ca n't get any joy this way , I 'd suggest you just guess , erring on the side of bland , and taste as you go .
Sugar does not cause sour food to be any less acidic . The difference is purely one of perception ; we are wired by evolution to prefer sweet tastes and tend to perceive less of other tastes when a high sugar concentration is present . Sugar does not ionize - it is not basic or acidic . Acidity itself is a chemical property , and only a base ( such as baking soda or trisodium citrate ) can actually neutralize it . Two other compounds - <URL> and <URL> - actually alter our mouth chemistry and really do cause sour foods to taste sweet , without actually sweetening the food itself . But plain sugar does nothing at all - there is no chemical reaction happening . It 's just masking other tastes , not neutralizing them . The reason sugar does n't mask bitterness as effectively as sourness is that sweet and sour have roughly similar taste thresholds , while most humans are extremely sensitive to bitter tastes . We can detect quinine ( the reference solute for bitterness ) in solution at 0.5 ppm , whereas sucrose is n't normally detectable at levels below 5000 ppm . The amount of sugar needed to mask a significant bitter taste is simply not practical . If you want to neutralize a bitter taste , <URL> .
If the problem you 're having is that it is too watery ( I assume that 's what you mean by " too thin " ) , there might be two causes : The recipe you linked to calls for a sizable amount of stock/broth , relative to the wine . It might be assuming that you have something closer to homemade stock , which has a high concentration of gelatin , as opposed to store-brought " broth " , which is more like meat-flavoured juice . You might not have reduced it enough . A " thin layer " could mean anything , but it 's not thickness you 're concerned about , it 's viscosity . When the sauce has been reduced enough , it should have the consistency of ... sauce . As in thick , sticky , and slow-moving . If it still looks and pours like water , it 's not reduced enough . On the subject of taste , there 's also the question of which wine you use . The wine sauce is going to taste like the wine ( stronger , actually ) , which is one of the reasons why chefs will tell you not to cook with any wine that you would n't drink . It 's pretty easy to make a reduction - just continue to let water boil off until it turns into the consistency you want . If you overdo it , you can always add a little extra wine to compensate . As noted in the comment clarification - if you 're simmering at a reasonable temperature , expect to wait at least an hour , and for no less than half the water to evaporate .
No , it wo n't change the aroma compared to conventional heating . Generally , heating does change aroma . But it changes in the same way in conventional heating and in microwave heating ( given that you heat to the same internal temperature , which can be very different time and power settings for different types of heating devices ) . What microwaves change is texture . That 's why the microwave is considered " a horrible thing " among chefs . You ca n't bake doughs or batters in it , and other things like vegetables can also suffer . Then there is the problem with uneven heating . None of these factors matter with liquids . You can warm milk , wine , whatever , in the microwave , without fearing a taste change .
Meat is pounded as a mechanical means of tenderizing by damaging the connective tissues . It also makes the meat thinner and flatter , which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly . Pound tougher meats ( cheaper steaks ) , and meats of uneven thickness ( chicken breasts ) . Avoid pounding the bones in the meat . You do n't want little pieces of bone chipping off into meal . Do n't pound already tender pieces ( premium cuts , dry aged steaks ) . Think tenderize , not pulverize . You should not be making any holes in it . If you 're going to marinate , do that after pounding . Wrapping the meat in wax paper first will help prevent a big mess . Do both sides of the meat .
Texture is the main reason , but if you 're going to be blending the sauce , there can be off-flavors from cracking open the seeds . Even if you do n't blend it , they can be these slippery little things that I never much liked growing up . To reduce the amount of waste , you can : cook the sauce , then put it through a food mill to strip out the seeds and skins , thus keeping you from wasting the gel around the seeds . freeze the peeled skins , to save for when you 're next going to be making vegetable stock . collect the seeds and gel , then put it into a muslin bag and hang to let drip to extract ' tomato water ' . ( you typically use crushed tomatoes for this ... I do n't know for sure if the gel will go through the muslin ) . Tomato water is strange as it gives good tomato flavor , without the red color .
A latte is similar to a cappuccino but with different proportions . It 's unsurprising that a similar method and equipment would be used . Cappuccino needs steamed milk to get the froth , so a coffee bar machine has a steam pipe . To boil the milk for a latte would require an extra piece of equipment and the associated space . Is perfectly possible to make an espresso-based drink with milk heated on the stove or in a microwave , that would be a close approximation to a latte -- possibly indistinguishable . But if you boil the milk , it will change the flavour .
There are several factors that increase price . Some are related to the objective quality of the wine , some indirectly linked , other are rather disconnected from quality ( but not necessarily irrelevant , as we 'll see ) . It 's also worth noting that being of high quality does n't necessarily mean being appealing to the average consumer . Apart from the stuff listed below , mass-market wines tend to be made in a non-challenging , easily accessible style . Lower tannin levels , less acidity and a generous amount of residual sugar ( say 10-30g / l ) makes for easy quaffing but little complexity or elegance . They can be very well-made , but the agriculture may not be very sustainable , and the fruit probably is n't of the highest quality . ( If you visit a winery at harvest when they bring in the bulk wine fruit , the meaning of " quality " becomes rather apparent . ) Wines targeted at connoisseurs , wine snobs and wine geeks ( such as yours truly ) tend have more structure ( tannins , acidity ) and are more often completely dry ( although there are of course high-quality off-dry , semi-sweet , and sweet wines ) . There 's a limit to how much a producer can spend to increase quality , a limit which varies with location ( because of salaries for workers etc ) but around $ 100 per bottle is probably in the right order of magnitude . This does not mean that all wines above this magical limit are equally good , though . A dirt-cheap wine will also have a cost associated to it which will be payed for by someone else , like under-payed harvest workers , the environment around the vineyard , etc. . Below are some factors that have a more or less direct link to wine quality and/or character : Yield per acre : Limiting the vineyard 's yield per acre ( which can be achieved by sparser planting , thinning / <URL> , old vines , etc ) increases the quality of the fruit , but you will produce less wine with more or less the same amount of work , which means you 'll have to adjust the price . Number of harvesting tries : At harvest , you can pick all the fruit of one vineyard at the same time and be done with it . Unfortunately , not all bunches ripen at exactly the same time , so to avoid over - or under-ripe grapes , you can make multiple tries ( French , pronounced " trees " ) over several days and pick each bunch at optimal ripeness . More tries inevitably means more work , and so , price increases . Selection : When the harvest is brought in , you can throw all the fruit into the press , or you can select the best grapes to make your wine ( and make brandy or a <URL> of the discarded grapes , or sell them on to a bulk wine producer ) . Being picky reduces the amount of wine produced , and so , prices increase . Drying : Some wines , like <URL> and <URL> , are made from partially dried grapes , and drying decreases the amount of wine you produce ( apart from being extra work ) which means - more expensive wine . Sparkling : Sparkling wines made with the <URL> - like <URL> and <URL> - need to be disgorged after bottle fermentation , which leads to a certain amount of waste ( a Cava producer I talked to said that around 10 % of the original wine is lost in disgorgement ) . Oak aging : Many wines are <URL> , which greatly affects the character of the wine compared to other types of containers , like concrete or stainless steel vats . ( More oak does n't mean better wine , of course . ) Oak barrels are horribly more expensive than the alternatives ( and European oak is more expensive than American , and they impart different character ) , and so , the more oak you use , the more expensive the wine gets . Aging in general : Most high-quality wine receive a bit of aging before consumption to let all components integrate ; some designations of origin even require aging prior to selling . <URL> Gran Reserva , for example , must be aged at least three years , with at least one of those years being on oak , while vintage <URL> is mandated to rest three years on the <URL> , etc. . Apart from time being money , you also need a suitable storage location ( cool and humid but not too cool and humid , secure but accessible to yourself , etc ) which is far from free . The price increases . Other factors are n't causally linked to higher quality , but tend to be connected : Reputation : If you 're an unproven winemaker you will be able to charge more if you 're operating in a district of high repute than if you 're working in an area where no-one has made quality wine before . Conversely , a well-known , high-quality producer expanding their operations to a somewhat less proven district will likely be able to charge more than their new neighbours . Brand : Marketing can take many forms , such as it advertising , tailoring wines to suit <URL> , and tends to push prices up . Wineries can even try <URL> . You can also be lucky and find some great , undiscovered producer ( do n't tell anyone ! except me , that is ) selling their wines at more-or-less cost price ( which probably still wo n't be dirt cheap , though ) . Land prices : Some spots are better for growing grapes . If you 're in
No , it 's not . White vinegar ( also known as distilled vinegar ) is made of acetic acid diluted in distilled water . Its flavor is simple -- its just sour . Typical concentrations range from 5 -- 7 % acetic acid . White wine vinegar is made by allowing white wine to turn to vinegar . It has a much more complex flavor profile . It is also frequently less sour ( acidic ) than distilled white vinegar .
end question
start question
What is the purpose of nutritional yeast ?
This product is new to me , but it looks interesting . The flavour of <URL> is described in Wikipedia : Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty , cheesy , or creamy , which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes . It is often used by vegans in place of parmesan cheese . Nutritional yeast is a so called <URL> . A complete protein ( or whole protein ) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals . This also explains why it is popular among vegans , that needs to replace the amino acids in meat with alternative food sources .
There are three major things that will cause collapsed yeast raised breads : Underdeveloped gluten ( possibly from insufficient kneading ) , which does n't create enough of the gluten network to hold the gas from the yeast , especially during oven spring . This may be exacerbated by using low-protein flours , which do not generate as much gluten as high-protein flours ( called strong flours in Europe ) . This tends not to manifest as a collapse , so much , as a failure to rise . Considerable overkneading , to the point where the gluten network begins to break down , and can not hold the gas ( this is quite unlikely , unless machine kneaded ) Over-proofing ( allowing to rise or ferment too long ) , which creates more gas than the gluten cells can hold , leading to their rupture and collapse when the heat of the oven causes expansion and oven spring . This leads to collapse of the loaf . Without more information , it is difficult to tell which of these you are experiencing .
You can proof your yeast to see if its still alive : Heat approx . 1/2 cup ( 100ml ) of water to about 115 ° F ( 45 ° C ) . Add a tablespoon ( 10g ) or so of sugar , stir . Water should still be above 105 ° F ( 40 ° C ) . Add a teaspoon of yeast , stir . Within 5 minutes or so , the mixture should be thoroughly foamy . If its not thoroughly foamy , yeast is bad ( dead ) , dispose of it . ( Note : Metric conversions above are rounded , just like the imperial units . Do n't use these conversions for baking , but proofing yeast does n't need anything exact . )
Flimzy , If you use a lot of maple syrup , you wo n't need to refrigerate it ; it 'll keep at room temperature ( depending on the temperature of your room ) for a few weeks . Repeated heating and cooling , in my long experience with pure maple syrup at home , does not affect the flavor or color of the syrup . This makes sense when you realize that maple syrup is boiled for hours in its manufacture . However , it can cause the syrup to crystallize , and I have n't found a good easy way to decrystallize syrup ( the hard way is dissolving it in water and boiling it down again ) . For this reason , I only heat up the amount of syrup I intend to use at a time . I am not a food safety expert ; I 'm just speaking from my experience at home .
Honeycomb can be made with honey or molasses but the flavor will not be the same . There is n't a US equivalent - we have molasses , but it 's darker . You can substitute corn syrup in recipes where it is n't the principal ingredient , but here that would not work . That being said , my local grocery store has a British food section which carries golden syrup . You probably do n't have to substitute , you just need to find it in your local grocer .
Specifically , the reason you whisk it in slowly at first is to create small drops . If you just dump the oil in fast , it will adhere to itself and make it impossible to break up into droplets dispersed in the vinegar ( or other water based liquid , such as lemon juice ) . This is the definition of an emulsion : tiny droplets of one liquid evenly dispersed in another . Once you 've got the emulsion started , you can pour in the oil a bit faster because the already suspended droplets reduce the room for a big blob of oil to form , and act sort of as " sandpaper " to break up the incoming stream as you whisk .
Sugar syrup of such high concentration has practically the same shelf life as candy . You do n't have to refrigerate it . Bacteria practically ca n't live in it . You can keep it for months , and it expires because its taste goes off at some point , not because it becomes unsafe . If something goes wrong and the sugar concentration is n't high enough after all , the first thing which will colonize your syrup will be mould . It is very visible , and you will be able to just throw it out . No need to worry that you eat normally-looking product teeming with pathogens ( which is the largest problem in food safety ) .
Baking soda also raises the PH of the product resulting in better browning . Soda can be left out . Many recipes - especially for chewier cookies - do n't call for any leavening besides the eggs . <URL> Cookie recipes often call for the dough to be chilled so that it spreads less in the oven before it sets . This creates a taller , less crispy cookie . Cookie recipes do n't typically have very much water in them for the soda to dissolve into . Much of the water is tied up in the butter and wo n't be available until the dough melts in the oven .
I go into a lot of detail regarding steakhouse quality steaks in <URL> . Excerpt : Any steak you buy in the grocery store is minimally wet aged . The finest steakhouses dry age their beef . The difference ? Wet aging consists of simply vacuum packing the meat ( as in a whole side of cow ) and refrigerating it for about a week . After that , it 's cut smaller and sold to stores . Dry aging is a more complicated and expensive process . Dry aged beef is hung for at least two weeks in a refrigerator . Moisture in the meat is allowed to escape and evaporate , which concentrates the beef flavor of the beef . The beef also grows a moldy rind which is cut off and thrown away . After the aging is complete you 're left with 75-80 % of the meat you started with . This commands a premium price . Please note that the dry aging happens long before you purchase the steak . The entire cow is dry aged before it is even cut . You can not truly , safely dry-age steaks in your home . There are refrigerator aging approximations , but they are just that , approximations .
What you are looking for is called wholemeal flour . Here 's a quick US to UK baking translation guide . US on the left , UK on the right : All-purpose flour = plain flour bread flour = strong flour ( both have extra gluten ) whole wheat flour = wholemeal flour 1 stick of butter is 113g ( get a scale , trust me ) 1 large egg = 1 medium egg
The ultimate goal of ice cream is a creamy texture . You could take those same ingredients and freeze them in a paper cup and make a fantastic mango popsicle . Popsicles and slushies are not nearly as magical as ice cream . Creaminess in ice cream is achieved by keeping the ice crystals as small as possible . The bigger the crystals the more grainy the texture . There are two good ways to prevent large ice crystals from forming : Reducing the amount of available water and mechanically destroying the crystals . The ice crystals are reduced mechanically by churning or in your recipe by blending - but this is an answer for a different question . Reduce the amount of available water . Many ingredients in ice cream will tie up some of the water and prevent it from coalescing into monolithic crystals . Alcohol and sugar are used in sorbets Gums , such as carageenan and xanthan gum , are used in commercial ice cream Egg custards are used in French style ice cream Starch gels tie up free water in Italian Gelato Large quantities of fat Removing water from the recipe , and sometimes replacing it with fat , will go a long way towards making creamier ice cream . The condensed milk in your recipe is a convenience . Using milk that has had a lot of the water removed means that there will be more fat and less water in your ice cream . This will make it much easier to make your ice cream creamy . You could use regular milk but you would be relying on your blender to chop up the large crystals that would inevitably form . If the canned milk is too expensive , and if you have some time , you could reduce your milk yourself and get the same effect .
As for judging crumb , my favorite two terms used by German Meister Bakers are juicy ( saftig ) and woolly ( wollig ) . The first , praise for tarter breads such as sour rye ; the second for toast bread and lunch rolls . An unflattering term would be cotton ( Baumwolle ) for flavorless and dry fluff .
The primary purpose is for flavor . If it 's the expense of a large bottle for a few tablespoons here and there you should be able to buy the mini bottles ( as are served on airplanes ) from a local liquor store . If you do n't want to use or have it around due to issues with alcohol then look for other items that have as similar flavor to substitute . Sherry has a sweet nutty flavor to it and apple juice can often work suitably well . Keep in mind you 'll probably not find an exact flavor match but it can be close . A small amount of orange extract could be used in place of grand marnier . Depending on the item , you might also try flavored syrups that are used for coffee drinks . Remember that these have a lot of sugar in them so you 'll need to compensate by cutting back on sugar elsewhere in the recipe and obviously do n't use them where the sweet flavor would n't be welcome .
Trying to get to the bottom of the issue , I decided to take a few pictures of a few different types of salt . The pictures shown below were taken by me and are all proportional ( the camera was the same distance away from each type of salt , so you are getting an accurate size comparison ) . The picture illustrates my suspicions , which is the difference is the surface area ( ignoring of course mineral content and different types of grinding salt ) . Standard table salt is a compact little cube , effective when it 's to be dissolved in a liquid , but not so much when it comes to direct contact with the taste buds . Place one cube on your tongue and you get 1/6th of the surface area in contact , meaning , a lot of salt without much saltiness . Sea salt , with a more rectangular shape is closer to 1/4th the surface area touching your tongue . Ground salt is more like shards of glass , so nearly half of the exposed area could be in contact making things taste that much more salty . Also with a much finer texture , you are left with many more particles in a wider area , meaning , a saltier taste with less salt . It 's a good way of finishing a dish when the salt is going to be lightly dusted on top or mixed with an oil where it will not dissolve at all . When you are dissolving it in a liquid , it really makes little difference which type you use . When it comes down to it , it 's all about how picky you want to be with it .
According to <URL> , a very common yeast brand in the US : The strip contains three packets ; each packet in the strip is considered one package . Each package contains 1/4 oz . or 2 1/4 teaspoons of yeast . This is approximately 7 grams , or 11 ml . This is representative of all of the US brands .
Surprisingly high -- <URL> can be emulsified by a single egg yolk . In addition to the site linked , I 've seen similar experiments by Kenji Lopez-Alt and James Petersen . So if your mayonnaise refuses to emulsify , it 's NOT because it does n't have enough egg yolks .
They 're likely referring to di-ammonium phosphate , which is used in wine making and mead brewing , as it provides nitrogen to accelerate the yeast growth . I found a site giving <URL> as a replacement , but it might be easier ( and safer ) to just go to a shop that specializes in brewing or wine making supplies and getting the right stuff . ( I have no idea how expensive it is , as I 've never done it ) Your other option would be to find an alternate recipe that does n't call for it ... it might take longer to brew , though .
Coffee beans will retain their essential oils and flavor compounds longest if stored in a dry , dark , airtight container . Refrigeration and freezing are therefore not desirable options since they will almost always cause moisture to form on the surface of the beans . Note that for the first couple weeks after the coffee has been roasted it will naturally release a lot of carbon dioxide , so the airtight container must have some sort of one-way vent valve to let the gas out . Therefore , the pre-sealed coffee bags that are now ubiquitous in stores are ideal since they have a built-in one-way valve . There are also some <URL> that have a small pump to pump out the air once or twice a day . Once the beans are roasted , their essential flavor compounds quickly start to degrade . Therefore , do not buy beans unless you know their roasting date . If stored in ideal conditions , the beans should remain in peak condition for two or three months .
The baking powder undergoes a chemical reaction which produces small gas bubbles in the batter . The bubbles break up the batter coating ( sort of like the geometry inside a sponge ) so you wind up with a mass of little holes each surrounded by a thin layer of bready material , and it all fries up airy , light and crispy ; instead of one thick , dense , hard shell of cooked paste around your cauliflower bits .
I think you 've answered your own question . It adds an elusive flavor that most people feel enhances the creamy flavors .
end question
start question
My soup tastes tart ... Is it safe to eat ?
I would not eat any soup containing meat more than a day or two after it was cooked , and certainly not if it smelled suspicious . The logic with this kind of thing is simple . If you have any doubts , chuck it out . Not getting food poisoning is worth losing a little soup over .
Maybe I 'm wrong , but there is no safety risk at all when boiling old water . There is however something like taste . The reason the old water is discarded is because , after boiling , it lacks oxygen and will taste stale . This is also the reason why coffee is made with 95ºC hot water , or why Moroccan tea is poured from above ( to oxygenate ) ... So , as long as you boil it before drinking it should be safe .
Yes , those spots are normal , they form as the nattou ages . They are amino acid crystals , and they are perfectly safe . Here 's a picture . They 're a bit crunchy , which you may or may not like . If you do n't like the dots , get young nattou and consume it before the crystals form . If you do like them , get more mature nattou . With younger nattou , you should be able to store it opened in the fridge for a few days before the crystals start to form . As you have experienced though , once they start , they grow quickly .
Pasteurized milk is the standard way milk is sold in industrialized countries . How it 's packaged can depend on the country but it 's perfectly safe to drink provided it 's consumed by the " use by " date . <URL> : Pasteurization ( American English ) or pasteurisation ( British English ) is a process invented by French scientist Louis Pasteur during the nineteenth century . In 1864 Pasteur discovered that heating beer and wine just enough to kill most of the bacteria that caused spoilage prevented these beverages from turning sour . This was achieved by eliminating pathogenic microbes and lowering microbial numbers to prolong the quality of the beverage . Today the process of pasteurization is used widely in the dairy and food industries for microbial control and preservation of the food we consume . Pasteurization is the reason for milk 's extended shelf life . High-temperature , short-time ( HTST ) pasteurized milk typically has a refrigerated shelf life of two to three weeks , whereas ultra-pasteurized milk can last much longer , sometimes two to three months . When ultra-heat treatment ( UHT ) is combined with sterile handling and container technology ( such as aseptic packaging ) , it can even be stored unrefrigerated for up to 9 months . This means that most of the microbes in the milk are killed and the milk is perfectly safe to drink right out of the carton . In fact , there are many jokes in the US about chastising teenage boys and young men about drinking directly from the carton/jug of milk . Milk in the US is regularly consumed direct from the gallon jug , see the note under Vitamin D that says " Pasteurized &amp; Homogenized " : Milk in Europe is often in <URL> cartons which do n't have to be stored in the fridge until opened and generally have a longer shelf life due to the UHT handling ( see definition above ) :
If it 's pure silver , it 's fine . Silver is n't toxic . Well ... if you get some colloidial silver , and you dose yourself with it every day , you 'll have some disturbing symptoms . The same is true of almost all metals . Iron pills , for example , are worse , but we commonly cook with cast iron . Metallic silver is sometimes used as a chelating agent , so it can purge your body of other metals you may have absorbed . If its heirloom electroplated silver , it 's probably still fine . If it 's heirloom pewter , coated in copper , then electroplated with silver , its still fine ( because pewter does n't tarnish , so the tarnish is either silver or copper ) but I would n't eat anything acidic with it , because it 'll leech lead into your food . Note : There is no way you have pewter . That was a joke .
It 's safe because freezing greatly slows ( if not completely arrests ) the growth of the bacteria that would otherwise make the meat spoil . It does n't kill them , it just puts them in ' stasis ' . The expiration date is given based on the meat only being refrigerated . If you intend to store the meat past its expiration date , best practice is to freeze the meat ASAP , and to use it within 24 hours of defrosting . The main hazard is in that defrosting . At no point should the chicken ( any part thereof ) be at room temperature for more than 2 hours . The safest method is to defrost the meat slowly in the fridge . You can also defrost it under cold running water , providing you keep it under the 2 hour mark . Of course , you can also cook the meat straight from frozen . There is absolutely nothing wrong with doing this for small cuts like chicken breasts . Slicing and cooking a partially defrosted chicken breast is perfectly safe , especially as it often easier to make really thin strips with semi-solid meat . You just have to be extra careful that the meat is at a safe temperature ( 170 ° F/75 ° C ) .
Of course if an item is spoiled this means you should throw out anything that contains the spoiled item . However , based on your description , I have an alternative hypothesis . Brown discoloration in fruit does not mean the fruit is spoiled . Discoloration can be normal , especially if there was no unusual smells or changes in texture in the lemon . You said the lemon still appeared fresh on the outside . The more likely scenario is that the bitterness is from the lemon rind itself . The white pith underneath the outer bright yellow layer of the lemon rind is very bitter . If you go too deep while zesting a lemon your dish can easily be ruined by nasty bitterness . Only scrape the outer yellow surface when zesting a lemon . This can be quite challenging and takes some practice before you start zesting like an expert . Without a further description of the lemon , it is impossible to say whether it is spoiled or not ( it very well could be ) , but even if it was I doubt the spoiled lemon is causing bitterness ( it would probably cause a different but equally undesirable flavor ) .
Raw eggs are actually a lot safer than said to be believed , especially in recipes such as this one . Rocky <URL> all the time ! haha So please feel free to make the mousse and eat it too ! Although cooking them almost always kills bacteria if they reach 150 degrees Fahrenheit . The most dangerous part about using eggs is something that many of us were taught to do at a young age , separating the yolk . Most people separate the yolk by cracking the egg and pouring it back and forth between the two egg shell halves . This is the easiest way to spread salmonella because it can hide on the egg shell or in the pores inside the egg . One thing to never do is wash an egg . They are washed after they are laid and a new barrier is put on by the egg company , some sort of hardened mineral I think . Washing the egg will make your situation worse by destroying this new man made barrier . For the last part of your question I suggest not feeding your baby and thing that has a small percent chance to have any bacteria , such as mousse , because their immune system is still developing . I would also choose not to feed your baby anything high in sugar , thats what Grandma is for later in life . The baby 's tastes are forming now and veggies are the way to go with that . Need to teach them to like good for them foods . They like sweet stuff when they are born so they do n't need to learn how to like those . Hope I helped !
If it 's refrigerated , it 'll last for at least a week , as long as you did n't pre-dairy it . Unrefrigerated , I would n't trust it for more than a day . Coffee is a crappy growth medium and it should start out the next best thing to sterile , but , even covered , its going to start to get moldy . Obviously if you add dairy , then you 're dealing with that dairy shelf-life , and that is n't very long at all .
My initial guess was that there may be too much salt for the butter when it is at room temperature . However , 6-10 % salt content is considered ideal with respect to curbing bacterial growth , as well as the retention and preserving the integrity of flavor . I highly doubt that your butter is salted to such a high degree that it would actually Lacking further information , here are a few explanations Precipitant from within , due to high buttermilk content : One purpose of salting is to remove buttermilk . Perhaps you are using a high buttermilk butter , and as <URL> , if the butter was not properly worked relative to salt content you may be seeing either buttermilk or casein precipitant on the surface . Also , the buttermilk may not have been well washed out . Precipitant from within , due to improper salt/water mixology : Salt should be worked into butter around 58 ' F , " theoretically butter containing 15 % of water should be able to dissolve 5.4 % of salt " <URL> . It is possible that ( 1 ) the temperature was not sufficiently high ( i.e. to address addition of sea salt as opposed to table salt ) to turn the salt into solution , or ( 2 ) the carrying capacity of the water was exceeded and salt crystals remained , or ( 3 ) the churning cycles were not sufficiently long to incorporate the crystals . These three things would contribute to higher reactivity in the butter than if it were properly dissolved . See explanation of Mottled Butter below for more info . Precipitant from without , due to non-ideal elements in sea salt : Another explanation is that your sea salt had a high concentration of <URL> . Did you perhaps buy Mottled Butter ; Mottled butter is butter which is Uneven in color This unevenness in color may be due to several different causes . It may be due to specks of curd ( speckled butter ) and it may be due to certain organisms ( dappled butter ) . These causes of mottled butter are not very common in factories where the manufacture of butter is properly carried on . The most common fault of mottled butter is the improper incorporation of salt and the presence of an excessive amount of buttermilk . Mottled butter caused in this way is common ... Whenever there is undissolved granular salt present the moisture is attracted and the color deepened at that particular place <URL> My guess based on the maount of information you gave about the butter ( has sea salt , sweats at room temperature ) is not that anyone of these answers is distinctly responsible , but that it is a confluence of the various factors resulting in a mild mottling ( perhaps imperceptible to the eye or the palate unless you eat the whole block in one go ) that is both attracting moisture from the air , and pressing it out of itself . I am guessing that if you find the liquid problematic ( i.e. does it have a funny taste/smell ? ) you can put it in the fridge and it will stop sweating/weeping . Otherwise , you run the standard risks of fats and proteins stored with a mild curing at room temperature .
Not safe enough for me to try it . Potatoes actually contain a very dangerous toxin called <URL> . This toxin is concentrated enough in the green parts in the plant to cause solanine poisoning . This includes the sprouts/eyes , and the potato itself if it 's green . This <URL> from the New York Times health guide indicates that it is something to be taken seriously . Per this article , if the sprouts have been removed , and the potato is not green then it is safe to eat as far as solanine poisoning is concerned . However , a potato as far gone as you have described sounds disgusting . A soft potato is on its way to going bad . Where I am from , potatoes are cheap enough that it 's just not worth the gross factor for me to eat a potato that has 10 cm sprouts and is squishy . I do eat potatoes that have little nub sprouts on them and that are slightly less than firm , after removing the sprouts of course .
Having just returned from Hawaii , I actually have a possible answer for you . There is a type of ginger that you can get there ( though it 's not all that common , far as I could tell ) that 's called blue ginger . It 's just like regular ginger , only it has the blue layer inside as you describe . There was a guy selling it at a roadside fruit stand when we were there . It should be absolutely safe to use . edit : I found a link to somebody talking about it . <URL>
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
Keep in mind that tap water is tested to ensure it 's safe for human consumption . Rainwater has no such requirement . While rainwater seems to be a happy-fuzzy natural resource , I 'd like to stress that this could be a serious safety issue . Yes , it seems unlikely , but you need an authority who knows their water . I suggest seeking out a professional opinion on how to properly filter rainwater . Possibly from the people who handle your municipal water supply .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
Before steaming the clams , they should all be closed . If any of your clams are open , give them a tap and if they stay open , then it is bad and you should take it out of your batch to prevent it from ruining the other clams . After you have steamed the clams , most of them should be open . The few clams that stay closed does n't necessarily mean they are bad . Take a thin knife and pry it apart . It 's very easy to tell if the clam is bad just by smell . Edit : After being called out on my fallacy to believe certain kitchen myths without further research , I learned that indeed it is a myth that clam/mussel that refuse to open after being cooked is unsafe to eat . A clam/mussel has a shell with two halves . These shells have elastic ligaments that naturally want to be open . To keep the shells closed , they have adductor muscles to hold the shells together . Most of the time the heat will denature the proteins in the adductor muscles causing it to release the shells . But sometimes it can cause the muscle to " seize " and hold firm . This article gives a background of how this kitchen myth started : <URL> Clam or Mussels that refuse to open after they have been cooked IS NOT an indicator that they are bad . Pry them open and it can easily be determined whether they are bad by the smell .
Are you using non-stick cookware ? Beware because there is a well-documented medical effect caused by the fumes released when various non-stick components are heated starting at about 300 ° F ( 149 ° C ) and beyond . <URL> You should always have something in a non-stick pan when it is over a flame .
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
OK - for my bona fides , I 'm a microbiologist and have made a career of quality control in food processing including meat processing so I know what I am talking about . There are two kinds of smoked pork chops , cold smoked and hot smoked . Cold smoked pork chops are n't heat processed , so they are n't cooked . They have the redder color and the more resilient , moister feel of raw meat . You are only apt to run into them in specialty meat markets or at small local butchers . These need to be cooked to 145F to be safe and palatable to eat . What you find in the grocery store and most meat markets is almost always hot smoked . It is heated during the smoking process and is fully cooked , just like a smoked ham . It looks and feels to the touch liked cooked meat . That sounds like what you have . If you are n't sure ask the butcher or meat department manager . They should know . If they do n't , buy your meat elsewhere . Having said all that , it is common to find the smoked pork chops in the meat case right alongside the raw pork . Being exposed to raw meat undoes the kill step the heat of cooking does to foodbourne microorganisms . Salmonella , e.coli and other organisms are easily transferred from utensils , trays and workers hands back onto the cooked meat . This could be done in the meat case , or in wrapped product it could happen in the back room where the chops are cut up and wrapped . Organisms that find their way onto the meat quickly grow and spread over the meat 's surface and may find their way into the interior of the cut through any break in its surface . Unless you are certain it has been factory wrapped , sealed and labelled rather than in the store you should treat it as raw meat and heat it to 145F before serving . At the least be sure the surface of the meat has been seared before serving . I just do n't trust the expertise and commitment to providing safe foods you are apt to find in a grocery store or butcher shop . On the other hand , if it looks like it came from a factory already sealed in plastic wrap I would feel certain it was processed on a line that only processes cooked meat and is promptly sealed . I would have no qualms about eating it cold right out of the package .
Butter can go bad . The oils will go rancid if exposed to too much light and heat for too long . This accelerates the process of oxidation , which happens even if you keep the butter in the fridge . Even in the fridge your butter will eventually go bad . Personally I follow the dates on all packages . I do so with an awareness that they usually tend to be conservative , which keeps me comfortable . Rancid butter in a taste test wo n't kill you , though . It 'll just taste bad . So you should be able to taste this butter to see if it is bad . While I recommend following the dates on packaging , here are signs that your butter has actually gone bad : discoloration melting ( which will happen outside of the fridge , you probably would n't see it ) sour smell sour and unusual taste
end question
start question
How to avoid the rhubarb teeth effect ?
Peel the rhubarb before cooking - you can strip off the outer skin from the stalks quite easily . That helps . EDIT : My wife told me to explain why . In Yorkshire , the rhubarb capital of the world , you can buy " forced rhubarb " , which has a tender pink skin because it is forced to grow up through dark tubes towards the light . Because " garden Rhubarb " is not forced , the " gritty teeth sensation " components accumulate in the skin , and an authority on the subject ( my mother ) told me many ( > 50 ) years ago that it was a good idea to peel it . She also taught me that it was a good way to divert children - show them how to pick a tender stem and dip it in sugar , then eat it raw - and that the sugar sticks to the stem easier if you peel the skin off first . My grandmother had a lot of mysterious ways with rhubarb , including using it in ginger beer instead of the usual lemon . These are lost in time , but she always peeled it , whatever it was being used for , to avoid that sensation .
If you do n't fancy cooking in aluminium foil ( kind of takes the point away ) , you need to make sure you have a super clean , extremely hot grill . Why ? Clean ( No tasty burnt fat from the burgers ) , flesh sticks like #### to a blanket . You can get away with it when cooking steaks because they are just so much stronger . So get a wire brush and clean an area for fish cooking and keep it clean :) . Hot , as hot as you can pretty much . You want the second that Salmon ( or other fish ) hits the grill for it to blacken . It 'll help make sure the flesh is no longer ' fleshy ' and again less likely to stick . Do n't try lifting it till ' you know that underside is like a pink and black Zebra on it 's underside ( 3-4 min ) . When it does come to lifting you could really do with a nice sharp fish slice , not a blunt fat ended egg slice . Good luck .
Quite often that look can be from having the temp too high on the oven . A convection oven should always be at least 25 ( and some people will say up to 50 ) degrees cooler than a ' normal ' oven . If you have n't tried it yet , knock down the temp of the oven . We used to call this ' lava tops ' , because basically the outside is baking and setting quickly , and then the insides pop out of the gelatinous surface , and they go in a funny direction ( often the way the fan blows ) . I 'm not saying that is the problem for sure , but if it were me , it would be the first thing I tried to eradicate the problem .
Even given a standardized recipe and method , cooking times are always only a guideline . Quality recipes always give you a test for knowing when the product is done . The reason for this is that there are many uncontrolled ( at least from the recipe author 's point of view ) such as , in the case of ribs : Exact dimensions of the ribs Natural variation in the composition of the ribs Starting temperature Variation in your particular oven That said , the variable most controlling over the time it takes to cook ribs , given a standard recipe and method , is the thickness of the set of ribs . A longer strip of ribs ( btw , the full set of ribs on one side is called a slab of ribs -- country ribs are not normally sold this way ) does n't make much difference , as the heat will penetrate through the thinnest dimension . Ribs are a complex food to cook as they benefit from low-and-slow cooking methods , which allow the touch connective tissue of the ribs ( collagen ) to slowly convert to unctuous gelatin . This conversion is temperature dependent , taking many , many many hours at around 140 F , but happening in an hour or two at 180 F. Note also that <URL> are a different cut than <URL> ( the baby variety come from a younger , smaller animal ) . Country style ribs are cut with a lot of meat on the bone . In practical recipes , the amount of time this takes will depend on the exact cooking method such as braising , roasting , or barbequing . Recipe request themselves are off-topic here at Seasoned Advise , but you can find many recipes easily by googling " <URL> " . Indivdual recipes will give you a guideline for a basic cooking time related to the method used in that recipe , and a test or condition for knowing when they are done . For example , this recipe for <URL> s from the Food Network suggests an estimated cooking time of 1 1/2 hour braising , and tells you that they are done when when the meat is tender ( which you would test by poking with a fork , or just trying some ) . An alternate method , as suggested in <URL> from Cooks.com is to roast the ribs in the oven . They use three-stage method where the ribs are covered in foil in the middle stage , but the total cooking time is about 3 1/4 hours . They carefully describe how you know when the ribs are done : " the meat should just about fall off the bone . " . Note : I have n't tried these particular recipes ; they only serve as examples . The bottom line is , ribs are generally done when they are quite tender , which you can easily tell by poking them with a fork or trying them . How long this takes will depend on what method you used , the size of your ribs , and a myriad other factors , but will be on the order usually of 2-3 hours .
This <URL> shows the technique very clearly . Place place the filet skin side down . Grasp the tail end , and slip your thin , flexible knife into the filet by the tail end , scraping against the skin , cutting down the length of the fish . Turn the fish over , and inspect . If any pieces remain , removing them is similar to removing the silverskin from a pork or beef tenderloin . Slip your knife under the end of the remnant , pulling the blade up against the skin and cutting down its length to remove . I recommend watching this video or others , because the technique is easier to see than understand from a written description .
Standard tips for browning/frying/grilling tofu ; Ensure that you press the tofu sufficiently to remove its own moisture , marinate if desired Lightly dust with flour Brush oil on the grilling surface The same advice applies for pan frying . I prefer to work at a high temperature , others have had very good results using only medium . Use a very thin , flat metal spatula to turn . Specific to the case of grilling , be mindful of the gap the tofu will stretch across on the grate ; it may be crumbling because it is n't strong enough or thick enough to sustain wide gaps . Additionally you can pre-bake the tofu to dry it out further . I have heard tell that salting lightly with finely ground sea salt helps prevent sticking but have no experience with this , and have had good results without the added sodium . Typically the moisture in the surface of the bean curd is causing the sticking . Prevent or inhibit this and you should be good .
There can be several factors here . The first is the flour . Are you really using bleached cake or pastry flour ? If you are using all purpose flour , especially if it is unbleached ( and bleached is banned in some countries ) , you will get a more yellowish hue of the dough . This is the most likely culprit . If you are in Europe , try mixing 405er flour ( or the local equivalent ) with starch in a ratio of 2:1 . The second is the color of the filling . The human visual system does not work in an absolute way , it constructs color relative to all information available . So if there is higher color contrast , and especially more yellow in the filling , the outside will be whiter . The original recipe requires you to use a custard powder with coloring . If you skipped that ingredient , or used an uncolored powder , or your eggs were not as dark as those in the original recipe , then your filling was maybe paler than the original , not creating enough contrast for the bun to appear white . You can add some food coloring of your own if you do n't have access to that powder . The third thing to keep in mind are your expectations . Color gets changed a lot from the capture in a digital camera to your perception on your monitor . Contrast gets changed in-camera and in post production , and most monitors are set up in a way which overemphasizes contrast . It is entirely possible that you would have a different impression of the buns if you saw them in person , than from the picture you are seeing in the blog .
If you use the same Dr. Oetker colouring that I have used in the past , which is advertised as a ' gel ' colouring , then you have to use a lot to get a good intense colour . You may have better results ( colour and taste-wise ) getting proper concentrated gel food colourings , like those made by <URL> . You need to use much less than cheaper brands so you do n't run the risk of flavouring the food , and you can even use them in meringues without ruining the structure .
Make sure food does n't stay in the very bottom part for long enough to burn on . The flared sides and narrow bottom of these pans tend to concentrate heat at the bottom , and burn on food more easily than flat-bottom saucepans and frying pans . Once food is burned on , there is no way to scrub it off without also removing the nonstick coating . It only takes one batch of fried rice or browned onions to permanently wreck the pan . Finally , stir-frying involves a lot of vigorous motion with utensils , which rapidly wears out nonstick layers . With nonstick woks , it is simply a matter of time before they are ruined . My suggestion is to replace your teflon wok and kadhai with ( respectively ) carbon steel and cast-iron equivalents at the earliest convenience . Woks and kadhais are designed for high-flame cooking , and if you reduce the heat to protect cookware , then the food wo n't get browned fully . With these materials you can use full heat without ruining pans or releasing toxic chemicals ( from overheated Teflon ) . Cleanup is simple : just rinse out , scrape off burnt bits , wipe them down with a paper towel , and season with oil . Finally , wooden or silicone rubber utensils are the best for a nonstick wok or kadhai ; they wo n't scrape off the nonstick layer unless used very roughly , andthey can stand the heat without melting . Normal plastics ( particularly polyethylene or polypropylene ) tend to melt , and metal will scrape up the nonstick coating .
If you cool a pan too quickly it could deform , especially if your using a cheap pan . A cast iron pan could crack . This is most likely to happen if you dip a hot pan in cold water . If you want to get a jump-start on cleaning , de-glaze the pan with a cup of water as you would when making gravy . Pour off this liquid and set the pan aside to cool completely .
Your main sources of flavour in any Chinese-style noodle dish will be : Garlic Ginger Chilli Spring Onion/Scallion Soy sauce Oyster sauce Rice wine / dry sherry Sesame oil Sesame oil has a very distinctive ' Chinese ' flavour . It is very strong so you only need a little . You should not use it for frying - think of it more like a seasoning . Add a teaspoon or so at the end of cooking and stir through .
Roasted garlic will get a slightly sweet flavor , dipped in a chocolate fondue can be wonderful and I have seen a recipe for garlic chocolate chip cookies . <URL>
My targets for the final dough : when I stretch it over my fist , once it has got to the size where it covers my whole fist , it starts to stretch under its own weight if the inside of the dough is exposed it will stick to hands/surface need to use semolina/cornmeal to transfer the pizza around contains lots of visible bubbles before stretching , with the dough having enough integrity to stretch the bubbles without losing them . can stretch it to be translucent without tearing too much ( preferably without tearing at all ) What I look for at different by stages : I have been making a lot of pizza dough over the last year , experimenting with different amounts of water and kneading techniques . In order to make a very thin base , ( on you can stretch so it is translucent ) but can still transfer into the oven I make a very wet ( 60 % hydration ) dough and either : No-Knead approach : use small amounts of yeast and salt . Just leave the dough for approx 18 hours . Then put in the fridge , I find it is best after 2 days in the fridge . Because the dough is cold you can easily handle it , although you might need to let it warm up a bit before you can do anything with it . What I am aiming for is that when I stretch it over my fist , once it has got to the size where it covers my whole fist , it starts to stretch under its own weight . I expect to see a lot of bubbles , up to 0.5 cm in diameter but most smaller , in the dough , but not to be able to pour it out . I will have to scrape it out of the bowl using a wet spatula . and will have to use a light dusting of flour ( not too much ) to stop it sticking to the surface or my hands . I sometimes let it rise again after shaping ( need to at least let it relax for a few minutes ) and usually have to add more flour to my hands to do the stretch . Try to use as little extra flour as you can . I usually have to only dust the dough once and lightly before stretching it . If you have to use any more it might be too wet or not have enough gluten development . Hand Knead approach : using more yeast and salt . When I first turn the dough out to knead I do not expect to be able to handle it , it is to sticky and runny . I use tools to fold it a few times . You will probably need some flour to do this , but try not to use too much . After several folds the dough comes together enough for me to lightly cover it in flour I " roll knead " - which is rolling and stretching it , but not bringing the wet inside to the surface . If you start to fold or tear the dough it will stick to your hands and the surface , if that happens you have to put more flour on which will reduce the hydration of your dough so avoid it . You will have to work it for quite a while . Try to get your body weight applied to the dough as your roll it . What I am aiming for is a dough which you can pick up without your fingers just going into it and that springs back when you deform it ; but if you tear it or open it up the inside will immediately stick to your hands and the surface . When I get this I stop kneading . I usually rise it for 80 mins but it depends on the temperature . After this rise , I will divide it and shape it into balls . I expect to not be able to easily rip the dough apart due to its wetness . It should contain quite a bit of air , and some largeish bubbles which I try not to knock back too much . I have to use a wet spatula to divide it , and then use a small amount of flour on the outside to form a smooth surfaced ball . Then I cover it and rise it again for 20mins . The outside will be smooth with some bubbles visible and due to the flour dry enough to handle . The inside will be too wet to handle without adding more flour . After this second rise I put a bit of flour on my hands and stretch it over my fist , it should behave pretty much the same as the no-knead version at this stage .
There are a number of factors that can contribute to a watery pizza : Cheese If you think the cheese is the culprit , you can try using a " low moisture " mozzarella ( these are dry to the touch on the outside ) . If you are using a " fresh " mozzarella ( these usually are sold in a brine ) , e.g. , classic mozzarella di bufala or mozzarella fior di latte , I recommend slicing the cheese as opposed to grating the cheese . The idea is that slicing the cheese will produce less surface area , and thereby reduce the amount of water that leeches out . Also , I recommend dabbing the cheese slices with a kitchen towel to remove any surface moisture . If you use this method , it will also help to cut the cheese in very thin slices , since that will release more moisture before it touches the pizza and it will also reduce the amount of cooking time . Tomato Sauce I recommend making the sauce yourself . As opposed to simmering the tomatoes/sauce on the stove for a long time , I prefer making a light tomato sauce that actually cooks on the pizza itself . I quickly purée the tomatoes ( canned are fine ) in a food processor and then let them strain in a fine mesh colander for 30 to 45 minutes , stirring occasionally . That gets rid of a lot of water ( the tomatoes lose about half of their volume ) . Throw in some minced garlic , chopped basil , and season and it is ready to go on the pizza . The Cooking Method Since my home oven does n't get as hot as a traditional pizza oven , I always " blind " cook my pizza without the cheese . In other words , I throw the dough , add the sauce , and then cook it with just the sauce for 4 or 5 minutes . This allows any extra moisture in the sauce to cook off . I then remove the pizza , add the cheese , and then broil it until the cheese is melted and browned . The Dough If the dough ends up becoming soggy , you can always compensate by making it a bit thicker .
I have a " Grill Wok " that I received as a gift that looks like this : It is great for grilling potatoes . Peel and cube to about 1 " pieces . Par boiling or microwaving works equally well for blanching the cubes . Toss in a large bowl with olive oil and melted butter Add seasoning : salt , pepper , chili powder , oregano , etc. ( to taste ) Allow Grill Wok to preheat on the grill , when hot add potatoes . Cook till golden brown ( I believe mine was obtained at Bass Pro Shop , but they are available elsewhere )
Custard should taste eggy . This is a feature , not a bug . However , from your mention of flour , I think what you 're talking about is a souffle , not something like a creme brulee or along those lines . Would that be correct ? Edited based on subsequent clarifications : Ah . Your method is sorely lacking , and your ingredients are off . You need to temper the yolks first , you need to use yolks only , and use cream instead of milk . Here is a smaller version of what I use at work for creme brulee : - 1L 35 % cream - 11 egg yolks - 1C sugar - 1 vanilla bean , scraped Bring cream to a simmer with the vanilla seeds and pod ( you can use approx 1.5 tsp vanilla extract , pure not artificial , instead ) . While it is heating , beat the yolks and sugar together until just incorporated . Pour the cream into the eggs whisking briskly to prevent curdling . Pour mixture through a fine chinois . Skim off foam , pour into ramekins . Place ramekins in a pan , add water to 1/2way up the sides . Cover pan with foil . Bake at 275 ( convection ) or 325 ( non convection ) for approx 40 minutes , until wobbly in the centre but set . Chill until set , eat . The deflation is caused by a souffle effect coming from including the egg whites , which are never used in a custard -- custards , creme anglaise , etc , are always yolks only . When you include the whites , air will be trapped inside temporarily , and will escape/collapse when the mixture cools . If you bake until fully stiff with my method , you will get hard and rubbery custard by the time it is set in the fridge . Also , save the whites -- they freeze well -- for meringues or souffles .
The milk sugars will add a sweetness to the dish . Also , after the fish comes out , the milk can be reduced/thickened to make a bechemel sauce .
I always store mine in the pantry . I use it frequently enough that sprouting is rarely an issue . If you need it to last longer you can freeze garlic , though I have never needed to . Shelf Life An unbroken bulb of garlic can last 3-5 months in a cool ( 55-60 F ) dark place . Once broken , the remaining cloves last only about 7-10 days . Frozen , you can store garlic 10-12 months . Source : <URL>
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
While it might seem like a drastic step to double the amount of egg in your recipe , in fact , you are not adding that much more egg relative to the amounts of your other ingredients . A whole large egg weighs about 50 grams and is roughly 75 % water so that extra half egg will contribute just under 20 grams of additional liquid to your recipe - you will need to compensate for that additional liquid either by reducing your water contribution accordingly or by adding a little extra flour ( like 30-ish grams ) . That means you are only adding an additional 5 grams of protein and fat from the egg by including that extra half . You will probably notice a slightly more tender or soft texture in your finished loaf from the slight increase in egg . Since texture and flavor are so subjective and difficult to describe , the best way I can think of to communicate the possible change is to ask you to think about Challah bread . Challah bread owes much of its characteristic texture , color , and flavor to the inclusion of a lot of egg in the dough . While adding that extra half egg wo n't bring your recipe into Challah territory , it will advance your bread 's texture , color , and flavor along the spectrum in the Challah direction .
end question
start question
Does method of coagulation matter when extracting ricotta from whey ?
Ricotta cheese is made from whey left over from making cheeses using rennet , such as mozzarella . The whey is heated and an acidic element ( such as vinegar , lime juice ) is added to it to incite coagulation . Paneer is made by adding an acid to hot milk . To answer your question , you can make ricotta using whey left over after making mozzarella , but you can not make it from whey left over from paneer as acids are used in it 's production . Note : if ricotta is made from whole milk it will be practically identical to paneer .
Fresh seafood should n't be overly " fishy " . It 's generally older seafood that will get a stronger " fishy " smell and flavour . That said , there are 3 approaches to a " less fishy " result : Absorb/reduce fishiness : you can always try something like soaking it in milk ( which you can then save to use for a fishy bechamel when your sister is n't dining with you ) . You could then rinse it off and cook it however you want . This should help " absorb " some of the fishiness and make it milder . Disguise fishiness : The other angle is to " cover up " the flavour with lots of spicy glaze or garlic/lemon flavours instead . Pick mild seafood : The other thing to try is to pick a more mildly flavoured fish ( e.g. a white fish instead of something like tuna or salmon ) . Avoid oily fish as they tend to have a stronger flavour . Choosing something really fresh also falls into this category .
Caffeine is bitter , tea is n't too bitter because as you mentioned it 's only got 40mg of caffeine . If you then triple the amount in there it 's going to taste that way . Try adding 3 tea bags to your cup and I 'm certain it 'll taste just as bitter . Energy drinks have copious amounts of sweeteners added hence why they do n't taste like caffeine . If you are hell bent on more caffeine without the associated bitterness but not adding sugar maybe a sweetener like stevia would be the way forward ...
Depending on what the ginger is going into , lightly greasing your knife blade helps ( but , obviously , not if you 're putting them in something where a tiny bit of oil would be an issue ) . As does using a heavy carbon-steel knife like a Chinese cleaver . Freezing sounds attractive , but it does n't work because the ginger becomes impossible to chop -- too hard . Overall , you pretty much have to expect to scrub the knife and cutting board after you 're done . You can make it a bit easier on yourself , but you ca n't make chopping candied ginger not messy .
I ca n't find any definitive answers to this question online . All the discussion I could find are speculation . Factors that cause soy protein to coagulate are heat , acidity , and the presence of magnesium or calcium salts . Additionally the proteins are more likely to curdle if they are heated very quickly . I will assume that you heated your coffee and milk identically with and without the salt . If you had changed the order of adding boiling water , for example , it could have prevented your curdling . If you have hard water then there will be a good amount of calcium salts in your water . Coffee itself also has a good bit of magnesium . These salts will coagulate soy proteins more readily than acidity . Sodium chloride does not cause soy proteins to coagulate . Sodium chloride ions will replace calcium ions - this is used in water softeners and soaking beans . My suspicion ( which to prove would require more experimenting than I have time for right now ) is that the sodium ions are preventing the calcium and magnesium ions from coagulating your soy proteins .
I do n't have any info on the affect of pH , but cornstarch can make your compote separate when canned : <URL> . Two alternative thickeners are tapioca and clearjel . I 've used clearjel for canning with excellent results . I have n't used tapioca to can , but do prefer it in my pies . ( posted as an answer per Sobachatina 's recommendation )
No marinade penetrates very deeply in unless : The marinade is quite salty , as the salt can diffuse past cell membranes into the meat The marinade contains an active enzyme or acidic component which will denature the meat over time , allowing deeper penetration Marination is by its very nature a surface treatment , although one that can add considerable flavor . Kenji Alt at <URL> says ( in regards to flank steak ) : In reality , a marinade is mostly a surface treatment , and not much benefit lies in marinating for more than half a day or so . If you 'd like the flavor of the marinade to completely coat your meat , your best bet is to reserve some marinade and simply toss your meat with it after it has been cooked and sliced . I am more partial to the dry rub or wet rub myself . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> with experiment showing limited penetration into beef
Scarface was the nickname of the early 20th century American organized crime boss , Al Capone . He was slashed in the face while working at a New York City nightclub . The injury left a scar that led to the nickname . <URL> Capone 's parents immigrated from Italy , and it is said that he enjoyed eating Italian foods . The notoriety and name-recognition of Al Capone ( a.k.a. Scarface ) has resulted in it being chosen , in one form or another , as the name for many restaurants and pizza parlors over the years . Naming a dish " Scarface Pasta " is but a natural extension of that line of marketing . It is however , merely someone 's suggestion of what Al Capone might have ordered -- something that sounds cute on a menu , but may actually be nothing more than spaghetti with sauce .
This seems to be a myth based on the idea that wine can be ' bruised ' by popping the cork or handling the bottle roughly . ' Dr Vinny ' , Wine Spectator Magazine 's advice expert , has this to say on the subject : Someone asked whether or not making a cork " pop " when you pull it will bruise the wine . Others have also asked about bruising in relation to decanting . I 've never had a wine that was fine one moment and damaged the next because of handling , and can safely say that bruising wine is a myth . Source : <URL> and also : A wine does not get " bruised " by moving it around . And let me address some other myths , such as that wine will bruise if you make a cork " pop " or bruise if you decant it : no and no . Outside of smashing a bottle on a concrete floor , there is nothing I know of that will take a perfectly fine wine and damage it in one movement . Source : <URL> You are more likely to have a problem with an old , crumbly cork falling into the wine than some pseudo-homeopathic magic going on when the cork pops .
Whey is an excellent source of protein and whey protein in particular is used in many body-building supplements . Please see the excerpt below from <URL> . Drink Up ! -- The acidic tang of whey may be a bit of an acquired tasted but I actually find it refreshing . Cultured whey has pro-biotics that can help balance the microflora in your gut as an extra bonus to the protein . The web page gives a lot of information about whey and the many other uses for it as well as a great tip for storing . Hope this helps !
Mostly , it 's just more efficient from a time perspective . You can do all the stuff that a restaurant kitchen does at home on a smaller scale , but it may seem like a lot of work for just a small portion . For example , the prep time to make homemade broth , then put together ingredients and cook a homemade soup for 4 servings might take you most of an afternoon . Maybe by adding an extra hour for processing ingredients , you could easily make 100 servings of that same soup . The difference between making 1 loaf of bread and 20 loaves of bread is minor , assuming you have equipment to handle the larger quantities . You 'll spend a few more minutes dividing and shaping , but otherwise most of the time is just waiting for the dough to rise and then bake . So it 's really about efficiency . If a recipe says " stir for 20 minutes while simmering , " you 'll probably have to do that for roughly 20 minutes whether you 're making a cup or 3 gallons . And because all that prep work is tedious for just a few servings , many home cooks wo n't bother -- they 'll substitute store-bought broth or bullion , they 'll buy pre-mixed bread dough , etc. . Those " shortcuts " are often one main difference that can make your home cooking not as good . Otherwise , there really are n't specific advantages for most dishes . In some cases , you may need to adapt techniques or recipes to handle larger vs. smaller quantities . But flavors can be effectively developed in most dishes whether you 're making one portion or a hundred .
This is just traditional fire cooking , now called camp-fire cooking , or ( US ) cowboy cooking Any Scout should know how to do this :-) It works best using food with tough outer skins , or wrapped in a sacrificial coverings , or more modernly using aluminium foil , or a cast iron pot ( <URL> ) Some common foods examples : Potato and other Tubers You lose about 5 mm ( including unpeeled skin ) to the fire . If you wrap in Aluminium foil the loss is often nil . Wash and soak tuber well before cooking , but do not cut into the skin , even to remove imperfections or ' eyes ' . Takes about 30 to 60 minutes to cook depending on coal heat . If not eating immediately , do not leave potatoes in foil wrapping . Unwrap and let surface dry Corn Do not remove husk . Soak corn before cooking . It takes about 10 to 20 minutes to cook depending on coal heat Cabbage Wash and soak cabbage . Drain excess water . Do not remove any dead leaves etc. . Poke a knife halfway into the core from the top and pour in a little water ( and meat fat for extra go ) . Can take up to 1 hour to fully cook Meat Large slabs work best . Reduce flesh loss by wrapping in edible leaves . If you do n't like the charred bits , you can use Aluminium foil , or better yet a dutch oven . Time depends on mass and done-ness desired Small goods like sausage ( real meat and fat , not sawdust please ) will have up to 5 mm of flesh loss , but are still fun to do . Fish Gut fish , but otherwise leave intact . Fish cooks relatively fast , time depends on mass . Pull sides apart and eat flesh directly off the skin and bone . If using a foil pouch you can add aromatics , raw sugar , and spices to make some amazing meals Fruit Keep bananas in skin , make a couple of small cuts to let steam escape . Cooks in 10 to 15 minutes Unpeeled and un-cored apples cook in 15 to 20 minutes ( you can eat the core , it 's good for you )
I have the same problem and went through 3 different brands of milk , thinking they were UHT . However , after some experimentation I determined what I was doing wrong . In my case , after cutting the curd , and while the water was heating back up to 105 , we were stirring too much . The key is very slow gentle movement . Just enough to slightly move the curds , and not disturb them . " Stirring " will cause you to end up with a nice tasting ricotta , but not mozzarella .
The fridge itself does storing , cooling , and dehydrating . But the last part is rather slow , you do n't see the effect all that much . It is more prominent at low temperatures ( manifests as freezer burn ) . But try leaving unwrapped bacon slices in the regular fridge and you 'll see what I mean . But anyway , it is n't all that interesting what the fridge does , because we only use it for cooling . The interesting things happen in whatever you put into the fridge . The explanation will be somewhat long even without details . The dishes you described have different reasons to need cooling , so I have to deal with them separately . First , egg whites . Stiffly beaten egg whites tend to weep . Cooling them slows the process . You know , less Brownian motion , etc. . Still , overbeating them is never a good idea :) In this case , there are no fat particles responsible for the foam stability ; in fact , the smallest amount of fat can disrupt the building of egg white foam . The second class are the dishes which contain lots of saturated fat . They are made with ( raw ) cream , chocolate , butter , or other such stuff . Saturated fat is an amorphous solid , it has no sharp melting point . It gets very soft before it melts , butter is a good example . So these things are kept at fridge temperatures . If they are left to warm again to room temperature , they become much softer than in the fridge . ( The exception which gets softer than in the fridge , but not all the way to the state before cooling , is ganache . This is because cocoa contains starch , which thickens . See the part about gelling below ) . Third , we have custards . Panna cotta is a good example . They set by way of denaturing egg proteins . This happens at around 85 ° C , on the stove . They are put into the fridge to get colder , because they taste better that way . They do n't get firmer in there , and they wo n't melt if taken out of the fridge . Then we have the hydrocolloids , or gelling agents . While technically starch gels in a different way than gums , I 'll put them together here . The important point is to know if they are thermoreversible . Starch is n't thermoreversible . If you create a blanchmange thick enough to stay on its own out of the mold , it will need to be cooled before it is set completely . But once set , it wo n't go fluid again at high temperatures . Gelatin , on the other hand , is thermoreversible . It needs to be heated before it will dissolve at all , but then it must be cooled to set again . If you make jello and keep it outside of the fridge , it wo n't be much softer than in the fridge . But if you heat it up all the way to 50 ° C , it will melt to liquid again . Then there are the even funnier ones which will harden at high temperatures and soften at low temperatures , etc. . But mainly , you do n't have to keep hydrocolloid gels cooled once they are set . In fact , they do n't even need fridge temperatures to set . Gelatine is perfectly happy to gel at summer room temperatures . But the cooling takes much longer because of the smaller heat difference between liquid and air . So it sets quick in the fridge , but has to be left overnight in order to work at room temp . As for the practical meaning of all this : you can keep most stuff outside without a texture problem . The exception of this rule is anything made with saturated fat : cream , chocolate , pastry dough , buttercream frosting . But it is common knowledge that these should be kept cool anyway .
At restaurant supply stores , you can get much larger fine strainers than consumer stores normally have . Another type is the chinoise or china cap , which may or may not be suitable for your needs ; these typically have very fine mesh . These can be available in larger capacities . You may also have success with a tamis , which is a drum type strainer , although these are harder to find .
Yes , it is probably true to a small degree , but irrelevant . In any deep fried food , the rapid expansion of water as it vaporizes pushes the oil away from the surface of the food , preventing it from immediately penetrating during the entire frying period . While alcohol may not have the same 1700 ( IIRC ) ratio of expansion in volume that water does when it goes from a liquid to a vapor , it will still offer some of the same effect . The thing is , most oil that penetrates deep fried foods does so after the food is removed from the oil bath , as it cools . Alcohol in the dough would not prevent this .
Harvest time can have a large effect on the quality of the tea . First off , whether it was the first harvest of the year or a later one will greatly change the character of the tea . The dates can also be used similar to the vintage dates of wine . If you got a tea from a specific region and know the date of the harvest , if you find another tea from the same region and same date , it will have been grown under similar conditions . Also , since black and oolong teas have been oxidized , the oxidation process will continue to some extent as the tea ages , further changing the flavor . The date can be used to predict freshness , and also to find a tea that suits your tastes better ( for instance , I know that I like many black teas better after they have aged for a year or two ) .
There are several reasons for adding orange juice : The first is for flavor . The second is to act as an acid . Although in this particular case , the acid is already in the baking powder . All baking powder needs to act as a leavening agent is some kind of liquid . Unless you meant baking soda , in which case an acid is necessary for leavening . The third is to inhibit mold growth . The real reason vitamin C is added is as a dough enhancer , not for gluten development . Since this is a quick bread ( no yeast ) , gluten development is not a main concern . The fourth reason for the orange juice is to make a tender crumb . Because of the fructose found naturally in it . Sugars are added to baked goods as a tenderizing agent . This recipe sounds yummy !
Some people say cold water boils faster than hot water , this is false , <URL> <URL> <URL> . One reason might be ( from the first link ) : " Some water heaters may introduce additional sediment into the water , giving you another reason to consider starting with cold -- at least , if time is not of the essence . "
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
end question
start question
How can I best select a knife to purchase for learning how to sharpen ?
While you can learn how to sharpen on almost any straight blade knife , my recommendation is to start on one that : Is n't expensive , ( try yard sales , thrift stores , and pawn shops ) Is n't very long , ( 6 inches max ) Is wide enough that wearing the blade away wo n't be a big issue , ( chef 's knife would be fine ) Is not too thin or too thick , ( not a boning knife or a meat cleaver ) Is a softer typer of steel , ( so that you will sharpen more frequently , and so it will be easier to grind back the edge if needed ) Does n't have a great finish ( the finish is the part that you 're most likely to mess up beyond easy repair ) . As far as sharpening tools go , I think you need several grades of whetstones to really get a great edge . You can buy them separately or as part of a kit . I would skip any other type of sharpener , even a honer for now ( again , so that you 'll be forced to practice resharpening more often ) . Then it 's a matter of practicing sharpening and testing the edge . Make really sure you get your technique down before trying to add ANY speed . Make sure your fingers are NEVER in the path of the blade . Work from roughest to finest whetstone . If you mess up on the whetstone angle , go back to the roughest stone and regrind to a fresh edge . Your practice knife will get scratched up and worn down faster than normal . When you 're comfortable with your skill , get a slightly nicer knife and a honing steel .
" Instant " coffee typically is disolved in hot water , so I 'd think that just stirring it into a cold product would be less than ideal . You might try <URL> ( as you 're adding sugar anyway ) or try steeping the instant coffee in hot milk or water first , cool it down , then mixing that into the yoghurt .
There is nothing especially interesting going on in a hot compote . You can chill it as quickly or slowly as you want to , until it reaches the desired temperature . Food safety requires that you do n't keep it for more than 4 hours in the danger zone ( between 60 ° C and 4 ° C ) , but if it is in individual serving bowls , on-the-counter chilling should be enough . Also , do n't put large amounts of hot liquids in the fridge , you risk raising the entire fridge 's temperature to unsafe levels , and the inside of a large container wo n't cool quickly enough to leave the danger zone . If you made lots of compote at once and want it very cold , chill it in an ice water bath . The final temperature can be whatever you prefer . I eat my compote slightly colder than room temperature ( 15 ° C to 20 ° C ) . You can eat it fridge-cold , room temperature , or even hot , if it tastes better to you .
If you 've baked your puff pastry in the past at 375 then it 's probably not a temperature problem , however I usually bake it between 400-425 degrees ( 400 convection or 425 in standard oven ) . Lower temperatures are n't a problem for the baking aspect as it will still cook through . The problem lies in the fact that the heat wo n't be significant enough to generate the steam needed for expansion . Egg wash could be a culprit as it should only be used on the top and not allowed to run down the sides where it will seal the edge together and keep it from rising unevenly .
I would likely work the cream cheese first , then try adding the liquids from most to least viscous ( condensed milk , evaporated milk , eggs , vanilla ) If you try to use a mixer with cream cheese and lots of liguid , it 's harder to combine -- you end up getting floating bits of cheese in the liquid ( likely what you mentioned as a ' curdled mess ' ) , rather than it fully encorporating . Having the cream cheese at room temp helps , but is still problematic . It 's possible that you might also want to strain the mixture when you 're done , as the mixer might leave the eggs ' chalaza intact . ( if it 's too thick to easily strain when done , you can either whip the eggs first and strain them before adding them , or just skip this step )
A roux normally is equal parts fat and flour . It should be fairly solid , not runny . However , it is an individual decision . I 've known guys who like it quite solid ( like me ) , but you have to whisk the hell out of it to get out all of the lumps . Normally , if I am making a sauce or soup that I ca n't strain , I will make it a little slack . I also add my roux after so I can control the thickness of the sauce or soup . Normally you are not instructed to do so , but you have greater control . If you do it this way , you have to vigorously whisk while adding , or the starches will congeal together in lumps . No big deal if it you are able to strain , but ...
A pull-through sharpener will never do as thorough a job at sharpening your knife as a stone , and over time will lose its efficacy and actually dull your blade . In a pinch they can be useful , but be sure to give the knife a few passes on a good quality steel afterwards , as the pull-through sharpeners tend to remove metal quite coarsely .
This is an art . Anyone who appreciates REAL tacos , can understand that this is not easy . God Bless anybody that can pull this off accurately ! I have it down to a science . I learned from my grandfather . His biggest secret was in the fork you use . We use cooking forks . 3 prong cooking forks ( most of the ones I see on google have two prongs ) . You can use regular forks too , but they arent made for cooking in high temp oil . First you must get the oil HOT . 350 atleast , preferably 400 degrees . Just before it starts smoking . You need really high oil heat . Once the oil is PLENTY hot , you hold a tortilla in one hand , and drop it in the oil halfway . It should be at 90 degrees , with your hand still holding the dry half of the tortilla . ( Note : keep your cooking fork ready for the next steps ) If your oil is hot enough , it will cook that half of the tortilla almost instantly . Let it cook until it hardens up , which should be less than a minute . Once the first half the bent tortilla is crisp , use the cooking fork to grab the tortilla half that is crisp and cooked . You will flip it here , putting the dry tortilla half ( that was in your hand ) into the oil , while the cooked half , sits above the oil with your fork . Now it should cook the other half of the taco shell . The art is using the fork well enough to create a gap at the base of the shell ( for meat or whatever you stuff with ) . And then flipping it and holding it with the fork while the other side crispens and finishes up . I would like to make a youtube video that shows this process , and it truly is an artform . Many people make great tacos but horrible tortilla shells . I grew up near Mexico , I was born 4 miles from Matamoros . I have seen my share of taco cooking , in the strangest of places . The best tacos Ive ever had use this method . And the best taco makers Ive ever seen wouldnt do this any other way ( by hand ) . It 's hard to do this without burning your hand ( s ) . Be careful . The dry tortilla absorbs the hot oil , even when your holding it over the grease in the first step . Youd be surprised how a corn tortilla will drink the oil right up to your hand . Give it practice . You will mess up a few tortillas . Dont worry about that , they make great quesadillas or nachos :)
There are a few tools you should have that are out of the ordinary in a typical American kitchen : <URL> - It 's really the only way to make maki ( rolls ) . Pro tip : when you use it , put it inside of a large zip-loc bag . This helps prevent the rice sticking to the mat . <URL> - This is essential in helping the rice turn out properly . The one I linked includes a free mat . I do n't own this particular brand ; I bought mine from an asian grocery store near me for like $ 30 , it came with a paddle . If you do n't want to commit to this large uni-tasker then I recommend using an equally large shallow-ish plastic bowl/dish . The sushi chef that taught me said plastic was OK , but to avoid glass or metal . <URL> - A quality rice cooker makes life amazingly easier . I own the one linked and it is amazing . I use it for cooking all of my rice . The quality of Zojirushi is simply unsurpassed and it quickly pays for itself . The single most important thing is a very sharp knife . It makes cutting the maki SO much easier . I ca n't stress this enough . A chef 's knife is just fine , but it should be well cared for and very sharp . For beginners <URL> is by far the easiest to make . You simply shape a small amount of rice in the palm of your hand and slap a piece of fish or other seafood on top of it . Cutting the fish for nigiri is an artform and can not be adequately conveyed here , but if you just hack out a thin piece of the right size it will taste fine . Tuna and salmon are relatively cheap cuts to use for this . For maki I suggest starting with spicy tuna rolls and California rolls . All you need for a California roll is : avocado , cucumber , and imitation crab meat . For spicy tuna mix you need : tuna , <URL> , and <URL> ( or <URL> ) . You may also want some <URL> and/or <URL> roe for the outside of your rolls .
While you can learn how to sharpen on almost any straight blade knife , my recommendation is to start on one that : Is n't expensive , ( try yard sales , thrift stores , and pawn shops ) Is n't very long , ( 6 inches max ) Is wide enough that wearing the blade away wo n't be a big issue , ( chef 's knife would be fine ) Is not too thin or too thick , ( not a boning knife or a meat cleaver ) Is a softer typer of steel , ( so that you will sharpen more frequently , and so it will be easier to grind back the edge if needed ) Does n't have a great finish ( the finish is the part that you 're most likely to mess up beyond easy repair ) . As far as sharpening tools go , I think you need several grades of whetstones to really get a great edge . You can buy them separately or as part of a kit . I would skip any other type of sharpener , even a honer for now ( again , so that you 'll be forced to practice resharpening more often ) . Then it 's a matter of practicing sharpening and testing the edge . Make really sure you get your technique down before trying to add ANY speed . Make sure your fingers are NEVER in the path of the blade . Work from roughest to finest whetstone . If you mess up on the whetstone angle , go back to the roughest stone and regrind to a fresh edge . Your practice knife will get scratched up and worn down faster than normal . When you 're comfortable with your skill , get a slightly nicer knife and a honing steel .
I found <URL> , image below . Also , youtube has <URL> . <URL> Click on the image for a slightly easier to read version , but <URL> version is much clearer .
See : <URL> The principles remain the same for grilling or barbecuing : you want to cook the squid briefly so it does n't toughen up , or slowly for a long time , so that the collagen dissolves to gelatin , making the squid tender again . In between is the rubbery zone . The main issue is that many squid are not really large enough to place directly on a grill grate without danger of falling through , so you may wish to use a fish or vegetable grilling grate . You can then grill them briefly , over high heat . It is probably possible to use low-and-slow smoking techniques ( true barbecuing ) , but I did n't find any really credible sources or recipes , and I have never tried this myself . You could also grill the squid to get some smokey flavor , then finish by braising them ( for example , in a disposable pie tin on the cool side of your grill , with flavorful liquid ) for a long time . Googling <URL> will give you many recipes to try , with a variety of marinades and treatments .
Try a <URL> . If you 're not familiar , it 's a gadget that has a horizontal blade for slicing as you slide food across it . Most have a dial that allows you to adjust thickness or to create julienne or " French-fry " shape . You can then just do one more chop to turn the " fries " into dice . Aside from that , I 'd be remiss if I did n't make a plug for improving knife skills ! :) practice practice practice ! It 's worth the time investment . class ! I took a 2-hour knife skills class at a local kitchen supply store . I went from mediocre to slightly-better-than-mediocre knife skillz in no time ! You 'll learn some tips and tricks to make it go more smoothly . Good luck .
My mother had a similarly shaped pan with a lid that she 'd use for baking coffee cake and such when camping . It was all aluminum and much less complicated ( and likely not as useful ) as what your talking about . The closest thing I found is the <URL> . It looks they may be had for about $ 50 .
There 's no question that a 4 or 5 inch utility knife is going to see a lot less use than your chef 's knife or your paring knife , both of which have innumerable uses . The utility knife is a lot more specific , really being for cases where the paring knife is too short and the chef 's knife is too heavy or thick . I have a 4 " utility knife , which ( of course ) I got for free with a 6 " Sabatier chef 's knife . It gets used a couple times a week , for : scoring onions in order to mince them cutting limes in half ( a chef 's knife seems like overkill here ) splitting small peppers slicing large California shallots cutting cheese ... and similar occasional , accessory uses . Part of the problem with the 4 " utility knife is that it 's really a dwarf 6 " -8 " utility knife . The 6 " or 8 " utility knife , now commonly called a " vegetable knife " , is far more useful ; the long , thin blade is excellent for making paper-thin vegetable and fruit slices , and can be used as a fileting knife if you do n't have one . At the 4 " size , though , the utility knife is useful only for cutting things which happen to be small , and only if you do n't already have a more general knife dirty . If what you 're really asking is " can I get rid of this knife ? " , the answer is " yes " .
<URL> is a fantastic resource , and has probably <URL> out there at the moment . There 's also a lot of good stuff at the French Cullinary Institute 's <URL> . They 've got <URL> that 's quite enlightening . I actually disagree on the McGee recommendations . While it 's an excellent book , full of great info , I do n't think it 's a good starting point for molecular gastronomy ( in the sense of the cooking movement rather than the more literal sense )
Normal cheese melts like that . It is made of proteins , fats , and water , and these separate when they are heated . For dipping , you need processed cheese . It has additives which keep the fat , fluid and solids mixed in a smooth mass . Also , it really helps to use very slow and even heat . This is the easy option . If you want to do it " for real " , without processed cheese , you have to make a cheese fondue . It is traditionally made with Swiss cheese ( I am fond of Appenzeller fondue ) , but you can use most types of semi-hard yellow cheese . It also contains some fluid , traditionaly white wine , and is emulsified with simple starch . It is preferable to have a special pan for this , as you can serve it heated . But if you make a big portion in a pan with a high thermal capacity , and make it immediately before serving , you can do without the special gear .
Friction blisters are usually the result of continuous rubbing on skin that has n't toughened up . If you are getting blisters with normal amounts of chopping , either your knife is moving in your hand more than it should , or you are exerting more force than you should need . <URL> . Are you pushing down with the whole palm , the front of the palm , or the back of the palm ? Are you guiding or forcing with your thumb and forefinger ? Is your knife sharp and heavy enough for the materials you are cutting through ? Are you using a circular motion to chop ?
It really is an issue of personal preference . If you prefer a rocking motion , the German profile suits your style better ; if you are a push-and-slide person , the French profile is more suitable for you . It also possible to find models at various points within the range . See this <URL> thread for an in depth discussion ( with diagrams at one point ) . The original poster concludes , quite correctly in my opinion : But ... let 's keep our senses of perspective and humor . A German knife wo n't turn a good cutter into a bad one , and a French knife wo n't do the opposite . Both profiles suit the classic , European and American styles of food and knife skills . It comes down to taste and training .
It should be slightly duller than a fresh razor blade . Skill can make up for lack of sharpness , but if you do n't have the skills you 'll mash the fish more than slice . This is why instructors and surgeons can get away with dull knives ; they 've got years of experience cutting flesh . Traditionally , fillet and boning knives are sharpened to a shallower angle than general-use chef knives , to allow a keener edge . The only knife in a cook 's arsenal that should be sharper is the slicer , which sees rarer use , and needs to be super-sharp for thin slices .
end question
start question
How do I substitute proofed dried active yeast for fresh yeast ?
In both cases , you do n't add the recipe 's amount of water to the proofed yeast . If your recipe says e.g. 500 g flour , 300 g water and 10 g fresh yeast , you measure these 300 ml water , then pour some of the 300 ml over 10 g of pressed yeast to proof it , adding a teaspoon of sugar if you want it quicker . After that , you mix flour , proofed yeast and the remaining water together ( for simplicity , I left out salt and possible other ingredients ) . You do it exactly the same way with dry yeast , only you have to use the correct substitute ratio , which is 3:1 . So you measure 300 ml of water and ( 1/3 ) * 10 g = 3.3 g of dry yeast . Then you pour some of the 300 g of water over the dry yeast , and after it has bloomed , you mix flour , sponge and the remaining water . The bread hydration stays correct , and the fermentation time/amount is equivalent to the fresh yeast case .
What I ended up doing was using 1/2 tsp of almond aroma and 1 tbsp of vodka . The taste was good , but I could have put much more vodka . I 'll do that next time .
What are the best substitutes for arborio risotto rice ? Your best replacement would be another short grain , or in a pinch , medium grain rice . ( if it 's a variety that does n't cook up creamy enough for your liking ... you can cheat and after you remove it from the heat , quickly stir in a beaten egg ) And how about when your only choices are all the local shops have : pearl barley , or ' brown rice with barley and spelt blend ' ? I 'd probably go with the pearl barley , just because it 'll have a more consistent cooking time than a blend . ( so you do n't end up w / little uncooked nuggets in a puddle of overcooked mush . This makes me think pearl barley is the best option . It take a lot more boiling than normal rice ( 40 minutes ) , so I 'll have to half-cook it by boiling before adding it to my pan with stock as my risotto recipe calls for . Do n't pre-cook it . You want to toast your uncooked grains in the oil , just as you would with a rice-based risotto before you add any liquid . If you do n't do this step , <URL> ( I ca n't comment on the texture , as I 've never tried cooking pearl barley this way ) . If you 're reluctant to spend almost an hour in front of the stove , the period to cheat is in the middle ; toast it , do a couple of stock additions w / lots of stirring , then add lots of stock &amp; let it cook , then once it 's nearly dry go back to stirring &amp; slowly adding liquid 'til it 's done ... or <URL>
The answer depends on where you live , and what type you have brought . In many countries that import chickpeas they heat treat them to kill seed-borne diseases and insects . The heat treatment process makes them more difficult to cook , and soaking times double or triple . Beans from exporters with phytosanitary certificates can be imported without heat treatment ; these are the ones you want to get . I do n't think you can tell which is which by looking at them . At the moment we have some particularly dark , dry , and dead looking beans that soak up beautifully in 8 hours ! Soak non-heat treated beans for 8 to 12 hours , heat treated beans for 24 to 36 hours . Some overly heat treated beans will never fully revive , and you are best to return these to the shop as " faulty " . Soak and cook without salt , unless you are going to mash them . They fall apart more readily if salted . If you are not mashing them , the secret to great chickpea taste is after soaking and cooking in water , is to lightly fry them with a little olive oil until dark spot appear , keep them or the pan moving so none burn . Then add the sauce , or add them to whatever dish you are preparing .
I presume you 're talking about active dried yeast . In that case , the granules of packaged yeast have some nutritive content to them , so what you observe when you add warm water is a weak form of priming . Priming is the addition of both warm water and a food source , typically sugar or flour , to dried yeast with the goal of ' waking-up ' the yeast from their dormant , packaged state . The warm water dissolves some of the food in the granules and warms the yeast up to a temperature which is favourable to fermentation .
<URL> suggests Pancetta which is another form of cured Italian bacon , usually without smoking . I think the primary thing you are looking for is cured but not smoked , as smoke will add a strong flavor that is completely missing in Guanciale .
Most bakers refer to this as a starter and it is extremely easy to keep up . You will need a plastic bag or a jar to keep it in , a cup of warm water , and some flour . You can either grow some wild yeast or add a particular strain to the growth solution depending what you are trying to do with the yeast . Once you do that , just leave it someplace warm but not over 100 degree F . Then once a day , you feed the yeast by removing half and adding back a half cup of flour and a half cup of water . Once it starts foaming remove to the fridge and remember to feed once a week . It will be with you for the rest of the your time on earth . Also , that half you take out when you feed it ? Makes a great gift to other baking or cooking friends . Also , if you devolop a dark smelly liquid , just stir it back in , it is normal and nothing to worry about .
The texture of frozen herbs is going to be totally different after thawing . In my opinion frozen herbs are fine for using in cooking , but they do n't work well as a garnish or as an addition to a dish at the end of cooking . The taste is definitely better than dried , though .
Canned beans are already cooked , so if you want the same texture ... yes . Soak and then cook your beans until they are just tender .
There has been thorough scientific research done on this question . The main problem with Alton Brown 's recommendation is that his room temperature " rest " is not long enough , since the scientific literature recommends 24-72 hours at room temperature , depending on acid concentration . The most common acids used in mayonnaise recipes are acetic acid ( vinegar ) and citric acid ( lemon juice ) . Vinegar is more effective at killing bacteria , but either can be used . Both acids are less effective at refrigerator temperatures than at room temperature . For a general review of the literature , as well as specific advice on lemon juice ( along with lab results ) , see <URL> . The take-home message , which you can see from the data ( Table 1 in the link ) , is that the only successful sterilization of the mayonnaise that eliminated Salmonella bacteria occurred with at least 24 hours at room temperature with reasonable amounts of lemon juice . The authors determined that the minimum quantity of lemon juice necessary to achieve this result was 20 milliliters ( about 4 tsp ) per egg yolk for 72 hours at room temperature , or 35 milliliters ( about 7 tsp ) per egg yolk for 48 hours . Room temperature was necessary for sterilization : even after a week , all samples stored at refrigerated temperatures still tested positive for Salmonella , even with a high acid content . On the other hand , after a week , no samples at room temperature tested positive , even those that contained only 10 milliliters ( 2 tsp ) of lemon juice . A <URL> concluded that vinegar was also effective ( and more effective than lemon juice ) . Subsequent studies have indicated a dose of at least 20 milliliters ( about 4 tsp ) of standard white wine vinegar should be effective at 24 hours at room temperature -- though 72 hours was recommended if possible . <URL> have shown that the addition of garlic and/or mustard will increase the sterilization effect , while salt inhibits it . The type of oil also matters : as <URL> , " olive oil with garlic or basil showed the fastest rate of death , followed by soya , grapeseed , rapeseed , groundnut , sunflower , hazelnut and a blended olive oil . " It must be emphasized that all of these studies , without exception , recommend 24 hours at room temperature MINIMUM for effective killing of bacteria . Before concluding , I suppose I have to address the mistaken assumption that mayonnaise is unsafe at room temperature in general . It is well-known among food safety experts that commercially prepared mayonnaise is perfectly safe at room temperature ( for example , see the quotations at the end of this <URL> ) . The acidic environment and previous processing stages are plenty to keep mayonnaise safe -- you refrigerate mayo to keep it fresh longer , not because it is unsafe at room temperature . In fact , adding sufficient quantities of mayonnaise to meat-based dishes like chicken salad or ham salad can actually slow growth and even kill <URL> and <URL> on the meat and thus make the dishes safer . In the linked study , meat salads with mayonnaise held at room temperature for five hours had very little growth of Salmonella , compared to what would be expected without mayonnaise . Note that refrigeration in such cases is still recommended , since the meat pieces can still spoil at room temp and the acidic sterilizing effect of mayonnaise is somewhat diluted when mixed with other things . ( Mayonnaise -- along with any liquid or semisolid food -- when handled improperly around contaminated food , can lead to cross-contamination of bacteria in mixtures that dilute its sterilizing effect . But that 's not a property unique to mayonnaise at all . ) In the past , homemade mayonnaise did not have the necessary processing to render it safe , which is the impetus behind the many studies I 've cited here . These studies show what you need to do to make it safe . After 24-72 hours ( depending on factors listed above ) , the homemade mayonnaise can be safely refrigerated to maintain its quality for longer than storage at room temperature . [ EDIT : One additional corollary to the research above is that homemade mayonnaise is actually the most dangerous when it is fresh . I 've occasionally heard people say , " I make homemade mayo , but I always use it right away , so it 's safer . " In reality , as discussed in the linked articles , the acid will stop Salmonella from further growth and eventually cause it to die off in undiluted mayonnaise , even with significantly less acid than the recommended quantities . Most egg-based food poisoning is caused by contamination from the shell , where Salmonella bacteria is commonly found and will grow once it comes in contact with a liquid medium . This requires time , so fresh egg dishes are generally safer . ( Note that in the U.S. , unlike almost everywhere else in the world , eggs are washed and their exteriors are disinfected , so Salmonella infection from egg shells is much rarer . ) With mayonnaise , though , the growth of small numbers of shell bacteria accident
That is wax , it 's done to help keep the moisture in the root . Turnips are also . You know it 's getting along when it gets soft and spongy or when the skin starts to wrinkle , same with turnips , beets , parsnips , carrots ... You pretty much can tell whether they are good or not in exactly the same ways . Are the firm and crisp or soft , flabby and spongy ?
There are a number of reasons why the flavor of tomatoes changes during both the cooking and drying processes . The first is that when drying the tomatoes , farmers and processors will dust the tomatoes in fairly high levels of salt , which helps to keep harmful microbes and insects from eating into the fruit and causing rot and infections . The second is that when drying anything , you need to remove the water from the flesh of whatever it is you 're drying . This causes all of the flavor molecules to become more concentrated . The resulting flavor is more intense because there is simply more flavor per bite . The final and probably most important ( and beautiful :) reason is chemistry . Tomatoes play house to something like 400 volatile aromatic compounds - that is , molecular structures that change and break apart during the acts of heating or drying . While I do n't have the EXACT science in front of me right now ( and ca n't seem to find it on the interblags ) there 's strong indications that it has quite a bit to do with the structure of sulfur-heavy amino acids , c6 volatiles , and glutamic acid breaking down over the course of the drying process - due to the evaporation of water and introduction of salt - and changing into different aroma molecules . All of these , taken together together have a profound impact on the flavor profile of sundried tomatoes .
I think the issue here is long term storage . If you are only going to keep the food for weeks to a couple of months , I think your home dehydrated products should be perfectly acceptable . Depending on your application -- and I make no value judgements here -- if you need to store the food for considerably longer for whatever reason , then you want to be sure nearly all of the water has been removed , and commercially freeze-dried products are going to be more reliable . Also , according to <URL> : Freeze-dried products can be rehydrated [ sic ] ( reconstituted ) much more quickly and easily because the process leaves microscopic pores . The pores are created by the ice crystals that sublimate , leaving gaps or pores in their place . For another perspective , the vendor <URL> says : When comparing freeze dried foods to dehydrated foods , there are advantages to both . Some advantages of freeze dried foods are that they are light in weight and reconstitute quickly and will have the appearance of fresh foods when reconstituted . A disadvantage to freeze dried foods is that they will take up more space for storage because they are lighter and more space is needed to store the same amount ( in weight ) as dehydrated foods . Advantages to dehydrated foods are less space is needed to store a large amount of food and it is economical to purchase . Freeze dried foods can be a great deal more expensive than dehydrated foods . So in answer to the ongoing question of whether freeze dried foods or dehydrated foods are better -- only the consumer can determine which is best depending on his or her own personal needs and preferences . However , they are addressing commercially dehydrated or freeze-dried products , not home prepared products . Your home dehydrated foods will probably retain more moisture and have less even quality control than commercial processes . For this reason , they may not be as shelf stable . For most uses , though , especially if you are making " meals in a jar " for convenience or short term emergency preparedness , not long term ( years ) of storage , your home dehydrated fruits and vegetables should be just fine .
According to the <URL> ( emphasis added ) : Freezing is the easiest way to preserve pumpkin , and it yields the best quality product . Select full-colored mature pumpkin with fine texture ( not stringy or dry ) . Wash , cut into cooking-size sections and remove seeds . Cook until soft in boiling water , in steam , in a pressure cooker , or in an oven . Remove pulp from rind and mash . To cool , place pan containing pumpkin in cold water and stir occasionally ( So Easy to Preserve , 2006 ) . Pack into rigid containers leaving headspace , and freeze . They offer suggest a variety of cooking methods before freezing the flesh of the pumpkin , but you may find that roasting offers the least work and best flavor development . Pressure canning of cubed ( but not mashed or pureed ) pumpkin is also possible ( as pumpkin is a low acid fruit , boiling water canning is not appropriate ) . You should use only a <URL> if you choose to go this route . You can also make <URL> , although this does not to leave the pumpkin suitable for many recipes , and is only suitable if this the actual product you desire .
Fresh ginger and dried ginger are very different , the flavour , texture and properties are not overly similar that they can not readily be substituted for each other . Having said that , in the instances where they can be substituted I have seen estimated from 8:1 up to 6:1 ( fresh : dried ) .
The reason dry yeast is so popular is that it is easier to store , and is less persnickety about it than fresh yeast . Treat dry yeast right and it can last for a couple of years or more . Fresh yeast is highly perishable , and it should be frozen if you 're not going to use it within a couple of days . If you 're lucky , you can get significantly more time from fresh yeast by freezing it within just a day or two of getting it home . The thing is , yeast is a living thing and you just ca n't know what experiences it has had before arriving in your kitchen . As such , it 's impossible to predict just how much extra ( past the expiration date ) time you are going to get from freezing it . A month ? Probably . Two months ? I would n't count on it , but maybe . 6 months ? Highly unlikely , but stranger things have happened . If you do freeze fresh yeast , wrap it very well . Moisture and air are your enemies . Do put it in the refrigerator at least 12 hours prior to use , then let it spend the last hour on the counter . As a last step before putting together your dough , proof it . Proof the yeast by mixing it with the warm ( 100Fish ) water called for in the recipe and , if applicable , the sugar . If there is no sugar in the recipe , give it a 1/2 tsp of flour ( per loaf ) . Within 5-10 minutes it should be quite bubbly and growing . If it does n't look like it 's doing much , throw it away . You might as well throw away all of the yeast you have from that batch . Go to the store and get more yeast before proceeding with the recipe . Properly stored , yeast usually dies at least somewhat gradually . You may see a slight progressive decrease in the vigor of your yeast as it gets older . Personally , once I see that I 'll use it that time , but I 'll get more for next time . Anymore , fresh yeast is hardly seen except in professional bakeries . It 's easy to see why . If you 're going to make multiple loaves in a week , then maybe fresh yeast is worth it . Now that I have found 2 pound packages of Fleischmann 's instant dry yeast ( expiration almost 2 years out ) at Sam 's Club for $ 6 , I think my days of messing with fresh yeast are over . ( BTW 2lbs of dry yeast = about 130 loaves ) EDIT : Interestingly , Red Star disagrees and does n't recommend freezing fresh yeast . This goes against my experience and the cynic in me wonders of their recommendation has more to do with selling yeast than anything else .
This product is new to me , but it looks interesting . The flavour of <URL> is described in Wikipedia : Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty , cheesy , or creamy , which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes . It is often used by vegans in place of parmesan cheese . Nutritional yeast is a so called <URL> . A complete protein ( or whole protein ) is a source of protein that contains an adequate proportion of all nine of the essential amino acids necessary for the dietary needs of humans or other animals . This also explains why it is popular among vegans , that needs to replace the amino acids in meat with alternative food sources .
Yes , you can store an opened pack of dried yeast without a problem . Seal the pack as well as you can ( plastic clips for just that purpose are very common , or you can just use an office ' bulldog ' clip ) , and put it in the fridge .
I would halve the amount of icing sugar and substitute in cocoa powder . As long as you sift the cocoa powder well you should still have a smooth icing at the end . Provided your chocolate is n't milk chocolate you should still have a ' proper ' chocolate flavour as well .
Yes . You can also substitute 1 cup molasses with 3/4 cup packed brown sugar + 1/4 water , or 1 cup pure maple syrup , or 1 cup dark corn syrup .
end question
start question
What 's an effective method to strain liquids ?
At restaurant supply stores , you can get much larger fine strainers than consumer stores normally have . Another type is the chinoise or china cap , which may or may not be suitable for your needs ; these typically have very fine mesh . These can be available in larger capacities . You may also have success with a tamis , which is a drum type strainer , although these are harder to find .
There is an optimal temperature to which they must be cooked , independent of method ( boiling , frying , whatever ) . This temperature is 50 deg . C. ( This is lower than safety guidelines ; if you want to eliminate the foodborn illness risk , you must eat rubbery seafood ) . Once the inner temperature of seafood has risen above that , its proteins undergo an irreversible change called denaturation , which changes the texture . The time needed for reaching this temperature varies a lot . It depends on the size of the prawns , their initial temperature , the temperature of your water , on the total mass of water in the pot and on the total mass of prawns in the pot . If you find it impractical to impale a prawn on a digital thermometer every time you cook , you need to experiment . Keep the variables I mentioned constant , and boil prawns for different times . Find out how much they need before they go rubbery , and then stick to it , keeping all the other variables constant . In your case , this will probably correspond to the three minutes you mention . For somebody else , who boils a different amount of prawns per batch , it will be different . There is no minimal time , just as there is no maximal time . The minimal temperature for them to taste cooked is 45 degrees C. , but you can eat them at lower if you do n't mind them tasting raw . You can find the minimum time for your case as described above . The legal minimum temperature for US food safety is 63 degrees . You ca n't legally approximate it by time , you must use a thermometer , or , at home , you can go much above it just to make sure - when seafood turns stiff and dry , you can be sure that it has reached 70 degrees .
I use whole grains in my bread - wheat , oats , quinoa , etc. . There are a couple considerations : 1 - rehydration If the grain wo n't be adequately rehydrated from just sitting in water for an hour then it should be precooked . Wheat berries , for example , definitely need to be cooked . They just wo n't get enough water or time in the dough while it is rising . A little experimenting may need to be done to get the water ratio right . 2 - sharpness Adding hard ingredients will change the dynamic of your dough kneading . For example , if you knead in a mixer then you might have to go at a slower speed to keep from shredding the gluten . Sprouting grains is fantastic . Sprouted grains are very nutritious and have a completely different flavor that I find very interesting . Sprouts also have a lot of sugar in them . I sometimes replace some of the sugar in my recipes with sprouted , dried , and ground wheat berries .
When you do n't preheat , you cook your food at a lower temperature as your oven heats up for the first 5-15 minutes , depending on the target temperature and your oven 's strength . For forgiving foods , like a casserole , this may not affect you much - you 'll just have to bake longer than the recipe says to . As long as you 're careful , you 'll be fine . But if you 're baking something that should be baked for a short time at a relatively high temperature , your results are going to be very different . For example , take traditional Southern biscuits : they 're baked very hot for less than ten minutes . This cooks them all the way through , and browns the top and bottom . If your oven starts out cold , they 're going to be done in the middle before they 're brown ! Beyond under-browning , you 'll also run into problems like lack of rising in steam-leavened foods . Pastries , in particular , could probably be disastrous .
Heston Blumenthal has brought his unique scientific approach to bear on this recently . The main pointers for a perfect poached egg are as follows : The egg must be fresh . A fresh egg has a thicker , more gel-like albumen . As it gets older , this becomes watery , and so just disperses throughout the water when you add it . To test if your egg is fresh , place it in a jug of cold water . If it floats , it 's not fresh - the egg has had time to absorb air through its shell . A fresh egg sinks and stays sunk . The water temperature should be 80ºC / 176ºF exactly . You can measure this with a sugar or probe thermometer . The egg should be at room temperature . The egg should not come into contact with direct heat , so put a plate or small bowl on the bottom of the pan , bottom up . Once the water ( in a medium to large saucepan ) is up to temperature , carefully add the fresh egg and cook for 4 minutes exactly ( for a large egg of the domestic chicken , Gallus gallus domesticus ) . Drain and serve - the white should be set but not rubbery ( a drawback of using vinegar ) and the yolk should be creamy and rich .
the wire egg slicers seem to be free of this problem . Perhaps you could use a wire , or better yet the wire cutting tool that potters use for clay .
If you 're buying bacon at the store , and trying to reduce the actual sodium in the product you 've just purchased - you 're out of luck . Like most things , you ca n't un-salt it . You can reduce the flavor , but in your case , the sodium is still there . Alternative options include : Buy reduced sodium bacon Make reduced sodium bacon Use less bacon , in order to reduce the total sodium intake .
I 've never done this , but what about filling the bowl with water , lowering the spinning basket into it so the lettuce shreds lift off , then dumping it out ?
I am projecting here , perhaps , but I think the question you 're asking is " why does n't my salmon come out moist and succulent like what I get at the store ? " A couple reasons . First : you want to properly cure the salmon for at least 24 hours beforehand . 36 is better . To cure , you will need two whole sides of salmon ( or one cut in half ) , with the skin on . Rub your cure into the flesh -- so 2:1 salt : sugar , plus whatever other spices you care to use . The addition of brandy sounds lovely ; I like tequila or a nice peaty/smoky Scotch myself , or maple syrup ( but obviously nix the sugar if you 're doing that ) . Place the two pieces together , flesh to flesh , optionally including herbs between . Wrap very tightly in plastic , completely sealed , bung into your fridge to let it cure . Second : when the fish is cured , remove from the wrap , rinse off the cure . Third : time to smoke . If you want dry and flaky , hot smoke -- this seems to be what you 're doing and what you do n't like . Therefore , it 's cold smoke time . The two basic ways to do this are either to add LOTS of trays of ice to the smoker itself , or to route the smoke through a cooler filled with ice and then back into your smoking chamber . A quick Google should provide you with diagrams for doing so . Do not over-smoke . Fish picks up flavours quite readily , and will dry out if oversmoked , even if cold . Really for salmon I do n't think you need much more than 20 minutes of cold smoke .
I usually pop my rice into a pan , shake the pan to even the rice out across the bottom of the pan . I then add cold water to cover roughly half way up my thumb where my thumb is touching the surface of the rice . Place onto the hob and quickly bring to the boil and then immediately turn down to the lowest setting on the smallest ring and cover with a lid . Leave the rice to cook for around 30-35 minutes . Do n't be worried if it looks like it 's going to dry out , the steam in the pan under the lid will keep things moist . Do n't be tempted to remove the lid to check on things , you 'll lose all the moisture/steam and it 'll dry out/stick .
Yes , onions contain sugar , just like most fruit and vegetables . It is not simply a common phrase , it is true caramelization . They have 4.24 g of sugar per 100 g in total ( wet weight ) . For dry weight 40 % is sugar . See <URL> for more details .
I had to return and answer this myself . The tea towels broke first , and then the shirts ( even heavy cloth ones ) . They broke under the stress of squeezing the coconut milk out . Then I realized I had an immersion blender . The resulting milk after using the high setting , was smooth and delicious . A fool-proof method : Blend in normal blender , to make a gritty milk . Finish smooth with an immersion blender .
It can be a bit tricky , a couple of tips : Use a lot less liquid in the blender than normal . Do batches if needed . Vent the lid so the steam can escape . A lot of lids have a center piece that can come out . Using less liquid will stop stuff coming out the top . As Ocaasi suggests , you can cover the open lid with a kitchen towel as you start to insure there 's no spray . Start the blender slow and then speed it up . This may not work depending on how fast your slowest setting is . But once the vortex gets going , the liquid wo n't splash . It 's only when the blades start that you have that issue . Slower start speed means less splash ( a vita-mix can start very slowly and have no splash at all , great for hot liquids but the price tag is a bit high ) .
Do n't see why you ca n't make oaked meat . Corned beef and salt pork have been around for a long time . The ' corn ' referred to is n't actually corn , but is rock salt . Here is a good starting point if you want to make oaked , corned beef which does n't require refrigeration : <URL> In the above article it specifically mentions barrels for storing the salted meat . Try google with [ salting meat ] . Having read some research some years ago regarding the propagation of bacteria on artificial ( plastic ) and natural ( wood ) cutting boards , and the large difference in the ability of bacteria to grow on these two mediums , wood being by far the most bacteria resistant , it would seem at least prudent and in your case , desirable , to use wood containers . Oak barrels are available in many sizes and you should be able to order them with removable covers with a bit of inquiry . There is plenty of oak , in many forms , commercially available . The explosion of wineries has produced many caterers to the makers of that product . Here is a source for oak chips : <URL> Here is another source for all types of oak , including barrels : <URL> If you do n't want to make the commitment of barrels , months long curing and the space requirements for same , you could simply buy some winery chips , brine your meat in the refrigerator with oak chips between layers of meat or surrounding a piece of meat . Have fun !
According to one farm ( <URL> ) , theirs lasts 7 weeks from the packaging date , and has a " best by " date on it . I doubt this is identical for all sources , but it seems like a decent baseline . As for botulism , I 'm pretty sure what you 've heard was related to keeping peeled garlic unrefrigerated in olive oil , which used to be a common practice , and is dangerous . Here 's the <URL> on the incident that started it , and <URL> has more info on safe handling practices . From my experience , it 'll start to turn slimy and lose its texture and flavor near the end of its shelf life , and you wo n't want to keep using it . But as for health risks , you do n't have much to worry about as long as you 're keeping it in the fridge .
For your situation I would recommend packing the burritos individually ( or 2 at once ) so this does not happen . You can achieve this by using foil , plastic wrap , or bags . Alternatively , you may try putting a sheet of wax paper ( or foil/plastic wrap - but remove before microwaving ) between each layer of burritos . If this does not work for you , try the following : Here are two methods that can be used to try to preserve expected consistency : The easiest , and most sure to actually work : Store the components that are wet and going to leak liquid in a different container . Unfortunately , this may involve you having to build your burrito when you want to eat it , yet this is sure to prevent a soggy burrito . To do this you can use separate containers , bags , or however you normally package a burrito . One can also purchase plastic food containers with multiple compartments specifically made for this purpose ( separation of different food items ) . For an example , <URL> The second way : This is n't a long-term fix nor is it as efficient as a multi-compartment food container . One can strategically build certain food items so that they are less likely to make bread or tortillas soggy . You have to place a food item , that will not let the bread absorb the liquid as quickly , next to the bread . The best example I can give you is that when I make a BLT sandwich that I am not going to eat immediately , I place the lettuce right next to the bread instead of putting the tomato right next to the bread . The lettuce provides a barrier between the two . Like I said though , it will not be as efficient as multi-compartment food containers .
If you like to cook using 3 or more elements at once , ensure you buy a sufficiently powered model . There 's nothing more frustrating than upping the power on one element and watching another one reduce at the same time . Touch controls look nice but they 're horrible from a usability standpoint . I always had problems with responsiveness with wet or greasy fingers . Cockroaches love induction . I do n't know if the frequency attracts them or it 's just the heat but they will come and eat out the wiring , even if you 've never spotted one in the house before . It 's a common problem as it 's hard to seal the electronics for thermal reasons . Board replacements are expensive . It 's one item I would consider an extended warranty on . As for any 2 " cooktop , larger pot/pan sizes ca n't be accommodated if you 're using 3 or more elements . Go 2 ' 8 " minimum .
Dredging in lightly salted cornmeal and then frying ( shallow frying is fine , but deep frying is magical ) is an absolute classic in the Southern US , where catfish eating is big . I usually just put the plain filets in the cornmeal without first dipping in egg or milk . I do n't think it 's necessary -- though I 'd go with milk if I were forced to use something . After dredging , I let them sit on a wire rack for a minute or so before frying to set the cornmeal ( which I would do if using egg or milk also ) . Generally , though , most treatments that work for a mild , tender white fish will work . Recipes for flounder or sole ( Sole a la Meuniere for example ) , or ones that look for rockfish or striped bass will work really well . Bear in mind that catfish does have a distinctive flavor , though it 's not really strong . Some people do n't care for it , and they tend to describe it as " muddy " tasting . Personally , I do n't see it . If you like the catfish OK , but find the flavor intrusive in some applications , adding spicyness or acid ( lemon juice , vinegar ) will mute it .
You could try <URL> : Stick it in the freezer , and skim off the ice . Keep the ice , discard the liquid and melt the ice . If you had a freezer that you could precisely control the temperature , I believe there are certain preferred target temperatures , but simply checking on it frequently in a standard freezer should do the trick . The vacuum based suggestions also sound good , if you have appropriate equipment for that . Basically , you 're asking about distillation in reverse . Traditional distillation is primarily boiling , but there 's also a few traditions ( applejack , <URL> ) involving ice distillation . In ice distillation they 're after a higher alcohol product and keeping the liquid ( discarding the ice ) , but I believe if you switch which part you keep you 'll get the same results . Much like any other distillation , you may need to run through the process multiple times to get the desired result . With beer , the primary flavoring is from compounds extracted from hops , which react with oxygen to produce unpleasant flavors . By " unpleasant " I mean turning the bitter and tangy flavors into something more like wet cardboard . So depending on what you 're doing you may also need to protect your beer from exposure to oxygen . I believe with beer the real enemy is oxygen , with heat or light accelerating the undesirable reactions . Depending on the style of beer , esters and phenols may also be important to the flavor . In styles where those flavors are desired , it 's typically a wide mix , and it 's quite possible some of them will evaporate easier than alcohol or be harder to freeze . Note that no distillation method is " perfect " , with all distillation methods you 'll have water and alcohol in both outputs of the process , you 'll just have a greater amount of alcohol in the evaporated or unfrozen part and a lesser amount in the unevaporated or frozen part . Note also that in the US any <URL> .
To store fats , you should always use glass as plastics react to fats by absorbing some and perhaps discoloring or transferring flavors to your fat . Depending on use , I prefer to work with cold fat at the start as it has a much broader possible use and I do n't like to wait when I make biscuits , so I keep mine in the fridge . However , you gain very little extra life out of keeping it in the fridge and if you do n't keep it in a sealed container you run a very real risk of flavor transference there to . If you do n't make pastry dough or other such , your counter top is a perfectly acceptable place to store , as long as you use it up before it goes rancid . One thing to keep in mind is that fats can sometimes have very different shelf lives , so make sure you taste or smell before use , regardless of storage method .
end question
start question
How to cook/serve Confit de Canard ?
Usually it is removed from the fat , and warmed in an oven . The exact instructions will probably be on the tin , but from memory I think it was about 15 mins @ 180c , as you only really need to warm them through and remove the excess fat . We have always served it with potatoes roast in some of the fat from the tin . Usually par-boiled , minced garlic added , then shaken in the boiling pan ( with a lid on ) to mix the garlic in and to rough up the edges so you get some nice crispy bits , then put into a hot tray of duck fat ( go on be generous with the fat , it 's delicious ) and into a hot oven till crispy . You could also serve it with dauphinoise potatoes , which would also be great . Accompanied by french beans or broccoli or some other green veg , and some crusty French bread to mop up the fat with . mmmm . Makes me want to go and get my tin out of the cupboard for tonight .
Even given a standardized recipe and method , cooking times are always only a guideline . Quality recipes always give you a test for knowing when the product is done . The reason for this is that there are many uncontrolled ( at least from the recipe author 's point of view ) such as , in the case of ribs : Exact dimensions of the ribs Natural variation in the composition of the ribs Starting temperature Variation in your particular oven That said , the variable most controlling over the time it takes to cook ribs , given a standard recipe and method , is the thickness of the set of ribs . A longer strip of ribs ( btw , the full set of ribs on one side is called a slab of ribs -- country ribs are not normally sold this way ) does n't make much difference , as the heat will penetrate through the thinnest dimension . Ribs are a complex food to cook as they benefit from low-and-slow cooking methods , which allow the touch connective tissue of the ribs ( collagen ) to slowly convert to unctuous gelatin . This conversion is temperature dependent , taking many , many many hours at around 140 F , but happening in an hour or two at 180 F. Note also that <URL> are a different cut than <URL> ( the baby variety come from a younger , smaller animal ) . Country style ribs are cut with a lot of meat on the bone . In practical recipes , the amount of time this takes will depend on the exact cooking method such as braising , roasting , or barbequing . Recipe request themselves are off-topic here at Seasoned Advise , but you can find many recipes easily by googling " <URL> " . Indivdual recipes will give you a guideline for a basic cooking time related to the method used in that recipe , and a test or condition for knowing when they are done . For example , this recipe for <URL> s from the Food Network suggests an estimated cooking time of 1 1/2 hour braising , and tells you that they are done when when the meat is tender ( which you would test by poking with a fork , or just trying some ) . An alternate method , as suggested in <URL> from Cooks.com is to roast the ribs in the oven . They use three-stage method where the ribs are covered in foil in the middle stage , but the total cooking time is about 3 1/4 hours . They carefully describe how you know when the ribs are done : " the meat should just about fall off the bone . " . Note : I have n't tried these particular recipes ; they only serve as examples . The bottom line is , ribs are generally done when they are quite tender , which you can easily tell by poking them with a fork or trying them . How long this takes will depend on what method you used , the size of your ribs , and a myriad other factors , but will be on the order usually of 2-3 hours .
I usually pop my rice into a pan , shake the pan to even the rice out across the bottom of the pan . I then add cold water to cover roughly half way up my thumb where my thumb is touching the surface of the rice . Place onto the hob and quickly bring to the boil and then immediately turn down to the lowest setting on the smallest ring and cover with a lid . Leave the rice to cook for around 30-35 minutes . Do n't be worried if it looks like it 's going to dry out , the steam in the pan under the lid will keep things moist . Do n't be tempted to remove the lid to check on things , you 'll lose all the moisture/steam and it 'll dry out/stick .
The difference between a santuko and European chef 's knife is mostly a matter of personal taste and style . However , if you live in North America , Europe , or anywhere else with a European cooking tradition , most of the resources and videos that you see to help you develop knife skills will assume you have a chef 's knife . For this reason , I suggest you start with a good basic chef 's knife . Secondly , you will want a paring knife . With these two knives , you can do 95 % of kitchen tasks very well . As you develop your skills , you can try santukos and other style blades and determine if the work for you .
I can imagine a few ways of doing it based on the texture you 're looking for , and what you have to work with . Remove the meat from the casing and fry the meat in a pan . You 'll basically be cooking ground meat which will allow you to easily seasons it and also integrate it into other foods . This method also allows you to season the actual meat if you want to . Cut the sausages into disks and fry them in a pan . This will leave you with more body than the first method , and also allow you to really get some good color on the flat parts of the cut sausage . Leave them whole , poke holes in them , and cook them on anything . I would n't do this for the application you 're looking for . You will eventually be cutting them up , and if you cut them after cooking , you wo n't have the browning that you could have had .
I was lucky enough to get a macaron session from a Michelin-starred pastry chef before Christmas and he gave me some invaluable tips . Use an Italian meringue recipe . In other words , pour warm sugar syrup on to the egg whites instead of sugar from the cupboard . The eggs will already have been ' cooked ' into structure and will not require any crusting . They will retain the same shape that you pipe them out at . You can bake them straight away , or in a couple of hours - they wo n't be any different . When piping , use a moderate pressure . Do n't wring the bag out . Keep the nozzle approx 2cm over the tray and maintain that height while you pipe - let the weight of the batter spread the macaron out evenly . When there is enough mixture in place ( about 4cm across ? ) stop squeezing and flick the nozzle away in a controlled circular motion to avoid creating a ' nipple ' . I wrote about this including his recipe on <URL> . PS . I just remembered that adding further weight to the Italian meringue technique a very prominent French chef in the UK , Raymond Blanc , said that he always uses this method . On his TV programme this week he said it delivers far more consistent results .
Sausages are pretty forgiving . As long as you do n't burn them or leave the center raw , they should come out OK . Since they 're pretty fatty ( at least the good ones are ) there 's little chance of drying them out , so when in doubt , cook them a little longer . They 'll feel firm , not squishy , when they 're done . The easiest way to cook raw sausages is in the oven ( at 350-375 ° F , 180-190 ° C or so ) . If you 're doing it on the stove , I 'd brown them first in a little ( very little ) oil , then add some water , or beer , or wine , or whatever you happen to have ( not much - just enough to cover the bottom ) , cover , reduce the heat , and simmer until done . Feel free to cook some vegetables in the pan along with the sausage .
Those single serving ' creamers ' have been manufactured using Ultra High Temperature ( UHT ) processing . According to <URL> ( the most reliable information source in the multiverse ! ) , milk treated by UHT has an unopened shelf life of 6 to 9 months . The reason there is no ' best before ' date is that they are purchased in bulk by the merchant , the container for a bunch of them ( which the retail buyer will rarely see ) would have the best before date on it .
I sometimes steam asparagus before sautéing on a high heat with some lemon juice to get some caramelization on the outside of the asparagus . You could adapt this idea to the grill by sealing the asparagus in tin foil with a little water and steaming for four minutes ( for finger thick spears ) . Then give them a bit of colour by placing them directly over the grill for a minute .
Fire is typically a poor heat source for direct cooking . It fluctuates with every breeze so the heating is very erratic . It also produces a lot of soot which tastes terrible and is bad for you . When cooking on a campfire much better results are had by cooking next to the coals than above the flame . Cooking with a gas flame is more reliable of course . A couple direct cooking applications of fire in the kitchen , that I can think of are : Flambe : Lighting a sauce which contains a lot of alcohol to burn off some of the raw alcohol taste . Roasting : Putting a steaming basket over a gas flame and charring the skin of peppers or eggplant . Caramelizing : Using a blowtorch to put a crust on creme brulee or to sear the exterior of a sous vide steak . I would recommend starting with the blowtorch for several reasons : It is harder to burn your house down with a torch than with a pan of flame . Blow torches are useful for things outside of the kitchen like stripping paint or starting the grill . There is something deeply satisfying about wielding a hissing , blue , knife of fire that appeals to the caveman within . As for safety . Keep a fire extinguisher on hand . Do n't let kids or pets in the kitchen when you are playing with fire . Keep your home owner 's insurance current .
Pureeing onions makes them release a lot more of their water than just chopping them , and if you added extra water on top of that , you probably had a very wet paste . That makes it take a lot longer to cook - while you 're just boiling away water , it 's not hot enough to brown much . So cook it as long as it takes - it 's not going to become bitter . ( If anything , it 'll get sweeter ! ) And if you want it to cook faster , do n't add extra water . If you watch carefully , you can also turn the stove up hotter at the beginning to boil off water faster , then reduce the heat once it 's drying out enough to avoid burning it . If whatever you used to make the puree does n't work well without the extra water , you can still use it ; just know that it 'll make it take longer to cook . Otherwise , you could try grating the whole onion on a cheese grater , which does a surprisingly good job - it 'll still be really juicy though !
According to <URL> and confirmed by several others I found on the internet , the Humboldt Squid produces ammonia chloride as a defense mechanism , or as a side effect of asphixiation , or maybe both . I could n't find terribly reliable advice on how to avoid the contamination , but two points were repeatedly suggested on various bulletin boards : When you catch the humboldt squid , cut its head off , clean and ice it immediately ( on the boat ) . when cleaning it , be careful not to puncture the swim bladder . The other suggestion repeatedly offered was to catch some other kind of squid . Hope that helps . For more 3rd-hand advice , search the internet for " squid ammonia flavor " and you 'll see lots of bulletin boards and similar sources .
Usually it is removed from the fat , and warmed in an oven . The exact instructions will probably be on the tin , but from memory I think it was about 15 mins @ 180c , as you only really need to warm them through and remove the excess fat . We have always served it with potatoes roast in some of the fat from the tin . Usually par-boiled , minced garlic added , then shaken in the boiling pan ( with a lid on ) to mix the garlic in and to rough up the edges so you get some nice crispy bits , then put into a hot tray of duck fat ( go on be generous with the fat , it 's delicious ) and into a hot oven till crispy . You could also serve it with dauphinoise potatoes , which would also be great . Accompanied by french beans or broccoli or some other green veg , and some crusty French bread to mop up the fat with . mmmm . Makes me want to go and get my tin out of the cupboard for tonight .
In my view this is pretty simple : make things you want to eat . As long as you cast your net wide enough as you look for recipe ideas , there will always be new things that you 'd love to eat and will learn something from making . And as long as you want to eat the food , you 'll be motivated enough to actually follow through and do it . Most of the time , this will mean making things where you 're mostly comfortable with the recipe , but there are some new parts you have n't tried before . It might be new combinations of ingredients and flavors , which will broaden the creative side of your cooking . It might be new techniques , which will enable you to make more things in the future . To oversimplify , when you look at a recipe , if practically every step sounds new or difficult , maybe save it for later ; if most of it gives you an " I can do this " feeling , go for it ! It 's fine to take on bigger projects too , of course , as long as you go into it with the understanding that you might want to try parts of it by themselves first ( or that things might fail the first time ) . Either way , be sure to cast a wide net : skim cookbooks , read food blogs , browse recipe database sites or food photography sites , and so on . There 's always a lot out there that you 'll surely want to try and just do n't know it yet . But above all , just seek out things that look good to you ( or your friends/family ) . The rest will follow .
Yes , with any kind of ' stewing ' sauce , the flavour improves the longer you cook it ( provided it 's a slow , gentle process ) . The longer you leave it , the more chance the flavours have to ' marry ' . I have a recipe for a pasta sauce that calls for 6 hours of slow simmering ! You may also have noticed in the past that left over pasta sauce that you eat the next day is really good , for the same reason as above . Any stew , in fact , like bolognese , casserole , chilli , bourgignon etc , is really delicious when left overnight and reheated .
I have had the same issue when cooking lots of quesadillas , and have found the following combination of techniques to work quite well . The obvious answer has been hit upon already , lower the heat . But I think that 's missing an important aspect of the issue . What 's happening is most likely that you are turning on the heat and then cooking your first omelet before the pan has actually reached temperature . Depending on the type of pan , it can take up to 5 mins for the pan to reach temperature . So , as you continue to cook , the pan is getting closer to temperature . Of course , each time you add more cold egg , the temp decreases again . So your heat is too hot , but it does n't really become apparent until the last omelet . Rather than just starting at a lower temperature though , start at the same temp you tried and then turn down the temperature as you continue to cook . The pan can also heat rapidly between omelets . Take the pan off the heat , swirl your butter or oil through it , add the egg , and then put it back on the heat . If it seems really hot when you add the egg , you can cook it for a second with just the radiant heat of the pan before returning to the burner . This will stop the pan from getting too hot between omelets .
The best way I have found is to soak the ears in husk for several hours before grilling . This lets the husk soak lots of water . Then place the corn , still in husk , on a hot grill for about 10 minutes , ~ 1/4 turn , 10 minutes , turn ... until the husk gets brown , even burnt . You should be able to tell when the corn is cooked by the smell . The sugars in the corn will start to caramelize and brown in the husk and it will give off a delicious caramel smell . You can check them by peeling down the husk to make sure that they are cooking well . Times will depend on your grill and how much patience you have . In general , it is difficult to overcook . You want to watch out for drying , but that usually takes a while if you soak the ears beforehand . Foil is a poor substitute for the natural wrapper . The husk both protects the cob from too much direct heat as well as holding water close to the cob to gently steam the kernels . And its just prettier with the browned and burnt husk , au natural .
The beard is also known as byssus threads . They are the filaments that the mussel uses to secure itself to hard surfaces . They are usually brownish and may appear somewhat like seaweed . Most mussels commercially available have been farm-raised so often the beards have already been removed during processing . If you have beards , grasp them firmly and pull towards the shell hinge until it comes out . You may need to use a dry paper towel to increase your grip as they can be slippery .
I do n't know how you would describe the flavor of bay -- I would call it a subtle savoriness , with a complex aroma . Bay is very tough -- almost sharp . It is generally not eaten directly . Instead , the whole leaf ( or several whole leaves ) are put into a dish or sauce to cook with it , then removed prior to service . The shortest recipe I have for using bay is in a rice pilaf while it cooks , which is 15-30 minutes depending . I am not aware of an upper time limit . Here is a Miami Herald article offering some other perspectives on using bay leaves : <URL> As they Herald points out , many folks prefer Turkish bay rather than California bay , because it has a more complex , subtle flavor . ... I believe custard in Britain had bay as a traditional ingredient -- you might make a custard with a single bay leaf to get some sense of what it tastes like without lots of competing strong flavors . ... Update : Serious Eats Food Lab has just published an article , <URL> with lots of good information that may be of interest .
Beef ( and Lamb ) : The surface of beef is often contaminated with pathogens such as e-coli . However , the meat is very dense and the bacteria can not migrate from the surface into the flesh . Therefore , beef is safe to consume once the external temperature exceeds , 160 degrees F . The internal uncontaminated meat is safe to eat raw . Pork : Like beef the surface of pork needs to be fully cooked . Unlike beef , pigs harbor a parasitic roundworm called Trichinella spiralis . Infection with the worm is called trichinosis and can be fatal . This worm is killed when the flesh reaches 150 degrees F and is held there for several minutes . Therefore pork is safe to consume when cooked to medium . ( Commercial pork in North America almost never has the roundworm present . Almost every case ( all ? ) of trichinosis in the last 15-20 years have come from undercooked wild boar or bear meat ) . Trichinella spiralis can also be killed by freezing ( time and temperature dependent ) . Chicken : Almost all chickens have Salmonella or Campylobacter present on the surface ( at least ) . However , chickens have a less dense flesh than pigs , sheep or cows . Therefore , the bacteria can migrate deep into the flesh . Also , the processing of chickens is much more invasive than the previously mentioned animals which also means the interior meat can get contaminated . This means the meat must be cooked to well done throughout . Duck : With duck it seems to come down to a matter of processing verses chicken . Also , they are raised in a much less confined manor , which helps prevent the spread of pathogens . There is still a chance of getting a salmonella infection from undercooked duck but cooking the breast well done basically ruins it , so people take the ( small ) risk . Ground meat : Grinding meat , by its nature , implies the surface and the interior is mixed . Therefore , one must assume the meat is fully contaminated and must be entirely cooked to well done .
end question
start question
What is a " raw smoked " gammon ( or ham ) ?
There is a lot of ambiguous and misused terminology in cooking ... added to that , different countries have specific legal definitions for foodstuffs that vary from one jurisdiction to another . Gammon vs. Ham Some sources call it gammon if it is <URL> , while <URL> claim gammon differs from ham because it is cured with the belly and then detached , whereas hams are detached from the rest of the animal and then cured ( a nearly useless distinction ) ; also the words gammon , ham and bacon are sometimes used interchangeably . In the US we call it ham when it is cured , whether it is cooked or raw ; and we call it fresh ham if it is uncured ( We pretty much call anything from the hind leg of a pig ham ) . Fresh vs. Raw vs. Cooked Raw does not mean that no processing has been performed , it just means that it has n't been cooked or the proteins have n't been denatured chemically . Curing , smoking , marinating , freezing , and drying , and milling can all be performed without cooking . Generally , " Fresh " means no processing has been performed . In the US and UK , the term " fresh frozen " has gained a foothold more as a marketing term than actually providing useful information . There are a number of cured hams that are eaten raw and are safe . For example prosciutto , jamón ibérico , jamón serrano , and some country hams in the US . Most of these are dry cured and may or may not be smoked . Types of smoking . The more commonly known type , and what most people call " smoking " , is actually hot smoking . Hot smoking is what happens when the item being smoked is kept in a smoker at a temperature high enough to cook the item , usually in the 225-250 ˚F / 105-120 ˚C range . The other type of smoking is cold smoking . During cold smoking the smoker or smoking chamber does not get hot enough to cook the item being smoked , usually 100 ˚F / 38 ˚C or lower . This type of smoking used to be much more common as an added protection and flavor for cured foods as well as food that are more delicate . These include gammon/hams , fish , cheeses , bacon , and seafood . Just as many foods that were previously dry cured are now wet cured , many of these products are now produced industrially using " wet smoking " or smoke flavor additives instead of cold smoking methods . As with cold-smoked meats , some " wet smoking " yields a product that is technically raw , because its proteins have not been denatured by heat . Instead , liquid smoke or smoke flavor is added to the brine or applied as a coating before cooking . Cold smoking has had a bit of a resurgence lately with the invention of <URL> , which allow you to add smoke without the need of a <URL> .
Try cooking tomato sauce in a cast-iron pan some time ... You 'll learn a whole new meaning for " irony " . A non-reactive pan is one that allows you to cook or store acidic foods without dissolving , leaching , or otherwise causing contamination . Good materials for such pans include glass , stainless steel , food-grade plastic , ceramic , porcelain , and hard anodized aluminum . Bad materials include cast-iron , copper , and aluminum . Plastic bowls should be fine for most purposes , however keep in mind that small scratches in the plastic may harbor contaminants that will be freed by the acid . So clean them well , or switch to glass .
Honey might go bad in two ways - one involves stuff growing on the surface of the honey , the other involves the honey itself fermenting . In both cases , the spoilage is connected to exceedingly poor storage - as other answers mentioned , honey is difficult to spoil ... but difficult is not the same thing as impossible , right :) Honey that ferments is usually linked to high water content - some honeys have a higher water content naturally , some might have water added at some point ( for example , to deter crystallization ) , some might have water leaked into a container and puddled on top or along the edges , and honey will absorb moisture from the air if left unsealed , and eventually reach a saturation where the water is no longer a limiting factor to yeasts . In any case , part of honey 's preservative qualities is the lack of available water and too high concentration of sugars inhibits most spoiling organisms - so when that extra water becomes available , honey turns from " never goes bad " to " potent food source for yeasts " , especially since as the yeast eat the sugars , they also lower the concentrations from something inhospitable to yeasts , to something that can support more yeast growth - so the fermentation will continue progressing . A small puddle of water can gradually lead to a whole container fermenting because the local dilution is much greater than the total water percentage , and once given a foothold the yeasts will keep eating the concentrations further down into yeast-inhabitable ranges . Some fermentation is more problematic than others - for example , mead probably originates from a spontaneous fermentation of honey that was enjoyable , on the other hand , different yeasts may give off bad odors and off flavors . If your honey <URL> to the point of spoilage , it will smell bad , look cloudy , and taste terrible . It will also foam ( carbon dioxide production ) , may separate , may bulge if the container permits , all that good stuff that warns if any foodstuff in fermenting . There is some stuff on that page about natural beneficial fermentation and typical crystallization patterns , but that is n't relevant to the question of spoilage The other way honey might go bad , is having some debris accumulate on the surface of honey ( cross contamination ) , that gives some mold or other bacteria enough food to get a foothold . Again , honey itself is a poor source of food if properly stored - not enough water , not enough available food to get a foothold - but add debris , crumbs , or whatever that can spoil more easily right on the surface , and that can give mold or whatever enough of a toehold to build a floating colony , as you envisioned . If there 's enough debris or moisture on the surface , the mold might start nibbling at the surface of the honey - which will start lowering the sugar content to something mold can find hospitable , much the same way fermentation can progress . You might be able to simply remove the colony or even the top layer to salvage the honey , if you are willing to risk it , since honey is known to be rather inhospitable to dangerous organisms . And if the honey is properly stored afterwards , any critters left should n't be able to re-colonize since they needed the crumbs to get a toehold in the first place - but only you can decide what you will risk .
I look for notes that give subsitutions . If the recipe creator ca n't be arsed to either provide subs or say " you really ca n't substitute , " then it seems to me they are n't so much interested in cooking as they are in must provide dogmatic formula . This does n't work for me . Notes along the way -- " you are looking for a texture like ... " " the colour should be ... but do n't worry if it looks like ... " -- are essential . A complete lack of " Oh by the way you should have done X an hour before you did Y " is non-negotiable . Anytime I cook through a recipe like that without reading first ( caveat emptor , I know ) I tend to end up swearing and throwing things . Timelines are key . ( By the way , I 'll be hanging onto this thread as it will definitely help me with the cookbook project I 'm working on . Thanks for asking ! )
For white wine , try : chicken broth/stock vegetable stock white grape juice ginger ale canned mushroom liquid diluted white wine or cider vinegar For red wine , try : beef or chicken broth/stock diluted red wine vinegar red grape juice tomato juice canned mushroom liquid A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found <URL> .
I would say no . The function of the egg in the cake is to go in raw , mix with the other stuff , and once the raw egg has penetrated and coated the other ingredients thoroughly , bind it all together with that bouncy , sticky solidified eggy property which comes into existence as the egg cooks . Cooking the egg first all by itself , then adding to a cake would be like drying some crazy glue , then grinding up that hardened crust and putting the resulting powder between two things you want to stick together . The gluing action is all over when the glue has dried .
Play it safe . It has been said : You probably will be ok , but the safer method is just to cook it the night before and refrigerate it . Toss the whole thing in an insulated lunch container , and you should have no problems . Even if the temperature creeps up into the danger zone , it should n't be there more than an hour or two before lunch time , and should still be cool enough not to cause an issue . -- <URL> <URL> I happen to disagree with this advice , personally . While it may be OK , is this something worth trying to find out ? Here is an excerpt from an <URL> Growth rates of pathogens are highly temperature dependent . Ordinarily , pathogenic bacteria growth is relatively slow at temperatures below 70 ° F ( 21.1 ° C ) . In most cases , growth is very slow below 50 ° F ( 10 ° C ) , and 40 ° F ( 4.4 ° C ) is below the minimum growth temperature of most pathogenic bacteria , although there are some exceptions . On the other hand , pathogenic bacteria grow relatively fast at temperatures above 70 ° F ( 21.1 ° C ) . Think of a real-world example , say a soda can . You get the can out of the machine at a temperature around 35 ° F-40 ° C , which is refrigeration temperature . You set it naked ( i.e. , no " can cushy " ) on a table and just leave it there . Within 1-1 .5 hours or so , it will be very close to room temperature , which on average is about 70 ° F to 73 ° F. That 's when your fish will begin growing bacteria more rapidly , which it would continue to do until you are ready to eat it . TL ; DR At the very least put and ice pack or other method of absorbing heat inside your lunchbox . Always play it safe when it comes to pathogens .
Of course you can freeze meat . If it would be unsafe , your local supermarked would n't be allowed to sell it . What you have to keep in mind when freezing your own meat : Storage time is limited , for guidelines see <URL> or <URL> . Freezing does nor remove bacteria , mold and other " nasties " , but stops them from multiplying . Rule of thumb : What 's on the meat when it goes into the freezer comes out again . So follow the usual safety procedures for raw meat before and after freezing . ----- EDIT ------ As the subject of fat going rancid has come up several times in comments : That 's one of the reasons the recommended freezing time for bacon is 1-2 months only , for game meat up to 8-12 months . Rule of thumb : The fattier the shorter .
Halogen hobs are a type of electrical resistive hob which work just like a halogen incandescent bulb . In fact , the reason why incandescent bulbs are being phased out is that they are so inefficient , giving off most of the energy they use as heat instead of light . A halogen hob uses the same kind of tungsten filament as the lamps , instead of the iron found in the widespread electrical hobs . The benefit is that it warms up quite fast , much faster than iron . I have n't shopped for resistive cooktops in recent years , so I do n't know how the market is . It 's possible that they are very rare and expensive , or that all the new ceramic cooktops use them and the manufacturers do n't mention it on the label , so the public is unaware of it . They do n't work differently than standard burners , just faster , and they do n't look much different from the outside . You also do n't need any kind of special cookware for them , I have no idea why the manufacturer of that pan decided to tell you that it works on both " electric " and " halogen " , when it is the same thing where pan suitability is concerned . Update as per ChrisH 's comment : Because the halogen works mostly with radiant heat , it 's important that you do n't use a pan with mirroring bottom , that 's probably why the pan was labelled as suitable for halogen besides " electric " . This is probably important for iron-heating ceramic cooktops too , because the ceramic also lets a significant part of the iron 's radiant heat through .
There is an optimal temperature to which they must be cooked , independent of method ( boiling , frying , whatever ) . This temperature is 50 deg . C. ( This is lower than safety guidelines ; if you want to eliminate the foodborn illness risk , you must eat rubbery seafood ) . Once the inner temperature of seafood has risen above that , its proteins undergo an irreversible change called denaturation , which changes the texture . The time needed for reaching this temperature varies a lot . It depends on the size of the prawns , their initial temperature , the temperature of your water , on the total mass of water in the pot and on the total mass of prawns in the pot . If you find it impractical to impale a prawn on a digital thermometer every time you cook , you need to experiment . Keep the variables I mentioned constant , and boil prawns for different times . Find out how much they need before they go rubbery , and then stick to it , keeping all the other variables constant . In your case , this will probably correspond to the three minutes you mention . For somebody else , who boils a different amount of prawns per batch , it will be different . There is no minimal time , just as there is no maximal time . The minimal temperature for them to taste cooked is 45 degrees C. , but you can eat them at lower if you do n't mind them tasting raw . You can find the minimum time for your case as described above . The legal minimum temperature for US food safety is 63 degrees . You ca n't legally approximate it by time , you must use a thermometer , or , at home , you can go much above it just to make sure - when seafood turns stiff and dry , you can be sure that it has reached 70 degrees .
Harold McGee , in On Food and Cooking , is very detailed in his explanation of how cheese " works " . He describes three stages . In the first stage , lactic acid bacteria convert milk sugar into lactic acid . In the second stage , which overlaps with the first one , rennet ( an extract of calf stomach - or , to be more precise , chymosin , a protein found in this extract and now also obtainable from yeasts and the like ) curdles the casein proteins and watery whey is drained from the concentrated curds . And finally , in the third stage , the cheese ripens , and a whole host of different enzymes do all sorts of things to flavour and texture . According to McGee , Acid and Rennet form very different kinds of curd structures -- acid a fine , fragile gel , rennet a coarse but robust , rubbery one -- so their relative contributions , and how quickly they act , help determine the ultimate texture of the cheese . He goes on to describe how mostly acid coagulation leads to softer cheeses and mostly rennet-based coagulation leads to firmer curds and harder cheeses . Draining of the whey also strongly affects the final texture , as Sobachatina points out in <URL> . Pressing firmly expels much whey and thus leads to a harder cheese ; softer cheeses are just allowed to drain some whey by gravity . But there 's another important factor here : heat . Some cheeses are " cooked " in their whey at this stage , to a temperature as high as 55C ( 130F ) for a rock-hard Parmesan or about 38C ( 100F ) for a somewhat softer Tommes , and this expels even more whey from the curd particles ( and , of course , also affects flavour ) . At this stage , salt is also added . Salt draws some moisture out of the curds as well and is a catalyst for the denaturing of casein , thus reinforcing the protein structure . McGee also discusses aging of cheese at some length , but he does n't really touch on the effect of aging on the structure of cheese . That effect is certainly there ; a very young Gouda cheese is almost as soft as a Camembert , whereas a very old one gets close to Parmesan hardness ( if it does n't crumble to dust ) . I imagine that this is due to some moisture escaping the cheese , but also due to the fact that the protein networks keep growing more and more interconnected as the cheese ripens .
There is a lot of ambiguous and misused terminology in cooking ... added to that , different countries have specific legal definitions for foodstuffs that vary from one jurisdiction to another . Gammon vs. Ham Some sources call it gammon if it is <URL> , while <URL> claim gammon differs from ham because it is cured with the belly and then detached , whereas hams are detached from the rest of the animal and then cured ( a nearly useless distinction ) ; also the words gammon , ham and bacon are sometimes used interchangeably . In the US we call it ham when it is cured , whether it is cooked or raw ; and we call it fresh ham if it is uncured ( We pretty much call anything from the hind leg of a pig ham ) . Fresh vs. Raw vs. Cooked Raw does not mean that no processing has been performed , it just means that it has n't been cooked or the proteins have n't been denatured chemically . Curing , smoking , marinating , freezing , and drying , and milling can all be performed without cooking . Generally , " Fresh " means no processing has been performed . In the US and UK , the term " fresh frozen " has gained a foothold more as a marketing term than actually providing useful information . There are a number of cured hams that are eaten raw and are safe . For example prosciutto , jamón ibérico , jamón serrano , and some country hams in the US . Most of these are dry cured and may or may not be smoked . Types of smoking . The more commonly known type , and what most people call " smoking " , is actually hot smoking . Hot smoking is what happens when the item being smoked is kept in a smoker at a temperature high enough to cook the item , usually in the 225-250 ˚F / 105-120 ˚C range . The other type of smoking is cold smoking . During cold smoking the smoker or smoking chamber does not get hot enough to cook the item being smoked , usually 100 ˚F / 38 ˚C or lower . This type of smoking used to be much more common as an added protection and flavor for cured foods as well as food that are more delicate . These include gammon/hams , fish , cheeses , bacon , and seafood . Just as many foods that were previously dry cured are now wet cured , many of these products are now produced industrially using " wet smoking " or smoke flavor additives instead of cold smoking methods . As with cold-smoked meats , some " wet smoking " yields a product that is technically raw , because its proteins have not been denatured by heat . Instead , liquid smoke or smoke flavor is added to the brine or applied as a coating before cooking . Cold smoking has had a bit of a resurgence lately with the invention of <URL> , which allow you to add smoke without the need of a <URL> .
Of course you can make gyoza with raw meat -- that would be the traditional method . You can find countless recipes , including raw meat ones , simply by googling " <URL> " . While perhaps less common , you can also google " <URL> " to find many options using chicken such as <URL> , although there are some false hits mixed in that are not chicken based . Gyoza ( which are the Japanese version of pot stickers ) are normally not much larger than bite sized . This small size will help ensure that they are cooked through during the hybrid frying/steaming method that gives them their crispy bottoms , which is normally similar to : Fry the dumplings , flat side down , until the bottoms begin to be brown . Add water to the pan , and cover , creating a makeshift steaming environment to cook the dumpling through . Allow the water to evaporate and the bottoms to re-crisp . While it is is fairly difficult to take the internal temperature of a single dumpling ( you probably can if you have a very high quality instant-read thermometer with a short probe distance , like a Thermapen ) , you can still judge their doneness indirectly by squeezing . They will be quite firm . The small size ( even very big Chinese style pot stickers tend not to be more than an inch/couple cm wide , although they may be longer ) helps make sure they can cook through very quickly ; steaming is also a very effective method at transferring heat into the target food . So yes , making gyoza with raw meat , done with some care , is safe .
Also known as a " bird 's beak " , it 's used for <URL> root vegetables ( turning them into little footballs ) and making fancy , delicate cuts when carving garnishes from fruit or vegetables . More practically , the curved blade is great for peeling round vegetables and fruit . It 's a complete pain in the butt to sharpen without a belt grinder ( or pro sharpening service with same ) , but gosh , it looks neat . Congrats on the fun present !
There are quite a few very sophisticated market gardeners in New Zealand producing greens and micro-greens like no other in the world Especially from the Pukekohe , and other volcanic silt soils areas , it 's hard to grow anything bad . The crisp mornings at this time of year , and the naturally nutritious soils result in greens including kale that are very sweet and tasty
Basically , a chutney is a kind of savoury jam . This is a very simplistic definition though . The main differences between jam and chutney are as follows : The preservation in jam is only by sugar . In chutney , vinegar and sugar are used together , so chutneys are not necessarily sweet . Jam is almost always made with fruit as the main ingredient . In chutney , fruit can be used , but so can vegetables . Also , chutneys tend to be a mix of more than one thing . For example , an apple chutney will have plenty of apples , but also swede and onion in it . Jams usually do not add other flavours to the fruit and sugar ( pectin is for texture ) . Chutneys are usually flavoured with several spices , as well as chili peppers , onions and garlic . In the Indian subcontinent , chutneys are served along with the meal in small amounts , as a condiment to add to the meal . They are usually eaten with the blander side/starter dishes like pakoras or samosas , rather than with the spicy and flavourful main dishes . In the rest of the former British Empire , and particularly in England , it is eaten on bread , with butter or cheese , in a similar way to jam or pickle . Note that what the English call pickle is also a sort of savoury jam , not pickled cucumbers like in America .
In their various parts of the world , all of these words mean sauce , at least some of the time . They come from different cultures , though , and carry different connotations at least in US usage . Short answer , though : there are no absolute differences that you can count on . Salsa This is a generic term in Spanish , and in South American cuisines . It can cover everything from a thick , dark mole , an adobo , a light and piquant salsa verde , or the typical tomato , onion and pepper sauce often served with chips in the US . Some salsas are smooth ; others are chunky . They can be cooked or raw . Many people use the word to indicate the red , fresh or lightly cooked tomato salsa with onions , garlic , peppers and usually cilantro often served in Mexican restaurants in the US , but this is only the beginning of what salsas can be . Sauce The generic term . Almost any flavorful liquid put on another food to enhance it . These range from elegently smooth ( such as hollandaise ) to quite chunky such as putanesca sauce . Gravy Gravy tends to be a sauce made from meat drippings , and thickened to serve with the meat or its accompaniments . In Italian-American usage , it often covers " Sunday Gravy " or a ragu made from tomatoes and one or more ( or many meats ) that in some communities was traditionally made on Sunday ; and more generally , any sauce with meat in it . I am told that in Italian in the context of pasta sauces , the actual word is ( forgive my spelling ) accompanimento , an accent for the pasta which is the star . Chutney The word chutney derives from the India/Pakistan region , where again there are a myriad different sauces that carry the title . In the US , it tends to be used for a chunky , acidic sauce made from fruit and/or vegetables . This overlaps considerably with jam or preserves , in this sense , although chutneys tend to be much more strongly spiced , and may contain complex combinations of complimentary ingredients . Still , this does n't cover the full range such as a chutney of pureed cilantro and/or mint , which is much more thin and sauce-like than the above more typical US usage . Conclusion You can not really draw strict distinctions among these categories . You have to know what the specific sauce or item is that is being discussed to strongly draw inferences about it .
Corn ( Maize ) is <URL> , and not any of the other things you mention . Even the farmers and agricultural agencies consider it a grain - it 's one of the " official grains of Canada " and regulated by the <URL> . I 'm not sure when or why it started being called a vegetable , but as far as the culinary definition goes , it has far too much sugar and starch to fall properly into that category . The typical culinary definition of a vegetable is savory , not sweet . Botanically , the kernels can be considered a type of fruit called a <URL> ( AKA a grain ) , although it 's not normally eaten as fruit ( for one thing , it 's normally cooked ) . It may accompany vegetables reasonably well , just like rice or many other grains . But it is a grain .
There is probably still some risk , so I would n't assume it was safe ; however , ice-cream is frozen , so I would n't worry about ice-cream at all , unless the egg-mixture was left at room temperature for a significant time before freezing . As far as I know , salmonella is in the faeces of the chicken , if present . Some faeces will often stick to the shell . In very rare circumstances , which I believe are negligible , the salmonella penetrates the shell and infects not only the white ( less of a problem ) but also the nutritious yolk , and then the whole egg is contaminated . But this chance is probably too small to encounter in one 's average life time . What has normally happened if the faeces are contaminated and people get sick , is that some of the salmonella present on the outside of the shell contaminates the egg when the shell is broken , or the extremely small number of bacteria present in the white get a chance to infect the whole egg ( chance ca. 0.005 % , see below ) . ( Note that in many countries the outside of the shell of supermarket eggs is supposedly sterilized . ) At that very moment , however , the number of bacteria present in the egg white should still not be enough to make people sick . But if the egg is then left to sit outside the refrigerator for several hours , and enough faeces touched the egg white , the bacteria may have enough time to multiply and make you sick . If the egg is properly refrigerated , chances are much lower , but I do not know the exact numbers . One often sees grey spots and smears on the outside of eggs ; I believe this is normally chicken faeces . Even so , salmonella is quite rare , such that the healthy should n't be worried about making ice cream , mousse au chocolat , and such from unpasteurized eggs . But if a young child , an old person , a pregnant woman , or someone with health problems were to eat the ice cream , I would not take the chance and use pasteurized eggs . If the food is contaminated , the fact that people do not get sick who have eaten it immediately upon making it offers little evidence , because the bacteria have n't had the time to multiply yet . I believe you will normally not get sick from eating contaminated steak tartare , for example , because it is eaten immediately . However that may be , ice-cream is frozen : as Derobert said below , salmonella probably <URL> , and certainly not below 0 ° C , so ice-cream should be safe under all normal circumstances , that is , if it was frozen shortly after breaking the eggs . Normal temperatures in refrigerators slow down the growth of the bacteria as well : perhaps you should n't worry too much about anything that is kept at 7 ° C anyway for a few days . The inside of an egg was once considered almost sterile . But , over recent years , the bacterium Salmonella enteritidis ( Se ) has been found inside a small number of eggs . Scientists estimate that , on average across the U.S. , only 1 of every 20,000 eggs might contain the bacteria . So , the likelihood that an egg might contain Se is extremely small -- 0.005 % ( five one-thousandths of one percent ) . At this rate , if you 're an average consumer , you might encounter a contaminated egg once every 84 years . -- <URL> , <URL>
What happens to bread when it is done Yes , there is something particular what happens at a temperature in the mid-90s . Not all details of it are proven , but the major outline is , and the hypotheses about the details are solid enough to make it into textbooks . Starch is contained in tiny granules , a few micrometers in diameter . When heated in the presence of water , there is a specific temperature at which these granules burst . The molecules of starch come in contact with water and the water molecules get lodged in the nooks and crannies of the much larger starch molecules . This process is called gelating . You can observe it easily on the macro level . Just cook a bechamel or starch pudding on stovetop , stirring constantly . The liquid will stay rather thin until all will thicken at once , just before you see the first bubbles of boiling . This is when the starch gelates . The same thing happens in bread too . This is why you want to heat the bread to this temperature . If you do n't , you will have raw starch inside , which does n't taste well . The exact temperature at which this happens varies a bit with the type of starch . It is not the same for rice and wheat , for example , and I think that it is also a bit different between different wheat cultivars . But the range within this variation occurs is not so wide , all references I have seen move somewhere between 94 and 98 degrees Celsius . So the recipe author just picks a temperature he knows to work for the flour used in the bread , maybe also accounting for some additional heat transfer after taking out of the oven . Can you use temperature as an indicator for doneness The theory says yes . My personal experience also says yes . Why did you feel that your bread was too doughy ? There are different reasons why this could have happened . You could have measured it wrong ( with the probe being too close to the surface , where the temperature is higher ) . You could have cut it too early . ( Bread is always doughy before the first starch retrogradation , which occurs maybe 1 hour after baking ) . It is also possible that the bread was actually done in the sense of gelled starch , but that the recipe produced a rather moist bread and that you have grown accustomed to dry breads if you normally bake your breads for a very long time , so your brain perceived the unaccustomed texture as " not right " . Or it is possible that something went wrong with the leavening , making the bread too dense . Dense bread is always doughy , you can not bake the moisture out of it . technical criteria for bread doneness There are two big chemical changes which happen to bread while baking . The proteins in bread ( the gluten ) have to harden . Before that , they are soft and pliable . At some temperature , they become rubber-like . The hardened gluten gives the bread structure . The second change is the starch gelation I explained earlier . When this happens , the liquid part of the dough ( dough consists of a liquid phase suspenede in the elastic gluten mesh ) thickens . Gelated starch gives bread a fluffy , soft body . As the starch gelates at much hicher temperatures than proteins denature , bread is taken out of the oven when the starch is done . The third step is the starch retrogradation . In retrogradation , starch loses the water which it took during gelation . There are three big stages of it , after each the texture changes drastically . The first happens at about an hour after getting out of the oven . This is when the bread is considered done by textbooks . In practice , there are many people ( including myself ) who like the taste of the moist hot bread just out of the oven , and they consider it done at the previous step . The second happens after about 24 hours ; after it , the bread is considered stale . The third step takes several days , and after it , bread is considered inedible , because it becomes hard as wood . So technically , bread is considered done after it has been baked to gelation temperature and then left alone for 1 hour .
end question
start question
Shaken , not stirred ... but why ?
Wikipedia has a whole article dedicated to this question ! Various possible reasons for Bond 's preference are given ; the last paragraph in this quote seems like the most solid explanation : " Shaken , not stirred " is a catchphrase of Ian Fleming 's fictional British Secret Service agent James Bond , and his preference for how he wished his martini prepared . [ ... ] Scientists , specifically biochemists , and martini connoisseurs have investigated the difference between a martini shaken and a martini stirred . The Department of Biochemistry at the University of Western Ontario in Canada conducted a study to determine if the preparation of a martini has an influence on their antioxidant capacity ; the study found that the shaken gin martinis were able to break down hydrogen peroxide and leave only 0.072 % of the peroxide behind , versus the stirred gin martini , which left behind 0.157 % of the peroxide . Thus a shaken martini has more antioxidants than a stirred one . The study was done at the time because moderate consumption of alcohol appears to reduce the risk of cataracts , cardiovascular disease , and stroke , none of which afflict Bond . Andrew Lycett , an Ian Fleming biographer , believed that Fleming liked his martinis shaken , not stirred because Fleming thought that stirring a drink diminished its flavour . Lycett also noted that Fleming preferred gin and vermouth for his martini . It has also been said that Fleming was a fan of martinis shaken by Hans Schröder , a German bartender . A part of Ian Fleming 's James Bond character was based on people in his surroundings . One such influence was his friend Bernhard von Lippe-Biesterfeld , who drank his vodka martini as Bond did , always shaken , not stirred . Some connoisseurs believe that shaking gin is a faux pas , supposedly because the shaking " bruises " the gin ( a term referring to a slight bitter taste that can allegedly occur when gin is shaken ) . In Fleming 's novel Casino Royale , it is stated that Bond " watched as the deep glass became frosted with the pale golden drink , slightly aerated by the bruising of the shaker , " suggesting that Bond was requesting it shaken because of the vodka it contained . Prior to the 1960s , vodka was , for the most part , refined from potatoes ( usually cheaper brands ) . This element made the vodka oily . To disperse the oil , Bond ordered his martinis shaken ; thus , in the same scene where he orders the martini , he tells the barman about how vodka made from grain rather than potatoes makes his drink even better . Other reasons for shaking tend to include making the drink colder or as Bond called it , ice-cold . Shaking increases convection thus making the drink far colder than if it were to be stirred . Shaking is also said to dissolve the vermouth better making it less oily tasting . While properly called a Bradford , shaken martinis also appear cloudier than when stirred . This is caused by the small fragments of ice present in a shaken martini . This also brings into question the movie versions which are never cloudy . [ ... ] Through multiple letters in New Scientist 's Last Word section ( June 5 -- 11 , 2010 ) , the mystery has been solved . When Ian Fleming was writing , most vodka was produced from potatoes and potato vodka has an oily aftertaste . Today 's grain vodka has no oily aftertaste . Experimenters found that potato vodka shaken with ice tasted less oily than did potato vodka stirred with ice . From : <URL> On a side note , that Wikipedia carries weighty articles like this should be reason enough to give in to their yearly pleas for a <URL> . ;)
The usual reason given is that Aluminum will react with the alkalis in dishwasher detergent and discolour . <URL>
I expect that you have already considered the most probable answer . For some spices , the aromatic compounds are released by some heat , but are not destroyed . Thus their effect is heightened . For other compounds , even a small amount of heat will destroy them and thus reduce their effect - see Mischa 's comment . I believe that the difference essentially lies in at what temperature a flavoursome compound starts to degrade .
If your question is specific about acid : Nothing . The conventional way acids work is by dissolving them in water . I even have some vague memories that it 's not technically correct to call a substance an " acid " before it has been dissolved in water - for example , pure HCl ( a gas ) is not an acid , but once it is dissolved in water , it becomes hydrochlorid acid . pH , the well-known measure for acidity , is defined as the logarithm of the number of protons swimming around in the aqueous solution - and before you dissolve the acidic substance , the protons stay firmly attached to their host molecule . I have never heard of an acid working without water being present . I am not a chemist , and maybe there is an way to get acid to work using some other polar solvent instead of water . So I do n't want to tell you that it 's absolutely impossible to have an acid without water ( although this could be the case , I just do n't know ) . But : The acid itself is by definition water-soluble . You ca n't bring acid and water two together and not get a new , weaker , acid-water solution . I ca n't think of any edible polar solvent besides water . Ethanol could qualify , but most people do n't consider 96.4 % ethanol to be " edible " . If it does n't matter to you what the other liquid is ( not an acid ) , you can easily use anything non-polar . In food , any fat will do . You could start by floating solid-fat spheres in water and then pouring them into oil . The problem here is that they will take quite a long time to dissolve ( although this can be circumvented by using warm oil ) . The other way round will work better . Take something which dissolves in water quickly , and make the hollow sphere out of it . Float it in oil . Then you 'll pour it into the water to release the fragrance . Crystals are best for dissolving rapidly in water . I think that either salt or sugar will work well for your spheres . Of course , you are left with two problems : 1 ) how to manufacture the hollow spheres , and 2 ) what fragrance to use which will not dissolve the spheres themselves . For 2 ) , you are probably looking at essential oils ( warning , use foodsafe ones , not all are ! ) . For 1 ) , you probably need some precision candy-making techniques . Update : letting food react with acid . The answer above assumed that you are really looking for stuff which will dissolve in acid . The commenters pointed out that this is not necessary , as you can let the food react with the acid instead . It 's an interesting idea , but it wo n't be easy to get done . From the major food groups , you can exclude all proteins . We are made of protein , and any acid strong enough to quickly corrode spheres of gelatin or similar will ulcerate our mouths right away . You can also exclude the sugars . They are water-soluble . The polysaccharides are a better bet . Especially the hemicelluloses should be good candidates , as they are insoluble in water , and the result of the hydrolisis is edible ( sugars and some polisaccharides ) . But they typically need very strong acids for the reaction . You might try to use a concentrated edible acid for the reaction , then dilute the result for consumption , but you 'll have to pay lots of attention to proper ratio . Also , I do n't know how you 'll manage to physically shape one of the insoluble polysaccharides into a water-tight capsule at home . The fats are also bad candidates . They are largely unimpressed by acids , in fact their most interesting reactions are with bases ( saponification , etc. ) The short unsaturated ones will probably react with an acid , but you 'll need a fairly strong one , and the result wo n't really disappear . The probably easiest way to do this is with salts . Especially the sodium salts tend to be edible and to react readily with acids . Plain old calcium carbonate sounds like a promising material , and with a bit of heating you can get it to react very quickly with acid solutions dilute enough to drink afterwards . Again , you have the problem of somehow making spheres out of it .
Preheating is mainly needed for breads and anything that has a short cooking time ( < 15 mins or so ) . I do n't bother preheating when I 'm roasting something for a longer time . If you 're setting a timer , I assume this is something that will take a while to cook , so I would n't worry about preheating .
Anisha , Derobert has started a community wiki question/answer in regards to shelf life here : <URL> Another good source is stilltasty : <URL> The olive oil can be stored for 1.5-2 years . This is dependant on the temperature of where you are at and where you stored the olive oil ( how much sunlight it 's gotten ) . However , it is relatively easy to tell if it 's still good by smell . When fats go bad , they go rancid . Take a look at this source if you have trouble detecting rancidity : <URL>
I 've been told that the shiny side should go on the inside for cooking , and the outside for freezing . In other words , do you want to reflect the heat into the food , or away from the food ? However , common sense ( which fails very often ) tells me that with the temperature ranges involved , any benefit is marginal , if it exists at all . The only time it might matter , is if you were trying to warm something up in the sun . Then it might make a difference . EDIT : From The Straight Dope : The truth is that the shiny side is not treated with a dangerous chemical . Mineral oil is used as a lubricant during the rolling process , some trace of which may remain on the finished foil -- but it 's not dangerous . The shiny side is shiny because of the way foil is made . During the last pass through the rolling mill , a double thickness of foil is run between the rollers . The side of each sheet that comes in contact with the polished steel rollers comes out shiny . The other side has a matte finish . <URL> ALSO The official word from the Reynolds aluminum people is as follows : " It makes little difference which side of the Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil you use -- both sides do the same fine job of cooking , freezing , and storing food . There is a slight difference in the reflectivity of the two sides , but it is so slight that laboratory instruments are required to measure it . "
I too have that Jamie Oliver book ( try the roast beef then make the Rendang , amazing ) , and you are reading the recipe correctly . There is no problem leaving the skin on providing you 've washed all the soil off . In this recipe it adds to the ' zombie brain ' look , but if you cooking something a bit more refined you might want to take it off so it looks better . Also , many celeriac recipes involved mashing it , in which case taking the skin off aids that process .
Honey contains lots of aromatic compounds , which are quite big , fragile molecules . This is one of the reasons why cold centrifuged honey costs more . When you decrystalize honey by heating it , many of these aromatic molecules break up , and you lose the complexity of the aromas . So yes , it is bad for the honey . Also , it may reduce its health benefits , as vitamins and other micronutrients tend to degrade under heat ( but only some of them - others , like trace minerals , are quite unimpressed by temperature ) . Of course , the question is not only if it is bad , but if it is worse than eating crystalized honey . This depends on 1 . The honey quality and 2 . the way you plan to use the honey . With the honey quality , it is obvious that , if the honey has already been heated in the production process , the volatile stuff has already been destroyed , so subsequent heating for decrystalization is not a problem . But if you spent money on cold centrifuged honey , you are negating its benefits by heating it . About the use : If you will heat it anyway ( as in putting it in tea , or baking it into a dough ) , there is no reason not to decrystalize first . Also , if you are only using it as a sweetener , even cold , there is no problem in heating it . But if you are using it as an aromatic agent , like in a creme fraîche and honey dressing for a fruit salad , or using it as a bread spread , then it will taste better if never heated . It will still have a general honey taste and aroma , but the subtle notes will be missing . Whether this bothers you or not depends on whether you rate aroma or texture higher . My personal choice is to not heat honey in these cases , but your preference might be different . Probably the best way to decide is to take a small amount of crystalized good quality honey , heat it , and compare it side-by-side with the crystalized version . Then use whatever version you like better . If you happen to like the decrystalized one more , it is probably a good idea to not spend money on fancy honeys in the future ( " cold-centrifuged lavender honey from South France " etc. ) , as it wo n't taste all that different from a common wildflower honey after decrystalization .
By " it stays longer " do you mean that the egg stays good longer or the membrane/air pocket stays around longer ? I do n't know why you would care about the air pocket so I 'll go with the other . Orientation is not going to noticeably affect egg quality . I do n't use egg cartons . I store my eggs in plastic tubs ( carefully ) . The eggs end up in a random orientation and there is no noticeable difference between any two eggs . I have heard to people storing the eggs differently to center the yolks in preparation for boiling . This is purely a cosmetic thing .
You can not ; they are full of solanine , which is poisonous . You can use the seeds however to grow new potatoes , though they wo n't breed true to the parent . This website has some great information : <URL>
It will be safe and edible . It might not be quite as good . Part of the appeal of slow cookers is just the convenience of leaving them unattended . The other appeal is low-slow cooking that blends flavors and melts connective tissue without burning anything . Meat Cooking things faster and hotter will not make the meat as tender as it would be - but it will still be cooked . If it is in small pieces the difference will not be as noticeable . Obviously ground meat would be the same regardless of cooking time . Beans ( if you believe in beans in chili ) 4 hours will be enough time to soften soaked beans . I 'd say this is the biggest risk . Undercooked beans are n't fun to eat . Soaked beans , canned beans , or no beans make this a non-issue . Flavor melding Chili benefits from time . Beans soak up flavors . Chili and onion balance out through the sauce . I 'll often make my chili a day in advance of serving it because it is so much better the next day . You 're going to get less time so some of this will be lost .
Your common ' non-solid ' high-protein items are : peanut butter , or other nut butters eggs yogurt cheese ( cream cheese or served melted ) tofu Depending on how strict you 're being with the fat intake , you can go even further ... low fat or non-fat yogurts and cheese ( eg . neufchâtel instead of cream cheese ) ; whites only for the eggs , etc. . Be warned that if you try to go too low-fat during this time , your body might actually crave more feed , making the problem worse . If it 's not a problem with your body being unable to process fats , you might want to reduce protein but increase fats during this time . The good news is that unless you 're a body builder , having a lower protein diet for a week or two while things heal wo n't cause your body to start eating itself -- in fact , most American diets have more protein in it than our bodies need -- about 3-5oz of meat per day ( not per meal ) is enough ; exact amount depends on your size and build . As you can get away with soft foods , and not just non-solid : Scrambled eggs ( leave out a few yolks if you 're really sensitive to the fat ) . Pulled pork , roja vieja , pot roast cooked ' ragout ' , or similar ( you might need to also chop it up if the bits of meat are long ) . Pasta with an egg sauce ( like carbonara , but might have to avoid the black pepper and/or crispy meat ... might be able to use a soft ham and/or add extra salt or worcestershire ) or a cheese sauce ( eg , macaroni and cheese , alfredo ) Tuna fish ( canned in water ; can either make into a tuna salad ( avoid celery . Use a grater to extract onion juice for flavor without solid bits of onion . Pickle brine can help brighten it up while being non-solid ) Refried beans ( make your own , and you can cut down the fat significantly ) Many soups . ( either make a strong stock , cook the meat 'til it 's soft , or put it through a blender ... or egg drop soup ) Cheesecake ( use neufchâtel cheese , or find a recipe that uses soft tofu ) Flan , custards , or ice cream ( made with a custard base , but low-fat milk ) You can also work some extra protein into other dishes ... thin your mashed potatoes with ( pre-heated ) stock a bit more than you typically would , then while still hot , blend in a egg or two . Or add neufchâtel cheese instead of milk or butter ( add stock if you still need to thin it further for your tastes )
There are several main reasons , historically : Cows , sheep and goats have udders , and can be milked by hand into a bucket . Pigs ( or cats , or humans for that matter ) have nipples , where you need to suck the milk out . Consider that most of the cheese in the world was invented before machinery was able to create a vacuum , this means that the only option would have been to suck milk from the pig and spit it into the bucket . For making cheese , the fat/protein ratio in the milk is important . It changes , obviously , from species to species , which is why there are n't many hard yellow cheeses made of goat 's milk . Lastly , I have actually had camel 's milk ice-cream , which goes to show that it 's just a cultural thing mostly .
Actually , I think " the Internet " is wrong on this one , assuming that we are talking about proper caramel sauce . In most of candy making , you are very careful of crystalization . You are working with a supersaturated sugar solution , and it is looking for the slightest excuse to precipitate . Stirring will clump the sugar out of the solution into crystals . Some candy types need to be perfectly smooth , while others ( like fudge ) get their characteristic texture from careful management of crystal size . You should n't be stirring there at all . But once you have reached caramelization , you can stir . What you have in the pan is no longer a supersaturated sugar solution , but caramelization products mixed in a less-concentrated sugar solution . In other words , you have caramel , which is a substance quite different from sugar syrup . And it does not clump into crystals . It is amorphous in its structure , not a crystal , and it 's actually got some viscosity ( if you leave a clump a solid caramel around for years , it will flow a few centimeters ) . And you are not just dealing with pure caramel , but with caramel sauce , which also has lots of liquid added in the form of cream . So much liquid would have also prevented the sugar syrup from crystalizing if it had been added earlier . So , to summarize , you should n't stir a sugar solution during candy making , but you can stir both caramel and caramel sauce . It seems that somebody learned the rule about hot sugar solutions and decided that it applies in all kinds of candy making , without exceptions . But in fact , it does n't apply to caramel sauce .
When in doubt , throw it out . It 's cheaper than a hospital visit . If you are wanting to save money , be proactive and find out the best way to store each food , and how long it can be stored . Some things lose taste and texture as they age ( even in the proper environment ) , while some things begin to grow dangerous kinds of bacteria or molds . For example , hard dry bread gets turned into french toast . Moldy bread gets thrown away .
As Sobachatina said , it 's cooked like many grains , and behaves very similar to rice . You could try continuing the steaming method , and if it does not get done by the time all the water has turned to steam , start it with a bit more water . Sobachatina 's suggestion of a tight lid is also worth considering , but pay attention to the pot then , so you do n't get it boiling over . An alternative is to use a boiling method . With or without toasting it first , add 3.5 parts of water to 1 part quinoa . Cook until soft , and put through a sieve to discard the superfluous water . The upside is that , unless you are using too high a temperature , there is no way to burn it .
It definitely sounds like you had some water on whatever you stirred the oil with . When water droplets get in the oil , they sink since oil is lighter than water . Then the water droplets turn to steam because the boiling point of water is much below the boiling point of oil . At this point , the steam rapidly rises out of the oil and escapes with a noise and a splashing of oil . It 's good to be aware of the temperature of your oil when deep frying , but the oil will start to smoke long before it spontaneously combusts . Use a thermometer , and know the smoke point of the oil you are using , and you will be OK . The real danger is oil touching the burner , or the oil spilling on you , rather than the oil in the pot exploding . Stirring is unnecessary because the density of oil reduces as temperature increases , allowing the hotter oil to make its way to the top ( but in a nice controlled manner , unlike water ) .
Bread which is left out can have any number of things happen to it , all of which are usually progressing at once , although one will win out as the primary thing you experience : It goes stale , that is , the starches in the bread lose their hydration and re-crystallize giving the bread a harder texture It dries out , losing moisture to the atmosphere ( or if it is very humid , it can get soggy , gaining moisture from the air ) It molds , if it is moist enough for molds to thrive Its gets eaten by humans , insects , dogs or other large scale breadophilic creatures The only question is which happens first or most dominantly . This can depend on the moisture level in the bread , natural anti-bacterial or anti-fungal agents in the bread ( like honey ) or artificial preservatives , the particular environment the bread is in ( and how many mold spores there are ) -- any place that has had moldy bread is going to have more mold spores for future moldy bread than average . I would not try to relate any of this to nutrition , or to a veiled evaluation of the relative quality of benefit of the bread that is available in one country or another . The notion that mold requires nutrtion is true , but it is not the whole picture : it also requires a hospitable environment ( pH neither to high or low , not to much osmotic pressure from salt or sugar , sufficient moisture ) and so on . Chocolate is extremely nutritious in the sense that it is composed nearly 99 % of things that are metabolized , but it does not host molds because it is also 100 % dry . Dried salted cod , again , highly nutritious , but not hospitable to molds . You can not take only the growth or non-growth of molds as an indicator of level of nutrition . Furthermore , the notion of " nutritious " is extremely complicated . It involves requiring sufficient calories ( as from fats or sugars ) , as well as vitamins , minerals and other micro nutrients . It is not a simple yes or no thing .
Some ingredients do not dissolve well in hot water - the starch swells and thickens , forming lumps that may have raw powder in them and are nasty . They need to be added to cold or lukewarm water and heated after they are dissolved . Other ingredients , most notably pasta , will partially dissolve in cold water making a thick gloppy soup . But if you add them to hot water they will " seal " ( in a way ) and stay together as they cook .
end question
start question
How to make good coffee in a Moka pot ?
Moka coffee pots work well if you use them every day . This way the oils that the coffee leaves inside them do not have the opportunity to go rancid ( all fats go rancid eventually ) and impart that horrible taste to your coffee . If you use them every day , it is true that you do n't really need to clean them , except to remove calcium scale buildup . If you use it rarely , like in your case or the frequent Moka pot left at a vacation house , you need to clean it with dish detergent and a scrubby sponge , you do n't need anything harsher . Make sure that you get all the coffee brown oils out . Yes , it is an unpleasant job . Make sure you rinse it well before putting it away to dry , you do n't want to simply replace the bitterness with soapiness . ... and this is the Italian doctrine ! :-)
Depending on exactly the recipe you are using it in , I 'd either go for a meaty white fish such as Cod , haddock , or the cheaper fish like pollock . You may also be able to get away with something like mackerel , which is n't as white and chunky but is much cheaper . You should be able to get all of these in a UK supermarket . You could also try a fishmonger ( either in the Supermarket or independent ) - ask them what you could use instead .
I 'd pick up a simple cone filter at the local coffee shop . Insert a paper filter , add grounds , pour hot water through .
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
I 'll try to answer this . Concerning the first recipe you linked , it does n't matter at all whether you add it first or not , since there is no extraction going on . Theres no fresh coffee , no fresh vanilla . Just extract , which of course is already extracted , so no extended wait time is needed ! There might still be room for improvement , letting flavors ' marry ' and so , but I 'd say a day should be enough . The second recipe is different . It steeps fresh coffee in alcohol , and here it 's going to need time . One month is however an extreme amount of time . Usually , hot water and coffee is steeped for seconds , and cold water and coffee is often steeped for 12 hours . Consider that alcohol is a stronger solvent than water . But if going for a true alcoholic extraction , pure is better / faster , so you should steep before adding water , and the sugar probably does n't make much difference . This said , I 'm not sure you should actually let it steep in alcohol at all , and I 'm not sure you should dilute it either . If I was doing this , I would go for water cold extraction . I 'd be concerned that alcohol would extract too much , the same as too long hot water steeping leads to bitter , sour , pungent coffee . I 'm not sure why you would want to dilute it with alot of water either . Water adds nothing to the party . Dilute it when using it instead , this leaves you free to choose each time . Perhaps you 'd like to mix it with milk instead , sometime ? Do you have a french press ? Let 1 part coursely ground coffee steep in 3 parts cold water over night . Use the filter / top to filter it , and pour it into your vodka . I 'm not completely sure , but I think 1 part extract to 4 parts vodka would be fine . Use the same ratio of sugar as in the recipes you linked , or after taste . UPDATE : I did n't completely read the second recipe before I answered . It says to boil the vodka-mixture . Sure , the alcohol does n't vanish in an hour , but I 'd still say it 's an unacceptable waste ( spirits are expensive where I 'm from ! ) . Also , the effect is the inverse of destillation , so you are left with a weaker , but sweeter , drink . I 'm not sure why it says to boil it . It says that it 's to ' thicken the liqueur ' , but they could just use less water instead . Good luck !
All of these are natural colorants but also impart a bit of flavor with them . For the raspberry layer you could use a tiny amount of beet juice to really kick the red . For yellow colors you have a few options . Saffron can work really well though I 'm not sure what mango/lime/saffron tastes like . Another organic single ingredient is Achiote , which has an extremely mild sweet flavor . It 's used for coloring mac and cheese and most processed cheese . Hope these ideas help .
' You should n't eat mussels that do n't open ' is an unfounded myth . It was first mentioned in a book by the British food writer Jane Grigson in the 1970s and grew through repetition to the point that 90 % of cook books mentioned it in the 1990s . The fact is , mussels that do n't open after cooking are more likely to be safe than those that do . You should , however , be careful to remove any mussels that have opened before cooking , as they 'll be dead and likely to make you ill .
I look for a few things ... Colour : There are many different varieties of mangos . Some go from green to red , some end up Orange , some start off yellow and end up orange . So once you 're familiar with the type of mango you 're buying , you can get an idea of what a ripe one looks like . Smell : A ripe mango will smell sweet . Check near the stem end , the smell should be stronger there . You should smell it and think " mango " . Smell is a large part of your taste , so it should be very familiar . Firmness : Mangos , like peaches will soften as they ripen . Just as it starts to go from firm to soft , it is just about ripe . Weight : With most fruit you can tell their ripeness by their weight . A riper fruit will be slightly heavier than an unripe one . As an aside , if you 're at a grocery store , and you see a few different types of mangos , look for these Ataulfo mangos : <URL> . They 're my personal favourite . The flavour is richer , and they are a lot less stringy . Finally , DO NOT refrigerate if you want them to ripen . <URL> ( There is also some generic mango info there )
I would actually just make caramel . Place about 1 1/4 cup sugar and 1/4 cup in a heavy bottom pan and dissolve over low-medium heat then crank up the heat and let cook , without stirring , until the mixture turns a golden amber colour and starts smoking . Then use the resulting caramel to sweeten your coffee :-)
It is possible , whether it fits your definition of easily is questionable , though . Whole grain flour is made by grinding whole wheat/rye / ... berries until you get a fine flour , a technique used since the neolithic age . The method that is still in use today is basically " rubbing the grains between a firm base stone and a moving upper stone " , either shaped like a rolling pin or round and flat like a millstone . ( Increase the scale and you get a classic mill . ) So your mortar and pestle will work , even if they are not made of the types of sandstone , basalt or limestone that have the " right " mixture of coarseness and durability to make good millstones . The drawback ? Scale and time . You will probably need a lot of time , to get enough flour for a bread . For a starter , it should be ok , though . If you think about buying a mill because you decide your super-fresh flour is worth the effort and cost , note that good manual mills with ceramic stones are almost as expensive as electric ones , but are way less comfortable . I make a lot of things myself and by hand in my kitchen , but I would draw the line at cranking a mill for half an hour just to get flour for one bread . For a very " kitchen hack " style of grinding flour ( but obviously not " stone ground " ) , consider your food processor ( but check the manual first ! ) : Pulse a cup or two of wheat berries untill you see " flour " and " grits " forming . Sieve off the finer parts , return the coarser to the food processor , add more grains and continue . You can even use the coarser parts for some kinds of wholegrain bread - a question of taste and recipe .
Putting the pan on the burner will deliver too much heat in too little time - aka a burnt layer . You want constant heat from the bottom during the whole cooking time . In an oven , your pizza stone is an excellent start , supplying a thermal mass . I recommend increasing the heat from the bottom compared to the heat from the top , even if this could slightly increase the total cooking time : Set your oven to " bottom heat " and / or put the pan on the lowest rack possible . A sheet of foil can also shield the pan from top heat .
I would think this is happening because your cream is just about to turn sour . As cream ages , lactic acid builds up in it . The acidity in your coffee is enough at that point to push the cream over the edge to curdling . Try newer cream or a very low-acid coffee with old cream and you should be OK .
Yes . Water boils at about 212F ( 100C ) and meat is cooked from 140F to 160F . If you left the meat in there for a very long time it would eventually approach 212F and start to get tough . The time that they give you is going to be the time it takes to ensure that the meat is safe to eat . Generally I like it to be closer to the rare side as it is more tender that way .
This is an art . Anyone who appreciates REAL tacos , can understand that this is not easy . God Bless anybody that can pull this off accurately ! I have it down to a science . I learned from my grandfather . His biggest secret was in the fork you use . We use cooking forks . 3 prong cooking forks ( most of the ones I see on google have two prongs ) . You can use regular forks too , but they arent made for cooking in high temp oil . First you must get the oil HOT . 350 atleast , preferably 400 degrees . Just before it starts smoking . You need really high oil heat . Once the oil is PLENTY hot , you hold a tortilla in one hand , and drop it in the oil halfway . It should be at 90 degrees , with your hand still holding the dry half of the tortilla . ( Note : keep your cooking fork ready for the next steps ) If your oil is hot enough , it will cook that half of the tortilla almost instantly . Let it cook until it hardens up , which should be less than a minute . Once the first half the bent tortilla is crisp , use the cooking fork to grab the tortilla half that is crisp and cooked . You will flip it here , putting the dry tortilla half ( that was in your hand ) into the oil , while the cooked half , sits above the oil with your fork . Now it should cook the other half of the taco shell . The art is using the fork well enough to create a gap at the base of the shell ( for meat or whatever you stuff with ) . And then flipping it and holding it with the fork while the other side crispens and finishes up . I would like to make a youtube video that shows this process , and it truly is an artform . Many people make great tacos but horrible tortilla shells . I grew up near Mexico , I was born 4 miles from Matamoros . I have seen my share of taco cooking , in the strangest of places . The best tacos Ive ever had use this method . And the best taco makers Ive ever seen wouldnt do this any other way ( by hand ) . It 's hard to do this without burning your hand ( s ) . Be careful . The dry tortilla absorbs the hot oil , even when your holding it over the grease in the first step . Youd be surprised how a corn tortilla will drink the oil right up to your hand . Give it practice . You will mess up a few tortillas . Dont worry about that , they make great quesadillas or nachos :)
Boil the broth down more before adding the cornstarch . The broth will continue to thicken as it cools , so aim for a little thin/runny in the pan so it 's the right consistency on the table . Do n't be afraid to mix in the cornstarch in multiple , smaller batches . Edit : For gravy , I prefer the taste of flour to corn starch .
My mother had a similarly shaped pan with a lid that she 'd use for baking coffee cake and such when camping . It was all aluminum and much less complicated ( and likely not as useful ) as what your talking about . The closest thing I found is the <URL> . It looks they may be had for about $ 50 .
The fourth option is the correct one . The problem is that if you start with oil in the mortar , the pestle will slip and you will not be able to properly mash the rest . What you usually do is : Wash the basil in cold water . Put the leaves on a tea towel and leave them to dry ( you can delicately pat them with another towel ) . You do n't want extra water in the pesto , so be sure the leaves are dry before starting . Traditional pesto is made with <URL> . Start with the garlic ( traditionally <URL> ) and a few grains of rock salt in the mortar . You would generally put 1-2 pips of garlic for ~ 50g basil leaves , but obviously that is up to your taste ( if you were to make Provencal pistou you would probably go for a higher garlic to basil ratio ) . I generally remove the inner part of the garlic ( the anima ) before mashing it . Now add the basil and mash them with a circular movement . You have to be quite delicate when doing this . You 'll see a green liquid forming at the bottom of the mortar . Now add pinenuts and/or the walnuts and finally the cheese . A mix of 36 months-aged Parmigiano Reggiano and pecorino ( sardo or romano ) is perfect for pesto . Finally add the extra-virgin olive oil slowly , while mixing . Put in clean pots , let it rest for half an hour , then if necessary cover with some extra oil . Whether you do this in batches or all at once mainly depends on the size of the mortar and how much pesto you are making . If you are making a big amount or have a small mortar repeat the steps for every batch ( I would wash the mortar each time , as it will be oily . Remember to dry it throughly before restarting ) . Most informations taken from : <URL> ( in Italian )
It probably would not damage anything , but you would end up with rather a mess to clean up , probably , and not a very good product . The chocolate would melt slowly , maybe clog the filter . It might overflow hot , sticky coffee chocolate liquid all over . The candy is also probably old enough since it was roasted that it would n't brew excellent coffee , even if it was n't chocolate coated . Eat them as candy -- you will at least get your caffeine fix that way ! You will have energy to go out and get some coffee .
If it 's refrigerated , it 'll last for at least a week , as long as you did n't pre-dairy it . Unrefrigerated , I would n't trust it for more than a day . Coffee is a crappy growth medium and it should start out the next best thing to sterile , but , even covered , its going to start to get moldy . Obviously if you add dairy , then you 're dealing with that dairy shelf-life , and that is n't very long at all .
Melting carob is a bit different from chocolate . The sugar crystal formation is not the same for tempering chocolate . One suggestion is to add paramount crystals ( which is a combination of palm kernel oil and soy lecithin ) to help start/control the process . I would also recommend not keeping the double boiler actually on the double boiler for the entire time . Heat it up until some of the carob melts . Remove from heat and stir . Add it back to the heat and continue removing to stir as each bit melts a little more . It takes longer but it allows you to control the heating and crystallization process . End the end , you should have a smoother and more even end result .
end question
start question
What meats can I serve medium rare and why ?
Beef ( and Lamb ) : The surface of beef is often contaminated with pathogens such as e-coli . However , the meat is very dense and the bacteria can not migrate from the surface into the flesh . Therefore , beef is safe to consume once the external temperature exceeds , 160 degrees F . The internal uncontaminated meat is safe to eat raw . Pork : Like beef the surface of pork needs to be fully cooked . Unlike beef , pigs harbor a parasitic roundworm called Trichinella spiralis . Infection with the worm is called trichinosis and can be fatal . This worm is killed when the flesh reaches 150 degrees F and is held there for several minutes . Therefore pork is safe to consume when cooked to medium . ( Commercial pork in North America almost never has the roundworm present . Almost every case ( all ? ) of trichinosis in the last 15-20 years have come from undercooked wild boar or bear meat ) . Trichinella spiralis can also be killed by freezing ( time and temperature dependent ) . Chicken : Almost all chickens have Salmonella or Campylobacter present on the surface ( at least ) . However , chickens have a less dense flesh than pigs , sheep or cows . Therefore , the bacteria can migrate deep into the flesh . Also , the processing of chickens is much more invasive than the previously mentioned animals which also means the interior meat can get contaminated . This means the meat must be cooked to well done throughout . Duck : With duck it seems to come down to a matter of processing verses chicken . Also , they are raised in a much less confined manor , which helps prevent the spread of pathogens . There is still a chance of getting a salmonella infection from undercooked duck but cooking the breast well done basically ruins it , so people take the ( small ) risk . Ground meat : Grinding meat , by its nature , implies the surface and the interior is mixed . Therefore , one must assume the meat is fully contaminated and must be entirely cooked to well done .
130 degrees is certainly the temperature to aim for , I 'm thinking that it 's the pan sear that did it . 1 minute in a pan is actually quite a bit for a thinner steak ( at 6 ounces I 'm thinking yours were maybe 1/2 - 3/4 inch ) , certainly enough to add 10-20 degrees or so to the steak 's temperature and make it medium well . As for how to avoid it there 's a few things : Get a thick steak : a thick steak can take a minute in the pan without cooking much more Cook to rare : if you want to use a thinner steak cook it to 115 or 120F instead of 130F , that way the sear will bring it up to the perfect temperature Use a torch to brown it : A chef 's torch would give a good , quick sear without cooking the steak as much as a hot pan Sear the steak first : it 's not as good as searing after , but then you will get your perfect temperature Cook the steak , then let it cool , then sear it . Your steak will only overcook if the temperature goes over 135F
Usually it is removed from the fat , and warmed in an oven . The exact instructions will probably be on the tin , but from memory I think it was about 15 mins @ 180c , as you only really need to warm them through and remove the excess fat . We have always served it with potatoes roast in some of the fat from the tin . Usually par-boiled , minced garlic added , then shaken in the boiling pan ( with a lid on ) to mix the garlic in and to rough up the edges so you get some nice crispy bits , then put into a hot tray of duck fat ( go on be generous with the fat , it 's delicious ) and into a hot oven till crispy . You could also serve it with dauphinoise potatoes , which would also be great . Accompanied by french beans or broccoli or some other green veg , and some crusty French bread to mop up the fat with . mmmm . Makes me want to go and get my tin out of the cupboard for tonight .
This is totally fine . Meat gets poked and prodded all the time , whether to test it , to pick it up with tongs , or sticking a fork in it to cut . Meat just is not that fragile . Things like smashing with a tenderizer are much more violent and do affect the texture ( that 's kind of the point ) , so that 's not a great comparison . But this is a really minor thing .
00 is extra-fine flour , the most refined grade . <URL> a useful page for more about the old flour grading system . Other than pasta I use it for thickening sauces , and I sometimes make pizza dough with it , although I ca n't tell the difference between using 00 and good quality bread flour . I 'd use 00 for Gnocci certainly as the chefs do , but most home cooks just use plain flour and seem to get good results . Basically , if you have it or can get it use it , if not plain flour is fine .
Yes , you can . In fact , this is a specific technique known as a " <URL> " which is a good way to take liquid coffee camping with you if you do n't want to take brewing equipment . Some people even prefer coffee made this way to other methods of brewing .
The most recent Cook 's Illustrated has a cinnamon swirl bread article that discusses this problem . According to them , the root cause is a lack of binding between the dough and filling . Gas from the yeast , and steam generated during baking , push into the spiral , creating pressure that compresses the dough and widens the gap . In the specific case of cinnamon bread , they recommend using powdered ( confectioner 's ) sugar instead of granulated , and using a large amount of cinnamon . The finer sugar dissolves more easily in moisture from the bread , quickly creating a paste that is reinforced by the cornstarch and by starches in the ground cinnamon . Misting the bread before adding the filling also helps . In order to make a sausage filling adhere to the bread , you would need a sticky , water-soluble element . Cornstarch or powdered gelatin spring to mind immediately as possibilities . The other tactic they employ is to actually expose the filling during proofing , preventing the yeast 's gas ( and later , steam ) from building up alongside the filling . Once the filling is rolled into the dough , the loaf is cut in half lengthwise . With the two halves laid side-by-side , cut face up ( exposing the filling ) , they are wound around each other , folding the left piece over the right until the end is reached ( this is called a " Russian braid " ) . The ends are pinched together , and the loaf is placed in the pan to proof . This , obviously , should help with any kind of filling , not just cinnamon sugar .
I have no trouble making lovely light lemon cake gluten free , and many other gluten free cakes too , I make them for a living . There is a substitute for gluten and it 's called Xanthan Gum . You can buy this separately to add to your flour ( about a teaspoonful for every 250g ) , or in a ready mixed flour blend , at least you can in the UK . A mixture of flours such as rice , potato starch , tapioca and maize/cornstarch works much better than a single flour when substituting for wheat flour . Each flour has its own unique characteristics and brings different properties to the cake . The combination of these , if got right , makes a light , moist and tasty cake , often better than wheat flour ones - this is feedback from my customers who are not coeliac ! There are recipes to be found on the web for making one 's own flour blends if needed , but look for a recipe that contains Xanthan Gum and it will not turn out like a brick . And there 's no need to cream the fat with the sugar and whisk the eggs separately etc. . I just use an all-in-one everything in the mixer bowl and mix .
You can make some very good sauces , based on demi-glace . Bordelaise ( if you add chopped shallots , red wine and a bit of marrow ) ( eat it with grilled beef , steak or pork ) Robert ( if you add chopped onions , vinegar and white wine , and a bit of mustard ) ( fits very well with grilled pork ) Zingara ( chop ham , mushrooms and truffle into tiny pieces ) ( You can mix this with tomato sauce and it goes well with beef tongue ) If you want to use demi-glace as it is , it fits very well with pork chops or lamb , hogget , or mutton .
Generally any non-oily fish is fine for deep frying . A relatively meaty fish ( though not too meaty like monkfish ) with a good thick fillet is best , because this allows the batter to cook without overcooking the fish . As Yellow Croaker is not an oily fish , you should be fine to batter and deep fry it provided you have a nice thick fillet . Traditional fish and chips usually uses cod or haddock .
You have mentioned in your comments that you do n't rest steak . This is why it leaks the red liquid when you cut it . Any good restaurant will rest your steak , hence them being less leaky . <URL> explains very well why you should rest steak ( and any other meat ) . Essentially , as the meat cools , the shape of its fibers changes , allowing it to retain the liquid . 7-10 minutes is about the right length of time to rest a steak . Heston Blumenthal recommends resting on a wire rack rather than a plate to prevent one side steaming .
In order to store yeast for that period of time it has to be make inactive , and the process to do that yourself is challenging , time consuming , and you 'd need specialist equipment . It would be prohibitive in both time and cost , far above just buying yeast . You can of course make a starter by mixing equal amounts of flour and water plus some yeast , this will keep the yeast alive by feeding it , and you can keep it alive indefinitely by feeding it once per week . You add some of the starter to your bread and it supplies active yeast .
Liquid vanilla extract has alcohol in it , so if you add this extract to hot cocoa , puddings , fudge , or anything you make with heat , the alcohol burns off and so does most of the flavor . If you wait for it to cool off the flavor stays strong . Same thing goes for artificial vanilla also because of the alcohol levels ( but the flavor is just not there to begin with with artificial flavor ) . If you use vanilla beans , open up the pod and scrape the inside of it and put it in the beginning with the hot mix . That is another story . It is very delicious , but you see teeny tiny little beans swimming in your lighter mixes like vanilla bean ice cream .
Meat is pounded as a mechanical means of tenderizing by damaging the connective tissues . It also makes the meat thinner and flatter , which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly . Pound tougher meats ( cheaper steaks ) , and meats of uneven thickness ( chicken breasts ) . Avoid pounding the bones in the meat . You do n't want little pieces of bone chipping off into meal . Do n't pound already tender pieces ( premium cuts , dry aged steaks ) . Think tenderize , not pulverize . You should not be making any holes in it . If you 're going to marinate , do that after pounding . Wrapping the meat in wax paper first will help prevent a big mess . Do both sides of the meat .
If the goal is to melt collagen , could n't that be done just as easily at a higher temp ? No , it wo n't be . The reaction which has to happen to the collagen does n't go quicker when the temperature is higher . You have to get it to 68 Celsius and wait for it to happen . If it is at more than 68 Celsius , it wo n't happen quicker , or better , or anything . You have no advantages . At the same time , if you have a higher temperature , you have more trouble . First , you are wasting a lot of energy to keep the stew hotter over many hours . Second , its liquid can boil off , getting the wrong consistency . Third , if the bottom of the pot becomes too hot , it will burn on . Fourth , anything non-meat in there can suffer from the heat - vegetables can overcook , starch can burn onto the bottom , anything planty ( vegetables , herbs , spices ) can get its taste destroyed ) . All in all , if you can cook something on a high or a low temperature , choose the low one , it is generally better for everything . Only choose high for foods which have a narrow temperature range which is high .
The standard recommended temperature for a home freezer is 0 ° F ( -18 ℃ ) . Regular ice cream keeps best at -5 ° F to 0 ° F. However , the proper storage temperature for soft serve ice cream is 18 ° F ( -7 ℃ ) . While you could raise the temperature of your freezer to accommodate this , it really would n't be recommended for the rest of your frozen foods . Short of that , your best option would be to get a tiny freezer just for your soft serve so that you can keep it at at higher temperature without risking the quality of your other food .
They do n't correspond to a temperature , they correspond to a rate of heat input . The elements in your oven are connected to a thermostat with regulates their temperature , they are really constant heat/fixed temperature devices , like the heat in your home . The oven turns the elements on and off to regulate temperature , but the elements are only ever ON or OFF . The stovetop elements , by contrast , are variable heat/variable temperature . There is no thermostat , but the elements can be variably adjusted between MAX and OFF . For every setting the temperature will just keep getting hotter and hotter ( unless something is removing the heat , like cooking food ) - the higher settings will just get hotter faster . The important thing to know ( for an electric range ) is the wattage of the elements - most 8 " elements are ~ 2500W , and most 6 " elements are ~ 1500W . But there is a lot of variability . Additionally , if you are living in a home with 240V power but have recently lived in an apartment ( which likely had 208V power , but 240V elements installed in the oven , even if you did n't realize it ) , your heater elements will seem much hotter than before . It is also possible that the oven maker or previous owner installed higher wattage elements ( perhaps by installing elements intended for a 208V service in a home with 240V service , which would have the effect of " turbocharging " them a bit ) . Temperature measured with an IR thermometer may not be useful for you to determine if your oven is hotter than usual , since an empty pan on Low will still reach 400 + degrees ( it will just get there slower ) . What might be more useful is to find out what setting people do certain cooking tasks at , and see if that is different than what works on your oven . You can also remove the elements and find the voltage/wattage stamped on the bottom - let us know what those values are and we may be able to tell you if they are abnormally high . Personally , I sweat onions on 4/10 , fry an egg at 6/10 , simmer soup at 2/10 , and maintain 1 gallon water at a consistent , but not vigorous boil at 8/10 .
Usually a cheese tasting would have more variety in terms of texture and flavour and you 'd progress from the mild to the stronger . However , if your goal is to compare a lot of similar cheeses to contrast with each other , you 'll need to have more palate cleansing and balancing in between each cheese . A lot of the cheeses that you 're considering are aged ones , which tend to be quite sharp and salty . For the harder/saltier cheeses , acidic accompaniments will be important . Things like granny smith apples and tomatoes would be ideal . Something juicy and thirst quenching like melon ( or the tomato ) would also be important to include . Proscuitto , while yummy , would probably just add more sharp saltiness to an already overwhelmed palate . As for dried fruits , another classic for cheese courses is dates since the sweetness makes a nice contrast . You might want to consider including something like a raisin bread as well as crackers for serving the cheeses . Chutney is delicious on crackers with cheese and could help balance the fact that most hard cheeses are eaten as a garnish more than on their own ( e.g. on a salad , on pasta , etc ) . However , this might interfere with the " tasting " atmosphere you 're aiming for . If you want to pair with something non-alcoholic , a sparkling water is probably a good place to start since the fizz will be refreshing and the water wo n't introduce any other flavours to the palate .
It does n't sound like you 're doing anything wrong . I 've found risotto to be one of those recipes that can vary up to 50 % ( usually less ) from what the author calls for and still turn out great . I 've even used recipes that call for " 2-4 " cups of broth . You may be overcooking it though , <URL> . It 's not uncommon for people to overcook this until you have a mushy risotto .
Basmati is classic . I am particularly fond of brown basmati rice , which has more flavor than white basmati , but it takes longer to cook and will go rancid after 6 months . If basmati is not available , any long-grain rice will suffice ; short-grain rice tends to be too sticky . As for technique , rinse the rice until the rinse-water runs clear . For every cup of rice , use 2 cups of water and 1/2 tsp salt . Bring the water to a boil ; add the rice and salt and reduce the heat to a simmer . Cook covered until the liquid has been absorbed and the texture of the rice is tender . For additions to the rice , you have LOADS of options . You can add a pinch of saffron to the water for a vibrant yellow color and distinctive floral aroma ( if you just want color , add 1/2 tsp ground turmeric ) . You can add chunks of peeled ginger , cracked peppercorns , whole peeled garlic cloves , whole cardamom pods , whole cloves , whole bay leaves , whole kaffir lime leaves , and/or whole stick cinnamon -- amounts and combinations are entirely up to your taste ( just remember to remove any bay leaves before serving ; remove the others or not as you like , but bay is inedible ) . You can also add cooked vegetables , such as peas , butter beans , pearl onions , and/or carrots .
end question
start question
How do I make sure that the meat cooks well and yet stays juicy on a bbq ?
Common noob mistakes : Cooking things too long . Meat dries out when it 's cooked to too high an internal temperature . That 's the whole thing , and it 's true no matter how you cook something . If you like your meat to be completely devoid of pink inside , it will be dry . No avoiding it . Find out what 's a good temperature for the doneness you desire , and use an instant-read thermometer to find out when you get there . You will also find that some cuts of meat want more cooking than others . A skirt steak wants hardly any cooking because it dries out easily . A New York strip , with good fat marbling , can withstand more cooking because it has that nice fat to keep things moist . Cooking with too much heat or too little . When the heat 's too high , you burn the outside before the middle can get to the temperature you want . If it 's too low , you never really get a good sear on the outside , and miss out on much of the grilled food experience . And you 'll need to learn to tailor your heat to the needs of what you 're cooking -- fish typically needs less than chicken , which needs less than beef or lamb . Putting the meat on too early . You need to wait for the charcoal to ash over and stop flaming . If you do n't wait for the coals to get right , you run a much greater risk of flare-ups and scorched food , not to mention off flavors from unburned wood or fillers in your charcoal . This is a non-issue with gas grills . Not preheating the grate . You need to put the grill grate over the coals as soon as you can so it preheats well . If your grate is n't preheated , you wo n't get grill marks , and your meat is more likely to stick . You need to do this if you have a gas grill too -- maybe more so , since they typically do n't get as hot . I 'd recommend that you find a basic book about grilling . Any of Steven Raichlen 's books will give you the general tips on how to do things . I 'm not wild about his overuse of rubs and sauces -- I think they 're totally unnecessary most of the time -- but he does know his way around a fire and a grill grate . However , if you want your meat well-done , be prepared to eat a lot of dry ( and likely tough ) meat . Your only option at that point is to switch to low-and-slow techniques that cook things like pork shoulder for a really long time at a low temperature ( traditional barbecue ) . The meat gets fully cooked , but because it has a lot of fat and connective tissue to render , retains a moist mouthfeel . But this is n't grilling , per se , and takes many hours .
To further add to this . Here 's an explanation from the Chefsteps site on brining The Effects of Brining Charged chloride ions from the dissolved salt in a brine will repel , destabilize , and unravel various proteins within the muscle fibers of meats and seafood . This is not altogether different than what cooking with heat also does to these proteins . The combination of dissolved salt and heat combine to increase the juiciness of flesh by drawing water in during brining and squeezing less of it out during cooking . Brined foods that are cooked have a telltale texture because the combination of salt and heat creates a firmer , more elastic gel than heating does alone . But avoid overdoing it , otherwise the flesh can become too firm and chewy , as well as too salty . <URL>
A pull-through sharpener will never do as thorough a job at sharpening your knife as a stone , and over time will lose its efficacy and actually dull your blade . In a pinch they can be useful , but be sure to give the knife a few passes on a good quality steel afterwards , as the pull-through sharpeners tend to remove metal quite coarsely .
The most common methods to create chocolate coated ice cream bars , with or without a stick are to : Use truly tempered chocolate , which may be more trouble than it is worth Use a mixture of chocolate thinned with vegetable oil . See for example , this recipe from <URL> .
Firstly consider a lower temprature but do start with a very hot pan , and turn down the heat and make sure you baste your fish correctly ; cook skin side for a longer time , untill you have the desired colour . Add your butter and let it foam , and only then turn your fish . Once you have turned your fish you can take your pan off the heat . Start basting with foamy butter . For plaice , It should be done in under 1 minute . If your not serving straight away remove from pan for hot holding . If you keep to do this method , its hard to end up with a dry fish .
Why the doming happens When you heat leavened dough , two things happen : leavening agent creates bubbles , causing the soft dough to rise . For chemically leavened doughs ( baking powder or baking soda ) , the amount of lift mostly depends on the time the bubble creating reaction goes on and the concentration of non-spent leavening agent . The gluten in the dough sets , building a sturdy 3-d mesh of long , branchey molecules . When the mesh is strong enough , further bubbles can not stretch it more , despite the fact that the leavening reaction is still going on . The setting of the mesh depends mostly on heat and the amount of gluten present in flour . The pattern you are seeing means that your cake gets hotter on the sides than in the middle . The sides get set early and stop rising , while the middle is still soft and continues rising . This happens because the walls of the pan conduct heat to the sides of the cake quicker than heat is conducted inside the cake . You see the phenomenon in an exaggarated form in a muffin , which is usually higher than wide : it is always rounded on top , and often split , because the liquid core from the middle continues to rise after a crust has formed on the surface . How to prevent it Slower heating One good solution could involve a slower , more even heating method . This can be accomplished by using a pan which insulates well . With an insulating pan , the sides will stay liquid longer and rise more . Unfortunately there are no insulated drop-out-bottom pans . Porcelain I have had good results in a porcelain or Pyrex pan . The pan insulates the cake from the bottom and the sides , but not from the top , so you will need to bake it on a lower rack and/or reduce temperature on the upper heater in order to not burn the upper surface . Getting a cake layer out of the pan in one piece can be hard . To deal with this problem , if your batter is not too sticky , the bottom of the pan can be lined with parchment paper . The sides can be lined with a strip of parchment or well lubricated with fat . This approach is a hassle . Insulate a metal pan Perhaps , when combined with other approaches , a metal cake pan with thicker walls will work well enough . You could also try a more DIY solution , like attaching 2-3 layers of a cut-to-fit silicone rolling mat stripes to the outside of the walls of a metal pan . However , it is quite hard to come up with a good attachment method ( glue could release toxic fumes at oven temperatures , if it holds at all ) . So this method should work , but is somewhat hard to apply . Glass and silicone pans There are pans with glass bottoms and silicone walls but I think these would not help because the glass would insulate better than the thin silicone . Preheating Perhaps preheating the detached bottom of a metal pan with the oven could help , but I have n't tried it . Minimize the center A second approach is to minimize the liquid core by making a thin cake . If the middle of the cake is heated quickly enough from above and below , it will set shortly after the walls do , and there will be no unset center to " bloom " . Use a bigger pan . I think that Americans mostly use 9 inch pans , but if you used an original sacher recipe from Austria , it is probably meant for a 26 or a 28 cm pan . Bake the two layers separately Divide the batter into two pans instead of making a single layer and cutting it . This is unorthodox , as you get more crust but it 's better than a hunchbacked sacher . You should use a scale or at least a measuring jug to divide the batter , or you 'll end up with different thicknesses . Also remember to reduce the baking time , as the core will heat up faster . Use a toothpick for probing doneness . Reduce the leavening The third idea is to reduce the amount of leavening agent . The walls will always set before the core and , if there is enough baking powder , the core will still expand a little bit more . If the concentration of baking powder is low you 'll get less bubbles , so less lift . Of course , using too little baking powder will also ruin the cake , so you 'll have to be cautious and experiment a bit before hitting the correct amount . Lower heat The fourth approach is to give the outer portions of the cake more time to rise by baking at lower heat . This is somewhat risky , as it can result in a different texture of the final product , due to the different rate at which water will evaporate from the dough and a longer baking time . Also , if your temperature is too low , you wo n't get a golden crust on a light-coloured dough . This should not be a problem for a frosted cake like the sacher . Less gluten The fifth approach is to use a flour with less gluten . With less gluten you get a mesh which is less dense and needs more time until it gets firm enough to prevent rising . Use cake flour instead of all purpose flour . A bit more fat will also help to inhibit gluten development but too much will change the taste and texture . All methods I described should attribute t
Classic Chevre uses a bacterial culture as well as rennet to coagulate the cheese , but that is not the only way to make a goat 's cheese . The recipe you linked to does n't have a long incubation time , so I doubt there 's any intention that the buttermilk is inoculating the cheese and there 's no rennet . So I think the " bacteria " idea is a red herring . A very simple goat 's cheese can be made with goat 's milk and lemon juice . I have had great success with it . It does make a fairly soft cheese , though how soft depends on how long its left to drain . The recipe I use has 1/3 cup ( US ) lemon juice to 1 quart milk . I 'm in the UK so this works out as 2 lemons per litre . The result is quite " lemony " and you might want to use another acid source ( white wine vinegar for instance ) but if you keep trying you can home in on what you like . Simple acid cheeses like reasonably high temperatures . My recipe uses 180 - 185F ( which may be hotter than you have used ) before adding the lemon juice . The other thing is , its generally much easier to just let the milk sit after acidification so the curd can develop . 10 minutes is usually enough , but you can always leave it 20 or 30 minutes if the curd is slow to set . The guilty kitchen recipe goes straight to ladling out the curds . That is something you do for a ricotta or high acid cheese ( which may sort of be what they are aiming for - I do n't cook with buttermilk myself so do n't have the experience ) but I 'd want to let things set a bit first with a simple goat 's cheese . So : warm slowly to 180-185F , add lemon , sit , strain through cheesecloth to the texture you like . Crumbly may be an indication that its not setting long enough ?
Meat is pounded as a mechanical means of tenderizing by damaging the connective tissues . It also makes the meat thinner and flatter , which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly . Pound tougher meats ( cheaper steaks ) , and meats of uneven thickness ( chicken breasts ) . Avoid pounding the bones in the meat . You do n't want little pieces of bone chipping off into meal . Do n't pound already tender pieces ( premium cuts , dry aged steaks ) . Think tenderize , not pulverize . You should not be making any holes in it . If you 're going to marinate , do that after pounding . Wrapping the meat in wax paper first will help prevent a big mess . Do both sides of the meat .
Biscuits are notorious for that ; they 're best eaten right away . If you want to preserve their original texture longer than 12 hours ( yes , that short of a time ) , your best bet is to freeze them as soon as they are cool and eat them within a month or two . Wrap them as air-tightly as possible . You can pop the frozen biscuits in a moderate oven or unwrap and give them an hour or so on the counter to defrost , then warm them . Either way , it 's best to serve them warm , they will seem softer and fresher that way . If you 've found a recipe you like and think you might want to make them frequently , mix the dry ingredients for multiple batches . If you can weigh the dry mix that you have just mixed , then you 're golden . You can make as many or as few biscuits as you want anytime just by using the same proportion of dry , fat and liquid as the original recipe . You can easily make a single biscuit that way or feed a crowd .
If you do n't fancy cooking in aluminium foil ( kind of takes the point away ) , you need to make sure you have a super clean , extremely hot grill . Why ? Clean ( No tasty burnt fat from the burgers ) , flesh sticks like #### to a blanket . You can get away with it when cooking steaks because they are just so much stronger . So get a wire brush and clean an area for fish cooking and keep it clean :) . Hot , as hot as you can pretty much . You want the second that Salmon ( or other fish ) hits the grill for it to blacken . It 'll help make sure the flesh is no longer ' fleshy ' and again less likely to stick . Do n't try lifting it till ' you know that underside is like a pink and black Zebra on it 's underside ( 3-4 min ) . When it does come to lifting you could really do with a nice sharp fish slice , not a blunt fat ended egg slice . Good luck .
Having not had horsemeat myself , I can only inquire with one who has : they found it to taste like bland but tender red meat . So , use mild reds for pairing like you would for beef tenderloin : Cabernet Sauvigonon Pinot Noir Lighter-bodied Shiraz/Syrah
With thin cuts of meat ( like chicken breast or a steak ) , you want to make sure you put the thermometer in to the thin side of the meat so that the whole thermometer goes in to the meat , rather than putting it in through the " top " so that only a little of the thermometer is in the meat . If you 're putting it in the top , you can get wildly inaccurate temperatures . Also make sure that the thermometer is n't touching a pan , exposed to air , or touching a bone . Any of those can have a negative effect . Also , you only need to cook chicken to 74C / 165F . That may be part of the problem in your case . You may also want to check that your thermometer is accurate . You can stick it in boiling water to check that it reads 100C / 212F ( assuming of course it goes up that high ) .
Brining is great to begin with . Use a bone-in , skin on chicken breast . Once it 's done you can remove the skin and carve off the bone if you like . Also , set up 2 heat zones in your grill ( either by banking your coals or by turning off a gas burner ) . Brown it for a few minutes over the hot zone , then transfer to the cooler zone to finish cooking , until temp comes to 165-170 degrees . Then remove from heat and wait at least 5 minutes to slice .
A lot of bacteria grows in the range of 40-100 ° F ( 4-38 ° C ) ( i.e. room temperature ) . It 's definitely not recommended to defrost meat at room temperature . In fact , you are not supposed to leave meat at room temperature for more than an hour . However , defrosting in the refrigerator can take a long time and require you to plan at least one day ahead of time . I 'm not so good at this , which leads to a safe and fast solution : Defrost meat in a waterproof ziploc bag in cold water . Change the water every 30 minutes until defrosted . The water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the defrosting is quite fast and the water is cold so there 's minimal safety risk . From the <URL> : Uh , oh ! You 're home and forgot to defrost something for dinner . You grab a package of meat or chicken and use hot water to thaw it fast . But is this safe ? What if you remembered to take food out of the freezer , but forgot and left the package on the counter all day while you were at work ? Neither of these situations are safe , and these methods of thawing lead to foodborne illness . Food must be kept at a safe temperature during " the big thaw . " Foods are safe indefinitely while frozen . However , as soon as food begins to defrost and become warmer than 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) , any bacteria that may have been present before freezing can begin to multiply . Foods should never be thawed or even stored on the counter , or defrosted in hot water . Food left above 40 ° F ( unrefrigerated ) is not at a safe temperature . Even though the center of the package may still be frozen as it thaws on the counter , the outer layer of the food is in the " Danger Zone , " between 40 and 140 ° F ( 4 ° C and 60 ° C ) -- at temperatures where bacteria multiply rapidly . When defrosting frozen foods , it 's best to plan ahead and thaw food in the refrigerator where food will remain at a safe , constant temperature -- 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) or below . There are three safe ways to defrost food : in the refrigerator , in cold water , and in the microwave . Refrigerator Thawing Planning ahead is the key to this method because of the lengthy time involved . A large frozen item like a turkey requires at least a day ( 24 hours ) for every 5 pounds of weight . Even small amounts of frozen food -- such as a pound of ground meat or boneless chicken breasts -- require a full day to thaw . When thawing foods in the refrigerator , there are several variables to take into account . Some areas of an appliance may keep the food colder than other areas . Food placed in the coldest part will require longer defrosting time . Food takes longer to thaw in a refrigerator set at 35 ° F ( 2 ° C ) than one set at 40 ° F ( 4 ° C ) . After thawing in the refrigerator , ground meat and poultry should remain useable for an additional day or two before cooking ; red meat , 3 to 5 days . Foods defrosted in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking , although there may be some loss of quality . Cold Water Thawing This method is faster than refrigerator thawing but requires more attention . The food must be in a leak-proof package or plastic bag . If the bag leaks , bacteria from the air or surrounding environment could be introduced into the food . Also , meat tissue can also absorb water like a sponge , resulting in a watery product . The bag should be submerged in cold tap water , changing the water every 30 minutes so it continues to thaw . Small packages of meat or poultry -- about a pound -- may defrost in an hour or less . A 3 - to 4-pound package may take 2 to 3 hours . For whole turkeys , estimate about 30 minutes per pound . If thawed completely , the food must be cooked immediately . Foods thawed by the cold water method should be cooked before refreezing .
If you want your Kombucha be strong , consistent , and to taste like a commercial one , then you need to use the same SCOBY contained in a commercial kombucha . Remember , making Kombucha , just like brewing wine , mead , or beer , is nothing more than glorified yeast herding . You give the SCOBY what it wants to eat , and it does the rest . It 's really that simple . You just need the same starter as a commercial company . Now , many companies spend years perfecting their strains of yeast/bacteria , and trying to raise your own or getting a starter from " some guy " often just wo n't compare because it is either weak , or it has n't been fed properly , it contains too much acetalbacter , etc. . So , how do you do it ? You use the SCOBY that commercial kombucha makers provide you in the bottle and propagate it . In homebrewing we use a similar procedure called " washing yeast , " where you take a commercial beer , drink the majority , and then use the dregs of yeast at the bottom to ferment your own beer . Start with an unpasteurized , raw commercial bottle of Kombucha that you like that has not been sorbated or sulfited . Check the bottle for wisps of sediment in the bottle , indicating that it contains some mother , the more the better . Then , you prepare food ( black tea and sugar ) , and mix the two . Cover with some cloth , store in a warm ( I would guess at 65-70 degrees F based on my experience brewing wine/beer and alsoo purposely making vinegar ) and dark place , and let the mother start to grow . It 'll take 2-3 feedings before you have a strong mother , but it should form . If it does n't ? Grab another bottle of kombucha and try again . This link explains the process in better detail . <URL> Once you have the mother , just continue feeding and do whatever you can not to break the cycle of feedings so it does n't get stressed . You are dealing with living things , and so they will have a tendency to fall into cycles . If you break the cycles , they 'll get stressed .
Lamb meat is tougher and more fatty than your typical beef roast . 2 cups of red wine is a lot of acidic liquid and that can eat away at the meat as to tenderize it . Your mother may be right , some beef stock to thin out the alcohol may in fact do the trick . Also , rotating the roast would be a good idea as well since a beef roast will dry out at the top because it 's not as fatty as lamb . I would typically rotate my roast every now and again if I 'm not using an electric rotisserie . I definitely recommend an electric rotisserie for beef roasts .
It 's actually hard to hold when it 's almost all the way cooked - it 'll start getting gluey if you let it cool off , but could start scorching on the bottom if it 's not stirred , and get too runny if you keep adding stock . Mario Batali said that risotto is n't finicky in the middle - so you can cook it part way , cool it down ( I think he said he spread it on sheet pans to cool quickly ) , then you can add hot stock and cook it from that point , so you 've already got a 10 minute head start . I 've also been to a restaurant where it was only served on the hour and half-hour .
There 's no single answer , as there 's a few considerations here : Was it ground meat , or a larger chunk ? How far cooked was it already ? How far over-salted is it ? Is it being cooked in some sort of sauce or other liquid ? Depending on the answer to those : If it 's not over-salted by much ... serve it with a sauce that has n't been salted , serve it on top of a bland starch ( rice , pasta , baked potato ) or mix it in as the flavoring to something else that 's unsalted . ( eg , a casserole , soup , stew , etc. ) If it 's uncooked larger chunks , you can rinse it off ( in cold water ) , pat dry , and then cook it . If it 's uncooked ground meat ... the salt will cause the proteins to start tightening , and make things start to stick together if it sits before you cook it . If you have n't stirred in the salt yet ( for those times when the lid came off a salt shaker ) , you might be able to get the worst of it off with a spoon , or even pick up the block of ground meat and shake it off . Rinsing is still an option , but it 's more difficult to dry back off before cooking ... you might have to resort to other options . If it 's while cooking ... you might still be able to rescue it . If it 's not in a liquid or sauce , for the ' lid came off the salt shaker ' situation , for large hunks of meat , just pick it up and shake and/or brush off the salt . For ground meat or smaller chunks ... you might need to add some water , and then pour the water off ( a strainer helps with this ) . If it 's larger hunks in a sauce , you can pull it out and remake the sauce . Depending on the type of sauce , you might want to save it to use it as flavoring in some other dish ( casserole , soup , etc. ) Your most difficult case is ground beef in a sauce . If it 's wet enough , you can rinse if off in a colander ... for thicker sauces , if it 's not so salty to be inedible , you can try serving it over rice , pasta , a baked potato ... or turn it into a casserole . Note that all of these assume that you 've caught the problem quickly ... if the meat 's been cooking in the salt for an extended period , you might have to go with the casserole route , as it 'll have absorbed the salt .
Most people get burned biryani because of the rice . It must be soaked and the par cooked before going into the pot . Also the quality of the rice is important . IMO that would always be Basmati rice . I always soak my rice for an hour for any dish . The cooking vessel has to be heavy and sealed . This ensures that the cooking happens in an almost pressure cooker state inside the pot . Some people seal their pot lid with a flour dough . Cast iron pots are the best .
Fruit will settle to the bottom of the yogurt during transit anyway ; this way , it ends up neat and tidy and intentional . Many people mix it together just before eating if they prefer a more blended flavor .
end question
start question
Is it safe to eat a cake with semi spoiled lemon rind ?
Of course if an item is spoiled this means you should throw out anything that contains the spoiled item . However , based on your description , I have an alternative hypothesis . Brown discoloration in fruit does not mean the fruit is spoiled . Discoloration can be normal , especially if there was no unusual smells or changes in texture in the lemon . You said the lemon still appeared fresh on the outside . The more likely scenario is that the bitterness is from the lemon rind itself . The white pith underneath the outer bright yellow layer of the lemon rind is very bitter . If you go too deep while zesting a lemon your dish can easily be ruined by nasty bitterness . Only scrape the outer yellow surface when zesting a lemon . This can be quite challenging and takes some practice before you start zesting like an expert . Without a further description of the lemon , it is impossible to say whether it is spoiled or not ( it very well could be ) , but even if it was I doubt the spoiled lemon is causing bitterness ( it would probably cause a different but equally undesirable flavor ) .
When carrots turn black , it is almost always caused by rot . I would definitely not eat them .
If it 's safe to eat the shrimp , it should be safe to eat the head . The US food authorities ( FDA ) have , in a way , approved of the shrimp you have bought , so it 's safe to eat .
Here is how you can find out further if your ginger has gone bad in the fridge : extra moist skin will peel off easily when touched and texture is slimy obvious blackish , dark yellowish skin aroma is no longer the fresh one , but rather a ginger aroma covered by a sharp unpleasant earthy smell/mixed smell . You can notice it 's going/gone bad . You may cut it in half and check the inside still . If it <URL> , then hard-peeling of the skin up to 2-3 mm can still leave you with good piece of ginger . But in order to store this now , you have to slice it , dry and put a zip lock . It can last for about a week . Ginger is a root and there are ways you can store it without even freezing . I have had the luxury to dig a ginger root when needed . However for the recent years we had been storing it either outside , in an indoor soil basket or in the fridge . All are proven methods that many are successfully using . Otherwise I would n't want to blabber ... Keep unpeeled ginger root in an outside rack , e.g. an onion rack , or in a dry place that has proper ventilation . You will see it sprouts and/or dries a bit , but it can last with flesh inside up to a month . You can cut the portion you need and keep it back in this place . This way it does n't get moist or turn into the texture that you encounter usually by storing in the fridge . Make sure the root is not damaged by slugs . Get some soil/sand into a bucket , and bury it in it like how you can store winter veggies . Store it in the fridge by wrapping it with a paper towel or a piece of paper or of thin cloth . Extra moisture will be absorbed by the wrapping .
In short , the answer is no , it is NOT safe . <URL> It 's tempting to lop off the fuzzy patch , but the mold could have spread already . " Once you 're able to see mold on bread , it means there 's quite a lot of mold , " said Nelken , a food consultant in Woodland Hills , California . " It 's indicative that there 's mold on other slices , just not at the level you can see it . Why jeopardize your health on a slice of bread ? " Nelken likened mold to jellyfish . " Even though you scrape off the head of the jellyfish , the tentacles are still in the food product . " Eating moldy bread could cause an upset stomach . Although most molds are innocuous , it 's probably not going to taste good , food experts said . The U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service recommends discarding moldy bread and baked goods , because of their porous texture .
The official answer from your health department is no , it 's not safe . After four hours at room temperature , you have to pitch it . That standard is a little on the paranoid side . Which is appropriate , since they have to protect people for whom a little salmonella is potentially life-threatening ( the infirm , babies , the elderly , etc. ) If you 're young and healthy , the odds are it will do you no harm whatsoever . Even a glass of milk out overnight is merely going to be sour rather than toxic . So , it 's up to you . I 'd say it 's a cup of tea and it will taste better if you make a fresh one , even if the risk to your health is small-but-not-zero .
My initial guess was that there may be too much salt for the butter when it is at room temperature . However , 6-10 % salt content is considered ideal with respect to curbing bacterial growth , as well as the retention and preserving the integrity of flavor . I highly doubt that your butter is salted to such a high degree that it would actually Lacking further information , here are a few explanations Precipitant from within , due to high buttermilk content : One purpose of salting is to remove buttermilk . Perhaps you are using a high buttermilk butter , and as <URL> , if the butter was not properly worked relative to salt content you may be seeing either buttermilk or casein precipitant on the surface . Also , the buttermilk may not have been well washed out . Precipitant from within , due to improper salt/water mixology : Salt should be worked into butter around 58 ' F , " theoretically butter containing 15 % of water should be able to dissolve 5.4 % of salt " <URL> . It is possible that ( 1 ) the temperature was not sufficiently high ( i.e. to address addition of sea salt as opposed to table salt ) to turn the salt into solution , or ( 2 ) the carrying capacity of the water was exceeded and salt crystals remained , or ( 3 ) the churning cycles were not sufficiently long to incorporate the crystals . These three things would contribute to higher reactivity in the butter than if it were properly dissolved . See explanation of Mottled Butter below for more info . Precipitant from without , due to non-ideal elements in sea salt : Another explanation is that your sea salt had a high concentration of <URL> . Did you perhaps buy Mottled Butter ; Mottled butter is butter which is Uneven in color This unevenness in color may be due to several different causes . It may be due to specks of curd ( speckled butter ) and it may be due to certain organisms ( dappled butter ) . These causes of mottled butter are not very common in factories where the manufacture of butter is properly carried on . The most common fault of mottled butter is the improper incorporation of salt and the presence of an excessive amount of buttermilk . Mottled butter caused in this way is common ... Whenever there is undissolved granular salt present the moisture is attracted and the color deepened at that particular place <URL> My guess based on the maount of information you gave about the butter ( has sea salt , sweats at room temperature ) is not that anyone of these answers is distinctly responsible , but that it is a confluence of the various factors resulting in a mild mottling ( perhaps imperceptible to the eye or the palate unless you eat the whole block in one go ) that is both attracting moisture from the air , and pressing it out of itself . I am guessing that if you find the liquid problematic ( i.e. does it have a funny taste/smell ? ) you can put it in the fridge and it will stop sweating/weeping . Otherwise , you run the standard risks of fats and proteins stored with a mild curing at room temperature .
Bearing in mind the salmonella statistics given above. , yes it is safe to eat raw eggs so long as you are not very young , very old , or immunocompromised in some way -- e.g. HIV , chemotherapy , leukemia , etc. .
Short answer - not really . Fat is an essential component in any cake , and milk just is n't very fatty - about 5 % for whole milk . You can make cakes with milk , but they require totally different recipes : you ca n't simply substitute milk for oil . Bear in mind that you 're distributing the cup of oil throughout a whole cake , so that any one slice will only have a fraction of the oil . I assume you 'll also be sharing the cake with others , so you 'll be ' spreading the calories ' somewhat . You should be using a neutral oil like canola ( rapeseed ) oil anyway , as it has a relatively mild flavour . A popular alternative these days is to substitute all but a couple of tablespoons of the oil with apple sauce ( really ) , but this can be hit and miss and does n't work with all recipes - it usually works best with things like quick breads ( scones etc ) . Of course , there 's also the point that cakes are supposed to be a treat , and they 'd be less of a treat without the fat , in which case why bother ? If you want to be healthy , make a salad . If you want a treat , make a cake and do n't worry about the contents too much .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
That bit of the Wikipedia article is unsourced , but <URL> and says that spores may be present even in pasteurized honey . ( I never would have thought that . ) I would n't expect the cooking of the crackers to damage the spores significantly more than the pasteurization . I ca n't say for sure that there will be live spores in the crackers , but it 's a definite possibility and if you 're concerned about this then you should not risk it .
<URL> , a major component of lemon oil , is not very water soluble , and will leave a sticky residue on your hands til you wash with soap and water .
Of course if an item is spoiled this means you should throw out anything that contains the spoiled item . However , based on your description , I have an alternative hypothesis . Brown discoloration in fruit does not mean the fruit is spoiled . Discoloration can be normal , especially if there was no unusual smells or changes in texture in the lemon . You said the lemon still appeared fresh on the outside . The more likely scenario is that the bitterness is from the lemon rind itself . The white pith underneath the outer bright yellow layer of the lemon rind is very bitter . If you go too deep while zesting a lemon your dish can easily be ruined by nasty bitterness . Only scrape the outer yellow surface when zesting a lemon . This can be quite challenging and takes some practice before you start zesting like an expert . Without a further description of the lemon , it is impossible to say whether it is spoiled or not ( it very well could be ) , but even if it was I doubt the spoiled lemon is causing bitterness ( it would probably cause a different but equally undesirable flavor ) .
<URL> states that one cake is the equivalent to one packet of dried yeast ( 0.25 oz or 2.25 tsp ) : One ( 1/4-ounce ) yeast packet of dry yeast OR 1 cake fresh , compressed yeast EQUALS 2 - 1/4 teaspoons dry yeast ( active dry or instant active dry )
Before steaming the clams , they should all be closed . If any of your clams are open , give them a tap and if they stay open , then it is bad and you should take it out of your batch to prevent it from ruining the other clams . After you have steamed the clams , most of them should be open . The few clams that stay closed does n't necessarily mean they are bad . Take a thin knife and pry it apart . It 's very easy to tell if the clam is bad just by smell . Edit : After being called out on my fallacy to believe certain kitchen myths without further research , I learned that indeed it is a myth that clam/mussel that refuse to open after being cooked is unsafe to eat . A clam/mussel has a shell with two halves . These shells have elastic ligaments that naturally want to be open . To keep the shells closed , they have adductor muscles to hold the shells together . Most of the time the heat will denature the proteins in the adductor muscles causing it to release the shells . But sometimes it can cause the muscle to " seize " and hold firm . This article gives a background of how this kitchen myth started : <URL> Clam or Mussels that refuse to open after they have been cooked IS NOT an indicator that they are bad . Pry them open and it can easily be determined whether they are bad by the smell .
Sure , but the rest of the onion gets mushy and unpalatable after they 've grown for a bit . Some people eat the sprouts ; they have a lot of protein , so they 're popular with vegans and other protein challenged groups .
A quick google brought <URL> : In this case , the brown ones may have been closest to mature or viable . When fully ripe , most peppers seeds are supposed to be brown or tan . not white . In my experience , peppers with brown are just old and withered . They are safe , just not as tasty . Unless the brown thing is mold , in which case they may be poisonous .
Yes , those spots are normal , they form as the nattou ages . They are amino acid crystals , and they are perfectly safe . Here 's a picture . They 're a bit crunchy , which you may or may not like . If you do n't like the dots , get young nattou and consume it before the crystals form . If you do like them , get more mature nattou . With younger nattou , you should be able to store it opened in the fridge for a few days before the crystals start to form . As you have experienced though , once they start , they grow quickly .
-- Hair is a protein mostly <URL> Keratin refers to a family of fibrous structural proteins . Keratin is the key of structural material making up the outer layer of human skin . It is also the key structural component of hair and nails . There 's nothing special about it as a protein , so as long as it does n't wrap around your tonsils and get stuck in your throat , or contain dyes , hairspray etc. it 's safe to eat . However , the long stringy nature of the stuff can cause problems if you eat too much of it .
They are okay to eat . The sprouts on the other hand can be very acidic and SHOULD NOT be eaten . As long as you make sure you wash the potato thoroughly you should n't have to worry .
end question
start question
How do I prevent stickiness in a rice cooker ?
My mother came up with a simple solution - add a capful of oil ( she recommended corn oil ) to the rice recipe . This time around the rice scooped right out perfectly .
Volume Volume is usually the primarily advertised statistic for rice cookers . This indicates the volume of cooked rice that can be prepared in one cycle . Common sizes include 5.5 cups and 10 cups . 5.5 cups is completely adequate for a family of five people for a single meal . Bowl quality Bowls in entry-level models are typically aluminum . Higher end models will be stainless steel . The same heating properties present in pans are relevant here . Aluminum heats quickly , and unevenly . Steel provides a more even heat . Also of concern is the interior of the bowl . Nearly all bowls have a non-stick coating of varying quality . I 've seen the coating start to flake off within a handful of uses on the cheaper rice makers . Higher end bowls can have a durable coating that lasts years or longer . Cooking logic The simplest and cheapest rice makers will have basic static logic . You put rice in , push a button , and the logic simply applies X amount of heat for Y minutes . Higher end models also have additional functions including : Presets for multiple varieties of rice Delayed/scheduled cooking ( like a slow cooker ) Keep warm functionality Digital displays Elapsed/remaining time displayed Dynamic monitoring and adjustment of temperature/humidity Cooking/Heating method Most rice makers use a simple coiled electric heating element located under the bowl . This is a major cause of overcooked/browned/burnt parts where the rice contacts the heated area . This is exacerbated by cheaper aluminum bowls . Higher end rice makers use induction heating . Induction is a rapidly alternating magnetic field which uses the entire bowl as the heating element . This heats much more evenly and is far less likely ( almost impossible ) to burn the rice . The highest end rice makers add pressure cooking capabilities . Pressure cooked rice purportedly is softer , and retains softness longer than regular cooked rice . Brand &amp; price This is probably the most important . In my experience , you actually get what you pay for . Without fail every American brand rice maker ( presumably made in China ) I 've used has been atrocious . The most positive thing I can say about one is " it worked great for the first batch " . There is one Japanese manufacturer that stands out from the pack : <URL> . I can not overstate how amazing their product is . It literally just works , every time . I received the <URL> as a gift over two years ago . I have used the hell out of this thing and have never had a less than perfect batch of rice .
Hot water and detergent might be enough , but after serious mold growth , I 'd use a disinfectant . The easiest way to do this would be to disinfect your cooker with bleach , which is very effective at killing mold on non-porous surfaces . After thoroughly washing and rinsing your cooker , make a solution of 10 parts water to 1 part bleach and allow it to soak in your cooker for a few minutes , then dump it out and allow the cooker to air dry . <URL> ( note that the caveat here is that bleach is n't effective for porous surfaces . Anything that you 're cooking on should be an acceptable surface for using bleach on . )
The only good way I know of to concentrate fresh orange juice and maintain the flavor is by removing the water . But not by heating it , as the heat will destroy the flavor . You need a vacuum distiller or freeze dryer for your orange juice . Pulling a vacuum will boil the juice at room temperature , removing the water without adding any heat .
Do n't cook the chicken pieces for so long . Add them ten or twenty minutes before serving . For that matter , I would n't simmer the aromatics for that long either . Do the long simmer and cooking to make the chicken stock , then strain the now-tasteless and mushy expended bits from the flavorful stock . Heat the stock and add the sweated veggies , diced chicken , and any pasta/rice/dumplings desired but only cook briefly before serving .
You can let it ripe at room temperature . If you want to slow down the ripening process , put it in the fridge , although this will affect the mango negatively . If you want to speed up the process , put it in a bag with a banana . When the mango is ready to eat , it will be slightly soft if you press it and you can smell the mango flesh through the peel . The green colour will not totally disappear .
Black garlic is not a substitute for regular garlic , you add black garlic to get a different result . I would never say use 2 cloves of black garlic for every 1 regular or any other ratio because the changes are so fundamental that they really are totally different ingredients . The question is how much black garlic flavor you want , and only you can answer that . I 'd suggest that you taste it when it 's close to being done and if you want more add more then .
You can combine it with practically everything , so the question is somewhat broad . So my answer is equally broad : rice pairs well with fresh tastes and acidity , or with moderately sweet components . Or you can just underline its own slightly nutty notes . Below is a list of specific examples , but it is impossible to make it exhaustive . For fresh tastes , use herbs . Summer savoury and spearmint are the classics , I never make stuffed peppers without them . But other light tasting herbs are also a good choice - lemon balm , oregano . Rosmarin is sometimes good , but somewhat overpowering , it is better for a dish where the rice is cooked together with veggies ( eggplant , zucchini ) . Beside herbs , you can try more exotic seasonings . Lemon zests are good , finelly chopped grape leaves and shoots are great . Coriander powder should give you a similar taste profile to cilantro , but it is easier to keep at hand for when a quick dinner without much planning is needed . The sweet option is also interesting ; if you do n't overdo it , it is OK to serve it as a side dish for a savoury meal . The easiest way to achieve it is to cook the rice together chopped dry fruit . Sulfured raisins are popular , the dish will be somewhat si milar to pilaf . But others work too , I especially like dried apricots because they are slightly tart . Other methods for sweetening do n't really fall into the " dry seasoing " category , but are worth mentioning . You can add fruit juice to the cooking water ( apple or other slightly sour juices are best ; this will affect the starch in the rice , causing it to cook firmer than usual ) or you can add a small amount of sweetener to the cooked rice ( prefer aromatic sweeteners lik honey or C grade maple syrup ) . Or if you prefer it spicier , mix it with a sweet chutney , like mango . If you want a subtler taste , combine the rice with nuts ( cook them together ) . Always use nuts with the brown skin removed . I have found unroasted , finely chopped nuts to work better this way . Hazelnuts and almonds are a very good choice . Para nuts also pair well with rice , but are seldom availablr blanched + chopped . This works especially well if you use the parfrying method for the rice , frying in the oil of the nut used . However , I do n't know if you can parfry rice in a rice cooker , I always make mine on the stove .
For protection against heat , you can stabalize the milk with starches . ( eg , a white sauce made with milk wo n't curdle , even if you boil it ) . I unfortunately do n't know how much you 'd have to add , and of course , it 'll end up affecting the texture of your soup ) . For soups , you 're likely better off making a corn starch/milk slurry before adding the milk , so you do n't have to cook it like you would flour to get rid of the raw flour taste . You may also want to consider the heat that you 're cooking the soup at -- you likely want a low simmer , not a full boil .
As posted in comments by members of the community ( and adding my own ) , several tips can help you get good warm tea in your thermos at wake-up : Choose loose leaves instead of tea bags to avoid tea dust that would overinfuse your tea in the thermos . The small amount there is in tea bags , is heavy enough to sink to the bottom very quickly , so if you pour the tea slowly into your thermos , you can discard it . You can also rinse the tea before brewing with cold water to help expel any excess dust , or ( as done in many tea-drinking countries ) throw out the first cup of tea made with new tea leaves . If you 're just using tea bags , why not just keep the thermos bedside and then toss the tea bag in in the morning ? You could try heating cold-infused and strained tea in the evening and put it into the thermos ; it has a brewing time of 8 to 12 hours , so you 'd have to start this around noon . If you have a microwave close enough to your bed , you could also use cold infusion to make your tea during the night and then give it a blast in the microwave in the morning .
Cook the pancetta on a large pan , so that it fries in its own fat . It must turn red , but do n't cook it too much as you are going to cook it a bit more later on . Open two eggs . If you like the color of the carbonara intense , throw one white away , and keep one white and two yolks . Put them in a bowl , then add grated parmigiano and mix with a fork . The amount of parmesan should be at least the same volume of the eggs , maybe even more ( twice does not hurt ) . This will give you a rather firm but still flowing compound . Firm is better than too liquid . Cook the pasta . Spaghetti is the norm for carbonara , but also penne is a good choice . Get them " al dente " or some second later , as you prefer . Drain the pasta and put it in the pan you used to cook the pancetta ( where the pancetta still is ) . Pour the egg/cheese mix on top of the pasta and put the pan on gentle heat , while you continue moving and mixing . Detach any layer of cooked egg from the bottom of the pan while you mix . The perfect carbonara must not be liquid , and it must not be clumpy solid , so keep mixing or you will get a pasta omelette . Once you are done , turn off the heat , and take spaghetti up with a large fork , so to disentangle them while you transfer them on the dishes . move them in the dish with a small oscillating movement to disentangle a bit more . Continue like this for all the dishes you have to serve . At the end you will have the pancetta remaining in the pan , and you put it on top of each dish . Add more grated parmigiano and some ground black pepper and eat as soon and hot as possible ! Additional notes : try to stay a bit scarce on salt in the pasta water , and do not add salt to the egg . The fact is that the pancetta is already pretty salted , and you risk to obtain a very salted final result . Carbonara should be salty , but not too salty . I heard about modification with butter and cream , but I have never seen them used , at least in my family and circle of friends .
You can save yourself the waste of making double , while preventing cross-contamination , by using one hand ( clean ) to scoop and sprinkle , and one hand ( dirty ) to direct the spice falling , pat/tamp , and rub the spices . Typically I begin by applying a " glue " ( previously I have used honey and mustard , once I was vegan I went with just mustard ; both worked well on smoker ) to the cut of meat or vegetable before smoking or bbq . I follow applying the glue by washing my hands , then proceed with whatever rub I am using after the glue has had a chance to adhere ( typically thirty minutes medium , but I have followed instructions to let set and congeal for up to eight hours ) . Then , you can apply the rub following the method above : keep one hand clean to pick up handfuls of rub and sprinkle the rub down , use the other hand to press that rub you are sprinkling down against the cut . This sequence minimizes the number of steps , the times where you need to wash your hands , and makes for great bark . Hopefully you can rotate the cut with one hand , if not it adds one hand-wash . I started doing it this way because I hated having the spice turn into clumps from the moisture . Now I not only have no clumps in the spice after , and sanitary spices for further usage , but also a clean left hand for turning on the sink to wash my right hand .
Yeah , I would agree with the people in the comments , and make the assumption that it had to do with concentrating the ethylene gas from the bananas . After a bit of googling , it looks like the rice bag trick might be popular because it apparently results in a nearly ideal , stable environment for ripening . I imagine that the rice would keep the moisture level at a lower point , the bag would contain the gas , and the mass of the rice would decrease the temperature variants ( assuming that is conducive to ripening ) I found an informative article which mentioned rice bags here : <URL>
I used the method here before with good success : <URL> Basically you start with the eggs in the pan with cold water and bring the water to temperature , right when it reaches boiling you pull the heat back and let the eggs cook for 10 minutes . You do n't need a full on boil to hard boil the eggs .
Since you specified not wanting any equipment other than a campfire and a stick , the best I can do is add one more piece of equipment you should be able to find anywhere ( i.e. , not have to carry with you ) : a rock . If you put a flat-topped rock just to the edge of your campfire , you should be able to place a graham cracker and slab of chocolate on top of it . While you are toasting your marshmallow on the stick , the chocolate should start to melt . This technique wo n't produce totally melted chocolate ( unless you have a very large , very hot fire ) , but the chocolate should get a little melty without being so runny that none of it makes it into your mouth . This only works if you have thin Hershey bars or other chocolate in relatively thin pieces . Thick slabs wo n't soften all the way through with this type of indirect heat . And for those people concerned about dirt , bring some aluminum foil to act as a buffer between the rock/dirty stuff and your s ' more . Extraneous but related note : Your question got me thinking about ways to achieve melted chocolate with microwave s'mores ( a last resort if I 'm stuck inside with an electric oven or no oven at all ) , and I have an idea I 'll test out tonight . When I microwave s'mores , I usually microwave the bottom graham cracker , chocolate and marshmallow together , then top with the other graham cracker once the marshmallow gets gooey . The chocolate does n't really get melted that way , though , because marshmallows take almost no time at all to melt . I 'm wondering if pushing the chocolate inside the marshmallow before I stick it in the microwave might help the chocolate melt more . I will update once I 've had a chance to try this . Edit : I did n't really notice any difference between microwaving the chocolate inside the marshmallow v. underneath the marshmallow .
My mother came up with a simple solution - add a capful of oil ( she recommended corn oil ) to the rice recipe . This time around the rice scooped right out perfectly .
Ok so you said salmon fillet . So my first question is how big is the filet . Fish do n't develop protein chains to hold together the same way red meat has . So the flakes do n't really hold together if pulled too hard , so I wonder if your fillets are too big . When I cook fish , especially salmon I try cut the fillet into serving sizes portions , maybe 2 inches across ( assuming a full sized fish here ) . This helps keep the fish to a manageable size . There is also a tool that is very aptly named because it was designed for this use and it 's called a fish turner . This is a thin and springy or turner that would better with fish because when scooping up the fish it does n't force the fish to reshape itself to the more rigid spatula and therefore you get less fish breaking apart . Do not turn the fish too many times . Leave it on one side and let it do all the cooking on that side that it needs , flip it once and let it finish . This will produce a nice crusty finish . As far as getting it to cook through the center , well that takes patience . Cook on a medium low heat but cook it for longer , like 8 minutes on each side ( experiment , do n't rely on my telling you 8 minutes ) . Then when you take the fish off the pan , put it on the plate and let it rest for a few more minutes . The fish will still be cooking on the inside and will finish up if you do n't serve it too early , but of course do n't wait so long that the fish cools . You want to serve it while it 's still hot , but not scalding hot .
I recently published a guide for pressure cooking frozen meat - so here 's how to do your chicken breasts : Cover your chicken with water , salt and any other aromatics that you 'd like to use . Pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure ( the cooker will take MUCH LONGER to reach pressure , this is ok but some electric pressure cookers may time-out and need to be re-set ) . Open with Natural Pressure Release . General rules for pressure cooking frozen meat plus my tips : <URL> Frozen meat pressure cooking times : <URL>
As SAJ14SAJ said , the best solution is to simply not live in a place like that - it can be a bit dangerous . But since you 're there , about the only thing you can do is get a decent fan and use it to direct air out of the kitchen toward rooms with open windows . Depending on the layout ( and the fans ) you may need multiple fans , and might want one of them to be a box fan in the window helping push air out . For things you think may be smoky , you might also consider cooking outside if possible , on a hot plate , a camping stove , or a small grill . ( Or you could just not do them at all . )
I would go out an buy some . Dough textures for gluten-free breads are fragile and the result of extensive testing with various non-wheat flours ( at least , good ones like Serious Eats are ) . None of the other flours you have available will have the same water absorbsion or starch content which rice flour does . If you substitute , you 'd have to make the recipe several times in order to recalibrate it . Besides , rice flour is generally pretty useful if cooking for someone who ca n't eat gluten . So you 'll use the rest of it . And if you can find it in a bulk foods store , it 's quite cheap .
end question
start question
Use water or milk in a tart crust ?
They are technically two different pastries . Shortcrust pastry made with water is called pâte a foncer , ' lining pastry ' . Shortcrust pastry made with milk is called pâte brisée . Pâte brisée typically contains a bit more butter , and is generally lighter and flakier than pâte a foncer , which is conversely crisper and firmer . So it 's up to you really ; both are very similar . The pâte brisée is more delicate , so if you have a ' heavy ' filling , say , lots of fruits , it might be better to go with the foncer .
Tl ; dr You can use your cast iron for anything if it is seasoned and cleaned well . I do n't have a ribbed pan and it seems that would be harder to clean so I will speak only to the smooth . My cast iron pan is reasonably well seasoned . It could be better but I only get a little sticking . Scraping it well and scrubbing with kosher salt and a paper towel cleans it spotless from almost anything . Occasionally I have to rinse it out which does n't damage the seasoning at all . When it is cleaned there are no lingering flavors from previous dishes . I often cook meat , onions , desserts , and cornbread with no problems . Cornbread has a delightfully different and deliciously rustic texture when cooked in hot cast iron .
The quote in your question is clearly aimed at eggs that are mixed ( ie omelettes , scrambled eggs etc ) before cooking , not for whole eggs sunny side up . The benefits of adding more water is to slow down the cooking of those mixed eggs . If you add a liquid , water or milk , you 'll be poaching the eggs rather than frying them in fat or oil as most sunny side up eggs are cooked . If poaching is what you want to do , there 's plenty of instructions on how to do this out on the web . Poached eggs are equally as good if not nicer than fried ' sunny side up ' ones in my opinion .
It sounds like you have Fleischman 's Pizza Crust Yeast ( or a no-doubt quite similar product if from another manufacturer ) . The relevant phrase from the Fleischman marketing web site is : Pizza Crust Yeast is specially-formulated with dough relaxers that keep the dough from pulling or snapping back when shaping it . It is intended to make it easier to stretch the pizza dough into shape . The yeast itself is normal instant yeast , to the best of my knowledge -- the additives in the packet are what make it " pizza crust yeast " . Researching the additional ingredients other than yeast : Sorbitan monostearate -- According to <URL> is an emulsifier with a polar and non-polar ends : Sorbitan monostearate is used as an emulsifying agent in cake mixes , icings , baked goods , puddings , imitation whipped cream , hemorrhoid creams , and creams to treat dry skin . <URL> mentions that this helps the dough absorb the water . l-cysteine * -- is an amino acid , which is naturally occurring , and often extracted from hair or feathers . <URL> explains the science in bread dough , where it acts as a reducing agent : During mixing the gluten in the ﬂour is stretched and pulled apart so that it can be reformed during prooﬁng and baking to provide the needed strength and structure . Reducing agents act like mixing to reversibly break down gluten so that once they have been used up the gluten reforms . This mechanism is the opposite of oxidizing agents , which build up gluten . Reducing and oxidizing agent ascorbic acid * -- is of course Vitamin C , and a fairly strong acid . According to <URL> in Czeck Journal of Food Sciences , at concentrations under 0.6 % it has little effect on wheat flour , so it is unlikely to have any practical effect in a full batch of pizza dough . Its inclusion is probably ( as mentioned in <URL> ) as an anti-oxidant and preservative in the packet , rather than as an active ingredient in the bread dough . enzymes -- no doubt the particular enzymes and their ratios are proprietary to the brand you have , but according to the Wikipedia article on <URL> , they are used to increase transformation of starch into sugars to facilitate the action of the live yeast . Common enzymes used include : Amylases break down the starch in flours into simple sugars , thereby letting yeast ferment quickly . Malt is a natural source of amylase . Proteases improve extensibility of the dough by degrading some of the gluten . Lipoxygenases oxidize the flour . See also this <URL> which discusses various commercially available forms of yeast . My personal opinion is that I would not buy " pizza crust yeast , " since recipes are not designed for the presence of its dough conditioners . I would rather control my dough 's ingredients myself . However , since you have the product , why not try it using the vendor 's recipe ? I would be fascinated to hear how it performs .
Flaky pie pastry works beautifully for quiche . You can improve the texture with two techniques . The first is " blind-baking , " or a partial pre-bake to toast the crust lightly . The other is to brush a wash of egg white onto the crust before blind-baking .
The toxin in kidney beans is destroyed by boiling for around ten minutes , which no doubt holds true for any toxin in the water as well . So there should be no problem with using the soaking water to cook the beans , provided you cook them properly .
Almond paste is a finished product . It can be eaten without cooking . In fact , one of my favorite tart recipes is Julia Child 's " Pear and Almond Tart " from her Mastering the Art of French Cooking . The four parts of the tart ( crust , almond filling , poached pears and currant glaze ) are cooked separately and it is assembled without being baked afterwards . It uses a " frangipane " that cooks the eggs rather than leaving them raw as many almond pastes do . I do n't have a copy of the book to confirm but <URL> the correct version of the recipe . 1/2 cup almonds 1 large egg 1 large egg yolk 3/4 cups sugar 1/3 cup flour 1 cup whole milk 3 tbs butter 2 tsp vanilla extract 1/4 tsp almond extract Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds until brown ( about 10 minutes ) , then pulverize in a bender , food processor , or with a mortar and pestle . Whisk egg and egg yolk in a large mixing bowl until combined . Gradually add sugar and beat until mixture is pale yellow -- about 3 minutes . Beat in the flour . Heat milk on the stove over moderate heat until it reaches the boiling point . Beat a small amount of milk into the egg mixture , to temper the eggs . Then pour in the rest of the milk and whisk vigorously . Pour milk mixture into a sauce pan and heat over moderate heat . Stir slowly , until mixture begins to thicken and coagulate into a stiff paste . Beat vigorously over low heat for 2-3 minutes to cook the flour . Off the heat add the butter , vanilla and almond extracts , and almonds . Let cool . To prevent a skin from forming , cover custard with buttered parchment paper . If you 're making the almond paste on your own , you might consider substituting this one for it . It 's really amazing and was hard to stop eating .
Could n't I just use a lower temperature setting ? No , you ca n't . Ovens are very bad at keeping a constant temperature . Not only is the oven thermostat usually off , it also cycles around its mean temperature a lot . So your food is subjected to constantly changing temperature . If you were to set your oven to 100C , you 1 ) wo n't get really 100C , and 2 ) wo n't get the crust to brown , as the temperature is too low . Instead , you can use the water bath described . In combination with a temperature setting higher than 100C , it will keep the bottom portion of the cheesecake at a constant temperature , and will allow the surface to bake well . You will see water bath ( i.e. <URL> ) recommendations for many types of baked goods , including custards . But when it comes to a cheesecake , it has a second function . At each temperature , there is an equilibrium moisture in the oven air . As long as the equilibrium has not been reached , moisture evaporates at a high rate from every moist surface ( your baking good ) . When this happens to a cheesecake , its top cracks . But when you have an open water surface , it is sufficient to saturate the air , and no ( or very little ) evaporation happens on the cake surface . You end up with a smooth cheesecake .
Foil is the way to go , combined with not too fierce a heat . You want to cook at about 160C until the centre of the pie is piping hot . To lower the chances of burning , portion the pie prior to reheating . That way the centre will get hot more quickly . Reheating more than once is generally not a good idea for safety reasons . You can however portion one night 's pie and keep the other in the fridge .
My knowledge about the phenomenon itself is limited but I did see it mentioned in " Modernist Cuisine " ( Nathan Myhrvold , p. 147 ) Many recipes for foie gras , liver , sweetbreads , and other offal include a soaking step before cooking . For kidneys , this step serves a very simple purpose : to remove any trace of the animal 's bodily fluids . Recipes often call for soaking foie gras , liver , and sweetbreads in milk . It is often said that milk improves the taste , purges blood , lightens the color , or affects some other property of the meat . We were skeptical , so we tried several experiments . With a mild-flavored organ meat like foie gras , we could taste a difference , but , frankly , in our tests , we prefer the taste of water-soaked to milk-soaked foie gras . With stronger-flavored organ meats , there is even less of a difference than with foie gras . So our suggestion is to simply soak the meat in water . So , there you have it .
Pizza hut uses skim milk mozzarella on it 's pizza , at least in the USA . Not sure what they use in other countries , but I would imagine it is still the same . Skim milk mozzarella is extremely stretchy , but loses a little on the flavor end . More expensive pizzerias normally spring for the full fat mozzarella cheese . Dominos uses a mix of cheese , made up of mozzarella , Pecarino , Parmesan , and asiago cheeses . I think in their most recent reboot they switched to part skim mozzarella but I am not one hundred percent on that .
This is not yogurt per definition , you are making a fresh cheese . You can actually use other types of milk for such a cheese , but the mouthfeel and taste will be very different and wo n't be as similar to yogurt . There is a large class of acid-curdled cheeses , including paneer , tvorog , quark and many others . I do n't know if yours has a specific name . I know that there are people who for some reason ca n't tell the difference in taste betwen quark and yogurt . But it is still cheese , even if it tastes similar to yogurt .
I 've used both sugar and orange juice to sweeten mulled wine in the past , but obviously orange juice would change the flavour significantly . Add more sugar slowly , tasting as you go .
Well , it makes the eggs go further for one ... But it also produces softer , creamier results . You 're moving toward something like a custard or quiche . If you like your eggs very stiff , this is probably a bad idea .
Half and half or heavy cream is a pretty good substitute . It has similar fat/water suspension , reduces and thickens similarly , and emulsifies similarly . You lose the coconut flavor , but it cooks similarly and you keep the texture . You can not substitute coconut cream , because it is too rich , which changes the texture of the sauce greatly , and does n't do as good a job of getting flavors out of spices . Incidentally , I highly suggest you pick up a box of instant coconut milk powder . It 's not as good as the canned stuff ( needs whisking ) , but because it 's nonperishable you do n't have to use the whole container at a time . This helps avoid the " oh crap , used the last can ! " moments you get with canned coconut milk .
I disagree with Neil 's answer here . All the three terms of " poaching " , " boiling " or " simmering " require that your food is fully submerged , especially for poaching it has to be free-floating in a large amount of water . I doubt that you are submerging anything in 4 mm , and this little amount of water would boil off quickly if you had so little food that it is submerged . Depending on the exact circumstances and the type of food ( veggies vs grains vs meat ) , but also on the size of the food chunks , what you are doing is either sweating , steaming or braising , but in a very inefficient form . Sweating would be part of the initial browning of vegetables before further use in a soup or similar , until they are softer . It usually involves some browning , but this wo n't happen when you are using water . In fact , you 're better off leaving the water out altogether in this case and use either fat or nothing . Steaming can be done with vegetables or grains . It is better done with somewhat more water than you describe , but still much less than needed for boiling them . The " mix food and water in the pan/pot " technique is better suited for grains , vegetables do better in a steamer suspended over a large amount of boiling water , without touching the water . Braising is normally used for meat , but can also be done with other food which can be cut up in largish chunks ( aubergines would do , but not peas , for example ) . It is tastier when done in a sauce than in water . Unlike shallow frying , which is done with oil , what you are doing does not have a name of its own , because it is not something usually done when cooking . Depending on what you are trying to do , there are better ways to go about it .
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
Cincinnati Chili often has cardamom , along with cinnamon and cocoa . Cardamom is used in savory and sweet foods all over the world , not just in India . If you have reason to want to try this particular recipe , then try the recipe as written . There are thousands of beloved recipes for all kinds of chili . There is no reason to say , " That one looks good , I 'll do it just like that but omit a certain ingredient 'cause it makes me nervous . " Your friend 's advice is a bit odd to me because Garam Masala usually contains cardamom ( sometimes black , green and brown ) My advice is to either try the recipe as written , or find another with which you 're more comfortable . Or come up with your own . There are no hard and fast rules when it comes to chili . BTW , I love cardamom in savory . I make a Vietnamese Beef Noodle Soup ( Pho ) that I crave if I have n't had it for a while . It would n't be right without cardamom .
In general , unless the book or recipe specifically states something different , " salt " is assumed to mean " table salt " . If a recipe were to call for kosher salt or pretzel salt ( like as a topping for the loaves ) it would specifically call that out especially .
In general places that do this with pancakes do not cut-out , but indeed use a mold or the like . The scrambled eggs would likely look fine " cut " , but part of a pancake is the edge , even if it is modified by touching the edge of the mold . So long as the mold is metal , your dollar-store purchases should be fine . You will likely need to oil/butter them in some way so that the product - batter or egg - does not stick to the metal itself . I have myself used clean old tuna tins to make round " self-contained " fried eggs for a home version of a McMuffin .
end question
start question
How can you melt chocolate without it getting wet ?
The way you 've described is precisely how I melt chocolate . If you have a double boiler , that 's even better , but a bowl on top of a pot is fine too . I can only think of two things that might be affecting the quality of your end result : Is the bowl big enough ? The melting bowl should be larger than the pot if possible ; you want the steam to be forced under and around it . Is the water temperature reasonable ? You want it to be at a simmer . If it 's rapidly boiling , the heat is too high . As long as you keep those two things in mind , your chocolate should melt fine ! Edit : Thought of one other thing : It 's possible that the steam is actually rising above the bowl , then hitting something ( like your range ) , condensing and then falling back into the bowl as water . You should n't even be getting much steam with this method , but just in case , turn your fan on , to make sure you are n't getting any condensation .
A vita mix should work pretty well ; maybe you could carefully drag a spatula in the top of the vortex ( nowhere near the blade ! ) to introduce more air . A whisk will be pretty slow going . And then there is a whole other category of foams made in a whipped cream canister . Here is a link to get you started : <URL>
White chocolate <URL> is at least 3.5 % milk fat and 14 % milk solids . As far as I know , the EU uses the same definition as the FDA ( US ) . So , nothing vegan can legally be sold as " white chocolate " . That said , there are a great many non-dairy white chocolate substitutes , usually made with any combination of soy milk , maltodextrin , vanilla , and saturated/hydrogenated fat ( palm oil , shortening , etc. ) , among other ingredients/additives of course . They do n't taste the same as real white chocolate , but then again , white chocolate is n't real chocolate to begin with , so it ca n't hurt to experiment with some of the products out there - which can be easily sourced with a Google search , as one of the comments indicates .
What you need , my good man , is a candy fork . Basically it 's a two-tined fork with incredibly thin tines . Dip , lift , allow excess to drip off , place on parchment ( you will get a tiny ' foot ' but this is normal ) . unless you 're talking about absolutely perfect spheres ? to my knowledge this is not doable by hand , you will need industrial machinery . and the two hemispheres method will leave you with a seam . i have heard one solution for the tiny hole left by a thin skewer is another tiny dab of chocolate and a quick blast with a hair dryer to smooth out any imperfections , but i have never tried it myself .
It is perfectly normal for sugar to turn dark brown when making . If it turns even darker , it is because it has been burning too hot . <URL> , so you want to get there gradually . As for the color , many recipes call for to make it smoother and tender , but only incorporate it after the crystals are fully dissolved and you 're ready to take it off the burner . I 've seen a few youtube videos with just sugar and water for sugar cages ...
The short answer is : you ca n't . The long answer : chocolate has very complicated thermodynamics . There is an optimal speed of the cooling process , and it is slow . Chocolate should be tempered to 33 Celsius ( there is some variance depending on the cocoa content ) and cooled in an environment between 27 and 20 Celsius . Then it looks and tastes good . Chocolate which has been cooled in a cold environment will not have any shine , and the colder you get , the larger your problems will be . You can even get uneven distribution of the cocoa fat , with it pooling along the nuts on the inside and letting the outer layers unpleasantly dry . Besides , you will get condensation , which is ugly and makes the chocolate sticky to handle and watered down in the mouthfeel . In extreme cases , you may even end up with distempered chocolate , especially if you do n't have seed crystals . No matter what you are doing - truffles , chocolate dipped fruit , pure pieces of chocolate in a mould - you ca n't rush it and get good quality .
The tomato in shepards pie provides acid and is the main coloring agent of the meat portion of the dish . Any other acid will work in place of it , although which you use will entirely depend on how much you want the flavor profile to stay the same . Adding lemon juice will give your pie a Mediterranean taste , adding others will result in other flavors coming to mind . You could just leave the tomatoes out and use a roux instead of the flour , that should give you about the same mouth feel just tasting onions and lamb .
It is possible for mold to form on cashews - or any other nuts - but only if there has been moisture penetration into the container . If the moisture is at a safe ( low ) level , then mold wo n't grow . See for example , <URL> , which refers to the maximum acceptable moisture content of 5.8 % for retail storage/shipping , although if you look at their data table , it appears that you may still end up with non-trivial amounts of mold in the low 5 % range ( which is why you are supposed to store nuts sealed and in a cool , dry place ) . Honestly , cashews are hard enough such that you would almost certainly see mold on the surface if it were present in harmful quantities . Most likely what you 're smelling/tasting is simply oxidation of the fats ( the process which causes rancidity ) without actual full-blown rancidity . Mold requires moisture but all oxidation requires is light and maybe a little air exposure . If you really want to be on the safe side - e.g. if your home is particularly hot or humid - then store your nuts in the refrigerator or freezer ( sealed , to prevent contamination or off-odours ) . Although most ( all ? ) nuts are considered shelf-stable , they do keep longer in the fridge or freezer .
You should n't have any problem . Bacteria need sufficient water to survive , a few drops wetting the sugar are not sufficient for them . As far as I 'm aware , even old-style jam ( 1 part fruit to 1 part sugar , boil some of the water out ) is shelf-stable . Even if you are close to the limit , it 's still not too concerning . The good news is that , when you preserve something with sugar , and get a bit too low on the sugar , it 's not bacteria that colonizes it first , it 's mold . The mold can be toxic on its own - but it 's nicely visible . So , as long as you do n't have a sticky mass and see mold growing on it , the sugar should be safe . It can be hard to work with though - we have an old question on getting lumped-together brown sugar out of the container , if you need it .
If it 's for a pie , by melt the recipe author probably meant to dissolve in the least amount of water . You can do that by making a glucose syrup , as Pulse mentioned . Place one cup of dextrose with a third of a cup of water in a pot and heat until dissolved . Commercial glucose syrups are typically 10 to 25 % water . If you melt solid glucose in a pan , which happens at about 146 & deg ; C , it will burn .
I have had the same issue when cooking lots of quesadillas , and have found the following combination of techniques to work quite well . The obvious answer has been hit upon already , lower the heat . But I think that 's missing an important aspect of the issue . What 's happening is most likely that you are turning on the heat and then cooking your first omelet before the pan has actually reached temperature . Depending on the type of pan , it can take up to 5 mins for the pan to reach temperature . So , as you continue to cook , the pan is getting closer to temperature . Of course , each time you add more cold egg , the temp decreases again . So your heat is too hot , but it does n't really become apparent until the last omelet . Rather than just starting at a lower temperature though , start at the same temp you tried and then turn down the temperature as you continue to cook . The pan can also heat rapidly between omelets . Take the pan off the heat , swirl your butter or oil through it , add the egg , and then put it back on the heat . If it seems really hot when you add the egg , you can cook it for a second with just the radiant heat of the pan before returning to the burner . This will stop the pan from getting too hot between omelets .
Your local hardware store or DIY shop will likely have an assortment of dust masks you could try . The simplest ones would be cheap and very quick to put on and remove , and should help . It seems a little over the top to have to put on a mask for using pepper , but perhaps you 're extra sensitive and it 's just something you 'll have to deal with . Do you have any reaction at all from eating things with lots of black pepper ? Finally , you might look at how you 're physically dispensing the pepper . If you 're shaking it from a container you 're likely to stir up a small cloud of fine pepper dust . If you 're not already doing so , consider trying to use a tiny measuring spoon or even the wrong end of a regular spoon to scoop a little pepper out of the container directly and add it to your food -- less sprinkling/shaking , less irritant in the air .
I would crispen the outside a bit by frying or baking them first . To improve the outer crust , you might dust with flour and corn starch before frying . Typically I have not previously had problems with meat balls in sauce becoming mushy using minimally breaded mix , spices , and lean - ish ( 90 % ) ground meat . Here are some additional points to consider ; If you use bread in your meatball mix , you might tilt the ratio more in favor of the meat If you are not using egg or some other binder , you might try doing so to create a tighter bond inside the ball If you are cooking the sauce at too high a heat ( I normally have mine set as low as possible when doing a long cook ) it may come to a simmer , making the sauce likelier to disrupt the meatballs . Maintain a lower heat or use a heavier pot If you are using ground meat , there is more room for the sauce to creep in . Make sure that they are packed sufficiently tightly when rolling them Short of leaving the sauce and meat overnight , flavors will transfer more quickly in warmer temperatures . I am having trouble locating definitive resources to back this claim up , so I am speaking mainly from experience . However , one caveat exists particular to collagen and connective tissues in meat ; <URL> . Mixing water and strong acids is an exothermic process ( gives off heat , does not benefit from warmth ) . However , this process is about mixing strong acids and fats . I would also mention that you are supposed to store tomatoes at room temp as the cold does not preserve their flavor and inhibits ripening , though I 'm not sure this is relevant .
I think the key here is that you 've been buying oversized lettuces . Bitterness of lettuce plants is not something under your control . When the lettuce matures ( on the plant ) , it eventually starts flowering ( called " bolting " ) as a way to perpetuate its genes . Once this sets in , the <URL> . The process of bolting is irreversible and if it has commenced in the plant , it will continue on in the cut lettuce head ( perhaps at a diminished rate ) . Big lettuce heads are invariably more mature than the smaller ones , which is why you experience a higher occurrence of them turning bitter . You could try the other suggestions here , but I can not say for/against any of them as I have n't heard of any of them being used to control bitterness . My advice would be to buy small to medium sized lettuces . <URL> . One might be tempted to buy the biggest lettuce on the shelf so as to " maximize " the leaves/dollar , but in the end , you have to decide whether the bitterness is really worth it .
The way you 've described is precisely how I melt chocolate . If you have a double boiler , that 's even better , but a bowl on top of a pot is fine too . I can only think of two things that might be affecting the quality of your end result : Is the bowl big enough ? The melting bowl should be larger than the pot if possible ; you want the steam to be forced under and around it . Is the water temperature reasonable ? You want it to be at a simmer . If it 's rapidly boiling , the heat is too high . As long as you keep those two things in mind , your chocolate should melt fine ! Edit : Thought of one other thing : It 's possible that the steam is actually rising above the bowl , then hitting something ( like your range ) , condensing and then falling back into the bowl as water . You should n't even be getting much steam with this method , but just in case , turn your fan on , to make sure you are n't getting any condensation .
I have a whole freezer full of jalapenos - so yes , you definitely can . They definitely retain their heat just fine . They keep their texture better if you do 2 things : Use a vacuum sealer and take out all the air - to reduce freezer burn . Because of this , I recommend you freeze them in batches . Blanche them for 2-3 minutes in boiling water and then drop them in freezing water . From what I 've read , this destroys a particular enzyme that helps not break the pepper down further . I 've done this and not done this - and doing it definitely helps on the texture . They should be good for a little over a year in a vacuum sealed bag - as far as the texture goes . They should never go bad otherwise . Cos and Sobachatina - bring up another good point : freezing fast and effectively . You can try AB 's method that Cos points out , but I do what Sobachatina does . Freeze on a single layer on a tray in the freezer . They freeze quicker and better than dumping them in a bag .
If you 're boiling something rapidly , and it 's not in a terribly deep , narrow pot , then essentially all of the heat output of the burner is going into turning water into steam . The latent heat of vaporization of water is 2260 kJ/kg , so if you want to reduce something by a volume V , and your stove has power P , the time required is : If V happens to be in mL , and P is in W ( J/s ) : This would be modified slightly if you 're using a really tall , skinny pot , since the convection within the pot , from the bottom to the top of the liquid , would be less efficient , with more heat transferred to the sides of the pot and out into the air , but I doubt you 're actually going to try to reduce something like that . The P here is the effective power ; for example , a gas burner wastes a lot of heat out the sides , so the advertised power will be higher . See <URL> for approximate efficiencies . If you do n't know the power of your stove , in all honesty , the easiest way to measure it would probably be to just see how long it takes to boil away a given volume of water , and work backwards . To get an accurate result , you should not boil a pot dry - once the water is a thin enough layer , the heat transfer might start working differently , with the pot itself heating up more , and water splattering . So you could , for example , put in a liter of water , boil away at the stove setting you intend to measure until it 's substantially reduced in volume , record the time , then pour it out to measure how much you boiled away . At this point , knowing the power output might be overkill , though ; you can really just measure the time per volume reduction , and use that , unless you care about the power for other reasons . Trying to deduce the power of the stove from , say , the temperature of an empty pot or of the burner without a pot on it ( assuming it 's electric ) would be difficult ; you 'd have to deal with the heat transfer between metal and air , and the convection in the air . Dependence on ingredients should n't be significant - you 're still just boiling water , unless there 's a substantial amount of alcohol , in which case the latent heat of vaporization will be different . Pure alcohol has a latent heat of vaporization of 841 kJ/kg ; I have n't found a good table for mixtures . For solutions , as I noted in the comments , the latent heat of vaporization should be that of water , plus/minus the heat of solution of the solutes ( I forget which direction that 's measured in ) . The most common solutes are probably salt and sugar , which have heats of solution of 70 and 16 J/g , respectively . ( I found <URL> , and converted . ) The next most common thing I could think of that might be present in substantial concentrations is citric acid ; <URL> reports a heat of solution of -57 J/g . In all these cases it 's small compared to the latent heat of vaporization of water , so pretending the liquid is water should be a good approximation . It 's possible that things change if you 're reducing really far : heat of solution does depend on concentration . That is , things are different thermodynamically ( statistical mechanically ? ) in a nearly-saturated sugar syrup than in slightly sweet water .
A very sharp blade with minimum drag . The traditional tool is called a lame - basically just a curved <URL> on a handle . If you make a lot of bread you might consider buying this unitasker . ( <URL> ) You can use a kitchen knife if yours are very sharp but I 've had the best results with a straight razor blade . I 've read of people using serrated blades but they always mutilated my bread . A little bit of non stick spray will do wonders at keeping the blade from binding up in the dough . The rest is technique . Make each score in a single cut if possible . Instructions often say to make " deliberate slashes " . Plan out where you want the cut then slash confidently . Multiple slashes or slow or halting cuts will do more damage to the loaf .
I 'd do one or more of a few things : Treat it like the dough in <URL> , in which you sprinkle flour on top , then pull off a portion you need , then shape quickly into a ball , developing the outer skin , keeping the freshly floured side out . Chill down the dough , so it 's firmer and easier to work with . ( and then do # 1 while it 's still a bit cold ) Put it into muffin pans or similar for baking , so you do n't have to worry about it holding up on its own or even attempting to shape it . ( if you can shape it a little bit , you can then put it into a pan with enough of a lip to give them some support as they rise ; they might spread into each other , but you can typically break them apart after they 're baked ) In general , I find that kneading dough in a mixer ( unless specifically called for in a recipes ) always needs more flour . Basically , when you 're kneading normally , you might work in 1/2 cup or so of extra flour . And there are the issues with knowing what the proper way to <URL> if the measurements are given in volume ( cups ) and not by weight , which will easily throw off any bread recipe .
Substituting oil for butter in a quick bread would be fine , but you only used 1/2 the amount of oil , and further added two pureed apples . These are about <URL> , substantially increasing the amount of liquid in the recipe . The thing is , the method for this pumpkin bread relied on the creaming method , which requires a solid fat ; changing to a liquid fat and apples ) would dramatically change the outcome . It would make the bread denser ( no leavening from creaming ) and more wet from the increased liquid . Then , by cutting the sugar almost in half , you reduced the ability of the bread to hold water , as sugar is hydrophylic . So it would seem more wet .
end question
start question
What qualities should I be looking for when making the best French Toast ?
Great french toast starts with the bread . You 're looking for two things : thick slices , and staleness . Why stale ? Stale bread has enough firmness to stand up to the custard . If you do n't have stale bread available , you can set it out the night before in a simple wire rack . At least 8 hours should be enough to stale it up nicely . They will be rather firm to the touch . The ideal finished product is crispy on the outside and creamy in the middle . This might be what you mean by mushy , but mushy in my mind is kind of negative . The key to accomplishing this is to let your bread soak in the custard only 30 seconds per side , but then move it to a rack to sit for another 2 minutes further . This extra set time allows the custard to penetrate deep inside the bread , and be distributed much more evenly . The final trick to getting a nice crispy crust , is to cook it twice . First in the pan/griddle as you normally would , but then 5 minutes in a 375 F oven on a rack . This brief oven stint crisps up the exterior nicely . I highly suggest watching Alton Brown 's <URL> episode . That 's where I learned the oven trick , and his recipe has n't done me wrong since . Regarding <URL> , I 've never had it , but based on the Wikipedia description it sure sounds like a good candidate . Just make sure you slice and stale it overnight .
Personally , I 've switched almost entirely to <URL> for all types of stirring and scraping spoons . They do n't stain , they are fine up to quite high temperatures , they clean up easily and can go in the dishwasher . They are also wo n't scratch the surface of non-stick cookware . It is true that they do n't feel quite so nice as a good wooden spoon , but the convenience is outstanding . ( On the other hand , I stick with metal for the type of spatula one uses to flip a fritter , because silicone ca n't have a thin enough leading edge , it is too flexible . )
Considering that you 're using Soybean Oil - which has a smoke point of 450 ° F , you might be using far too much heat for your eggs . Even if you were making an omelette , which typical recipes demand a higher temperature of ~ 400 ° F - you 'd still be far too high if you 're smoking soybean oil . In any case , I would recommend frying between 350 ° F and 390 ° F . As for you hearing that in olive oil , bad chemicals emerge when the oil reaches the smoke point - this is true of any oil . Heating any oil or fat past its smoke point causes rapid oxidation ( peroxidation ) and more-or-less mimics the effects of rancidity . Think about whether you want to be cooking using burnt , rancid oil . At that , you should n't be using olive oil ( which has a lower smoke point than most fats ) for high-heat cooking . As for the bad chemicals , any oil or fat that is taken past its smoke point will oxidize , and as a result , different chemical reactions will occur which may or may not release/create carcinogens . This is a topic that you should explore more with your dietician/physician than on this board . Ideally , you should monitor your oil temperature - either visually by looking for a slight shimmer/sheen , or physically by using a cooking thermometer or a wooden spoon ( look for air bubbles ) .
Short and sweet ... Use cake / pastry flour . At 5-7 % protein vs. 11 % for AP vs. 13 % + for bread flour , that means a lot less gluten formation . This protein , when mixed with water and subjected to mechanical working is what produces gluten . The higher the protein percentage , the ' tougher ' ( due to the gluten ) the final product . Always use cake or pastry flour when making any type of cake , even brownies . And a little extra egg wo n't hurt , either .
Use a sharp knife , dull knives do n't slice , they split the same way an axe splits logs and that will generate that sideways force that throws carrot bits . Also learn to practice your slicing and chopping technique . You should n't be dropping the blade straight down like a axe or guillotine . You should be moving the blade in a orbital movement , so that you are slicing in a forward direction while the blade is on its way down to and through the carrot . By slicing properly much less of your veg will have that energy buildup because they wo n't " snap " apart but will be sliced apart neatly . Search YouTube for Basic Knife Skills and watch several videos , then practice , and start slowly . You will get faster with time and time only , do n't rush it or you 'll get sloppy and may hurt yourself .
French Cuisine ( other than JC ) : Patricia Wells - Bistro Cooking , At Home in Provence Paula Wolfert - The Cooking of Southwest France ( if you love ducks , that 's the book for you ) Elizabeth David - French Provincial Cooking I 've also heard great things about Dorie Greenspan 's recent Around My French Table , although reviewers note that as a contemporary French cooking has a lot of influences from around the globe ( Asia , North Africa and even USA ) . However , if you 'd like to find out what French people are likely too cook at home these days , this has to be a great resource . Spanish Cuisine Penelopa Casas - The Foods and Wines of Spain , Tapas Portuguese Jean Anderson - The Food of Portugal Italian Marcella Hazan - The Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking Mexican Rick Bayless - Authentic Mexican , Mexico One Plate At a Time Russian Anya von Bremzen - Please to the Table : The Russian Cookbook German Mimi Sheraton - The German Cookbook : A Complete Guide to Mastering Authentic German Cooking Japanese Shizuo Tsuji - Japanese Cooking : A Simple Art Chinese Irene Kuo - The Key To Chinese Cooking Barbara Tropp - The Modern Art of Chinese Cooking Thai David Thompson - Thai Food Indian Julie Sani - Classic Indian Cooking , Classic Indian Vegetarian and Grains Cooking Madhur Jaffrey - Indian Cooking , An Invitation to Indian Cooking , A Taste of India Middle-Eastern Claudia Roden - The New Book of Middle Eastern Food Greek Susanna Hoffman - The Olive and the Caper : Adventures in Greek Cooking Diane Kochilas - The Food and Wine of Greece South American Filipe Rojas-Lombardi - The Art of South-American Cooking Copeland Marks - False Tongues and Sunday Bread Elisabeth L. Ortiz - A Taste of Latin America
The lower ( first ) temperature actually cooks the potato so that it is tender , the hotter temperature ( second ) is what gives the crispy golden coating . If you just did the lower temperature , your fries might be too soft . If you just did the hotter temperature they would be too too tough .
Ana it really depends what sort of a dish you are making , and what texture and flavour you are after and the nature of garlic state : chopped , crushed , minced , pounded , etc. . If you want that pungent taste of garlic to be tasted , then you could add these crushed , chopped , sliced ones into your dish in the middle stage . If you do not want to taste too much of garlic , but just to go along , then minced ones are better and you may add a vee-bit at the earlier stage of the cooking . ( I had to edit this passage as I had written it swapping the stages ) Garlic can be used for both oil based and water based dishes . Even for salads without oil ! but with some flavours of lemon/lime and salt . We usually blend one raw garlic clove ( as per the quantity ) when making guacamole !!! So are you sauteing vegetables ? Or a gravy based dish ? Should the dish go alone or with another set of course based dishes ? =) ** Update as per OP 's edit : ---------- ** I must say it is quite rare to see chefs wanting to preserve the best pungent flavours of garlic/onions ... ;) <URL> another way : its flavor changes as chemicals break down and reform into novel aromatic compounds . It also becomes sweeter as large sugars and carbohydrates break down into simpler sugars like fructose and glucose , both of which taste quite sweet to us . The key to really great garlic flavor ? Use a combination of techniques as indicated in the above article . Personally I like to do couple of things . Marinating with crushed/chopped/sliced garlic would be in your favour . The longer main-ingredients wrapped with raw garlic before cooking , the better they absorb the flavour as well as aroma . This only works for fast/short cooking dishes . <URL> It all comes down to the chemistry of ingredients and heat - not to mention the experience you may get along !
It really depends on what you are looking for in a cooking class . I can give you some thoughts from my own personal experiences , but I am sure there are many factors that you must consider , so you will get a variety of answers . I am assuming you are talking about recreational ( that is the industry term , as opposed to professional ) classes ; I do n't claim to have good advise for choosing professional programs to become a line cook or patisserie on a career path to being a chef or pastry chef . Facilities The cooking school should tell where their class is taught . A local community class in a high school home-ec room or in a community center will usually offer basic facilities ( although I imagine some will stun you ... ) Commercial cooking schools or businesses should have photos of their classroom for you to peruse , and will usually brag about the equipment they offer ( such as Viking stoves ... ) Look at the pictures , and ask if the environment will be comfortable for you . Level How advanced is the class ? If you already know how to temper your own chocolate , and own three dipping forks , you do n't want to take a basic workshop in chocolate . On the other hand , if you have never made a biscuit , you might not want to take an advanced pasty course where croissants and puff pastry the order of the day . Choose a class that is at the level you desire -- the course guide should make this very clear . Cleanup Find out if the school has interns , or other staff who do the cleanup . Commercial schools tend to -- otherwise , you might expect to be helped police and do dishes , especially in a community program like one hosted at a community center . You should be comfortable with the expectation . Curriculum or Menu Good cooking classes list exactly what dishes or items will be taught in the class in their class guide or curriculum . They should also specify the lessons learned or techniques applied . Often there is a theme , like " Valentines Dinner for Two " or " Pastry Intensive " Select classes that teach the techniques you want , and dishes you like . Duration Is it a one evening class , where you are in and out , and little is at risk , or a week long adventure where if you do n't enjoy the format or the instructor , you have lost a week 's tuition and a week 's enjoyment . I once did n't come back from lunch on the 2nd day of a five day course because I did n't like the instructor 's style . For longer classes , you might ask for guarantees of a partial refund if the instructor or style or presentation is not to your liking , before signing up . For day long and longer classes , find out if lunches or other relevant meals are provided ( at commercial schools , they often are , either cooked as part of your curriculum , or done by staff or interns for your enjoyment ) , or whether you bring your own . Often there is not enough time to go out for lunch . Presentation and Participation There are several main ways cooking classes are taught ; you want to be sure the style is one that you enjoy . Presentation only -- the instructor prepares dishes at the front of the room , and the students watch . Kind of like a cooking show on TV , but live and in person , so you can smell ( and maybe taste afterwards ) , and ask questions . Each person ( or group ) prepares some -- the class is broken up into groups or individuals , each of whom prepare one or more dishes from the menu . You might not get to do the dish you wanted from the curriculum , but you will get hands-on for something . Usually , the groups will share afterwards , so you get to taste everything . Every person ( or group ) prepares everything -- you will get to prepare everything listed in the curriculum , and usually eat it . Choose a format you are comfortable with , especially if you want to be sure you get to try a specific dish hands-on . Pacing When you evaluate the curriculum or menu , the manner of presentation , and the overall duration of the course , you should have some idea of how fast it goes . Make sure you are comfortable with the pace . If you like a slow and pleasant pace , you do n't want to be a in class where folks are expected to knock out their dishes fast -- although those are often more the advanced classes at commercial schools . Ingredients Find out whether you bring your own ingredients , or they are supplied . ( Most commercial cooking schools supply them , but community programs may not . ) Cost Cost counts . Need I say more ? General Talk to the folks at the school 's customer service line ( if they have one ) if you have questions . Take a short class at the school to evaluate the facilities and their general style before splurging on a longer or more expensive class . And bring your patience . By the nature of the beast , you often sit through things you know , or repetitions , or have to wait through lectures and demos before the hands-on portion . If you can , bring a friend to share the experience , gossip with , and generally have a good time , should you be so disposed . Bon
Remember that veal is merely very young beef ; the chuck ( which is the beef equivalent to the pork shoulder ) is probably your best choices . The chuck naturally has that best proportion of muscle to fat for sausage making . That said I would actually discourage you from choosing veal as a meat for sausage making , ground veal is [ IMHO ] really ' nothing special ' in terms of flavor . Veal 's ' specialness ' is in its tenderness , which is irrelevant in a sausage . You would be better served to use an mature beef chuck from an angus or longhorn . Lamb would also be a nice ancient flavor .
Baking turns bicarbonate of soda into a weak form of lye - sodium carbonate , as you said . It basically makes it a stronger alkali . The actual baking process is safe , but the resulting lye is an irritant and you should avoid getting in on your skin , and definitely avoid it getting it in your eyes . The difference in texture and colour is noticeable after baking . The texture will be finer , and it will be whiter .
As I understand it , it 's down to the flavour you get from frying the rice . However , it does also break down some of the starch which reduces the thickening it can do when the risotto cooks , which might cause a problem . I can attest to the flavour , but I 've not done experiments about thickening . Serious Eats had a good article on the topic though , in which such experiments were described . The solution in that was to wash the rice in the stock , then fry the rice , then add the stock containing all that undamaged free rice starch during cooking , thus giving you toasty flavour and creamy risotto with no questions asked . I have n't tried that , but it seems like a fairly sound idea to me . <URL>
There are two main types of provolone : piccante ( sharp ) and dolce ( sweet ) . Most braciola recipes I 've seen call for the sharp version . Sharp provolone tastes very similar to cheddar , which I assume is abundant in the UK . The issue is that " real " cheddar is a hard cheese and provolone is only semi-hard . Here in the US , we have a softer version of sharp cheddar-style cheese that is made in Wisconsin . If a similar semi-hard sharp cheddar variant is available in the UK , I would recommend that . It should also be noted that the term " braciola " ( or sometimes " braciole " ) means a lot of different things to different people . <URL> , likely including the author of your book , it takes on the Sicilian meaning of an involtino . Sometimes the meat will be filled with a soft cheese mixture like mozzarella mixed with grated pecorino romano . However , if the recipe calls for a harder cheese like provolone , it is likely referring to a variant that is very popular in the US in which the provolone is cut into thin slices ( usually using a deli slicer ) and layered on the meat before the meat is rolled . Therefore , any substitute for the provolone should ideally be thinly sliced .
From Greenfootsteps ' " <URL> " : Pick elderberries when they are fully ripe in early autumn . The bunches should be starting to droop downwards with the weight of the fruit . Use a fork or your fingers to gently prise the fruit away from the stalks . This can be a bit fiddly but you do n't have to be too perfect with it - a few bits of stalk will not matter .
I generally use about 1cm deep of olive oil when I 'm making schnitzel which may or may not be the right oil but it works for me . I generally find that if the oil is smoking , it 's too hot so I tend to get it to a temperature that is very hot , but not smoking . Once I get it to that temperature , I do n't cook too many schnitzel 's at once , generally 2 or maybe 3 max to a pan depending on how big your pan is . The final thing is that you need to make sure you beat the schnitzel out nice and thin before you crumb it so it 's only about 1/2 a cm thick when you 're cooking it . This way it 'll only take a minute or two to cook through and wo n't overcook the crumb .
Tomatoes will last longer if kept in the fridge , but I actually recommend against keeping them there . Tomatoes lose much of their flavor when their temperature is brought below 50 degrees F. Keep them in the pantry . They will still last a few days at least , and they 'll taste a lot better .
The original Buffalo Wings are made with <URL> . The original recipe is simply equal parts melted butter and hot sauce . However , you truly can use just about whatever hot sauce you want in even greater ratios if you want more kick . There are also some distributors that specialize in spicy wing sauces . I recommend <URL> if you are adventurous and enjoy a very nice kick of heat .
There 's a reason so many recipes say " salt to taste " : there 's no single answer . Most of the time , we use close to 0.5 % salt by weight ( so 1kg food has 5g or 1 teaspoon of salt ) , but " close to " leaves plenty of wiggle room about what exactly is best . Different people have different tastes . What 's perfectly salted for one person may be oversalted or undersalted for another . Different dishes need different ratios too . Some things are supposed to taste a bit salty , while some just need a hint to amplify other flavors . Some ingredients need more salt to balance them than others . Sure , you can get approximate starting points , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ( with tons of variation - that 's a couple random recipes ) . So very roughly , 1kg of food often comes with 5 grams of salt ( 1 teaspoon ) with exceptions ranging up to 10 grams ( 2 teaspoons ) . But your best bet is always going to be to find a good recipe for the specific dish you 're making , and possibly adjust it if you know your preferences lean one way or another . Failing that , when cooking something improvised or new , or using one of the many recipes that just says " salt to taste " , letting you do what suits you , trust the instincts that you 've developed for your own tastes . If you 're cooking for others , with possibly varying tastes , it gets trickier . For things where salt can be added after the fact , you can use less salt and let everyone individually salt to taste . For things you ca n't mix after cooking , you pretty much have to compromise somewhere in the middle and hope it works for everyone . Beyond that , if you ca n't decide what the right amount of salt is , do n't worry about it . There 's surely a range that works for you , so if two different amounts both taste good , there you are . And if you find yourself disagreeing with someone about what amount of salt results in the best flavor , stop . You probably just have different tastes from the person you 're arguing with .
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
There are a few consideratons that I can think of : How durable the device is . Generally , this is going to mean that you want something metal &amp; heavy , but I 'd really look at reviews of any model that you plan to buy online , particularly from something like Amazon which lets you see those 1 star ratings , and you can see why people rated them so poorly . How it clamps down to the work surface . I do n't care how heavy it is , if it 's a hand-crank , it 's going to walk all over the place unless it 's well secured to your counter . If you do n't have a counter that 's got a lip that you can clamp to , and you do n't have a table that you 're willing to possibly mar from the clamps , you might have to look for something else ( or bolt/screw it down to a large board ) Size ( width ) of the feed . There are some that are larger , which might be useful for making some pastries as well as pasta . ( and then there 's dough sheeters , which are huge and expensive , but are 18 " or wider , typically ) . How many different thickneses the dial has , and what the min/max thickness is . Again , a thicker one can be used for other pastry applications , but it also makes it easier to work the ball through that first time . ( I 've only ever used one where the thickest size was a pain ... so it 's not a common problem . All I remember was it was a friend 's , and it was n't an Italian company ) Hand crank vs. motorized -- almost every hand crank roller can be converted ( as the handle detaches for storage , so the motor just connects there ) , but the difference in cost is significant . ( ~ $ 50 vs. ~ $ 150 . If you already have a Kitchen Aid stand mixer , they sell an roller kit , but it 's in that $ 150 range . ) Even if you got a motorized roller , I 'd look to make sure that the motor detaches and it had a hand crank ... as it lets you keep working should the motor go into thermal shutdown , but it also means typically means that the company sells the roller and motor individually should one part die down the road . ( you should try to verify that , though ) Accessories -- so , other than an add-on motor , the two main accessories you 'll see are cutters ( fettucini and something thinner are typical ) , and ravioli stuffers . Personally , I 'd say the raviolli stuffers are n't worth it . If you want consistently sized ones , get one of those little forms that you run a rolling pin over to cut , as the cleaning of the attachment ones means it 's not worth it unless you 're making a huge batch . ( which you can do , then freeze 'em , but I never have ) . I think the cutters are worth it ( and are typically included in even the $ 40-60 models ) if you 're going to make fettucini . For the thinner strand pastas , I actually prefer extrusion over rolling . ( although , I think capellini/angel hair may need to be rolled vs. extruded , but I 'm not a fan of that size of pasta ) . For wider noodles , it 's generally not a big deal to hand-cut 'em . As for the question on price ... not really . There are a few major price bands for the good motorized vs. non-motorized , and most stores keep 'em in those ranges . The really cheap ones are going to break , or jam , as they just have a lower build quality . If you see something much over $ 150 , I 'd question it . Unless it had an exceptionally wide roller ( and that was a feature you wanted ) , I ca n't think of a reason to shell out that much . I 'd try to stick with a model that I could find well reviewed ( with at least a dozen people having reviewed it if it 's purchaser-submitted vs. something like Consumer Reports or America 's Test Kitchen ) , and preferably , a model that 's been on the market for years , as there 's very little innovation -- a brand new model was likely made to trim costs , or because it 's something the company never made before ( and thus , untested ) .
end question
start question
Eggnog : After adding egg yolks , does chill time make a difference , before having added the egg whites ?
The real issue , I think , is that you want to add the egg whites immediately before service , as they will begin deflating once they are whipped and mixed in . So instead of holding the mix a certain period of time , instead you hold the mix until prior to service , and then fold in the whites , which should be freshly whipped .
Use part of the shell you just cracked to scoop it up ; it will attract the broken bit . Also , if you frequently end up with bits of shell in your eggs , you should revise your cracking technique . Eggs should be cracked on a flat surface ( countertop or plate ) not a sharper surface like the edge of a bowl .
<URL> I am ready to mess up with its skin , but if I cut it up totally , the yellow yolk will get lost in the gravy . Yesterday I did an experiment : After properly hard boiling the eggs , I shelled them and cut them into two parts vertically . I fried these sliced eggs on both sides in around 3 ( 6 ml ) spoons oil in a semi circle wok . No , the yolk did n't get lost in the oil . It was all intact in the sliced eggs . I fried all the spices etc. in the wok , and added the water as needed . Now , as a final step , I carefully placed the fried sliced eggs in the same wok [ with the yolk side facing up ] , covered with a lid , and let it boil on simmer gas for some minutes . This time the spices did get inside the egg yolk , and also the yolk was completely intact . Since the eggs are sliced , pressure cooker usage may cause the yolk to dismantle . An open vessel usage is a must in this case . It is also necessary to keep the yolk side facing up when you place the eggs in the curry for the final boil up to keep them intact . <URL>
If you 're worried about getting sick , the only risky ingredient is raw eggs . I personally detest raw cookie dough ( it 's a texture thing ) , but our family routinely uses powdered eggs in our cookie dough so that my spouse and kids can eat the raw dough without any worry ( they seem to prefer the dough to the baked cookies ) . The cookies turn out exactly the same , we just end up losing about half the dough in the process to those crazy people who prefer eating the dough ...
I 've not heard of egg shells being used that way . I 'm not sure what they would add . The classic way of clarifying a meat stock to make it crystal clear ( ie : for a consommé ) is to whisk egg white ( and I know at least one chef who adds crushed up egg shell to this mix ) and finely ground meat into the cold stock and then gradually heat it . As the added ingredients cook they rise through the stock trapping all the bits that make it cloudy and the gunky ' raft ' can be skimmed off the top .
Besides the initial gluten relaxing that mrwienerdog wrote about , another important effect is the absorption of liquid . It takes time for the flour to fully hydrate with the available liquid . Before it does the dough will be more sticky and there will be less gluten available for kneading . Giving the recently incorporated dough a short rest allows the flour to pull in all the liquid it can and become much easier to work with . A similar effect can be seen with pastry doughs . Even though often the goal is to minimize gluten development , a short rest gives the flour time to hydrate and can turn pastry dough from difficult to work and crumbly to soft and smooth .
Details on beef color changes can be found <URL> . Briefly : When beef is first cut ( or ground or whatever ) , it has a purplish hue , caused by deoxymyoglobin , a pigment that can only exist in the absence of oxygen . When exposed to oxygen , a chemical reaction occurs , producing oxymyoglobin , which leads to the bright cherry red color most people associate with " fresh meat . " Eventually , the molecule oxydizes , producing metmyoglobin , which can no longer bind oxygen -- and this turns the meat brown . ( There are natural enzymes present which can convert back to oxymyoglobin when in the presence of sufficient oxygen , though these will eventually be depleted . Packaging can preserve the strong oxygen-rich environment for longer , which is why grocery store meat stays bright red on the surface . ) When meat is cooked , the globin denatures and forms a tan/gray hemichrome pigment which can no longer convert back to the other myoglobin pigments . Anyhow , this is all a preface to explain that certain chemical additives will change the chemistry here , pushing the reactions to move to or away from certain pigment states . The primary one that you mentioned is salt . As discussed in the linked article : If salt has been incorporated into patties or is present in the case of enhanced steaks , salt decreases metmyoglobin reducing activity allowing more MMb to accumulate [ i.e. , turning brown ] ... In addition , salt promotes heat denaturation , or breakdown , of myoglobin [ i.e. , turning tan or gray ] . Basically , salt causes the pigmentation molecules to convert faster to states resembling old or cooked meat , causing the color change you see .
Panko wo n't stick to chicken ( too dry ) , but will stick to egg . Egg wo n't stick to chicken ( too smooth and non-absorbant ) , but will stick to flour . Flour will stick to chicken . Dredge first through flour , then through ( well beaten ) egg , then through panko . It 's a tricky combination , but if you do it right the results are excellent . Any dry spices you want to put in can go in the flour . While I do n't know for sure , I would certainly would n't include any oils in the coating , as none of flour/egg/panko will stick to oils .
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
Fried Eggs : Sunny Side Up -- Not flipped , unbroken yolk . The top of the egg is just barely set . Basted -- Sunny Side Up , hot fat spooned over until the white surrounding the yolk is opaque . Over Easy / lite -- Flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk runny . Over medium -- flipped , whites fully cooked , unbroken yolk , yolk creamy ( not completely runny ) . Over Medium Well -- Flipped , unbroken yolk , yolk cooked to have a firm but wet-appearing center . Over Hard -- Flipped , broken , fully-cooked yolk . Over Well -- Flipped , intact , fully-cooked yolk . Broken / Lightly Scrambled -- Broken in pan and gently stirred while cooking - yolk and whites should not be mixed entirely . Scrambled Eggs -- Made in many different ways . Generally the eggs are mixed in a bowl before being put into the pan , and often stirred while cooking . Some recipes add fat to the eggs in the form of milk , cream , butter , or oil . A distinction can be made between Wet/Loose or Dry , which refers to the degree of doneness . Omelettes : Filled Omelette -- Eggs mixed before cooking , possibly with added fat as in Scrambled Eggs . Cooked in fat in a saute pan ; when set but the interior still wet , previously-cooked fillings ( cheese , onions , mushrooms , peppers , tomatoes ... ) are added , and the eggs folded over into a half-moon shape . Spanish Omelette / Western Omelette -- Same as filled , but the egg mixture is poured over the fillings in a hot pan and cooked , thus incorporating the fillings into the egg . Fluffy Omelette -- Whites and yolks beaten separately . Yolks are gently folded into the whites without breaking the structure of the whites . Optional toppings are added . Cooked slowly in a pan , or baked ( an electric frying pan with a lid works well for this preparation ) . Boiled : Cooked in shell in water for a timed period . Some people will refer to degree of doneness by cooking time , i.e. , a " 3-minute egg " is soft-boiled with some runny white around the yolk . Some recipes call for eggs to be added to boiling water , others to be started in cold water . In the cold-water start , the pot may be left on the heat or removed when the water reaches a boil . The eggs may be shocked in ice water when removed . Soft -- Yolk runny , potentially with slight unset white around the yolk . Medium -- White completely set , yolk firm but with a dark , wet appearance . Hard -- Yolk completely set and pale yellow . Poached : Egg cooked , out of shell , in water , stock , or other liquid -- excluding fats or oils -- at a temperature in the range of 160-180 ˚F ( 70-82 ˚C ) . There are possible degrees of doneness , however the typical poached egg has a runny but warm and thickened yolk and fully-set white . Coddled : An egg that has been very lightly cooked ( poached eggs are sometimes considered coddled ) . This can either be accomplished with an egg coddler or cooking an egg in its shell with water that is slightly below boiling point . Shirred : An egg cooked in an oven at the low-mid 300 's ˚F ( ~ 160 ˚C ) , contained in a ramekin , until the whites are just set and the yolk is runny but thickened . Often butter or another fat is placed on top before cooking . Steamed : Very similar to shirred eggs , but the ramekin is covered with some aluminum foil and put in a steamer for 7-15 minutes . In a basket : Eggs fried in a hole made in a slice of bread
Assuming you do n't normally buy pre-brined / injected birds , you should notice a difference ... <URL> , it should be noticeably moist and tender , especially the white meat . A couple of things to try : Increase the time in the brine . 10 hours is plenty for breasts or quarters , but a whole chicken may take longer . A whole turkey will definitely take longer ! Check your salt . A cup of small-crystal table salt per gallon of water should be fine , but if you 're using flakes ( kosher and some sea salt ) , you may be producing too weak a brine ! If in doubt , weight it out . See also : <URL>
No . The amount of salt you would have to add to water to make an appreciable difference is enormous . Salt is added to water for various reasons : to season whatever is being cooked in it ; to maintain colour ; to maintain structural integrity .
Yes , it makes a difference . In a conventional oven ( even one with a convectiono fan ) , anything placed on the bottom rack is going to absorb less radiation heat from the oven element . That means longer cooking times and possibly the need for a higher temperature setting . If you 're following a recipe then it 's best to use whichever rack the recipe says . If the recipe does n't specify , it 's usually designed for the center rack . Now , using a different rack is completely different from actually baking one thing on top of another thing , on a higher rack . That will have a significant effect on whatever is underneath , and if it is particularly sensitive to the time and temperature ( many baked goods are ) then it is very likely to fail entirely . I once tried to bake two layers of cream puffs and the ones on the bottom were still practically raw by the time the top was done . I doubt you 'd find much better success with cakes . A convection fan may help in this case , but I still do n't think it 's enough to compensate for the temperature gradient you 'd create by " eclipsing " one dish underneath another in the same oven . You are literally blocking the heat from reaching the bottom dish .
Like Bob said , surely boiling some noodles is way less of a bother than breaking out the pasta machine ? If you really want to make fresh pasta , I do n't see any reason you could n't use it for lasagna without boiling it - the reason one boils dry noodles is because it 's hard to get them to soften in the time it takes to bake the lasagna . But just like when cooking fresh noodles , you need to be careful not to overcook it , so make sure all your fillings are fully cooked before you start layering . It also should be perfectly fine to not cut the noodles into strips - the reason dried noodles come that way is for easier handling . It is possible to make lasagna using dried lasagna noodles without boiling them first , but you need to add more water and bake it longer . A search for " no-boil lasagna " will turn up scores of recipes .
Silly , silly me . As Jefromi suggested earlier , the largest contributor to the fact it takes that much longer is probably the fact that the eggs are at a different themselves at the moment I put them in . I used to store eggs in a cupboard ; now I store them in the refrigerator . That is not to say the other factors mentioned by Martha and Sklivvz do n't add to that -- they most likely do -- but this seems the most reasonable , if unanticipated , explanation . Thank you all for your answers and suggestions !
This is the nature of meringue : they will start to fall apart as soon as you stop whipping . There are a few tricks to help it hold longer , but in general you want to have EVERYTHING ready to go as soon as the meringue is whipped . To help stabilize the meringue you can : Use a copper or SILVER-plated bowl to whip , or add a tiny amount of powdered copper supplement from a health food store Acidify it slightly : add 1/8 tsp cream of tartar or 1/2 tsp lemon juice per white , before beating Let the bowl warm to room temperature , which increases the ability of the whites to take in air Ensure there is absolutely no yolk in with the whites . The fat greatly destabilizes the foam . Now for WHY these tricks work : I 'm going to quote heavily from Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " , as it does a wonderful job explaining meringues and other whipped egg whites : Like the head on a beer or a cappucino , an egg foam is a liquid -- the white -- filled with a gas -- air -- in such a way that the mixuture of liquid and gas keeps its shape , like a solid . It 's a mass of bubbles , with air inside each bubble , and the white spread out into a thin film to form the bubble walls . And the makeup of these liquid walls determines how long a foam can stand up . Pure water has such a strong surface tension -- such strong attractive forces among its molecules -- that it immediately starts to pull itself together into a compact puddle ; and it 's so runny that it puddles almost immediately . The many nonwater molecules in egg white both reduce the surface tension of the water they float in , and make it less runny , and thus allow the bubbles to survive long enough to accumulate in a sizeable mass . What gives the mass of foam a useful kitchen lifetime is the white 's team of proteins . Whisking unfolds these proteins , primarily globulins and ovotranferrin , which bond to each other and stabilize the bubble walls . Cooking will evaporate the water and unfold ovoalbumin , creating a rigid and permanent protein network . However , the same proteins can ALSO destabilize the foam if they bond too tightly . " The protein network begins to collapse when too many of these bonds accumulate and the proteins cluster together too tightly " ( page 102 ) . In the case of egg proteins , one of the strongest bonds is a disulfide bond between the sulfur-containing amino acids , cysteine and methionine . Eggs contain copious quantities of these amino acids , which are why they produce such a potent stench when they spoil ; the sulfur is converted to malodorous sulfur compounds , particularly hydrogen sulfide . Copper , silver , and acids stabilize the egg foam by preventing the formation of these disulfide bonds . To quote Harold McGee ( page 103 ) : It turns out that along with a few other metals , copper has the useful tendency to form extremely tight bonds with reactive sulfur groups : so tight that the sulfur is essentially preventing from reacting with anything else . So the presence of copper in foaming eggs whites essentially eliminates the strongest kind of protein bond that can form , and makes it harder for the proteins to embrace each other too tightly . McGee also notes that silver has the same property of inhibiting disulfide bonding . Acid achieves the same goal of reducing disulfide bonding , but works slightly differently : The sulfur bonds form when the sulfur-hydrogen ( S-H ) groups on two different protein molecules shed their hydrogens and form a sulfur-sulfur ( S-S ) connection with each other . The addition of an acid boosts the number of free-floating hydrogen ( H ) ions in the egg white , which makes it much harder for the S-H groups to shed their own H , and so slows the sulfur bonding down to a crawl .
There is probably still some risk , so I would n't assume it was safe ; however , ice-cream is frozen , so I would n't worry about ice-cream at all , unless the egg-mixture was left at room temperature for a significant time before freezing . As far as I know , salmonella is in the faeces of the chicken , if present . Some faeces will often stick to the shell . In very rare circumstances , which I believe are negligible , the salmonella penetrates the shell and infects not only the white ( less of a problem ) but also the nutritious yolk , and then the whole egg is contaminated . But this chance is probably too small to encounter in one 's average life time . What has normally happened if the faeces are contaminated and people get sick , is that some of the salmonella present on the outside of the shell contaminates the egg when the shell is broken , or the extremely small number of bacteria present in the white get a chance to infect the whole egg ( chance ca. 0.005 % , see below ) . ( Note that in many countries the outside of the shell of supermarket eggs is supposedly sterilized . ) At that very moment , however , the number of bacteria present in the egg white should still not be enough to make people sick . But if the egg is then left to sit outside the refrigerator for several hours , and enough faeces touched the egg white , the bacteria may have enough time to multiply and make you sick . If the egg is properly refrigerated , chances are much lower , but I do not know the exact numbers . One often sees grey spots and smears on the outside of eggs ; I believe this is normally chicken faeces . Even so , salmonella is quite rare , such that the healthy should n't be worried about making ice cream , mousse au chocolat , and such from unpasteurized eggs . But if a young child , an old person , a pregnant woman , or someone with health problems were to eat the ice cream , I would not take the chance and use pasteurized eggs . If the food is contaminated , the fact that people do not get sick who have eaten it immediately upon making it offers little evidence , because the bacteria have n't had the time to multiply yet . I believe you will normally not get sick from eating contaminated steak tartare , for example , because it is eaten immediately . However that may be , ice-cream is frozen : as Derobert said below , salmonella probably <URL> , and certainly not below 0 ° C , so ice-cream should be safe under all normal circumstances , that is , if it was frozen shortly after breaking the eggs . Normal temperatures in refrigerators slow down the growth of the bacteria as well : perhaps you should n't worry too much about anything that is kept at 7 ° C anyway for a few days . The inside of an egg was once considered almost sterile . But , over recent years , the bacterium Salmonella enteritidis ( Se ) has been found inside a small number of eggs . Scientists estimate that , on average across the U.S. , only 1 of every 20,000 eggs might contain the bacteria . So , the likelihood that an egg might contain Se is extremely small -- 0.005 % ( five one-thousandths of one percent ) . At this rate , if you 're an average consumer , you might encounter a contaminated egg once every 84 years . -- <URL> , <URL>
Kneading does two things . First it mixes all the ingredients uniformly . You have to do this no matter what , but you only really have to do it enough to mix the ingredients . If you keep kneading beyond the mixing stage , you are applying energy ( which equals heat ) to the yeast which makes it ferment , generating the tiny bubbles which make bread fluffy . The yeast will ferment on its own , but kneading just accelerates that process . Historically , dough was proved ( left in a hot humid place ) for about 18 hours allowing it to rise slowly in order to make bread . In 1961 a process was developed in England called the <URL> . Essentially you work the heck out of the dough with high-speed mixers . The extra few minutes of high energy mixing applies heat to the yeast , which dramatically reduces the fermentation period required , allowing you to make bread much more quickly ... at factory-type speeds . Factories can make bread in a couple of hours instead of having to prepare dough one day and bake it the next .
Myth busters beware , are you ready ? Go ! No brining nor seasoning will make your chicken too salty . 5 % , 7 % , 10 % , The only sodium saturating process known to men is the injection , the needle injection , the so called " added solution " . If you 're only brining , you 're miles away from needle injection consequences , yet another misunderstood process . Brining is not to be feared , injections is . Edit ( after all these comments/questions showed up ) : Brining is a complex subject which I can not address here , and a lot of myths are floating around , mostly related to nuances , while people do not understand the enormous impact of : osmosis vs. diffusion , which ingredient are real actors in brining and which are not , among salt sugar fat acids alcohol herbs/flavors spices/Pungency / [ scoville scale ] what happens during passive brining vs. active cooking , including the effects of slow cooking vs. high heat the type of meat , the thickness of the meat , the duration of the brine/marination . You can debate this thing for days and years , but what matters here is the question . The assumption is " I marinated ( 5 % ) a chicken and now that my marination is over , I 'm thinking of seasoning ( salt ) before cooking . Am I running a risk to saturate the end product with sodium ? " The clear answer is NO , as long as your brine did n't last weeks , or your meat was not previously injected with a sodium solution , e.g 12 % or 15 % . The only time you have to worry about salt seasoning is when your meat has already been salted with injection , or if you just managed to cook a peace of meat with a higher than 5 % salt solution for more than a week , which wo n't happen unless we are talking about dried cured meat , which is an aberration as I 've never seen it . Please be careful with references to articles , books , so called scientific published papers . You really need to read them slowly and carefully , interpretation is key , understand where they came from , who wrote them , who paid for it , who 's getting paid for it , which is the source , ... etc , even if the almighty gods of molecular gastronomy are named on it . FYI : I 've been fighting a few USDA/FDA strict rules for years ( e.g. caning , meat temp ) , while believing their overall work is awesome .
I used the method here before with good success : <URL> Basically you start with the eggs in the pan with cold water and bring the water to temperature , right when it reaches boiling you pull the heat back and let the eggs cook for 10 minutes . You do n't need a full on boil to hard boil the eggs .
end question
start question
How can I prevent pear juice from soaking into pastry dough ?
Whenever you 're worried about something crisp being made soggy by something moist , the answer is usually fat . Brush the crust with butter or oil before you add the pears , and the oil will slow the absorption of water . Alternately , dry out your pears . Cook them a bit . Roll them in sugar to dry them out some . I 'm surprised the pear juice is making it through the cheesecake batter . Usually that stuff keeps the liquids locked up tight . Maybe try a drier cheesecake , or one with a bit more egg ?
When the butter cools in the fridge ... It 's going to thicken up . I ca n't see a way around this ? When you heat it up again , it should return to consistency ...
The only good way I know of to concentrate fresh orange juice and maintain the flavor is by removing the water . But not by heating it , as the heat will destroy the flavor . You need a vacuum distiller or freeze dryer for your orange juice . Pulling a vacuum will boil the juice at room temperature , removing the water without adding any heat .
I have the brand of juicer ( Champion ) mentioned by the OP in comments . It 's a rather unusual design that is n't used by most other companies . They are somewhat notorious for producing a lot of foam . I bought it perhaps 15 years ago , but rarely use it for this reason . ( It still has other uses other than juicing . ) Anyhow , the solution I found to this problem was simply to strain the juice through a fine-mesh sieve . It wo n't go quickly and will get clogged with the pulp , so you 'll need to a take a spoon or something and stir it around to force the juice through . It takes a long time , but it 's effective because the bubbles dissipate when they go through the sieve . Given the construction of these types of juicers , I would generally just place a bowl underneath and a large sieve in the bowl to catch the juice coming out . After finishing juicing , you can turn off the machine and then spend 5 minutes stirring and straining to get rid of the foam . I have seen others on the internet mention success using a French press to do a similar straining action to destroy the foam . I tried it once but it did n't seem to work as well ( perhaps the stirring action within the sieve also assists with the foam ) . Nevertheless , it still made an improvement .
You could use the corkscrew in its classic role . Bore a hole , and then use the corkscrew to pull the sugar out in one piece . You should probably lay the tub on its side for this , as the sugar weight is probably too much to stay on the corkscrew . The other option , though rather extreme , is to cut away the plastic tub with wire cutters or shears . That way , you 're peeling the tub away , and will be left with the same lump , but no tub .
Wilting in greens is triggered by temperature , pH , and salt content . To reduce wilting , you can cool the vegetables or shrimp , make the vegetables more acidic * , or decrease their salt content . My suggestion would be to cool the shrimp with an ice water bath or cold running water . This is the most traditional approach for shrimp salad . Alternately , you could apply an acidic dressing before topping , but wait to salt it until the shrimp have cooled to 140F . Alternately , wilting of vegetables adds a rather interesting variation in flavor or texture to a salad . This technique has been desirable and in vogue at various times . Why does this all happen ? Plant cells wilt when cooking breaks apart the cellulose-based cell walls , and allows water to escape , causing them to soften . To quote On Food and Cooking ( pp 282 ) : When the tissue reaches 140F/60C , the cell membranes are damaged , the cells lose water and deflate , and the tissue as a whole goes from firm and crisp to limp and flabby . Acids will impede wilting , because the cell walls are held together with hemicellulose , and it is " not very soluble in an acid environment " ( pp 282 ) . Table salt is a problem , because " its sodium ions displace the calcium ions that cross-link and anchor the cement molecules in the fruits and vegetable walls , thus breaking the cross-links and helping dissolve the hemicelluloses " ( pp 283 ) . Calcium has the opposite affect , so if you can use hard water or add calcium salts , do so . * Acidic solutions will reduce green colors ( On Food and Cooking , pp 280-281 ) , but preserve texture ( 282 ) .
It seems like a lot of recipes recomend gelatin , which could add to the stretchyness . I frequent serious eats and a while ago they posted this recipe and they claim that it is great and stretchy . <URL>
A mixture of flour and water at room temperature is a very hospitable growth medium for many bacteria , yeasts , and molds ; and indefinitely is a long time ... Even if you are extremely vigilant when it comes to kitchen hygiene , the mixture will eventually start to grow some form of microbes . This process could take a week or more to become obvious . If you use the batch up within a week or so it is unlikely to cause any problems . For longer storage you should refrigerate the dough and/or add salt ( in the proportional amount you would use for bread ) . If it develops an off smell or visible mold you are better off throwing it away . Keep in mind that hydrating flour , especially whole grain flours , activates amylase enzymes that break down starches into simple sugars . This process , called autolysis , improves browning and flavor , but if allowed to go on too long it leads to a gummy crumb or poor overall structure .
In most cases , curdling occurs because proteins in the sauce are denatured and bind up with each other forming clumps . In cooking , proteins are denatured by excessive heat , acid , salt , or enzymes . Heat and acid are the usual culprits for me . For example , when making a hollandaise sauce - the egg yolks are slowly cooked to allow them to set . In most recipes the lemon juice is added later . If the sauce is heated too abruptly or too high then the egg proteins will curdle . To prevent curdling you have a few options - Do n't expose the sauce to as much heat . Be careful to not overcook egg rich sauces . If possible add the protein rich ingredient later in the process - for example adding yogurt to a sauce just before serving . Heat the sauce gently . Heating too fast will also make proteins denature . Many sauces are cooked in a double boiler - not to keep the sauce from overheating but to ensure that it heats gently . Do n't expose the proteins to too much salt or acid . Dropping a couple tablespoons of lemon juice into warm milk is a recipe for paneer not sauce . Take out some insurance . Proteins bind with each other after denaturing when there are a large quantity of similar molecules all together . One solution then is to introduce a lot of dissimilar molecules that will interfere with the protein 's ability to bind to itself . Common candidates for this are starch or fat . It is difficult ( but not impossible ) to curdle the milk protein in cream based sauces with just heat because the high concentration of milk fat gets in the way . This is why reduction sauces can add cream to a very hot liquid and let it reduce . However , adding acid and heat can still be enough to curdle so be careful if your reduction sauce is very acidic . Many otherwise fragile sauce recipes will call for a little bit of corn starch as an insurance policy . In the related question that you posted - yogurt sauces are particularly susceptible to this because low-fat yogurt is very high in protein and low in fat , and starch .
Perfect idea and great multi-use of your jam ! Your plan is perfect ... just create a nice sweet tart balance to your liking . If you want a little more texture you could plump up some golden or dark raisins by nuking them in the microwave before adding . Coriander seed is often used and provides a little texture contrast as well . A bit of ground allspice could be good as well .
Some fruit juices can be heated to drive off excess water ( especially those with a higher sugar content ) but citrus does n't tolerate this well . Fresh-squeezed citrus will get bitter and acrid if reduced . Instead , squeeze your citrus as normal and freeze the juice in an open container . Once it 's set into a solid block , place it into a funnel or strainer over a collection vessel . The juice itself will run off more quickly and collect in the vessel , while the ice crystals stay in the strainer ( until they melt , at least - do n't let them melt all the way , or you 're back to the beginning ) . Once the ice looks very lightly colored , discard it and enjoy your concentrated juice . You can repeat this process if you want further concentration , though eventually there will come a point where the juice is so concentrated that it wo n't freeze at conventional freezer temperatures . Good instructions for this process <URL> - it 's really quite simple !
No , milk in and of itself does not prevent cakes from rising . There is noting in milk that changes the action of baking powder or baking soda . Just yesterday , for example , I made chocolate muffins with 1/2 cup of milk , chemically leavened , and they rose beautifully . There has to be some other factor involved , but you would need to add much more detail to your question in order to have a chance at identifying it .
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
Yes , you can store it for about a day in the fridge . Let it warm up again before you cook it though .
The easiest method , and most common in a commercial setting , would be to add a small amount of yeast in addition to the sourdough starter . You will probably have to reformulate a bit , as the dough will mature faster leaving the starter less time to develop flavor . This is usually overcome by also increasing the proportion of starter ( and adjusting the final dough 's hydration based on the hydration of your starter ) . For instance , if your original recipe included 30 % starter ( in baker 's math ) , the faster version might have 40 % starter and .5 % yeast . If you use a liquid starter , you may then cut the water by 5 % or so , and if you use a solid starter no further adjustment may be needed .
A sausage stuffer , perhaps ? Your standard food mill attachment type more typically seen in a home kitchen : <URL> Unless you 're seeing some product I 've never met , I would not call that stuff " rolled in tubes " - I 'd call it a tube ( or log ) of dough , and I expect the filling process is VERY like a ( large , automated ) sausage stuffer , and involves no rolling at all . <URL> In making refrigerator cookies , one simply makes a log out of the dough , wraps it , and places it in the fridge to harden before slicing . The dough is not liquid to start with , so it does not pour , and can be shaped without a form . If your " dough " " pours " I 'm dubious about your recipe or method .
Even though it is n't really milk ( in the dairy sense ) , coconut milk still naturally separates into a thick cream and thinner liquid like regular milk . As such , when working with coconut milk you should still follow the same procedures you would to make a milk-based cream sauce . The number one rule when making any creamy sauce is : DO N'T LET IT BOIL ! Boiling will guarantee that your creamy sauce ( including sauces made with coconut milk ) will break in some form or fashion . At most , you should cook these at a bare simmer . Other than that , there are some techniques you can use to keep your curry smooth . You could use an emulsifier like honey ( common in vinaigrettes , where it is used to make sure the oil and vinegar do n't separate ) , added toward the end of cooking . You could also use a thickening agent , like a cornstarch slurry or a quick roux . Curry paste is also a thickening agent . As a general rule of thumb , when making Thai-style curry I usually cook my vegetables in a little more oil than I think they need , then add the curry paste and sauté that until it has absorbed the oil ( along with any dry spices ) . It will act as a roux for the coconut milk and make sure there are no lumps in the final curry . Lastly , cooking the curry uncovered at a simmer , stirring occasionally , will thicken it up nicely and help all the ingredients stay together .
When this happens to me , I am distrustful of a simple reheat . It is possible that it was undercooked , but also possible that it was maybe overcooked/understirred and that most of the binding proteins solidified on the bottom and too little of them remained in the milk , or maybe that the ratios were simply wrong . Your specific recipe also contains starch , so if you truly undercooked , then it 's very probable that the yolks dissolved your starch , so you are left without any starch binding power . The most secure way is to throw it out and make another batch , this time boiling so that it blubbs for at least a minute . If you really want to save it , just use another thickener . In pure custards , I tend to add starch if they do n't turn out . If there is already starch in there , I prefer another thickener such as xanthan . First , I do n't know why the starch did n't work the first time , but repeating it somehow feels wrong . Second , it can get too much of a starchy/floury taste . The " other dish " is not something that can be answered on a Stack Exchange site . You have limitless possibilities to do with it whatever you want , starting with drinking it as it is . Anything which you can make with a custard which was made thin on purpose can be made with your failed custard too .
It sounds like it did n't have enough liquid in it . Assuming we are talking about a normal wheat-flour bread dough , I ca n't think of anything else that would lead to cracking and breaking . Properly hydrated bread dough should be quite moist and elastic , and the only way you can " break " it is to stretch it hard and fast with a pulling motion . Fixing this situation is hard . You can try to knead more water into it , but it has a tendency to just slip off the surface . Try spreading it out as thin as possible , spraying or rubbing on a little water , folding and kneading and repeating the process .
The biggest thing you can do is peel it . If a cucumber 's bitter , it 's much more in the peel than in the flesh . It 's also usually more bitter at the stem end , so you might want to start from the other end , and possibly ultimately discard an inch from the stem end if it really is too bitter for you . Unless you 're unusually sensitive to the bitterness , that ought to cover it . Bitterness is also fairly variable from cucumber to cucumber , so it 's possible that you could shop for less bitter ones - maybe a different variety - or buy them only during more favorable seasons .
end question
start question
Lard ( or other fat ) as a subsitute for butter in desserts for someone with a dairy allergy ?
In general lard can always be substituted for butter , but you will not get the same flavour , obviously . Lard is perhaps a bit more ' savoury ' than butter , so it may be worth trying a pie out just to see if it works with a sweet filling . You should be able to convert straight from butter to lard . Another alternative is vegetable shortening , which you can use in all kinds of baking .
Being near the oven does n't necessarily mean that your cabinets are n't dry - they 're probably as dry as any pantry . I doubt a cooler is going to be significantly better than a cabinet . Without ice/water , it 's just an insulator , so it 'll resist change in temperature , which would tend to make the temperature variation inside it a little more moderate than that in the rest of your kitchen . ( It 'd also lag behind - it 'll stay cooler as your kitchen warms up , then stay warmer as your kitchen cools down . ) But more importantly , it 's sealed , so there 's no airflow . This may cause it to end up more humid than the rest of the kitchen . The best thing is probably just to use the best available cabinets - low and as far from the oven as possible . They should n't heat up all that much from stove and oven use , and I 'm guessing you use the oven more often in the winter , when the whole room is cooler anyway . If your kitchen is still getting too warm , try using a fan to circulate air with the rest of the apartment while cooking . Of course , in your case , in San Francisco , even the summers are n't that warm . You should really be fine using the cabinets . Failing that , you can always just buy a standalone shelf or cabinet , call it your pantry , and put it a little farther away . If you 're still having problems with spices not keeping well , you might want to just try to buy smaller quantities ( if you have somewhere that sells them in bulk ) , or grind them yourself instead of buying ground spices . I would n't be overly concerned about storing them without light , either ; so many people do just fine with spice racks ( clear glass jars ) on the counter . Finally , some foods can also handle being stored in the refrigerator . Really depends what you 're worried about !
Yes , you can , as long as it 's a decent quality blade grinder . It 's how I fill my moka pot , which I 've been using 5 days a week for the last 4 years . You ca n't do actual espresso in a blade grinder ( it 's not possible to get the grind consistent and fine enough ) . But moka pots are a lot more flexible in the grind of coffee that they will accept . Just grind it almost as fine as you can -- this takes about 30-40 seconds of grinding in mine -- and put it in the basket .
All of those ingredients should be fine . The only thing you really have to worry about is shelf life , so make sure to buy fresh ingredients and check your expiration dates , especially on the baking powder and baking soda and the almonds . I would just tell them to use it within a year ( or the earliest expiration date ) . Oh yeah , and do n't put the baking powder and baking soda next to the brown sugar . There is n't a lot of water in it , but it might be enough to cause issue .
You can substitute one to one . Many brands of " light sour cream " ( Which is an oxymoron . Cream without the cream ? ) have a lot of gums and starches to stabilize the liquid as the fat would have done . Brands that do n't have gums dilute the fat with skim milk and are basically just yogurt anyway . Regular yogurt is fragile . It is a delicate mesh of proteins filled with water . When it is blended the water washes out . However , greek yogurt has already had this done ! So there is less water and it stays creamy and loses relatively little extra liquid even when blended .
Butter traditionally has salt in it as a preservative , mainly to stop bacterial growth on the residual whey , and to slow fat rancidity Modern butter has a much lower amount of salt than is required for shelf storage in the pre-electric era . Now we have refrigerators , salt is not required at such a high level Butter with no salt has nearly half of the shelf life of modern salted butter Processed sugar is a modern ingredient , and therefore there is no culture in having it in butter . Sweet yoghurt and milk are all " new " inventions Using salt as a preservative is as old as recorded history . Many cultures used salt to preserve fruits , as well as meats and vegetables
For white wine , try : chicken broth/stock vegetable stock white grape juice ginger ale canned mushroom liquid diluted white wine or cider vinegar For red wine , try : beef or chicken broth/stock diluted red wine vinegar red grape juice tomato juice canned mushroom liquid A great list of substitutions for cooking with various alcoholic ingredients may be found <URL> .
@Chris : Does the recipe from the Nero Wolfe cookbook say anything about dumping the milky/watery portion out of the pan before returning the butter to it to brown ? Clarified butter WILL NOT brown , that is the purpose for clarifying it . The milk solids are what brown . The portion that usually goes to the bottom will be the whey and the milk solids initially tend to form the " scum " on the top . To me it sounds like he 's trying to suggest that you should pour the butter &amp; solids off , dump out any whey , and then return the butter to the pan so you can heat it to the point of a dark brown without it splattering ( which is caused by the water in the whey ) . 4 tablespoons of butter is n't going to have much whey in the first place so just cook the whole butter to the beurre noir point .
The percentage of milk-fat determines the name . It is different from region to region . In the US , heavy whipping Cream is above % 36 fat . You can see <URL> for the naming convention and fat content . For a chocolate mousse you 're generally looking for cream with fat contents between % 30 and % 40 . Otherwise you can get a phase-inversion in your mousse emulsion ( it break or collapses ) . There are Chocolate mousse recipes using butter instead of cream . It makes for a slightly different tasting chocolate mousse , but hey , it 's chocolate mousse . You may be able to cheat using an emulsifier such as soy lecithin to keep the emulsion stable . Gelatin does thicken things , but you 're likely to lose the air bubbles in the mousse and get a denser mix .
No , there are n't such cheeses . All cheeses are made from the same basic product - milk - and there are no changes to the fat happening in the cheesemaking process . Whatever ratio of saturated to unsaturated fats goes in , the same ratio goes out . There are cheeses made from milk of different animals , and they do have a different ratio of saturated to unsaturated fat : cow : 55 % saturated sheep : 65 % saturated goat : 65 % saturated As you see , the difference is very small . Besides , the majority of cheeses you get in the West are made with cow 's milk , which has the lowest saturation of the three . If this is too much for your dietary goals , then you do n't have alternatives with less saturated fat .
As far as I know , pouring hot stuffs into the meringue ( beaten egg-white ) while mixing will denature the protein , and thus stiffen and stabilize the meringue . However , I have no idea why you should pour and wait , then mix in .
Applesauce has little flavor and almost no nutritional value . It is added to baked goods for the one thing it does have - pectin . Pectin interferes with gluten in a similar manner to fat although by a different mechanism . For this reason applesauce is often used to replace some of the fat in recipes for health-conscious bakers . <URL> . Or if you are <URL> . Other banana bread recipes are very similar to cakes and rely on a huge amount of fat - often creamed with a large amount of sugar . Your options are then to : Replace the applesauce with some other oil substitute . Another puree of high-pectin fruit would work . Switch to a recipe that just uses the fat and enjoy a richer banana bread .
The main reason why you want to cut the duck in half and roast them with the skin side pointing upwards is so the skin of the duck is nice and crispy . Unlike most roasted poultry where you do n't eat the skin , the duck 's skin is considered a huge delicacy if it is crispy .
I think everyone agrees that " artisan " gets tossed around as a marketing term that is largely empty or vapid , referring as much to the " old world " images used on the bag than to the bread itself . However , I think there is an actual " artisan " quality to food , and that it relates to several qualities or ethics of the producer - which you do find in some actual bakeries : Develops their own recipes - an artisan baker should be developing recipes that meet their needs . If they do n't know enough to do that , then they are just following instructions . Tweaks recipes carefully over time to maximize the intended qualities of the bread . An " artisan " producer understands the variables that impact the quality of their product and constantly adjust them to keep the bread quality high , despite changing or variable ingredients . Follows the ethic of " Flavor Rules " , and flavor is the first priority . Of course they have to be a business-person as well , but recipe changes and enhancements should primarily be made to improve flavor , not reduce cost , improve packability , etc. . Has a real passion for what they are doing , and holds themselves to the highest standard . Artists are always the most critical of their own work , and are constantly looking for ways to improve . A home baker may not be an " artist " , but when I make " artisan breads " at home ( and I think this is what Peter R. is referring to ) , I do so with an intent to make the bread as good as I possibly can , even if this means baking it tomorrow instead of tonight , or ordering special flours online . I contrast this with my " makin ' dinner " baking , where I obviously want it to be good , but am willing to give up some perfection in order to get it done tonight . Neither method is inherently better , but they are undertaken with a different intent and process .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
Personally , I just throw them into stir fries or fried rice ( add them near the end of the cooking time ) . I 've also had them slightly stir fried with pea shoots in sesame oil . Simple but delicious . Tofu666 , an amazing vegan blogger , fries them often . Here 's a sample : <URL> This page has instructions for pickling them : <URL>
I 'm not sure exactly what you 're asking - whether you want brands of sour cream whose reduced-fat version is as tasty as the full-fat version , or if you want to substitute something else in place of sour cream . For the latter , it depends somewhat on what you 're using it for . I find that in a lot of dips , substituting plain lowfat or fat-free yogurt works fine . It might result in a thinner consistency than if you use sour cream , but it generally works . If you 're looking for a substitute that has the consistency of sour cream , try lowfat or fat-free Greek yogurt . It 's thicker than regular yogurt and much closer to sour cream 's consistency . I sometimes do this is with dips or when baking ( Greek yogurt works very well as a substitute for sour cream in sour cream coffee cakes , for example ) . Substitutes typically work well when the sour cream flavor is n't all that important anyway . In this case , you could use the light or fat-free versions of sour cream and probably not notice much of a flavor difference . If you 're looking to replace sour cream as a condiment , however ( on tacos , burritos , or as a topping for soup ) , you 'll definitely notice a different taste if you use regular or Greek yogurt . For many things , a yogurt substitution still works ; it just tastes different . As far as brands of lowfat or fat-free sour cream that taste as good as the full-fat versions , that 's an extremely subjective question and would probably be limited based on your locations . As such , it 's not a very good fit for this site .
It actually depends on the quality of the shortening you 're able to get . You might think they 're all the same , but you 'd be wrong . When I was taught how to make pies , we used shortening , and the crusts were perfect . However , I was told that for home baking , the shortening you buy in supermarkets ( Crisco , normally ) just is n't going to cut it and to use Tenderflake ( lard ) instead . I actually verified this once and found out that he was right - using the exact same technique , the supermarket shortening just did n't turn out the way the " industrial " shortening did . The crust is always too mealy and dry and tastes " off " somehow . Unless a lot has changed in the past 5 years , lard is actually much closer to the good shortening that 's being used in bakeries . Butter would , obviously , impart a much richer flavour than shortening , but I would n't use just butter in a fruit pie . You wo n't get anywhere near the flakiness of shortening or lard . Half-and-half is a decent compromise , but the result is neither as flavourful nor as flaky as lard . So , generally , I would stick to lard . You could take plor 's suggestion and mix it with some butter , but I 've found that the flavour and texture is very good with just lard ; if you do decide to mix , be careful not to overdo it , otherwise you 'll lose all the wonderful flakiness that the lard imparts ( I 'd recommend 75 % lard ) . Do n't mix lard with shortening . That can only take away from all aspects of the quality , and unless you 're worried about nutrition ( in which case , why are you using lard at all , or eating pie for that matter ? ) then there 's absolutely no reason to " taint " the lard this way . P.S. Do n't forget to add some sugar . A little goes a long way in pie crusts .
Oxtail would be your most likely substitute , but you have indicated you can not obtain it . The next best choice ( of those widely available ) is probably chuck , which is the shoulder muscle , and is well worked and flavored . It requires low and slow cooking for best results , much like shanks and tail do . Some stores -- even the chain grocery stores -- will special order for you if you ask them to , so you might be able to get shank . Depending on where you live , you may also try butchers at farmers ' markets , Dutch markets , or similar .
Oil is dry heat because oil contains no water . Wine does . The " moist " in moist heat really means water . In moist heat cooking , water acts as a solvent and actually dissolves much of the solid matter in the food - hence the reason why steaming and boiling tend to make food rather soft or even soggy . Oil , on the other hand , is very rarely a solvent . There are certain food compounds that are fat-soluble , but most are water-soluble and oil , being <URL> , actually blocks any contact with water , thus preventing any dissolution , and generally making the food crispier as well as promoting the <URL> ( which can only occur with dry heat , due to the low boiling point of water ) . It may seem counterintuitive , but oil is n't wet . It just looks that way .
end question
start question
Is white cabbage that has turned rose-colored still safe to eat ?
Are you trying to make Sauerkraut ? Either way for the pink colour you have a non-desirable bacteria growing . While most Sauerkraut has some of this , it is not always safe to eat . Time to throw it away ? If you salt cabbage , you need to ensure not too much salt is used ( 1 % to 2 % max ) , and make sure it is packed down very firmly , so only anaerobic bacteria will grow in any numbers It does n't need to be in a closed container , but it should have a firm fitting lid , without an air gap on the top Also , once it goes past 20 ° C ( 70 ° F ) you run the risk of getting other undesirable bacteria and yeasts , and general food rot
No . It is not general practice to add bleach to rice . The brown rice bran is removed through mechanical processes . As to whether he should continue to indulge this worry ... I 'd be more concerned about [ insert common American male problem here ] before ammonia in rice . <URL> This review has many free references in it . Should you want further peer-review reading , I can provide it .
Are you trying to make Sauerkraut ? Either way for the pink colour you have a non-desirable bacteria growing . While most Sauerkraut has some of this , it is not always safe to eat . Time to throw it away ? If you salt cabbage , you need to ensure not too much salt is used ( 1 % to 2 % max ) , and make sure it is packed down very firmly , so only anaerobic bacteria will grow in any numbers It does n't need to be in a closed container , but it should have a firm fitting lid , without an air gap on the top Also , once it goes past 20 ° C ( 70 ° F ) you run the risk of getting other undesirable bacteria and yeasts , and general food rot
White pizza sauce is n't nearly as defined as red sauce . It 's largely whatever you want it to be . It 's literally any sauce you top a pizza with that is white . It is often dairy based ( cream or cheese added ) , but it could also be a thin parsnip puree . It may contain herbs , it may contain butter , its up to you . Again , thickness is up to you and whatever works for your dish .
Generally speaking you can serve pheasant a little pink , but not as rare as you can duck . This is more a textural thing than a safety thing though , I believe . Pheasant is quite lean so cooking it completely makes it very dry . Cooking any meat anything less than well done is technically ' risky ' ; you have to weigh the risk with having an enjoyable meal . Incidentally , pork is generally considered safe to serve a little ' blushed ' these days , provided it 's from a reputable source .
It sounds like it 's fermented , and more harmful bacteria or mold could definitely have grown without being visible . So it 's not safe , in that there 's definitely some risk . It 's hard to evaluate exactly how risky it is . It sounds like you 're already routinely taking risks by eating iffy food that 's not obviously rotten or moldy , so you certainly could choose to take that risk here . I 'd really advise against it , though . Remember , food poisoning is n't just about stomachaches . If you end up in the hospital , it 's going to cost you a lot more than a replacement jar of applesauce . As a side note , applesauce generally requires refrigeration . The jar you have almost certainly says " refrigerate after opening . " So it may not be a good choice for an egg substitute . You might want to look into actually shelf-stable substitutes . If applesauce is working for you , <URL> ( or chia ) or mashed banana might be good options . Flax and chia are totally shelf-stable , and while bananas do n't last forever you can at least buy them as you need them .
I 'd say that it 's not that we ca n't make cast iron pans as good as the old ones . It 's that for most companies that 's not where the money is . A company does n't make money by making super high quality cast iron ( " like the old stuff " ) that costs $ 100-200 per pan and selling them to a few cast iron enthusiasts ( those prices are random , I do n't actually know how much those would cost if they were made , but it would be a lot more than the current price ) . They make money by selling $ 15-30 cast iron cookware to loads and loads of consumers . Back in the day when manufacturing was n't as automated and people were involved in the process at a lot of steps , it did n't add much incremental cost to also sandblast and polish the surfaces , yielding the super-smooth surfaces that you used to see . Now , when lots of the manufacturing process is automated , adding in the additional time adds significantly to the cost of the product percentage wise . So , could we do it ? Yeah , sure . But big companies wo n't . I just suggest making your own :) As a side comment , newer cast iron is n't as nice as the old stuff for a number of reasons , but I use the newer style cast iron all the time ( my mom has not yet bequeathed me her old cast iron pans ) and it works great . Not as non-stick , heavier , and so forth , but still excellent for cooking .
Gorgonzola , like any other blue cheese , is supposed to have mold . It should have blue mold radiating from " veins " through the middle , like so : Normally this pre-existing mold actually helps prevent other molds from growing , but if you see more than one type of mold ( especially a different colour like green or black ) , then you should throw it out , because it is a soft cheese . If it 's just the blue , it 's perfectly fine and expected .
Keep in mind that tap water is tested to ensure it 's safe for human consumption . Rainwater has no such requirement . While rainwater seems to be a happy-fuzzy natural resource , I 'd like to stress that this could be a serious safety issue . Yes , it seems unlikely , but you need an authority who knows their water . I suggest seeking out a professional opinion on how to properly filter rainwater . Possibly from the people who handle your municipal water supply .
I agree with yossarian , if I question it , I chuck it . Although in this case , the salmon probably will not harm you , it might just taste bad . Loss of moisture ( freezer burn ) , taking on of flavours , etc. . I would n't eat it because it would n't taste great . My father-in-law would eat it , because you do n't throw out food ( his rule ) . Bottom line , if it has been in the freezer for those two years straight , it wo n't give you food poisoning or harm you . It 's just a matter of palate . But rest assured , it wo n't taste great .
I would not eat any soup containing meat more than a day or two after it was cooked , and certainly not if it smelled suspicious . The logic with this kind of thing is simple . If you have any doubts , chuck it out . Not getting food poisoning is worth losing a little soup over .
I discussed a similar subject in this question : <URL> Raw fish is n't safe to eat if it 's just been sitting around . However , the raw fish used in sushi/sashimi has been frozen ( typically flash-frozen ) in order to kill any parasites , making it as safe as any other food . Most distributors of sashimi also have their own methods and internal regulations to ensure food safety , but specifics are understandably hard to come by . Suffice it to say , it 's far safer to eat properly-prepared nigiri or sashimi than it is to eat an undercooked hamburger .
Safe ? Or good to eat ? Pesticides usually do n't penetrate thick-skinned produce ( oranges , etc ) , so as long as you 're not using the skin , there 's not a lot to worry about . They 're not the best pumpkins to use for other reasons ( linked in comments ) . In summary , the smaller " sugar " pumpkin is better for cooking , if you have the option .
Honey might go bad in two ways - one involves stuff growing on the surface of the honey , the other involves the honey itself fermenting . In both cases , the spoilage is connected to exceedingly poor storage - as other answers mentioned , honey is difficult to spoil ... but difficult is not the same thing as impossible , right :) Honey that ferments is usually linked to high water content - some honeys have a higher water content naturally , some might have water added at some point ( for example , to deter crystallization ) , some might have water leaked into a container and puddled on top or along the edges , and honey will absorb moisture from the air if left unsealed , and eventually reach a saturation where the water is no longer a limiting factor to yeasts . In any case , part of honey 's preservative qualities is the lack of available water and too high concentration of sugars inhibits most spoiling organisms - so when that extra water becomes available , honey turns from " never goes bad " to " potent food source for yeasts " , especially since as the yeast eat the sugars , they also lower the concentrations from something inhospitable to yeasts , to something that can support more yeast growth - so the fermentation will continue progressing . A small puddle of water can gradually lead to a whole container fermenting because the local dilution is much greater than the total water percentage , and once given a foothold the yeasts will keep eating the concentrations further down into yeast-inhabitable ranges . Some fermentation is more problematic than others - for example , mead probably originates from a spontaneous fermentation of honey that was enjoyable , on the other hand , different yeasts may give off bad odors and off flavors . If your honey <URL> to the point of spoilage , it will smell bad , look cloudy , and taste terrible . It will also foam ( carbon dioxide production ) , may separate , may bulge if the container permits , all that good stuff that warns if any foodstuff in fermenting . There is some stuff on that page about natural beneficial fermentation and typical crystallization patterns , but that is n't relevant to the question of spoilage The other way honey might go bad , is having some debris accumulate on the surface of honey ( cross contamination ) , that gives some mold or other bacteria enough food to get a foothold . Again , honey itself is a poor source of food if properly stored - not enough water , not enough available food to get a foothold - but add debris , crumbs , or whatever that can spoil more easily right on the surface , and that can give mold or whatever enough of a toehold to build a floating colony , as you envisioned . If there 's enough debris or moisture on the surface , the mold might start nibbling at the surface of the honey - which will start lowering the sugar content to something mold can find hospitable , much the same way fermentation can progress . You might be able to simply remove the colony or even the top layer to salvage the honey , if you are willing to risk it , since honey is known to be rather inhospitable to dangerous organisms . And if the honey is properly stored afterwards , any critters left should n't be able to re-colonize since they needed the crumbs to get a toehold in the first place - but only you can decide what you will risk .
According to <URL> article , game birds including pheasant should be cooked to an internal temperature as follows : Whole 82 ° C ( 180 ° F ) Breasts and roasts 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Thighs , wings 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) Stuffing ( cooked alone or in bird ) 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) These temperatures will be decidedly not pink ( except possibly around the bones ) , but will maximize the safety of eating game .
[ Edited ] I think 10 hours would be safe enough for most food : the first couple of hours the fridge will still be quite cold , and after that it takes more than a few ours for most food to spoil . When I leave milk out of the fridge for three hours at room temperature ( say , 20 ° C ) , nothing happens . I do this often . And the temperature inside the fridge will never reach room temperature in those 10 hours . When it is really hot in summer , it might spoil after 2 hours outside the fridge , but otherwise it takes much longer . Cheese , food in jars , sauces , leftover cooked food : none of these are more sensitive to spoiling than milk . Fresh herbs are probably equally sensitive . Eggs are much less sensitive . The most sensitive kinds of food I can think of are probably raw meat and raw fish without preservatives . Smoked or salted meat and fish do not count : they can be kept much longer . I think even raw meat and fish will pull through , but you might want to apply the following tips to be sure . Tip 1 : put as much material in your fridge as possible . That will " absorb the cold " that your fridge feeds it while power is still on . Then , once power goes out , the " cold reserve " in your fridge will be significantly increased , so that the average temperature of the interior will stay colder for a much longer time . The higher the <URL> , the better . See <URL> for the best material ; water probably wins . So stuffing bags of water in every nook and cranny would seem like a good idea . Or else bottles . Tip 2 : if you have a freezer , stuff it with bags and/or bottles of water , and put most of those in the fridge once power goes out ( swap with some of the bags/bottles that were in the fridge ) . The freezer will probably do better , because it has much better insulation than the fridge . And put the most sensitive foods in the freezer maybe a few hours after power goes out ( or maybe later -- lest they freeze after all ) . Actually , start putting as much water bags/bottles in the freezer as you can several hours before power goes out , and move them to the fridge once frozen . They will remain half-frozen for hours and hours in the fridge , so they will add extra coolness to the fridge . This way you 're " saving up " cold from the freezer and increasing your cold reserve even more . Tip 3 : most refrigerators have a temperature slide/wheel/thing , which determines what temperature the thermostat aims at . You could set the slide to maximum power ( so lowest temperature ) a few hours before the power outage . Most people , including me , have the slide somewhere in the middle normally . The slide usually does n't mark the exact temperature , but rather some symbols . It is usually found inside the refrigerator . Tip 4 : cook and/or eat any raw fish and meat before the outage . I think it would not be necessary at all if you follow the above tips , but cooking your meat now may just be simpler . Then either store the cooked meat or eat it . Incidentally , I would n't half-cook any meat : that may actually increase the rate of bacterial growth if it does n't kill the bacteria completely . But something like salmon can be ( fully ) cooked first , reheated later .
Actually , I think " the Internet " is wrong on this one , assuming that we are talking about proper caramel sauce . In most of candy making , you are very careful of crystalization . You are working with a supersaturated sugar solution , and it is looking for the slightest excuse to precipitate . Stirring will clump the sugar out of the solution into crystals . Some candy types need to be perfectly smooth , while others ( like fudge ) get their characteristic texture from careful management of crystal size . You should n't be stirring there at all . But once you have reached caramelization , you can stir . What you have in the pan is no longer a supersaturated sugar solution , but caramelization products mixed in a less-concentrated sugar solution . In other words , you have caramel , which is a substance quite different from sugar syrup . And it does not clump into crystals . It is amorphous in its structure , not a crystal , and it 's actually got some viscosity ( if you leave a clump a solid caramel around for years , it will flow a few centimeters ) . And you are not just dealing with pure caramel , but with caramel sauce , which also has lots of liquid added in the form of cream . So much liquid would have also prevented the sugar syrup from crystalizing if it had been added earlier . So , to summarize , you should n't stir a sugar solution during candy making , but you can stir both caramel and caramel sauce . It seems that somebody learned the rule about hot sugar solutions and decided that it applies in all kinds of candy making , without exceptions . But in fact , it does n't apply to caramel sauce .
My understanding is that what many people call white chili would be considered a green chile stew in a place like New Mexico . It 's not red in color because it does n't have any significant amount of dried red chile in it -- it gets whatever heat and chile flavor it has from green chile , which does n't color the stew significantly . As to defining chili , I think you could work on a definition forever . Apart from the notion that a chile is the pepper , which is the main ingredient , and chili is the dish , I do n't like to define it too carefully ( of course , New Mexicans think the dish is chile too , but what they have is different from Texas chili , even when they use red chiles ) . I think chili is a stew , though . Most stew is n't chili , but all chili is stew . And I believe that for most people to accept what you 're making as chili , it would have to include a significant dose of dried red chile powder . So if you can accept the validity of white chili at all , and what you 're making has almost all green chiles and very little red chile , then I 'd say you 're making a white chili . Or a green chile stew -- which would be my preferential term in this case .
No , it is not safe . As soon as a pressure cooker loses pressure it is not hermetically sealed . Stock , in particular , is often used as a culture medium in petri dishes to GROW bacteria . They love the stuff . Pressure cooking or pressure cookers do not confer magical powers to food - once the pressure is gone all the regular food handling rules apply : Always refrigerate perishable food within 2 hours ( 1 hour when the temperature is above 90 ° F ) . When in doubt , throw it out . Here 's a little story about <URL> , wherein a cookbook author feeds lethal week-old stock to his family - and the expert opinion on why this is NOT ok .
My initial guess was that there may be too much salt for the butter when it is at room temperature . However , 6-10 % salt content is considered ideal with respect to curbing bacterial growth , as well as the retention and preserving the integrity of flavor . I highly doubt that your butter is salted to such a high degree that it would actually Lacking further information , here are a few explanations Precipitant from within , due to high buttermilk content : One purpose of salting is to remove buttermilk . Perhaps you are using a high buttermilk butter , and as <URL> , if the butter was not properly worked relative to salt content you may be seeing either buttermilk or casein precipitant on the surface . Also , the buttermilk may not have been well washed out . Precipitant from within , due to improper salt/water mixology : Salt should be worked into butter around 58 ' F , " theoretically butter containing 15 % of water should be able to dissolve 5.4 % of salt " <URL> . It is possible that ( 1 ) the temperature was not sufficiently high ( i.e. to address addition of sea salt as opposed to table salt ) to turn the salt into solution , or ( 2 ) the carrying capacity of the water was exceeded and salt crystals remained , or ( 3 ) the churning cycles were not sufficiently long to incorporate the crystals . These three things would contribute to higher reactivity in the butter than if it were properly dissolved . See explanation of Mottled Butter below for more info . Precipitant from without , due to non-ideal elements in sea salt : Another explanation is that your sea salt had a high concentration of <URL> . Did you perhaps buy Mottled Butter ; Mottled butter is butter which is Uneven in color This unevenness in color may be due to several different causes . It may be due to specks of curd ( speckled butter ) and it may be due to certain organisms ( dappled butter ) . These causes of mottled butter are not very common in factories where the manufacture of butter is properly carried on . The most common fault of mottled butter is the improper incorporation of salt and the presence of an excessive amount of buttermilk . Mottled butter caused in this way is common ... Whenever there is undissolved granular salt present the moisture is attracted and the color deepened at that particular place <URL> My guess based on the maount of information you gave about the butter ( has sea salt , sweats at room temperature ) is not that anyone of these answers is distinctly responsible , but that it is a confluence of the various factors resulting in a mild mottling ( perhaps imperceptible to the eye or the palate unless you eat the whole block in one go ) that is both attracting moisture from the air , and pressing it out of itself . I am guessing that if you find the liquid problematic ( i.e. does it have a funny taste/smell ? ) you can put it in the fridge and it will stop sweating/weeping . Otherwise , you run the standard risks of fats and proteins stored with a mild curing at room temperature .
end question
start question
Color changes in ground beef ?
You are correct in saying using color to determine doneness is less reliable in older meat . As the meat is exposed to air , it oxidizes giving it a brownish color . When checking for doneness , people sometimes see this oxidized brown color and mistaken it for being fully cooked through . However , this can occur for fresher meats also . According to the USDA using color is not recommended to determine the doneness of hamburgers . Some ground beef may appear to have lost all pink color before it is fully cooked . If raw ground beef is somewhat brown already , it may look fully cooked before it reaches a safe temperature . In some cases , meat that is already fully cooked can have a persistent pink coloring . This is usually more common in leaner meat . Some lean ground beef may remain pink at temperatures well above the 160 ° F final cooking temperature recommended for consumers . So it is really recommended that you get a meat thermometer to test the doneness of your burgers in the future . With all that said , unless you have really thick giant burger patties ( 10oz + ) , cooking the burger at 300F for 15-20 minutes should definitely be enough time to insure that the burgers are fully cooked through . Reference : <URL>
Transfer of heat . First you need a hot pan ( sprinkle some drops of water on the pan , it should sizzle ) . Then you add a drop of oil and swirl it around . When the oil forms a striated pattern , it 's hot . Then you put the meat in . The hot oil helps to transfer heat from the bottom of the pan to the meat . You only need a spoonful of oil .
A splash of lemon juice mixed in the banana right off the bat can fix that colour at the beginning , but the molasses will turn it brown afterwards ... So if you want it lighter in colour , you 'll need to substitute the molasses ... Can you use white sugar and throw in a bit of rum in the end ? If you must keep the molasses then just go for the darker route ... Perhaps let the banana oxidize as much as possible before mixing ?
Once an animal is dead , the enzymes in its own cells start degrading its tissue . Enzymatic reactions are complicated , and only work well within a narrow temperature range . Land animals have a body temperature similar to humans . When they are slaughtered and the flesh is chilled , the enzymes slow down their work a lot . Fish are " cold blooded " animals . This is usually a misnomer - a snake lounging on a sunlit rock can get quite warm . But fish live in water , which tends to be cold . Their enzymes are very active in the temperature range found in refrigerators . So non frozen fish starts to spoil , and this ca n't be halted . People generally use spoilage as an indicator for unsafe food , and are probably not aware that it does n't apply in this specific case . Also , the decomposition of fish produces some amines which are usually perceived as a very objectionable smell . So people just prefer eating their fish before this decomposition process has progressed much . Beef 's decomposition is slowed down a lot in a refrigerator , and it takes different chemical pathways which do not produce a fishy smell . People even like some of the smells which appear during early decomposition ( the gaminess of aged beef ) . Also , specifically for beef , aging provides tenderization . This is not needed for fish , whose muscles fall apart easily without aging .
When tomatoes are fried , you can see that the oil becomes coloured red - so at least some of the colour components are preferentially soluble in oil . I will hazard a guess that , under the circumstances mentioned , the oil coats the tomato particles , and some of the colour migrates into it to give a red surface . Because the oil forms a coating , that coat will inhibit oxidation . The oil will also improve the mouth feel of the soup . Just the way I see it ...
The idea is to brown the outside of the meat in order to develop the flavour via the <URL> . This flavour will add to the richness and meatiness of the stew as a whole . Go ahead and give it a good crust . Do n't overcrowd the pan or you will just end up steaming the meat in its own juices and it will never brown up : fry it in small batches instead . Two hours braising in the stewing liquid will easily be enough to cook one-inch cubes of beef all the way through and will easily see off most nasty stuff .
Did you let the meat cool completely before attempting to slice it ? Even meat that is completely-fall-apart tender straight out of the ( crock ) pot will firm up quite a bit when cooled .
Saltpeter is potassium nitrate , which does not directly cure meats . Bacteria convert nitrate into nitrite , which is the real preservative . Saltpeter can be replaced by a smaller amount of nitrite to get the same curing effect ( most commercial cured meats do this ) , though a prolonged cure that converts nitrate into nitrite can develop more flavor . Tender Quick is not a direct substitute because it contains mostly salt . I 've heard that you can replace the salt in your recipe with Tender Quick , and drop the saltpeter , and have a success . You would have better luck finding a recipe that was meant to use Tender Quick , though . It is definitely possible to buy ( food-grade ! ) saltpeter . I would check online , or at specialty stores . It 's a little more difficult than picking it up at your local grocery store , of course . ( Chemistry lesson , courtesy of McGee : nitrate ( NO3 ) is converted to nitrite ( NO2 ) , which then reacts to form nitric oxide ( NO ) , which bonds to myoglobin in the meat , which turns it pink and prevents oxidation . Nitric oxide is also present in smoke , which gives that " pink ring " around the outside of smoked meats . )
Water has one of the highest heat capacities available : <URL> Your ceramic is not going to hold nearly as much heat as the water bath itself . If you are finding that your bath is cooling too quickly then you are better off investigating your cooler .
You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders . It 's just the cooking times are shorter , that 's all . Set your oven to 250-275F , and roast those ribs until they 're done . I 've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours , but as many as 5 . Optionally , you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook , with some liquid in the foil pack . Just be aware that they 'll cook faster if they 're foiled . And depending on your preference , you may want to take them out of the foil to finish them .
The original recipe calls for a total of 2 lbs of ground meat , 1/2 beef and 1/2 veal . I would suggest a close approximation to the effect can be had by using either ( in decreasing order of preference ) : 50 % ground pork , 50 % ground beef -- Some of the mild flavor of veal , with tenderness and flavor from the pork 100 % ground beef -- It wo n't be as tender or as subtle , but still will be good I would avoid trying to use as part of your substitution mixture : Ground lamb , goat , ox , and so on -- flavor is too strong Ground chicken or turkey -- these are extremely low in fat , likely to toughen your overall mixture , and likely to make it taste more poultryesque Personally , I would also switch from whole eggs to just the yolks , which will bring the binding and tenderizing qualities of the yolk , without the slightly rubber-like texture of albumin based white , to more closely approximate the qualities the veal would have brought to the dish .
The grades that you would be interested in , that are available in Canada , are : Prime , AAA , AA , and A See : <URL> and <URL> You can get <URL> in most grocery stores and it is either Prime or high quality AAA . It is also aged for 21 days . You can also <URL> or ask your favourite butcher .
You will get the roasty , caramelized flavors ; how much influence they will have on the overall flavor of your stew will depend on several factors including : How deeply you roast the them How much you add , proportionately , into the stew How strongly flavored the other items in the stew are Roasting the vegetables will also cook them , so you will want to add them to the stew much later , so they do n't overcook . If you google <URL> , you will find several recipes for inspiration . As to whether this is a superior , or heartier flavor , that would be a matter of opinion . You do n't mention roasting celery or onions ( partners with carrots in the classic mire poix ) , but these are also excellent candidates for roasting , as are all types of root vegetable .
Typically , vegetables will lose their colour if they are over-cooked , so it 's probably worthwhile cooking them for a shorter period of time . Usually steaming is a great way to preserve the nutrients and colour of vegetables , as is stir-frying rapidly . Different kinds of vegetables contain various pigments in their skins . Green vegetables contain chlorophyll ; red and white vegetables contain flavonoids ; orange vegetables contain keratin . Each of these pigments requires a different approach when cooking to preserve colour . When cooking green vegetables , never add an acid , such as lemon juice or vinegar , as this will cause the vegetables to discolour quickly . Always cook green vegetables rapidly and preferably without a lid . With red and white vegetables , which contain flavonoids , the converse to green vegetables is true . Adding an acid during the cooking process will retain and even restore the colour . For red vegetables use a red or white wind vinegar . For white vegetables use a slice of lemon . Orange vegetables , which contain keratin and are generally fairly robust , for the most part can be cooked with or without the addition of an acid , and they will usually retain their colour . Another way to preserve the colour is to blanch the vegetable in boiling water for a minute or so , then plunge them into ice water . Doing this stops the cooking process instantly . Using the method is useful if you intend to freeze vegetables .
You are correct in saying using color to determine doneness is less reliable in older meat . As the meat is exposed to air , it oxidizes giving it a brownish color . When checking for doneness , people sometimes see this oxidized brown color and mistaken it for being fully cooked through . However , this can occur for fresher meats also . According to the USDA using color is not recommended to determine the doneness of hamburgers . Some ground beef may appear to have lost all pink color before it is fully cooked . If raw ground beef is somewhat brown already , it may look fully cooked before it reaches a safe temperature . In some cases , meat that is already fully cooked can have a persistent pink coloring . This is usually more common in leaner meat . Some lean ground beef may remain pink at temperatures well above the 160 ° F final cooking temperature recommended for consumers . So it is really recommended that you get a meat thermometer to test the doneness of your burgers in the future . With all that said , unless you have really thick giant burger patties ( 10oz + ) , cooking the burger at 300F for 15-20 minutes should definitely be enough time to insure that the burgers are fully cooked through . Reference : <URL>
If you 're cooking low and slow , with enough liquid , you 'll end up with a style of stew called ragoût . The trick is to not add the vegetables during the cooking , unless they 're either something that you want to break down , or you 've added enough acid to the cooking liquid to prevent onions and potatoes from fully disintegrating . Personally , I prefer to take pot-roast to this stage , as it 's what I grew up with . You might not get the ' cooked to rags ' quality of the meat , as you may not have agitated the meat before cooling . In the Good Eats episode ' Stew Romanace ' , <URL> . It 's possible that this might happen in your case ( although in his , he drains the liquid before cooling ) .
It is not only sane , it is safer than any other packaging you can make . At least here in Germany , meat from the supermarket is not just wrapped in celophane , the celophane is glued to the tray . The packaging is air-proof . And the air inside the packaging is not normal air , it is a mostly sterile atmosphere with a composition different from normal air , which hampers bacterial growth ( I think it has lowered oxygen content , but I 'm not absolutely sure on that detail ) . This means that 1 . no bacterial contamination is possible after the meat has left the packaging plant , and 2 . the bacteria already present in the meat when it was packed grow slower than normal . So if this is your type of package , do yourself a favor and leave the meat in it . I have n't frozen such packages , so I do n't know how big a problem they have with freezer burn . But it may become a problem in the long term , as the moisture from the meat will sublimate on the inside of the celophane . If this is not the type of package you get , and you have just plain clingy film wrapped around meat and a styrofoam tray ( I 've seen other products wrapped this way , but not meat ) , there is still no problem to freeze in it . The pad full of meat juices ( this is not blood btw ) is a good feeding place for bacteria , but the meat itself is as least as good as the pad , so you wo n't be reducing the risk if you remove it . By leaving the meat in the original package , you reduce the risk of additional bacterial contamination during transfer . And no other container will offer better food safety . You can still consider a transfer for reasons other than food safety . First , you can portion and/or preshape the ground meat before freezing , and then you 'll have to repackage it . Second , if the package is not tight enough , you risk freezer burn . But if these do n't apply , it is probably best to leave it in the original container - this is convenient , and not dangerous at all .
For me it very much depends on what meat I am making jerky out of . With the grain is much more solid than against . Just as you might expect . If you are using relatively tender meat then cutting across the grain will result in a batch of jerky crumbs . Cutting with the grain will be good . If you are using very tough meat then cutting with the grain will be absolutely impossible to chew . I often make jerky out of brisket which is very tough . I compromise and cut at a 45deg angle . This results in very tough , jerky but it separates into smaller , more manageable chunks when it is chewed .
It depends on how moist you like your jerky . A typical jerky loses half of its starting weight in moisture , so 2:1 is the proper ratio . " Low moisture " jerky can actually be 1/3 the starting weight , a 3:1 ratio . So 2-3 pounds of beef will make 1 pound of jerky .
For the most part this is a question of convenience and how quickly you go through a fresh supply of spices in the quantities you buy . Pretty much every dry spice will last better and be more aromatic and flavorful if it is stored whole . That applies to leaves , seeds , bark , you name it . Some really hard spices like nutmeg may not be appropriate for the coffee grinder ( maybe if you break it up some first ? ) , but those are at least large enough to get a good grip for hand-grating . One exception for me would be specialty pre-blended spice mixes which sometimes have ingredients that would be really hard to track down , or which you might have to buy in much larger quantities than you can reasonably use . ( If you can get all the ingredients easily then it is probably better to blend it yourself to your own preferences and in the quantities you need . ) Another exception in my kitchen is hing ( asafetida ) which is a resin that in its pure form is extremely pungent and I find it difficult to work with . Commercially-prepared hing powder is generally diluted with rice flour and is much easier to use in appropriate quantities .
end question
start question
Is it ok to keep reusing a water bottle indefinitely ?
The general prescription for water bottles is to recycle them , not reuse them . According to a <URL> : Reuse of polycarbonate plastic bottles is generally not recommended by commercial bottled water manufacturers , as it may pose a health risk from two perspectives . First , everyday wear and tear from repeated washings and reuse can lead to physical breakdown of the plastic , such as visible thinning or cracks . Bacteria can harbor in the cracks , posing a health risk . Secondly , reuse of plastic water bottles can lead to bacterial contamination unless washed regularly . If a consumer wishes to reuse a plastic water bottle , it should be washed after each use in mild detergent only and rinsed well ( 9 ) . The plastic should not be subjected to extreme , hot temperatures or harsh detergents , and should be carefully inspected for physical breakdown prior to reuse . Additionally , the narrow opening can make it difficult to clean and dry properly .
I 'll leave the question of food safety and mandatory canning or not with regard to ingredients to others , but frankly , if you have a large pot in your kitchen you have a canner . For small batches and only very occasional use , there is no need to buy a separate canner . Place a small metal rack ( if you have one small enough ) or a folded towel on the bottom of the pot ( I like to use my pasta pot with the insert ) , put jars on top and fill with water until almost to the top of the tallest jar . Yes , you can process jars of different sizes in one batch . Rule of thumb : cold jars go in cold water , hot jars in hot water . This setup is equivalent to a separate canner minus the extra gadgets like timer , thermometer / thermostat and other features that are for your comfort and ease of use , not essential for the physical process of heating and sealing the jars . So if you want to play it safe , put your sauce in the jars1 , add lids and screw them on with the bands " fingertip tight " . Place them in the water bath and slowly bring to a boil . Once your water is simmering , " canning time " starts . Off the cuff , ten to fifteen minutes should be fine for a cooked BBQ sauce , longer is n't a problem either . After that , lift the jars out and cool slowly in a drought-free area . If done correctly the lid will stick to the jar even without the bands , so you get an extra safety mechanism : If your sauce should spoil , the lid will come off , being a clear indication of trouble . But my main reason why I suggest canning the jars is this : If you ship your sauce , you have no control over the storage conditions of your jars during transit and - depending on the destination - constant refrigeration or similar might not be possible everywhere on this world . That alone would be reason enough to do the extra step , which is surprisingly easy once you give it a try . I suggest leaving the rings on during shipping and instructing the recipient to remove them on arrival to notice any signs of spoilage . 1 This includes the usual steps done even without canning , e.g. cleaning the jars and lids , " sterilizing " them in your oven or in boiling water , keeping the rims of the jars clean and filling the hot food immediately into the jars . In short , what you would normally do to ensure general cleanliness and food safety .
Technically , your idea seems sound . But I would n't do it . What you are proposing to do in your electric kettle is very close to the standards for flash pasteurization . According to wikipedia , the standard procedure for flash pasteurization is to heat and circulate the liquid at 71.5 ° C ( 160 ° F ) to 74 ° C ( 165 ° F ) , for about 15 to 30 seconds , which results in a five log ( 99.999 % ) or greater reduction in bacteria . Other journal articles seem to indicate that some protozoa like cryptosporidium are killed by flash pasteurization , but others , like giardia , might survive in small numbers . I suspect the guideline for boiling water in issues of safety and in recipes is used because steam and bubbles are such convenient guarantors of temperature . Psychologically , though , this makes me a little nervous . Personally , I would boil the water - if you have time for tea , you have time to boil water . It is possible , though , that you are a more adventurous tea drinker than I am .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
I own a 1-litre soda siphon like the iSi Siphon you pointed out . Some friends have a higher-capacity soda maker , I think from Sodastream . To answer your questions : Yes , the charger is single-use , and it carbonates only as much water as is in the bottle . My soda siphon holds about 1 litre of water . If I put in less water , then once the bottle runs dry I vent spare carbon dioxide uselessly into the air . If I put in more water , the carbon dioxide runs out and the remaining water wo n't leave the bottle . Using the standard siphon product , there 's no easy way to have a single charger yield more than one 1 litre . The charger is designed to deliver all its gas at one time ; it does n't reseal . Consider the <URL> if you want a step up from the 1-litre soda siphon with disposable chargers . Sodastream uses larger bottles of gas , which they describe as " 60L " . I think they mean that each bottle of gas carbonates 60 litres of water . Sodastream 's <URL> claims , After your initial purchase of a home soda maker package , you 'll enjoy seltzer and sparkling water in reusable 1-liter PET bottle for just [ Canadian ] $ .30 per litre and flavoured sodas for about $ .88 per litre , before any applicable shipping charges ... From their wording , it 's pretty clear to me that the $ 0.20 - $ 0.30 / litre claim is purely the marginal cost of carbonating water . It does n't include amortising the purchase cost of the equipment , and likely is based on the cheapest way to refill the carbon dioxide bottles ( exchanging filled bottles for empty by mail ) , and likely does n't include shipping costs or taxes for the refills . It may be that one can drive the cost per litre down by adjusting the amount of water in the soda bottle , as well .
Regardless of type , all chocolate should be stored in a cool and low humidity ( dry ) place away from direct sunlight . It would be best to seal it in an air-tight container , because , as ElendiTheTall said , the cocoa butter in it will absorb flavors . Dark chocolate will last for years . Milk and white chocolate will last for a much shorter time ( a few months ) , because of their milk content . Improperly stored chocolate will develop bloom , which shows as a white or grey streaking or spotting on the surface . The spotting or streaking is cocoa butter fat separating and is a sign that the chocolate 's temper has been lost . This kind of chocolate is still suitable for any application where the chocolate will be fully melted ( most baking ) . It can even be used as the base ( non-seed ) chocolate for tempering with the seeding method , but it should not be used for other candy making .
The method we use ( for coffee ) is pretty simple ( though it requires some compatible equipment ) : Fill kettle . Shove probe thermometer through " whistle " hole in kettle spout . Heat until desired temperature is reached . Pour water into vessel . If you do n't have a kettle or your thermometer wo n't work , you can do the same thing with any pot and a thermometer that has a clip ( so you do n't have to hold it for 10 minutes while the water heats ) ... but be sure the thermometer is heat safe ( candy thermometers are good for this if they have a high enough temp range ) . You 'll want to keep a couple of things in mind ... The temperature of your mug will cool the water when it makes contact . This is unlikely to make a huge difference but it 's something to think about . If you really want to brew your tea at exactly 70 C , consider heating sufficient water to " warm " your cup ( or teapot ) by filling it part way and swishing the water around to heat up the cup first and then pour the water down the drain . Alternately , you can heat your water to a slightly higher temperature ( 72 C ) . As to your other methods ... I 'm sure any of them would work just fine ... they 'd take longer , though , because you 're waiting for something to boil and then you 're waiting for it to cool off or you 're futzing around with getting it back down to the " right " temperature by adding cool water or tossing it back and forth between cups . Provided you have standard , municipal water that you 're comfortable drinking from the tap ( or filtered ) , I do n't know why boiling it first would matter . I 'm also skeptical about the pickiness of tea being steeped at exactly 70 C. I have a feeling that there 'd be little discernible difference ( to the average consumer ) were the water at 80 C or even 90 C. . . It 'd be an interesting thing to test , I suppose . As this relates to oxygen loss due to boiling , which has been mentioned in some of the answers . <URL> actually discusses that already and the general consensus is that lower oxygen levels in the water is actually bad for the taste of the tea : Dissolved oxygen is reactive , and will most likely extract more substances from the tea leaf , than without it . If these are the good flavour parts of tea , I do not know ? And : <URL> that increased oxygen in the water resulted in milder , less tannic tea . So , it sounds as if not bringing your water to a full boil is actually preferable to the flavor of the tea ( assuming you do n't like the tannic flavors ) because the oxygen is beneficial to the brewing process .
You will be fine . As the chicken softens , and with a bit of a stir , it will all get cooked . the steam and conductive heat will cook and keep safe even the minuscule portion above the water line .
So long as we are discussing this topic . The Center for Disease Control has a specific answer for <URL> and their answer is NO . However , According to <URL> pasteurization causes a breakdown in milk-caesin protein which after uptake through Peyer 's patch can promote allergic sensitivity . There are other controversial claims that the higher temperatures required for milk pasteurization and boiling breaks down some of the ingredients with negative effects . There is a <URL> that counters the FDA facts with other scientific papers . However , it 's been noted that their paper may not be heavily grounded in rigorous scientific data . There is a more idepth look in <URL> to <URL> seems to cover the spectrum of myths based on scientific evidence and critiques . Some of the points discussed are : Raw Milk is not a high-risk food ( in today 's age ) . Raw Milk does have protective properties to allergies and Asthma . also noted in <URL> The notion of " the loss of nutrients due to pasteurization is insignificant " is based on an antiquated nutritional paradigm . Pasteurization and temperature does reorganize some of the milk proteins , but the effects of that is unknown . You may wish to watch the presentation , the gist of the discussion start at about 8 minutes in . In the end , if you believe pasteurization has negative nutritional effects , then boiling raw milk will , too ( minus the safety of pasteurized milk ) .
As a beer brewer , I 'm pretty concerned with fizz ;) Since the below may be a little tl ; dr , the short answer to your question is , " I do n't think so . " This is actually the first time I 've heard of the metal spoon " trick " , so I ca n't directly comment on that , but I 'll share a little of what I know about carbonation . Carbonation is carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) that is dissolved in the liquid ( beer , champagne , soda ) . The fizz is that CO2 coming out of solution and escaping into the air . Keeping it cold helps keep the fizz , as CO2 dissolves more readily into a cold liquid . And conversely , comes out of a warm liquid more readily . Ever pour a glass of warm soda or champagne straight after opening ? It 'll foam over everywhere . The only way to not lose all that CO2 is to seal the container . Even then , the CO2 will come out of solution and pressurize the headspace ( space in the top of the container ) . That 's why you get a hiss when you first open a bottle . Again , temperature comes into play . In a warm bottle , more of the CO2 comes out of solution and pressurizes the headspace . Chill that same bottle down , and the CO2 can dissolve back into the liquid , giving you a sparkling beverage again . Now , back to the spoon . I would think that putting a spoon in the carbonation liquid would produce <URL> , causing the CO2 to come out of solution faster . This is why many beer glass manufacturers are coming out with laser-etched designs on the bottom of their glasses - the effervescence caused by the nucleation points helps bring out the hop aromas .
Yes . It 's much more fun to cook with gas , and the way I see it , any incentive I can provide for myself to cook good food at home is a major net positive in quality of life . The setup I have is three gas burners and one electric stove top element , and an electric oven . The electric stove top really comes in handy when reducing stocks or making long-cooking soups and stews , and it can significantly reduce the amount of gas you use in cooking . For oven I would definitely go electric . See the <URL> question . I have one 5 kg liquid gas bottle stashed under the sink , and it lasts 3-4 months of heavy daily cooking for two , maybe 6 months in the summer when I eat more salads etc. . In addition I have another 2kg bottle for backup if I run out of gas in the middle of cooking , and for the day or so it takes me to haul another bottle from the store . Having a smaller backup bottle does n't waste too much space . I 've been considering upgrading to a 11kg composite bottle , which I expect to last 10 months to a year , and it 's way more economical . So far though the convenience of having a smaller bottle I can carry to the store for changing without a sweat has been great .
I have all three kinds in my freezer at this moment . Although all of mine are raw , if you usually use toasted nuts , you can toast them first , then freeze . Saves a step later when cooking .
In general , the chances of significant heat damage to granite are very small , though depending on the pan , the granite , and any products that may be on the granite ( not only sealant , but residue from granite cleaning or polishing products , etc. ) , you might sometimes get some staining/charring . I would also take into account the amount of heat that will transfer from the pan/pot/tray -- a small pan which is nearly empty and not very hot is a very different thing from a giant cast iron dutch oven filled with chili or superheated cooking oil . I personally would n't risk injecting a huge amount of heat into a small area , because it will cause the material to expand and contract unevenly . When done repeatedly , it could even lead to cracking . Unlikely ? Yes . Impossible ? No , particularly if the granite is thin or lower quality ( e.g. , with some minor fissures or weak spots already in the stone , etc. ) . Another issue is a safety one -- granite countertops that absorb heat from very hot pans can stay exceptionally hot for a quite a while . Since there 's often no visual cue about the temperature ( unlike a stovetop ) , it can easily cause burns if you forget that that part of the countertop may be hot . Other answers have mentioned that most references on the internet say it 's safe , but with just a quick search in the first 10 links or so that came up , I see a number of places that actually manufacture or install granite do NOT recommend placing hot things directly on granite . See , for example : <URL> : " Trivets or cloths are highly recommended . " <URL> : " Repeated exposure to high heat can eventually leave black marks and gashes on granite slabs . " <URL> : " The darker the material the more dense and therefore the more heat it will hold . The biggest issue with putting a hot pan on granite is that if you touched the spot it could be as hot as the pan itself and therefore cause you an injury . You should especially be cautious with black granite since it is the most dense and with repeat exposure may actually crack . " <URL> in a list of myths : " ' Granite is heat resistant , so it is perfectly okay to place hot pots on a granite countertop . ' While it 's true that granite is quite resistant to the sorts of temperatures encountered in kitchens , excessive heat can damage or discolor some types of granite sealers . Rapid heating can also generate internal stresses that could cause a crack at a weak spot , such as a natural flaw or fissure in the stone . An easy way to eliminate potential problems is by using a trivet with feet . " Many sites agree with these cautions . There are other sites that say it should be okay , or it 's safe up to X degrees , or it 's okay but you should n't do it repeatedly , or whatever . Everybody seems to have their opinion . And you can find sources that claim the cracking is a myth . <URL> , for example , heats small blocks of granite in a toaster oven and with a blowtorch and observes no damage . But the heat damage ( if it exists ) is not going to be caused simply by heating , but by thermal shock created when a large slab is heated unevenly and thus expands and contracts unevenly ( usually repeatedly over a period of years ) . If you look around a bit , the internet does have anecdotes of people who have had granite countertops develop cracks or discoloration . Personally , I have granite , and I avoid doing it on a regular basis . However , in a pinch when I have a lot of hot pans or trays around the kitchen , and I need to set something down , I do n't worry too much about doing it once in a while . I think the chances of damage are quite small . But with the cost of granite , why take any risk when you can just use a trivet or something ( as you 'd do on just about any other surface ) ? That 's just my habit anywhere .
Most of the <URL> . So unopened , you should have no problem storing at room temp . Once you open the bottle , microorganism 's can get in . With a sugary liquid like Apple juice , wild yeasts will find a happy home , and ferment up a bubbly alcoholic apple beverage for you . This can take a week or two to happen , and the result is usually tasty rather than deadly . Sometimes you 'll end up with vinegar rather than an alcoholic ferment . There 's some small chance of picking up a nasty microbe in your apple juice over a three day period , but it was never enough to stop people from drinking unrefrigerated cider in the days before Pasteurization or refrigeration .
You can freeze it , however using it will be a problem as you will have to chip out what you want on demand rather than thaw and re-freeze it . Miso paste lasts ages in the fridge as long as you put it in an airtight container to prevent it from drying out , you 're better off just doing that .
Sure it 's safe . You are about to char the outside at very high temperatures , nothing 's going to survive that , so cleaning it is more about flavor than safety . I would n't just wipe it though , clean it with water or you might get a dirtier steak flavor than you 'd like .
No , it is not a good idea at all . It will be worse , not better . What you are missing here is that cocoa powder does not dissolve at all , never , it just disperses in water ( or milk ) . So there is no reason why methods for dissolving stuff would work with cocoa powder . You will need to use a method created for colloid-producing powders like cocoa powder , which is mostly starch with fat . This is why the answers to the other question recommend the slurry method . When you are dispersing an absorptive powder like starch , you always run a risk of clumping , and the slurry is designed to work around that problem . But starch also thickens much more under heat , so if you were to not just forego the slurry , but simply drop the cocoa powder into hot water , this would be the worst choice possible , leading to instant unbreakable clumps . The slurry method would n't work with hot water either , you 'll get clumps before you have created the slurry . So , the short answer is : if you try it , it wo n't " dissolve automatically " , it will produce an ugly undrinkable mixture of clumps .
Most crabmeat is pasteurized , so the texture has already suffered a bit . Crab cakes are basically a binder , crab meat , and seasoning . The binder can add all sorts of interesting textures . There are recipes with Panko , bread flour , flour , eggs , ... If you are worried about it being dry , add mayo as @Darin suggested or increase the oil a bit . Look at the packaging , the crab meat may be already cooked , so you may get away with cooking it less .
In short , the answer is no , it is NOT safe . <URL> It 's tempting to lop off the fuzzy patch , but the mold could have spread already . " Once you 're able to see mold on bread , it means there 's quite a lot of mold , " said Nelken , a food consultant in Woodland Hills , California . " It 's indicative that there 's mold on other slices , just not at the level you can see it . Why jeopardize your health on a slice of bread ? " Nelken likened mold to jellyfish . " Even though you scrape off the head of the jellyfish , the tentacles are still in the food product . " Eating moldy bread could cause an upset stomach . Although most molds are innocuous , it 's probably not going to taste good , food experts said . The U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service recommends discarding moldy bread and baked goods , because of their porous texture .
If you mean like a potpie or a TV dinner ? Yes you 're fine , go for it . If you 're really worried about it here is the rule . ( been a few years since I took serveSafe ) When reheating foods you want the internal temperature to reach 165 degrees F. ( 74C ) for 15 seconds . In practice ( at home NOT at the restaurant ) just get it nice and hot . Note : Homemade foods generally need to be carefully reheated but not frozen dinners etc. . They cook them pretty good at the factory .
end question
start question
How to make sparkling powder for candy ?
I assume you mean sherbet , which is made by mixing 1 cup of powdered sugar ( also called icing or confectioner 's sugar ) with 1 tsp of baking soda ( also called bicarbonate of soda ) and 1 tsp of powdered citric acid . Altering the proportion of soda ( alkali ) to citric acid makes it more or less fizzy .
Add baking powder to the mixture , if needed , as it will cause them to puff up and lighten when cooked . Adding a little cream may also help . I have a Gulab Jamun recipe from " Dance of Spices " by Laxmi Hiremath , pg 412 , which lists the following for the dough : 0.5 cup ( 120 mL ) unbleached all-purpose flour 2 cups ( around 470 mL ) powdered nonfat dry milk 1 tsp ( 5 mL ) baking powder 1 cup ( 236 mL ) heavy whipping cream ( probably listed as " double cream " where you live , see <URL> ) about 1 TBSP water ( 15 mL ) The dry ingredients are mixed , then the cream is gradually mixed in , and the water is added to make a smooth , pliable dough .
For a start , any Asian dish will be effected if the chicken stock is not good . Make quality chicken stock from whole chicken carcases , and take your time with it In the case of Laksa , the key flavours are mostly in the Laksa paste ( shrimp paste and lemon grass ) . If you do n't have an equivalent of the one used at To 's you will have an entirely different dish . A lot of effort can go into a Laksa paste ( or for that matter curry pastes in general ) , in terms of exact ingredient ratios , roasting times etc , quality and freshness of ingredients etc Laksa is often made with prawn stock , not chicken stock . Save the prawn heads and other fish bits , and boil them up for a very stinky prawn stock Do n't overdo the coconut milk/cream . Stick to one brand , and start with a lot less and see how it goes , if it is lacking , add more . Record what the magic amount for your favourite brand is Getting quality and fresh ingredients for Asian dishes is often a major stumbling block for truly authentic tastes . Making your own decent Laksa paste is near impossible outside of Asia . Western grown lemon grass , tastes like , well grass ! When you 're next at To 's have a peek in the kitchen , ask if you have too . And check what they use for Laksa paste . If it 's out of a branded jar you 're in luck , if it 's homemade , it 's back to the grindstone , literally The recipe linked , does not seem like a very good Laksa recipe to me . Also a good Laksa is topped with chilli oil . This is an import part . It consists of a lot of chilli and a little garlic cocked in a cup of oil . Float a couple of spoons of this on each bowl as you serve it
Taste-wise there will be little to not difference in the result . Just be careful to use the proper ratio of garlic to salt ( generally 3-to-1 salt to garlic powder ) .
A roux normally is equal parts fat and flour . It should be fairly solid , not runny . However , it is an individual decision . I 've known guys who like it quite solid ( like me ) , but you have to whisk the hell out of it to get out all of the lumps . Normally , if I am making a sauce or soup that I ca n't strain , I will make it a little slack . I also add my roux after so I can control the thickness of the sauce or soup . Normally you are not instructed to do so , but you have greater control . If you do it this way , you have to vigorously whisk while adding , or the starches will congeal together in lumps . No big deal if it you are able to strain , but ...
Does it work ? Yes , it does . The idea is to create something akin to an individual " dutch oven " around the chicken or fish you are baking . The meat is " steamed " in his own juices . There are a bunch of different " recipes " for the salt crust , often with some " binding agent " like egg whites . Usually , the skin is removed when serving ( go ahead , give it a try , if you like ) , so rest assured that the meat underneath is not too salty . An alternative to salt ( and arguably more " paleo style " ) would be baking in clay . A quick internet search should yield plenty of recipes for both varieties . ( Remenber : asking for recipes is a big no-no here . )
The second easiest way to get stiff , but still edible mashed potatoes is to bake the potatoes whole , then put them through a ricer . The easiest way is to use potato flakes ... and then you can make them as thick as you want , and even thicken them further if they came out not to your liking initially . You can still mash potatoes that have been baked ( although you 'll probably want to peel them ) , but if you use a wet cooking method , after they 're done cooking , drain them and put them back into the pot ( still warm , but with the heat off ) with the lid off for a minute or two . Once you do n't see any more steam coming off them , check to see if the bottom of the pot is dry . . if it is n't , move the potatoes to another pot ( lift them out , to avoid moving the water with them ) , and drain the water . I 'd personally then dump them back into the now dried pot ... I just find that when you 're limiting the amount of moisture going into the potatoes , making sure they stay warm as you 're mashing helps the process . You 'll still need some liquid , but making sure that the water is out gives you more control of what liquid is added back in ( and you can make sure it 's a flavorful liquid ... dairy , olive oil , chicken stock , etc. )
Remember your stages of sugar boiling and how they come out , if it 's too sticky or soft it is probably down to too low a final temperature ( wrong texture ) or more likely too much golden syrup . Be sparing with the golden syrup / glucose syrup , the sucrose will set in to hard sugars , but the glucose/inverted sugar syrup acts as a crystallisation inhibitor , vinegar can be used to similar effect ( though does not enrich the flavour so ) . It sets too , but I find too much can lead to weeping . Also , I have heard that an overly humid environment can be a problem . People used to say not to cook toffee on a humid day .
It sounds like you rendered too much gelatin into the soup , a couple easy fixes are to either : prepare another batch of the soup omitting the ham and bone and then marry the two over a medium/high heat thin with a low fat/nonfat liquid like milk or water ( unfortunately a side effect will be of increased separation in the soup as it cools ) the lower the fat content of what you add the more it will separate . ie adding 2 % milk will cause less separating than skim milk
If you 're using plain cocoa powder , which does n't really dissolve , I would mix it with the coffee powder before adding to the water , and as long as the coffee powder will tolerate it , add it all to the water before heating . Mixing the two powders should help avoid clumps in the cocoa powder , and adding it early will give it time to release flavor into the water . You 'll still have to stir a bit to keep it from settling out , though ! If you 're using instant cocoa mix , which is sweetened and processed to make it dissolve evenly , you can just add it at the end . There 's no benefit from adding it earlier , and it 'll be easiest to stir and dissolve it in already hot water .
I assume you mean sherbet , which is made by mixing 1 cup of powdered sugar ( also called icing or confectioner 's sugar ) with 1 tsp of baking soda ( also called bicarbonate of soda ) and 1 tsp of powdered citric acid . Altering the proportion of soda ( alkali ) to citric acid makes it more or less fizzy .
When I am using skim powdered milk and want more fat , I just replace some of the water in the recipe with heavy cream . Your recipe does n't have water , it already uses milk and cream . You could replace a little of the milk with cream to make up the difference . However , with all the cream and butter in that recipe , I doubt you would be able to notice the fat missing from the dry milk . I would just use your skim dry milk and not worry about it .
Moka coffee pots work well if you use them every day . This way the oils that the coffee leaves inside them do not have the opportunity to go rancid ( all fats go rancid eventually ) and impart that horrible taste to your coffee . If you use them every day , it is true that you do n't really need to clean them , except to remove calcium scale buildup . If you use it rarely , like in your case or the frequent Moka pot left at a vacation house , you need to clean it with dish detergent and a scrubby sponge , you do n't need anything harsher . Make sure that you get all the coffee brown oils out . Yes , it is an unpleasant job . Make sure you rinse it well before putting it away to dry , you do n't want to simply replace the bitterness with soapiness . ... and this is the Italian doctrine ! :-)
Harold McGee tackled alkaline noodles a while back . He found that baking baking soda actually changes it from sodium bicarbonate to sodium carbonate . This is a reasonable substitute for the kansui called for in alkaline noodles and can be substituted 1:1 in recipes . The noodles may not get AS yellow as they would with both alkalines present in kansui but it 's a small price to pay for not having to hunt down that ingredient . <URL> The key part : Just spread a layer of soda on a foil-covered baking sheet and bake it at 250 to 300 degrees for an hour . You 'll lose about a third of the soda 's weight in water and carbon dioxide , but you gain a stronger alkali . Keep baked soda in a tightly sealed jar to prevent it from absorbing moisture from the air . And avoid touching or spilling it . It 's not lye , but it 's strong enough to irritate .
These figures are probably made with <URL> . I think the figures are handshaped . There are <URL> . You can even look for <URL> . Basically you only need a rolling pin , a knife and tweezers . Cans , forks , any food-safe utensil that has an interesting pattern are useful . Of course there are special molds for fondant but I do n't think that you need them unless you want to make fancy things like <URL> . You can buy molds online but also in some larger hardware stores , supermarktes , or gift shops . It depends on where you are located . Fondant is quite matt . <URL> you can hold the fondant over steam or apply shortening , egg whites , corn syrup , or alcohol on the surface
Round popcorn is just made from a different variety of popcorn , called mushroom popcorn . The " normal " kind is called butterfly popcorn , or sometimes snowflake popcorn . The two are mentioned in <URL> ( last paragraph of the linked section ) , along with a photo . It looks like it 's pretty easy to buy online , if you prefer it . Mushroom popcorn kernels are a little sturdier and easier to coat , so it 's well-suited for prepackaged popcorn and especially things like caramel corn , but at least to me that sturdiness is also a slight toughness , so I prefer the butterfly-style popcorn most of us are used to .
You 'll be fine doing a straight substitution . Well , maybe I should n't be so definitive since these are powders we 're talking about and it 's not quite the same thing , but I 've substituted buttermilk for whole milk in bread recipes plenty of times . The only thing that changed for me was the rising time . When I use buttermilk in my sandwich bread , it needs an extra 20 minutes or so on the first rise compared to the whole milk version .
Gravity is making the petals open . If you look at the shape of the petals their center of gravity is towards the outside of the bowl , but they are being held in place by something underneath . I suspect that it 's simply one piece of chocolate melted onto another . When the custard ( warm or hot ) is poured on it melts the bonds holding the petals in place allowing them to fall .
Store cocoa powder in a dark , cool , dry place , sealed against vermin . Dark and cool both slow the process by which volatiles ( i.e. , flavor ) degrade . That said , do n't keep it in the fridge or freezer unless sealed airtight , because both types of chill-chests are relatively humid environments . Humidity promotes mold , even on cocoa . By the way , for future reference : When buying cocoa powder , note the manufacturer 's suggested use-by date . Cocoa powder should last about three years , properly stored . If the use-by date is much less than that , look for another container .
Short answer : no , you can not without radically changing the recipe until it is something completely different . See my answer here for more information : <URL>
end question
start question
Should I include egg shells in my stock ?
I 've not heard of egg shells being used that way . I 'm not sure what they would add . The classic way of clarifying a meat stock to make it crystal clear ( ie : for a consommé ) is to whisk egg white ( and I know at least one chef who adds crushed up egg shell to this mix ) and finely ground meat into the cold stock and then gradually heat it . As the added ingredients cook they rise through the stock trapping all the bits that make it cloudy and the gunky ' raft ' can be skimmed off the top .
If you are using a additional containers or surfaces in the oven for baking , you should absolutely pre-heat it with the oven . Use an IR thermometer to measure the actual temperature of the container - a dutch oven or heavy stone will take longer to come up to temperature than the air in the oven will , so the oven will claim to be preheated sooner than it is actually ready . Remember that temperature and heat are two different things - one of the benefits of using a baking stone or dutch oven or other " heavy " thing is that it stores a lot of HEAT . Air at 450F and Cast Iron at 450F contain very different amounts of heat , and it is heat that will bake your bread . You can tell that they have soaked up as much heat as they can when their temperature is close to your oven set-point , which will take a while . The only possible exception to this would be if you are just using a thin sheet metal steam tray to cover your pizza stone to trap steam , since it has so little thermal mass . A thin tray could probably be put over the bread without preheating the tray since it wo n't absorb or store much thermal energy . To prevent burning , choose containers with a good , solid handle , and get quality oven mitts , preferably with long-ish sleeves to protect your forearms .
No , it wo n't change the aroma compared to conventional heating . Generally , heating does change aroma . But it changes in the same way in conventional heating and in microwave heating ( given that you heat to the same internal temperature , which can be very different time and power settings for different types of heating devices ) . What microwaves change is texture . That 's why the microwave is considered " a horrible thing " among chefs . You ca n't bake doughs or batters in it , and other things like vegetables can also suffer . Then there is the problem with uneven heating . None of these factors matter with liquids . You can warm milk , wine , whatever , in the microwave , without fearing a taste change .
Fruit relishes ( including salsas , chutneys , and plain sauces like applesauce ) can be made without vinegar . But they almost always include some extra acid - if not vinegar , then usually citrus juice . The acidity balances the sweetness of the fruit , and it preserves the color . So you can make a fruit relish , substitute lemon or lime juice for the vinegar , and use it . But of course , without a full pickling process , the fruit relish will only have a limited life in the refrigerator .
I 've not heard of egg shells being used that way . I 'm not sure what they would add . The classic way of clarifying a meat stock to make it crystal clear ( ie : for a consommé ) is to whisk egg white ( and I know at least one chef who adds crushed up egg shell to this mix ) and finely ground meat into the cold stock and then gradually heat it . As the added ingredients cook they rise through the stock trapping all the bits that make it cloudy and the gunky ' raft ' can be skimmed off the top .
More or less , yes . Just know that eggs of different species have different " flavors . " There may be some issues with substituting in dishes due to varying fat content of the yolks and such ... I 've had duck and goose egg quiches . I 've had fried quail eggs on toast . I have yet to try an ostrich or emu egg .
Modern non-stick pans should not have problems with coatings flaking off . Spend $ 50 on a non-stick pan and it will last you for a very long time . Coatings on good pans should hold up to any non-metallic utensils . Very expensive pans suggest that you can hit them with a hammer and not hurt the surface .
It means , basically , to stir in some warm liquid to prevent it from later curdling . Once the egg is warmed and mixed with some of your sauce , it can safely be incorporated into the rest of the high-temperature sauce without ( as much ) fear that you 're going to end up with scrambled eggs floating around in your hollandaise . Generally , you crack the egg in a bowl , and spoon in a little sauce , mix it , spoon in a little more , mix it , and then you should be good to go . It goes without saying that if the sauce you spoon in curdles the egg , discard , and start again .
Your question makes me think of demi-glace . From your question , I would say that you 're trying to get a nice shiny thick sauce for your duck , one that tastes of red wine . If that 's your goal , I would recommend you Reduce your stock down until it 's about the total volume of liquid that you 're going to want . The stock reduction should be roughly the consistency you want your final sauce to be . Add an equal volume of wine Reduce down to desired consistency ( so about by half ) . This will give you a lovely sauce , with lots of that sticky goodness that reduced stocks deliver so nicely . You might do this with all of your stock , then freeze cubes of unused sauce for later ; they make a great addition to other bases . Left-over alcohol is not going to be an issue here , by the way , you 'll have long since boiled/simmered it off .
Although this is partially personal preference , in general you should have the uncut ingredients on the side of your non-cutting hand . This will set up a logical flow of material which keeps you from having to reach over your cutting hand . If you chop with your right then you 'd have the uncut ingredients on your left , as after knife work your chopped ingredients will be on the right of the knife . Everything else comes from this . If you are chopping a lot of ingredients it makes sense to have a few bowls handy to put the chopped ingredients into so you can keep your board clear . My workflow is based on the assembly line principle - that is do all of one type of task before moving onto another to limit the amount you have to move : before chopping I get bowls for each of the chopped ingredients ( stackable stainless steel bowls from a kitchen supply store are great for this as they clean easy and take up little space ) , and array the bowls to the right of the board . Then I wash all the ingredients , peel them , and prep them at once rather than doing it individually per ingredient and place them to the left of the board , so I have all my ingredients ready to chop . Then I take each type of ingredient and chop them one at a time , saving any messy ( tomatoes , cheeses ) or possibly contaminating ones ( meat , seafood ) for last , as I will have to clean the board , my hands , and the knife after possible contaminators to prevent cross-contamination . As the board fills for each ingredient I will transfer the chopped ingredients to the bowls , but I wait until I need the space to continue cutting - if you move the chopped ingredients each time you finish chopping one of them then you waste time moving your arms and body around . This is the fastest way I have found to get a lot of ingredients processed . If you wash , prep , peel , chop and move each ingredient individually you spend a lot of extra time moving around the kitchen .
You can give your candies hard shells by dipping them into a melted mixture of one part water , two parts sugar , and 1/2 part corn syrup . Melt those ingredients together over medium to medium-high heat until the sugar has totally dissolved and the mixture is at the hard crack stage ( 295-310 & deg ; F. / 146-154 & deg ; C. ) . Remove your pot of glaze from the heat and place it into a waiting metal bowl of ice water . Once the glaze has stopped bubbling , begin dipping your candies immediately . Once dipped , set them on an appropriate , lightly greased surface to cool ( use a flavorless oil or kitchen spray for greasing ) . You 'll want to skewer your candies to dip them ; never attempt to dip candies into hot glaze by hand . You 'll also want to set everything up for dipping before you make your glaze : have your bowl of ice water ready ; have a greased tray or marble slab/counter ready to receive your dipped candies ; have your kitchen to yourself ( distractions are n't good when working with hot glaze ) . Your glaze will cool very quickly , so work carefully but efficiently .
I would leave the peel in . It can continue to improve the flavor , and makes it look like citrus sugar instead of just plain sugar ( important for a gift ) . Be sure to include a note that it should be used within a few weeks , though .
This depends partially on the cooking technique and the shrimp variety/size ( = > thickness of the shell ) . If the shrimp is deep fried the shell can turn crispy and is super fun to eat . However , if boiled , the shells are chewy and extremely unpleasant - in this case you have to peel them . I am not familiar with the spicy garlic shrimp , but you can just try if the shell is crunchy , is pleasant to eat , and does not require excessive painful chewing - go for it , if not return to your old practice of pealing it and just licking the flavoring of the shells .
Panko wo n't stick to chicken ( too dry ) , but will stick to egg . Egg wo n't stick to chicken ( too smooth and non-absorbant ) , but will stick to flour . Flour will stick to chicken . Dredge first through flour , then through ( well beaten ) egg , then through panko . It 's a tricky combination , but if you do it right the results are excellent . Any dry spices you want to put in can go in the flour . While I do n't know for sure , I would certainly would n't include any oils in the coating , as none of flour/egg/panko will stick to oils .
It 's probably OK but there are a lot of variables here so from where I sit , it 's difficult to be certain . Cooking will kill most bacteria . If the soup went from the pot , hot , to the container and capped immediately , the risk of airborne bacteria getting in is reduced . It takes more than a couple bacteria to get you sick but when conditions are right , bacteria multiply exponentially in a short period of time . If the container was at 72F , that 's better than if it was at 90F ... as if it was outside in the sun . You can give it a sniff to check if it smells OK . Reheating to a boil will kill most bacteria , but depending on the specific bacteria , not all . What 's more , certain bacteria leave behind toxins that are not easily destroyed . If you have a pressure cooker , that 's the best way to kill whatever bacteria might be in there . You would need to keep it in the cooker for a period of time ... 30 minutes perhaps . Seems like a lot of trouble to go to . Dry bouillon cubes should not have any bacteria ... assuming a clean manufacturing plant . Same goes if you used dehydrated chicken . It 's more likely bacteria got in if fresh uncooked chicken was used . Unwashed hands , contaminated utensils , used hand towels , unclean work area ... all that stuff comes into play . You probably already know about cross contamination . But here 's the thing ? Why risk it ? Salmonella will not likely kill you but your stomach will be churning and you 'll be spending some time in the bathroom . There are other bad actors out there and they are worse than Mr. Sal Minella ... Staphlococcus , E. Coli , Botulinum . My answer is , to be safe , toss it .
Do n't check on it . When I lived in Virginia I used to drive up to Pennsylvania every year to this little Amish farm to buy a gallon of the best sauerkraut I 've ever tasted . They showed you how they made it , and I remember the farmer stressing two things : ( 1 ) sterilize the jars , ( 2 ) do n't touch it for 2 months .
I give my coffee maker an internal cleanse with vinegar and water once a month to avoid scale build-up . I use 1/2 cup of white vinegar plus water to make a full pot , run that through my maker two or three times , and then run five or six pots of plain water through the maker until there is no longer any scent of the vinegar . I clean the pot and its basket and insert once a week in the dishwasher , and wipe down the case and heating element daily . I 've been using the same drip coffee maker ( with its glass , dishwasher-safe pot ) for about five years . On those occasions when I 've run out of white vinegar , I use a tablespoon of citric acid dissolved in the first few cleaning pots of water , and then run five or six pots of plain water through the maker . Citric acid is just as effective as white vinegar for descaling but does n't smell as strong ; it 's also inexpensive .
The shells are not used in making peanut butter . You would need to shell these peanuts ( and remove the papery skins from the individual peanuts ) before grinding them to make the peanut butter . It does n't matter whether they are roasted in the shell or not -- what matters is that they are roasted , to give the deeper , richer flavor . I have to assume your peanut vendor did not mislead you , and therefore the peanuts you bought are already roasted . You would just shell them and grind them . Note : if they are roasted , they will be somewhat crunchy , with a toasty complex aroma , and light medium beige to brown color , whereas raw ( or " green " ) peanuts will be closer to very pale yellowish beige , like unfinished lumber . Due to the large number of peanuts that may be used in making a reasonable quality of peanut butter , and the inconvenience of shelling those peanuts , one might choose to purchase already shelled , roasted , preferably unsalted peanuts for the purpose . Edit : in response to the second question , I defer to the mighty <URL> whose recipe indicates to roast peanuts at 350 F for 30-35 minutes . Since he does n't give us a test or indicator to know when they are done , and a careful and meticulous recipe writer such as Brown would not omit this if one exists , I infer no good test for doneness of the in-shell peanuts exists . However , since the individual peanuts within the shells are very uniform in size , the time and temperature guideline is likely to be quite effective . You should almost certainly be smelling roasty peanut aromas as the peanuts close in to being done , but there is no way to describe that . Its like knowing when a cake is done by the aroma -- its certainly possible , but you have to have experience with the recipe to know .
I have to admit that I have n't tried a lot of free-form jerky experiments so take what I say with a grain of salt . ( see what I did there ? ) Jerky is a double action meat preservation method . You soak the meat with way too much salt and then dehydrate it . Bacteria do n't stand a chance . As Alton says in that episode " Club med becomes club dead " . Not one of his best puns but it gets the point across . Salt ( or soy sauce , same thing ) is n't required for the drying process but it is important for long term preservation . I have seen recipes that try to reduce it but I would never leave it out altogether . I would expect a reduced salt recipe to not have the longevity that most jerky has - If stored in an air tight container it will last nearly forever . The non-salt ingredients do n't really matter as long as they wo n't oxidize or pick up bad flavors during dehydration . The type of sugar also does n't matter - although the recipes I prefer do n't include any . I honestly do n't know about viscosity - I would expect it to need enough liquid to carry the salt into the meat . That would take some experimenting . It is very important that there be as little fat as possible . The leaner the meat the better and do n't add any to the marinade . Fats will go rancid quite quickly when exposed to so much air . Lastly - I think I 've posted this recipe before as the answer to some other question but it bears repeating . This family recipe is my favorite by far and I use it as a starting point for any experimenting : Auntie Fern 's Beef Jerky 3 lbs . deer meat or beef , sliced thin 1 T salt 1 tsp garlic powder 1 tsp onion powder 1 T pepper ( I like coarse ground ) 1/4 c. soy sauce 1/3 c. Worcestershire sauce 1/3 c. liquid smoke ( hickory flavor ) Combine and marinade 12 hours . Drain . Dry .
You find that storing in the fridge is going to give you the longest life span . Hanging will keep keep the process of drying out continuing , which will intensify the flavour but will eventually become jerky texture . Wrapping will keep a little moisture in longer . If you do keep it for a period of time , you will develop a white mould which I will just cut of as it is just surface . The curing has stopped the pork breaking down . When I travelled through Spain , all of the city markets would have whole pieces of prosciutto hanging from there stalls that where covered in a fat that was covered in a green mould . When they needed a new piece they cut the mould and fat off and would start slicing for the customers ( some up there for over a year ) . I think the fridge is safer .
end question
start question
Vegemite beyond expiry date ?
Best-before dates are n't the same as use-by dates . Whilst you should n't consume a product after it 's use-by date , best-before dates are more about quality than safety . Basically , after the best-before date , the product may start to deteriorate in terms of flavour , but that does n't mean you ca n't still eat it . I 'd expect that the salt content of Vegemite would keep it sound for a long time . I 've certainly had half-eaten jars of Marmite ( sorry , I 'm a Marmite guy , not Vegemite ) kicking around in the pantry for way longer than they ought , and they 've been just fine . Butter and breadcrumbs from the knife may well develop mould if they 're left in the jar for a while , but that would normally just be on the surface and easily removed . Much better to remove crumbs before they get to that stage - or , easier , just use a clean knife .
That is almost certainly a " best by " date , not an expiration date . <URL> calls the shelf life of uncooked white rice " indefinite " . Yes , you can cook and serve your rice assuming that it is free of contaminants .
Best-before dates are n't the same as use-by dates . Whilst you should n't consume a product after it 's use-by date , best-before dates are more about quality than safety . Basically , after the best-before date , the product may start to deteriorate in terms of flavour , but that does n't mean you ca n't still eat it . I 'd expect that the salt content of Vegemite would keep it sound for a long time . I 've certainly had half-eaten jars of Marmite ( sorry , I 'm a Marmite guy , not Vegemite ) kicking around in the pantry for way longer than they ought , and they 've been just fine . Butter and breadcrumbs from the knife may well develop mould if they 're left in the jar for a while , but that would normally just be on the surface and easily removed . Much better to remove crumbs before they get to that stage - or , easier , just use a clean knife .
In addition to oxidation as put forward by @Stefano , you also have Slow chemical reactions between compounds . Oxidation is only one chemical reaction that happens , there are many more Concentration of flavors due to the evaporation of water will give a more intense flavor
Butter can go bad . The oils will go rancid if exposed to too much light and heat for too long . This accelerates the process of oxidation , which happens even if you keep the butter in the fridge . Even in the fridge your butter will eventually go bad . Personally I follow the dates on all packages . I do so with an awareness that they usually tend to be conservative , which keeps me comfortable . Rancid butter in a taste test wo n't kill you , though . It 'll just taste bad . So you should be able to taste this butter to see if it is bad . While I recommend following the dates on packaging , here are signs that your butter has actually gone bad : discoloration melting ( which will happen outside of the fridge , you probably would n't see it ) sour smell sour and unusual taste
You did n't say where your product was packaged , but according to the USDA , " Use by " dates refer to best quality , and are not safety dates . This is especially true when foods are handled well ... in your case , factory sealed . Additionally , I ca n't see how the proteins would go anywhere . Given the reportedly good flavor ( not an indication of safety , but simply of good taste ) , I would use it .
I 'm not so lucky as to be able to get whole raw milk & hellip ; Wait , then there 's a flaw in your premise . Check the label . Any milk treated using high-heat processes like UHT , pasteurization or ultra-pasteurized milk does n't sour like it used to in your grandmother 's days ; it spoils & hellip ; goes rotten . Spoiled milk is not the same as soured milk . The ultra-pasturized milk sold in the supermarket is essentially a dead product , with little to no live bacteria . When it goes bad , it rots and should be thrown out ( or you can <URL> with it ) . Modern industrial pasteurization kills the " good " bacteria that once made sour milk a wonderful thing for cooking and making bread and cheese . Substituting " Sour Milk " If you have a recipe calling for sour milk , put a teaspoon of vinegar in a cup of fresh milk and let it sit for a few minutes . That 's about the best you can do if you do not have access to raw milk .
Yes , generally , especially if you 've kept them in good conditions . ( If the package has been open and it 's damp and they might 've grown a little mold , that 's obviously bad . ) The expiration date is for purposes of quality , as you 've noted ; it does n't indicate anything about safety . So give them a quick inspection , see if there 's enough flavor left for them to be worth using , and go for it .
The use-by dates on all spices are mainly hokum . Most spices last for six months in whole form , herbs can be dried and last about three , after that time the taste is going to weaken and change as essential oils leave the spice . If you keep your spices in an airtight dark container you can eek out a little more time , but I would highly recommend that if you want fresh spices you grind yourself and keep fresh herbs on hand ( it 's very little work to grow your own ) . That said , bay leaves last me quite a while , and even after I know they should be retired I tend to just throw more of them in the pot to achieve the same effect .
All of the answers you are looking for have been touched on in various parts of this question : <URL> Summary : Expiration dates are for best quality only . Nothing magical happens on that date . Truly fresh eggs ( i.e. from the chicken ) will hardly degrade at all even after a year in storage . Supermarket eggs are washed , removing the protective layer and lowering the shelf life . Some supermarket eggs are already contaminated with salmonella , and there 's no test you can do to find out for sure ( other than eating them raw ) . This will cause serious problems if you leave them in storage for several months , unless you freeze them . Lastly , damaged eggs will simply go rotten . You wo n't always see the damage , but you 'll definitely smell it by the time you hit that best-before date . As with just about every other food , you 're better off interpreting the sell-by or best-before dates as a conservative guideline ; any food can go off before the date if it 's been damaged or mis-handled , and many foods will still be fine long after they " expire " . <URL> is a good resource for finding out how long various foods actually last in storage .
It is probably a <URL> ( possibly regarding crystallization of the honey or other cosmetic changes ) , and should still be edible afterwards . Most honey has historically been stored raw , it is still sold in the comb in places , and has still been known for having a long shelf life if left in a closed container . Honey has mild antiseptic qualities , and too little water , for most anything nasty to grow in - usually the heating and other processing has more to do with appearance and texture ( crystallization and cloudiness , and also batch consistency and efficiency ) , rather than specific safety concerns . And if it does go bad , from exceedingly poor storage , too much moisture , or something of the sort - it should be very apparent , and on the surface only . That being said , if you have concerns about your honey specifically or believe that its raw nature poses more risk - you should act as it seems safe for you . Putting the honey in the fridge should double the shelf life , at least , though it will also encourage crystallization .
Yes . The more finely you process your garlic , the more of the flavour-bearing liquid is released from ruptured cells .
Yes , as long as it has n't been opened . ' Best Before ' dates refer to quality , not safety , and reflect the date at which the manufacturers believe that it is not up to normal quality standards . Have a taste , and if you think it 's OK , go ahead .
Tofu is high in protein , with a neutral PH. And it ( normally ) does n't contain any preservatives like salt , sugar or nitrates . Bacteria love foods like that . If it 's past the date , chuck it out .
Interesting question , tried to search and it is very hard to find any real answer , I did find <URL> which speculates that since duck eggs have thicker shells they have longer shelf life .
Food quality is n't binary ; it does n't go from perfectly good to perfectly bad in an instant . Even if it did , the time it would take depends on the storage temperature . And for non-liquid foods , it 's possible that only a part went bad ( how well does it mix ? ) . So , you do n't get a precise date , but a rough interval at which time the decay starts to set in . As a result , the manufacturer will just pick a rounded date from that interval . Example : the engineers might calculate that under reasonable circumstances , the product may start to noticably deteriorate after 52-75 days , and become dangerous after 81-112 days . They manufacturer could then say that the expiry date would be 60 days . ( The other answers explain why you 'd use the first interval , but not why they 're actually intervals . ) : edit : The likely reason why they 're all the same 60 days is probably also engineering . How much preservative do they use ? As noted in the comments , the primary preservatives are the acids , but you need quite some sugar to compensate . It seems 60 days is a commonly accepted balance .
It 's fine to freeze , no need to cook if you do n't want to ; just be sure to use it immediately after thawing . Freezing things essentially stops the clock : food will stay just as safe to eat no matter how long it 's frozen . It can deteriorate but it 's more about drying out ( freezer burn ) , taking on odors , and so on , not safety . So since it 's safe right now , it 'll be safe frozen .
There 's no rule that you have to drink your wine 24 hours after un-corking it , in fact some wines can taste better after 24 hours . 3 or 4 days is fine in many cases , and some wines are still drinkable a week after opening . This can be extended by refrigerating your wine after opening , white or red , you can get 2 weeks out of a bottle of wine if it 's stored in the fridge . With reds let the glass stand for 10 minutes or so after pouring to get the optimal temperature . 2 weeks out of the fridge and it 's probably vinegar , but if it still takes ok you can cook with it no problem .
The dates you have are probably brahi , whereas the ones you remember eating before are medjhoul . These are different types of dates , and have slightly different flavour profiles . As for storage , they should be fine for a few days at room temperature . For anything longer than that , they should be kept in the fridge , particularly if you live somewhere hot/humid . I also vaguely remember an old Israeli habit of eating yellow dates frozen , or after a few minutes out of the freezer .
I also typically use bottled lemon juice , as my budget does not allow for fresh lemons . <URL> says you should use the bottle within a week , but I 've had success with keeping it much , much longer . That said , this is one item that will not usually work well past its best-by date , I 've found . Maybe in the future , you could freeze it in cubes if you ca n't use it soon enough ?
end question
start question
Substitute for arborio risotto rice ?
What are the best substitutes for arborio risotto rice ? Your best replacement would be another short grain , or in a pinch , medium grain rice . ( if it 's a variety that does n't cook up creamy enough for your liking ... you can cheat and after you remove it from the heat , quickly stir in a beaten egg ) And how about when your only choices are all the local shops have : pearl barley , or ' brown rice with barley and spelt blend ' ? I 'd probably go with the pearl barley , just because it 'll have a more consistent cooking time than a blend . ( so you do n't end up w / little uncooked nuggets in a puddle of overcooked mush . This makes me think pearl barley is the best option . It take a lot more boiling than normal rice ( 40 minutes ) , so I 'll have to half-cook it by boiling before adding it to my pan with stock as my risotto recipe calls for . Do n't pre-cook it . You want to toast your uncooked grains in the oil , just as you would with a rice-based risotto before you add any liquid . If you do n't do this step , <URL> ( I ca n't comment on the texture , as I 've never tried cooking pearl barley this way ) . If you 're reluctant to spend almost an hour in front of the stove , the period to cheat is in the middle ; toast it , do a couple of stock additions w / lots of stirring , then add lots of stock &amp; let it cook , then once it 's nearly dry go back to stirring &amp; slowly adding liquid 'til it 's done ... or <URL>
What are the best substitutes for arborio risotto rice ? Your best replacement would be another short grain , or in a pinch , medium grain rice . ( if it 's a variety that does n't cook up creamy enough for your liking ... you can cheat and after you remove it from the heat , quickly stir in a beaten egg ) And how about when your only choices are all the local shops have : pearl barley , or ' brown rice with barley and spelt blend ' ? I 'd probably go with the pearl barley , just because it 'll have a more consistent cooking time than a blend . ( so you do n't end up w / little uncooked nuggets in a puddle of overcooked mush . This makes me think pearl barley is the best option . It take a lot more boiling than normal rice ( 40 minutes ) , so I 'll have to half-cook it by boiling before adding it to my pan with stock as my risotto recipe calls for . Do n't pre-cook it . You want to toast your uncooked grains in the oil , just as you would with a rice-based risotto before you add any liquid . If you do n't do this step , <URL> ( I ca n't comment on the texture , as I 've never tried cooking pearl barley this way ) . If you 're reluctant to spend almost an hour in front of the stove , the period to cheat is in the middle ; toast it , do a couple of stock additions w / lots of stirring , then add lots of stock &amp; let it cook , then once it 's nearly dry go back to stirring &amp; slowly adding liquid 'til it 's done ... or <URL>
Given the science as Kenji Alt explained it in his article , the key fact of the vodka is that it is 80 proof , or 40 % alchohol . So beer , which usually is on the order of 4 to 6 percent alcohol ( yes , there are outliers ) will not have the same level of inhibition of the gluten formation . The vodka is not the only factor in the recipe leading to crispiness and good crust , so you will probably still get very good results with the beer , assuming you like the flavor profile it brings to the wings , but it wo n't be quite the same . If you use another liquer that is on the order of 80 proof , again assuming you like the flavor profile , you should get quite similar results . This would include mixing grain alcohol with water or orange juice or whatever to the appropriate ratio . Other than some white wine for cooking , though , I do n't buy spirits so I do n't what would be more economical -- and that might vary from region to region .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
Fresh ginger and dried ginger are very different , the flavour , texture and properties are not overly similar that they can not readily be substituted for each other . Having said that , in the instances where they can be substituted I have seen estimated from 8:1 up to 6:1 ( fresh : dried ) .
Any of those will work , but you want a rim to prevent any drippings from making a mess in your oven . In general , the lower the sides , the better for overall air circulation around the roast , but it is not essential . If you want to be able to deglaze the pan , avoid the ceramic or glass pan , as they can not be used stove-top . Using celery ( and carrots ) as a make shift roasting stand is very effective . They will add their aroma to the pan juices , which is often a good thing . ( Note that by the time the roast is done , they are usually spent and not worth eating . ) IF you do n't want the flavor from vegetables , any small rack which will fit will work . If you do n't have one , you can improvize one by crumpling up aluminum foil into a long snake shape , and coiling or zig-zagging it on the pan just large enough to fit the roast . For a slow roasted pork shoulder , you could also go without any rack or elevation , at the cost to some small amount of crust development on the bottom . Depending on your desires , this may or may not matter -- when I do an indoor pork shoulder for pulling , I do n't bother with a rack .
Joe , Whole wheat puff pastry . It 's expensive , and hard to find , though . Or try another recipe . If the recipe you 're using calls for puff pastry , then the flavor and texture of the puff pastry is going to be a big part of the dish . It never works very well to substitute a primary ingredient in a recipe .
@tcb , I have successfully used sona masoori rice for dosa batter . try this method : Preheat oven to 200 degree F . Then turn off the oven . Then put your batter-pot in the oven on a tray.Check after 5-6 hours . If temp are really low outside , and you think it is still not fermenting , again turn on oven for a couple of minutes and turn off . Batter should be ready in 9-10 hours .
First off , try digestive biscuits . They 're really very similar cookies/crackers/biscuits , and it 's a common enough substitution that it 's even <URL> . <URL> implies that they 're called wheatmeal biscuits in Australia . sourd ' oh 's suggestion of particularly crunchy gingersnaps might work too , but you 'll also want to make sure they 're not too spicy ! ( Unfortunately , I do n't know about specific varieties since I 'm not Australian . )
On first blush , you will probably want a fat or oil with similar qualities as the " vegetable " oil you 're replacing , such as olive oil . Butter has a much lower a smoke point , however , cornbread recipes exist that use butter or lard . I 'd be willing to experiment , particularly if you 're used to cooking with butter . ( Just be careful with heat . ) As far as quantity , I 'd use a bit less than 1/3 of a cup , but that 's me being defensive as I do n't know the recipe you 're using .
Bourbon , <URL> is aged in a fresh oak barrel . The oak heartwood naturally contains aromatic compounds including ( you guessed it ) vanillin -- the primary flavor component of vanilla itself . But beyond the already-present aromatics , the wood is further treated to produce even more flavor . About 20 % of the oak 's mass is made of lignins . When exposed to temperatures of 750 ° F the lignin breaks down to more aromatics including , once again , vanillin . Your bourbon barrel is charred in an open gas burner for 15 -- 45 seconds , making these flavors ready for extraction into your bourbon . The alcohol will then be able to further break down some of the solid mass and dissolve the aromatics . So bourbon is a good vanilla substitute because of the relatively high portion of vanillin that it contains
It 's actually hard to hold when it 's almost all the way cooked - it 'll start getting gluey if you let it cool off , but could start scorching on the bottom if it 's not stirred , and get too runny if you keep adding stock . Mario Batali said that risotto is n't finicky in the middle - so you can cook it part way , cool it down ( I think he said he spread it on sheet pans to cool quickly ) , then you can add hot stock and cook it from that point , so you 've already got a 10 minute head start . I 've also been to a restaurant where it was only served on the hour and half-hour .
I would try Lime Basil or a mixture of 1/2 vinegar , and 1/2 bottled lime juice ( small portion ) .
That 's fine . A lot of people actually do that on purpose , it 's referred to as " soaking " . It will shave a bit off the cooking time and wo n't negatively affect the rice at all . Give it a stir before you start cooking . You can drain and rinse it too if you want , that will give you very separate , distinct grains . Use about 1/4 less water for cooking if you do it that way , because the rice will have soaked up some water .
There are really only a few secrets to good fried rice : Day Old <URL> ( Make it the day before , let it cool , place it in the fridge ) This I 'd say is absolutely , the main thing . The texture will NOT be right if you use freshly cooked rice . There will be too much moisture . HEAT ! Your <URL> needs to be hot . You want everything to cook quickly . Cook stuff separately . This is a follow-up from 2 . You want it all to cook very quickly , a crowded pan will hinder that . Cook Meat to 80 % , take it out , cook the other stuff , add the meat back in . Do n't touch it . Unless you have a blazing professional burner , your food needs time against the wok . Put it in , leave it for a bit , mix it some more . Fish Sauce &amp; Chinese Sausage They add great flavour . If it all seems complicated , it really is n't . Use day old rice &amp; give it lots of heat . Here are a couple of recipes that give further detail and have great explanations : <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Steamy Kitchen <URL> on Rasa Malaysia
The most widely-accepted substitute seems to be various sauces made from mushrooms . I do n't want to say " mushroom sauce " because most products do n't have that exact name . For example : Here you have " Vegetarian Mushroom Flavored Stir-Fry Sauce " on the left , and " Premium Shitake Mushroom Flavored Soy Sauce " on the right . I 'm actually not familiar with the one in the middle and not sure what the whole label says - it might be the same as the first . If you go to a specialty Asian food store , you might actually find a product called " vegetarian oyster sauce " , which is pretty much the same thing . Failing that , you can always substitute soy sauce , or hoisin sauce if you want a less watery texture . They wo n't be exactly the same , but it 's the same general idea ( dark , fermented , salty sauce rich in glutamates ) . " Fish sauce " will be very close to oyster sauce in taste , but may still contain shellfish , so be careful .
It depends what the recipe is , but I 've successfully replaced brandy with orange juice or apple juice in the past . It 's not a direct replacement for the flavour , of course , but gives a similar strength of flavour , if you see what I mean .
I am happy to give you a brief idea , but you may have to tell me how much info you need Get the lotus leaves from chinese shop and they are usually dried leaves , so you need to soak them in water for a night . After that give it a wash and cut it to the right side sticky rice is a type of rice , so that 's what you need . Do n't use any other rice as they wo n't stick . You will need to soak the rice in water for couple of hours and add couple drops of oil . Prepare whatever you want to put in your rice like mushroom and meat When u make the wrap , put a layer of rice on the leaf and then place the meat and mushroom on the rice . After that put another layer of rice on top and wrap it up Put the wrapped rice to steam and I can not help you with the time , but it 's between 10-20 mins Good luck
The main things that Parmesan cheese can add to a salad are fattiness and salt . The first thing that comes to mind for me is bacon . You could probably also make a yummy main dish salad ( or hearty first course ) by adding duck or a cured meat such as salami . If you 're not interested in adding meat , how about olives ? Those would serve similar purposes . Other options might be marinated artichoke hearts or mushrooms . Just make sure you choose ones that are n't too tart , as they might add to the effect of the lemon vinaigrette .
My wife loves it toasted . Toast shredded coconut in a dry pan or oven and put on ice cream and other deserts . It 's really tasty . Like toasting other nuts be careful as if you blink it may burn .
end question
start question
How much salt should be used in dishes for the best flavor ?
There 's a reason so many recipes say " salt to taste " : there 's no single answer . Most of the time , we use close to 0.5 % salt by weight ( so 1kg food has 5g or 1 teaspoon of salt ) , but " close to " leaves plenty of wiggle room about what exactly is best . Different people have different tastes . What 's perfectly salted for one person may be oversalted or undersalted for another . Different dishes need different ratios too . Some things are supposed to taste a bit salty , while some just need a hint to amplify other flavors . Some ingredients need more salt to balance them than others . Sure , you can get approximate starting points , e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ( with tons of variation - that 's a couple random recipes ) . So very roughly , 1kg of food often comes with 5 grams of salt ( 1 teaspoon ) with exceptions ranging up to 10 grams ( 2 teaspoons ) . But your best bet is always going to be to find a good recipe for the specific dish you 're making , and possibly adjust it if you know your preferences lean one way or another . Failing that , when cooking something improvised or new , or using one of the many recipes that just says " salt to taste " , letting you do what suits you , trust the instincts that you 've developed for your own tastes . If you 're cooking for others , with possibly varying tastes , it gets trickier . For things where salt can be added after the fact , you can use less salt and let everyone individually salt to taste . For things you ca n't mix after cooking , you pretty much have to compromise somewhere in the middle and hope it works for everyone . Beyond that , if you ca n't decide what the right amount of salt is , do n't worry about it . There 's surely a range that works for you , so if two different amounts both taste good , there you are . And if you find yourself disagreeing with someone about what amount of salt results in the best flavor , stop . You probably just have different tastes from the person you 're arguing with .
According to <URL> : Whole fruits can be stored for a month in a cool , dry area , or refrigerated up to two months . The seed pips can be frozen in an airtight bag up to one year . Fresh juice should be refrigerated and used within two to three days . In my experience in a very dry climate ( Colorado ) after a couple weeks the skins become desiccated and very hard -- you need to saw through them with a serrated knife -- but the seeds are still mostly unaffected . They will shrink somewhat , but still remain unspoiled and flavorful . However , if you refrigerate them , ensure that you do not let them get too cold . According to <URL> : [ ... ] exposure to temperatures below 5 ° C ( 41 ° F ) during storage and transport for longer than 4 weeks is a major cause of deterioration [ ... ] The minimum safe storage temperature is 5 ° C ( 41 ° F ) for up to 8 weeks , if decay is not a problem . For longer storage , the temperature should be at 7 ° C ( 45 ° F ) to avoid chilling injury , but decay [ ... ] and weight loss may become a limitation . Sorry that the photo is not better quality .
Imitation vanilla extract is meant to be used in place of the real stuff , and most recipes probably assume you 're using the fake stuff anyway , so you would use 1 tsp . You only need to adjust the amount if you 're using something like twofold ( 2x ) extract .
You could use Red Pepper Coulis : Roast red peppers on grill , gas flame or cut off the sides and place skin side up under broiler until skins are blackened . Cool and remove charred skin . <URL> and garlic in a little olive oil with salt and pepper until softened . Add the charred roasted red peppers and some chicken stock . Simmer until vegetables are very soft and puree with an immersion blender , food processor or regular blender . Taste and adjust seasoning as necessary . Thin with additional stock according to consistency desired/needed . Add basil , oregano , Italian seasoning blend to season as desired .
Eggplant should be wrapped in plastic and refrigerated . It will last 5-7 days this way . It can also be frozen 6-8 months with the following process : Wash eggplant , peel and cut into 1/3 inch slices ; Blanch ( plunge into boiling water ) for four minutes in 1 gallon of boiling water to which 1/2 cup lemon juice has been added ( to prevent discoloration ) and chill quickly in ice cold water ; Drain off excess moisture , package in airtight containers or freezer bags and freeze immediately . Source : <URL>
Just keep it dry . I buy 100 sheets packs and store them in a zip-loc type bag in the cupboard for over a year
Yes , the flavor is definitely affected . First , there is the point of solubility . Salt does n't dissolve all that easily in water , and unlike many other crystals , its solubility does n't improve with heat . So you have to either stir a lot , or let the dish to sit for a longer time after the salt is added , or both . Else you end up with uneven salting in liquid dishes like soups . Thicker things like sauces are very marginal , and if you add salt to cooked dry stuff ( steaks , casseroles and whatnot ) , you 're guaranteed to end up with clumps . But even if you succeed in getting your salt evenly distributed , the flavor is different . The liquid components may be OK , but anything solid ( pasta , meat , vegetables , whatever ) will not be penetrated by the salt . So if you salt your dish to the point where the liquid tastes normal , you get bland pieces swimming in an OK sauce or broth . At that point , most people just automatically think that it is still bland , and continue to salt , resulting in oversalted broth/sauce with bland veggies , which in my opinion is even worse . Third , the salt is n't used only to add taste . A saline solution 's chemical properties are quite different from those of pure ( or tap ) water . Marinading with salt ( with or without liquid ) changes the texture of steaks ( but does so rather slowly ) . Vegetables cook firmer in salty water , instead of getting mushy . And then there are all the amazing things it does to grains ( because it affects both starches and gluten ) . In short , do n't bake a yeast dough without a pinch of salt . Sadly , all this means that there is no way for both of you to eat what you want/should . My advice is that you should definitely salt the food even for the low-sodium eater at the proper cooking time , you just should use a much smaller amount - even a gram of salt per liter of water can be useful for the chemical changes you want , and should n't add too much of a sodium load to a normal sized portion . As for bringing your portion to your own taste , you will have to put up with the worse saltening . Just take care not to oversalt as a reaction , it does n't really help .
Cooks Illustrated apparently <URL> to a lab for analysis : We were also interested in finding out how much sodium penetrates during the process . To answer the question , we brined natural pork chops and boneless , skinless chicken breasts in standard quick-brine solutions of 1/2 cup table salt dissolved in 2 quarts of cold water . After 30 minutes , we removed the pork and chicken , patted them dry , and cooked them in different skillets . We also cooked an " enhanced " pork chop ( injected with a saltwater solution ) and a kosher chicken breast that had been salted during processing . We sent the samples to a food lab to measure sodium content . The brined pork chops had a sodium content of 245 milligrams per 100 grams of meat ( just under 1/8 teaspoon per serving ) ; the enhanced pork had a bit more , with 268 milligrams . The kosher chicken breast weighed in at 252 milligrams of sodium . The brined chicken came in with the most sodium of all , at 353 milligrams ( just over 1/8 teaspoon per serving ) . The USDA recommends limiting your daily sodium intake to 2,300 milligrams , about 1 teaspoon . Why did the chicken absorb more salt during brining than the pork ? The loose white muscle fibers in chicken absorb salt water more quickly than the tighter muscle fibers in pork .
In some recipes ( eg chinese kung bao , some thai and south indian soups ) , you score the peppers or cut them into coarse pieces , so cooking oil or a broth with some fat or alcohol content can enter and exit the inside while the peppers are sauteed/stir fired with the rest of the food . This tends to dissolve a lot of heat into the liquids without too strong a pepper aroma . In others ( a lot of thai and goan recipes ) , the peppers are mashed , sometimes with other spices and aromatics , in a mortar and pestle . In both cases , you have to decide whether to soak the peppers in very warm but not boiling water beforehand . Also , you can shake the seeds out or leave them in . Look at specific recipes for guidance there . Oh , and a warning : sauteing dried chili can liberate a surprising amount of capsaicin into the air - if you are dealing with , say , a dozen dried thai chili , it can happen that you find yourself coughing violently in a corner . Ventilate well , and if you feel like you are getting overwhelmed , make sure the kitchen is safe and grab some fresh air ASAP . Oh ... and if you are going the first route , it is inadvisable to put any other ingredient in the dish that has the same color as the dried chili . They wo n't be THAT hot anymore when cooked out , but still not exactly mild , AND many varieties are texturally and flavour-wise unpleasant if accidentally eaten whole .
Potatoes are very popular in some parts of Mexico . When I lived in Guadalajara , potato tacos were common , usually deep-fried . Diced ( and possibly pre-cooked ) potatoes with some seasoning added to a soft taco shell , then the entire thing fried together until crispy . After frying , such tacos ( whether with potatoes or other filling ) were cracked open to add lettuce or salsa or whatever other toppings/fillings might be desired , or salsa might be poured over the top , and eaten with a fork . One of my favorite local dishes was gorditas , which are basically a double-thick tortilla split at the middle ( like pita bread ) and stuffed with a filling of choice , and grilled . Diced and cooked potatoes were a common choice , often with beans or cheese as well . Potatoes are also common in Mexico prepared much the same as they are in the U.S. : Baked , or as french fries , or the ever-popular potato chip . Always with a Mexican flair , usually in the form of extra spicy seasoning or sauces added . I also had a " Breakfast taco " in Austin , Texas a couple months ago , which had potatoes . So there is some tex-mex food with potatoes , but I think this is probably not as common as it is in true Mexican cuisine . But then , Tex-Mex has never been a very close substitute for true Mexican food :) My best guess as for why potatoes are not common in Mexican and Tex-Mex restaurants in the U.S. is that potatoes are not considered an exotic/exciting enough food/flavor to be considered " special " by most people who frequent such places .
The usual materials used in an oven ( no matter if electric or gas ) are almost all food-safe non-melting materials used for cooking vessels . If you can use it on a stove top , it should be OK for the oven too ( unless it has a handle from a different material ) . Metal . Oven pans are made from non-reactive metals ( like stainless steel ) or reactive metals with a protective layer ( e.g. seasoned cast iron ) . Do n't use metal vessels which have non-metal parts , like wooden or plastic handles ( except for oven-rated handles , like the phenolic handles on Le Creuset enameled cast iron , which are rated for up to 200 ° C ) . Else , all metallic pans and pots meant for stove top are good for the oven . Also , pay attention to temperature : PTFE ( non-stick ) coated vessels should n't be heated above 250 ° C. Ceramics . If glazed , you should make sure that the glaze does not suffer under high temperature or does not leach dangerous chemicals into the food under high temperatures . There are many glazed ceramic pans meant for the oven , such as lasagna pans , quiche pans , tagines , gyveches , etc , and you can be sure that these are oven-safe . You can also use table porcelain for some limited scenarios , e.g. poaching an egg in an individual serving of soup , but do n't risk your finest porcelain , and do n't do it if the plates are decorated with adhesive designs . If unglazed , you should make sure it is intended for the oven , some types of earthenware may be damaged by the heat . The ones meant for the oven ( like römertopf ) should be fine . Glass . If it is borosilicate glass ( sometimes called Jena glass ) , you can use it in the oven . Do n't subject it to temperature shocks , use room-temperature glass pans ( do n't layer a lasagna the day before in a glass vessel and then bake it straight from the fridge ) , and do n't put them in too hot an oven ( up to 200 ° C should be OK ) . You ca n't determine if it is borosilicate glass or soda lime glass from its looks , so here you have to be sure that the manufacturer markets the vessel as oven safe . Silicone . Food-grade silicone is great for baking and practically indestructible ( unless you cut it ) . If the manufacturer gave a temperature range , go by it , I 'm not sure it will hold up at above 250 ° C , but it is no problem in the normal cake and pastry baking range . Plastics . Some plastics may be able to withstand heat , but you ca n't usually recognize that from their looks , and you do n't know if there may be other problems ( such as melamine , which releases toxic chemicals when heated ) . In theory , I would trust a big manufacturer who markets a plastic pan explicitly as oven-safe , but in practice , I have n't seen such pans . So do n't use plastic vessels in an oven . Wood . Do n't use wood in an oven . It should n't be able to catch fire at normal oven temperatures , so it is not a hazard , but the heat will damage your vessel . While it will still be usable ( especially if you take care to wet it beforehand ) , it will lose its smooth surface , and it will probably warp . Glued wood can also split along the glue lines . If you have a cheap bowl you do n't mind damaging , you can use it in the oven , but I do n't see why , when other materials are much better suited .
It can range on the size of the lemon and the time of year . A medium lemon will give 2-3 Tablespoons of juice , where a larger lemon can give 1/4 cup ( 4 Tablespoons ) . Just have to decide on much lemon flavor you want in your recipe as to which number you pick .
<URL> is a report entitled " Change in sodium content of potato , pasta and rice with different cooking methods " . So the " scientific answer " is : The sodium content in pasta cooked with different levels of salt increased approximately linearly with the amount of salt added to the cooking water . Pasta cooked in 4g salt/100g raw took up on average 28 mg Na/100g whereas when cooked in 40g/100g raw this increased approximately 10 fold to 230 mg Na/100g . HTH ! PS : This may help you forget the Na intake temporally
No , flour and starch are very different things . Starch is a molecule consisting of a chain of glucose rings . It is one of the main ways plants store energy . In practice , it is extracted from many different grains and tubers such as potato , wheat , tapioca and corn . Flour is a food ingredient made from milling a grain very finely , and frequently also removing the outer hull of the grain . If nothing else is specified , saying just " flour " denotes non-whole-grain wheat flour . It so happens that starch is a molecule present in large amount in many flours . Wheat flour is about 90 % starch , and rice flour is close to 100 % . But it is still incorrect to assume interchangeability , for the same reason that " pan " and " iron " are not interchangeable words even when you are holding a pan made from 100 % iron . In the cases where starch is less than 100 % , it is even worse to use the terms interchangeably , because the parts which are present in a smaller amount often determine the properties of the flour , making it act much differently than pure starch in the kitchen . For example , white wheat flour contains around 10 % gluten , which allows you to make risen bread with it . Update As for interchangeable usage : There are a few corner cases , as Jolenealaska 's comment point out . For example , there are applications where you only need the properties of pure starch , but you can substitute a flour which is not 100 % starch , and the remaining ingredients wo n't get into the way . Thickening is one such application , another one is preventing dough from sticking . But in general , you can not assume that starch can be substituted for flour or the other way round . You 'd have to know how it works in your recipe so you can judge if the substitution is possible . As for the word use , some starches do n't need to be extracted by a special process , because the plant part in question already consists of starch and nothing else . They are produced by milling this plant part , and they are both a flour and a starch at the same time . The prevalent use of the word " starch " or " flour " is then a matter of cultural accident , and , as David Richerby notes , it can happen that different languages or dialects pick a different term , but this happens rarely . The terms are usually distinct and not ambiguous , especially for plants where you use both , such as wheat flour and wheat starch . Appendix : nitty gritty details on the special case of corn The corn flour case is a very complicated one . There you have many words whose meaning can overlap : corn starch is only the milled inner part of the kernel . It is a flour which is also a starch . It can be modified , and then it should n't be technically considered a flour any more . cornflour is the UK term for the milled inner part of the corn kernel , as David Richerby points out . However , in many countries the word ( or its literal translation ) is used for whole grain corn flour , which is yellow , and chemically has other ingredients than pure starch . the milled whole corn kernel is sometimes also called polenta . polenta also can be a word for corn semolina , which is also a milled kernel , but the particle size is larger than a flour . yet another meaning of polenta is a pap cooked from a milled whole kernel of either size ( semolina or flour ) . the pap cooked from pure corn starch is never a polenta , it is a pudding or blanchmange . These words are also used when the pap is cooked from pure starch extracted from another plant .
It should n't have any effect , in the sense of any flavors leaching . If your container does change the taste , you should replace it . But it would be very unusual to chance upon a taste-changing container . Most cookware is non reactive , and containers meant for preparing and serving tea even less so . For example , untreated aluminium is reactive , but I 've never heard of it being used for tea pots or tea mugs . Steel is completely OK in that regard . Melamine also has no effect on taste , but see the footnote for safety considerations . The most likely condition under which you find a taste change would be if you are using ceramic teapots or mugs which were not mass produced for daily use , but made by a pottery hobbyist or by some exotic traditional technique which does not reach the convenience standards of modern mass production . In that case , you can simply switch the container to a neutral one , if the taste bothers you , or if you are worried about the safety of glaze leaching into your drink . Why porcelain or glazed earthenware No special reason . What you cite is an ISO standard . It was n't made for people making tea at home , they wanted to have perfect reproducibility , and the easiest way is to restrict as many variables as possible . So they took one of the traditional choices and prescribed it in their standard . There is no reason to follow that standard when you make tea for drinking . The material affects the taste of the tea in other ways : it has an influence on the speed of cooling down . But it is impossible to make a general recommendation here , as 1 ) there are many other factors influencing the cooling speed , and 2 ) people have different preferences for the taste of tea . The only relevance here is that , if you have found a process which produces tea you like with one set of utensils , it might produce a different taste if you use a different teapot , and you 'll have to experiment until you have calibrated the process to your preferences again . But the differences here are subtle , you have to be a pretty dedicated tea drinker to be bothered by them . Footnote on melamine safety : Melamine is a resin which contains traces of formaldehyde , a known carcinogen . The formaldehyde does not end up in the food at room temperature , but it starts leaching at higher temperatures , this is why it is not microwave safe . As the leaching process is gradual , and depends on pH besides temperature , there is no hard temperature prescription beyond which it is considered unsafe to use . But I could n't find any source rating melamine for over 100 Celsius , and some of them give a lower temperature such as 60 or 70 Celsius . If you are concerned about the formaldehyde , you are probably better off choosing another mug . Porcelain is the standard choice , but steel and some plastics are also frequently used . For a short consumer info on melamine , see <URL> .
You have quite a bit of leeway with Instant Coffee . You can brew it using water of your desired temperature . I would recommend using water just below boiling point though , around 95-99 degrees Celsius . You could use 85-95 degrees Celsius water as well ; it wo n't make a big difference in terms of extraction of flavour , and here is why : How instant coffee is prepared in the factory : Coffee beans are roasted They are ground very finely ( 0.5 mm - 1.1 mm in diameter ) The ground coffee is mixed with water in percolation columns which reaches 155 - 180 degrees Celsius . This is the extraction process . This mixture is then concentrated and/or dried using vacuum evaporation , freeze drying , or spray drying methods . The result from this is what you get in the store . Conclusion : All of the very particular factors that one must consider when trying to make great coffee have already been decided for you . You have no control over roast , grind , time from grind to extraction , extraction time and temperature , or time from extraction to consumption . All of this been decided for you . It is up to you . Brew it at whatever temperature you like to drink your coffee at . However , it may be slightly harder to dissolve the coffee and get good flavor at cold temperatures . Keeping it on the hotter side may be better . That 's just chemistry though . Sources : I am a professional barista and coffee connoisseur . <URL>
I usually use 1/4 cup per person for a smallish portion , and 1/3 cup per person if you 're a bit hungrier . You 'll probably want to check the instructions for your rice cooker to check exactly how much water you should add as different manufacturers vary . I believe the one I used in the past needed an equal quantity of water to rice .
There are two main types of charcoal , briquettes and hard lump . The first comes in preformed pieces , so they are all the same size and include a filler material . They will sometimes also have lighter fluid in them already and be " easy start " or something similar . Hard lump is just charcoal from hardwoods with no filler . These will usually be in all kinds of shapes and look like " natural " pieces of wood ( albeit in charcoal form ) . Hard lump is easy to light , burns hotter , and leaves much less ash than briquettes . It also has a better flavor . I strongly recommend hard lump charcoal . Wood is usually used to provide smoke as a primary function rather than heat . Smoking on your grill gives a lovely smokey flavor ( d'uh ) . The standard way to use wood is to soak it in water for a period of time prior to cooking . Packages will often say to soak for an hour , and that 's ok with wood chips which are very small ( but I recommend longer ) , but it is n't good for anything larger . I generally soak wood for at least 18 hours . Wood also comes in various sizes , from very small chips ( slightly larger than a coin ) to large chunks bigger than a fist . The smaller the chips , the less heat they provide and the faster they burn up . These are generally better for shorter smoking times . Large chunks can smoke for 12 + hours if they are properly soaked . In both cases , I put the wood on to already burning coals to get them going . You can also use just wood to create your heat , in which case you do not soak the wood . When you hear about woodfire ovens , this is what they do . However , I think this is a hassle as it 's harder to get the wood lit than charcoal and does n't provide as much smoke since you have n't soaked the wood . So it 's really sub-par in my view . The exception is if you are doing low and slow smoking on some types of charcoal grill , you can use a small bed of coals to light large chunks of soaked wood . Once they get smoldering , this becomes the only source of heat as the coals go out . They smolder hot enough to get new wood going if you find you need more . Great for 12 hour smoking at 200F for Boston Butt or Brisket . In terms of wood , you want hard woods with low amounts of resin / sap . No glue , nails , etc. . It wants to be natural . This is a <URL> of types of wood and the smoke they produce . Common woods for BBQ in the SE US are hickory , mesquite , and cedar . I 've used old wine barrel chunks which have a really nice flavor , and also bits of rosemary branch ( thick from a large plant ) which did n't turn out as well as I 'd hoped . You can even use the shells of nuts like pecans . This is really a question of seeing what 's readily available and experimenting with your own personal taste . You can also use wood with a gas grill by putting it in a smoking box or tin foil with holes in it , and placing directly on the heating element . Wood chips work best for this . I 've never had much luck with this though . It 's hard to get the chips smoking and , more importantly , gas grills do n't have the airflow through them to properly move smoke over the food . I switched to charcoal pretty quickly and a <URL> about two years ago , and I 've never looked back .
<URL> Sugar balances both salty and sour flavors in dishes . Adding just a little sugar makes salty things taste less salty and sour things taste less sour , without actually reducing the amount of salt or acid in the recipe . For example , the liquid base of the Pad Thai recipe I follow contains chili powder , fish sauce , tamarind , and light palm sugar . The palm sugar balances out the sour from the tamarind and the salt from the fish sauce . Without it , the noodles would come out too sour and too salty . I do n't know the physiological reasons for this . Would be interesting to hear them if someone knew ...
Not being aware of your location , some general tips : 1 ) Buy your fish from a fishmonger , and tell him/her what you are using it for . You want to do business with somebody who 's business is selling fish and only selling fish . They are going to know what 's been stored to eaten raw standards in a way that the just above minimum wage fish guy at your grocery store does n't . 2 ) Do n't buy it early . Buy it the day you mean to consume it or the day that you going to prep it . This question can help walk you through <URL> 3 ) Take a cooler to get your fish . You have to maintain the freshness , that means not allowing it raise in temperature anymore than you have to .
end question
start question
What to consider when learning to make sushi at home ?
There are a few tools you should have that are out of the ordinary in a typical American kitchen : <URL> - It 's really the only way to make maki ( rolls ) . Pro tip : when you use it , put it inside of a large zip-loc bag . This helps prevent the rice sticking to the mat . <URL> - This is essential in helping the rice turn out properly . The one I linked includes a free mat . I do n't own this particular brand ; I bought mine from an asian grocery store near me for like $ 30 , it came with a paddle . If you do n't want to commit to this large uni-tasker then I recommend using an equally large shallow-ish plastic bowl/dish . The sushi chef that taught me said plastic was OK , but to avoid glass or metal . <URL> - A quality rice cooker makes life amazingly easier . I own the one linked and it is amazing . I use it for cooking all of my rice . The quality of Zojirushi is simply unsurpassed and it quickly pays for itself . The single most important thing is a very sharp knife . It makes cutting the maki SO much easier . I ca n't stress this enough . A chef 's knife is just fine , but it should be well cared for and very sharp . For beginners <URL> is by far the easiest to make . You simply shape a small amount of rice in the palm of your hand and slap a piece of fish or other seafood on top of it . Cutting the fish for nigiri is an artform and can not be adequately conveyed here , but if you just hack out a thin piece of the right size it will taste fine . Tuna and salmon are relatively cheap cuts to use for this . For maki I suggest starting with spicy tuna rolls and California rolls . All you need for a California roll is : avocado , cucumber , and imitation crab meat . For spicy tuna mix you need : tuna , <URL> , and <URL> ( or <URL> ) . You may also want some <URL> and/or <URL> roe for the outside of your rolls .
I enjoy the fruity herbal teas as iced tea . I brew a cup and then pour it in a cup of ice . It is a sugar-free cool drink that tastes and smells great .
The statement " so that bacterias would have something to eat " is incorrect on several levels - including grammatically . Bacteria already have plenty to eat . There is a lot of sugar in milk . Cow 's milk is 4-5 % sugar . Additionally , giving the bacteria more to eat would allow them to create more acid and make the product more sour not less . The bacteria used in yogurt making are lactobacilli and prefer munching on lactose anyway . That said ; Lactose tastes less sweet than the sucrose in table sugar . Adding sucrose will make the yogurt sweeter if that is your taste . Making the yogurt thicker is done by accurately controlling the fermentation temperature , using higher fat milk , adding protein in the form of dry milk powder , or <URL> after fermentation . When I have added sugar to my yogurt it has not had a noticeable effect on the texture .
According to a quick search on Google , there are two other types of vinegar served in fish and chips shops along with malt vinegar . The first ( and my best guess ) is onion vinegar -- which is white vinegar that has been used to <URL> . This is clear , but at minimum contains onions and salt , and perhaps sugar and other pickling spices . ( I should note that the recipe I linked to uses malt vinegar to pickle the onions , but you could certainly achieve the same result with white vinegar . ) The second vinegar is actually called non brewed condiment , and is n't actually vinegar . It 's ascetic acid , water , and a bit of caramel coloring . The coloring would make it brown , but it would n't have the malt flavor .
Short summary : views on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Part of the difficulty with this question is the very definition of the word offal and what it implies . First , a little mini-history , taken partly from the Oxford English Dictionary . Offal is literally derived from off + fall , i.e. , that which " falls off " or is discarded during some sort of process ; the word entered English around the year 1400 . This sense is rare in modern English , but it still occurs in some manufacturing processes , e.g. , woodchips that are discarded from milling . In the 1400s , it was applied in the same sense to butchers , who initially included only those things which were cut off/out of the carcass and truly considered inedible or useless from a culinary perspective ( e.g. , the contents of the intestines , which would contain the animal 's waste and would rarely be consumed because of the potential for disease , parasites , etc. ) . Gradually , this definition expanded over the years to include elements that butchers might discard or separate from the primary " meat " ( i.e. , mostly muscle ) . As the OED defines it : The edible parts collectively which are cut off in preparing the carcass of an animal for food . In early use applied mainly to the entrails ; later extended to include the head , tail , and internal organs such as the heart , liver , etc. . Given that many of these " discarded " or separated items were not considered as desirable for eating , the word gradually acquired a negative connotation , which the OED first finds in 1581 : The parts of a slaughtered or dead animal considered unfit for human consumption ; decomposing flesh , carrion . The OED adds that this last sense is " Sometimes used contemptuously , " as in the first 1581 quotation that references " dirtie tripes and offalls . " In answering this question , there seems to be a conflict between two possible interpretations about the word offal : on the one hand , there 's the " offal " that 's discarded because it 's truly inedible or difficult to use in a culinary sense , but then there 's the " offal " that 's merely separated out because some people or some cultures find it repulsive . That latter " offal " is still generally used by somebody , whether it 's eaten by people who do n't find it repulsive ( and might even consider it a delicacy ) eaten by poor people who ca n't afford more desirable food ( as referenced in the question when oxtail was given to " laborers " ) ground up , processed , and disguised in processed foods given to animals to eat For a recent perspective , I quote from the book Offal : A Global History ( 2013 ) by Nina Edwards : What might the term " offal " include ? The Chambers Dictionary 's definition sounds a little less than enthusiastic : " waste or rejected parts esp . entrails , heart , liver , kidney , tongue etc. : anything worthless or unfit for use . " Other edible innards not specified here include connective tissue , bone marrow , lungs , spleen , sweetbreads , testicles , udders , tripe , heads and the features thereof ( brains , eyes , cheeks , snout or muzzle and ears ) , skin , tails , trotters , lard and blood . Offal is sometimes thought of as inner organs and viscera alone , but I include all edible exterior parts . Including all edible ( yet undesirable by some ) parts seems reasonable in the definition , given that even as early as 1660 the OED has a quotation lumping in sheep trotters with " offal . " But in some places the word carries a distinct connotation of " organ meat " specifically . In any case , as said at the beginning , the perspectives on these various body parts are never constant , whether over time or even within communities . Most cultures have entire classes of animals that are considered inedible or repulsive , whether pork in Jewish or Islamic traditions or almost all insects in various Western cultures . The concept of " offal " is just an extension of communal dietary guidelines or preferences to the avoidance of specific parts of animals . It 's also important to note that there are various reasons for rejecting various foods . Sometimes foods have unusual textures or flavors , but just as often they are rejected because of the associations of specific body parts ( e.g. , feet or snouts or tails being " dirty , " tongues because of their associations with animal feeding , genitals or reproductive organs for puritanical reasons , etc. ) . Or , in some cases the food perhaps resembles actual animal " parts " too much for our modern culture that is often divorced from butchering : in the era of the chicken " nugget " ( or " boneless skinless chicken breast " ) and ground beef , an actual tongue or tail or ear tends to remind the eater that the food is not from some anonymous cut of " meat " but rather from an actual animal . In some of these cases , the actual meat may not have a flavor or texture very different from the rest of the animal , but some people still reject it on the basis of its appearance or kn
I 've heard a few different answers ( theories ) as to why you should use different temperature liquids to the roux , most of it 's related to starch gelatinization . I 'm also not a fan of scalding milk when I do n't have to , as it can bubble over if you do n't pay attention and/or taken on a bit of a scorched taste . I 've always <URL> in part because that 's the way I learned growing up , but if I 'm thickening a gravy I 'm generally using warmer liquid ( drippings , let to sit so you can separate out the fat ) . I rarely use a roux to thicken something near a boil ... for that , I 'll use a slurry . There are differences when dealing with adding cold liquid to a roux -- you need to add the liquid slowly , and stir it well before each addition , which also gives it a chance to come back up to temperature . Of course , I recommend always adding the liquid slowly , as I find it easier than trying to work out lumps afterwards .
Yes . What you can do is throw the potatoes in with the meat - anything above 85C will eventually cook the potatoes through . Then when you pull the meat out to rest , raise the oven temperature to say 190 - 200 C and possibly add a little fat . They wo n't take long to finish roasting to a nice golden brown .
If you have n't done it before do n't do this for Xmas day , it 's not worth the risk . Always practise on less important occasions You need a wider , rather than taller pot . Nearly a paella style pan . And a strong arm Ingredients wise , I do n't know of any magic scaling tricks for risotto The hardest part is stirring enough , but not too much , and doing an even job of it Probably easier to have two pots going at the same time , rather the one large pot . Then you can have two different flavours going !
Yes , you can do it without a press . Place a ball of dough between two layers of plastic wrap . Use at least twice the area of wrap that you think the final tortilla will be . Squish the ball flat with a pan , book , or your hand . Now use a rolling pin to roll the dough between the sheets of plastic . Make sure the thickness is even , and do n't get it too thin or it will break when you cook it . Bonus : you can store the uncooked tortillas in the plastic until using and they wo n't dry out .
I wo n't offer any suggestions on what type of herbs you should use in your recipes - that is entirely up to you and what you like . Experiment with different flavors and combinations from a basic base , or there are plenty of recipes freely available on the <URL> for savory breads . The technical answer is , generally dried herbs are preferable when baking because they contribute no moisture to the recipe , and because they generally have lots of time to infuse their flavor into the dough . Fresh herbs are nice ( and it sounds like you have plenty of them available ) but you need to <URL> : Dried herbs have a more concentrated flavor , so you will need to need to use a larger quantity of fresh herbs when substituting them for dried in recipes . The most common rule of thumb seems to be about 3 times the amount of fresh herbs for dried , maybe a bit lower if you 've got really nice and fresh herbs with intense flavor . Certain leafy herbs ( basil , mint ) will retain and contribute some moisture . It 's doubtful that you 'll be using enough in any recipe to throw off its water balance , but beware of using large amounts . if you want a strong flavor for these herbs it 's best to use dried . Also , these items can get really bitter when bruised or otherwise mistreated , and that bitterness will wind up in your bread . Not so tasty . Particular herb flavors will stand up very well to baking , and others will not . I find that some savory flavors like thyme and oregano mellow out when baked but still retain their character . Rosemary will work well in baked goods but has a very intense flavor , so you 'll want to use a bit less than other herbs . Other delicate flavors like mint do n't do well when baked , both because of the bruising problem noted above and because they 're so delicate . Also note that it 's pretty easy , if a little time-intensive , to <URL> , which is a great idea for extended storage .
More sodastream bottles is the best option if you are starting from a sodastream . The best other alternative is to act just like a really old-fashioned soda counter . Mix and store your syrups/flavors . Measure syrup into the glass . Add plain soda-water and mix . Thus , your sodastream bottle only ever has plain carbonated water in it , not a specific flavor .
There are two common varieties of pickled ginger in Japan ( and a bunch of less common ones ) . The " gari " is " amazu-shouga " ( 甘酢生姜 or 甘酢しょうが ) it 's usually thinly sliced and often , though not always , left uncolored , or just colored enough to leave it slightly pink instead of yellowish-white . Due to generous use of sugar or other sweeteners , it 's usually somewhat sweet , and that 's right there in the name , which roughly translates as " sweet vinegar ginger " . It 's generally made with a young ginger that has a pretty thin , moist skin . Another variety , which typically comes in the shape of thick matchsticks , is a bit saltier and , because of the thickness , a bit firmer . It 's called " kizami-shouga " or ( きざみ生姜 or きざみしょうが ) . Kizami refers to the shape , not the flavor . Occasionally this will be labeled " beni-shouga " ( 紅ショウガ ) , which means red ginger . I believe that more mature ginger is used for kizami-shouga than is used for amazu-shouga . It 's generally used to garnish and season things like yakisoba or okonomiyaki , but is not typically served with most types of sushi . The amazu shouga is more common for most sushi . So it 's possible that you 've picked up kizami-shouga instead of amazu-shouga . While there 's nothing stopping you from adding sugar or other sweeteners from the brine , that probably wo n't help that much . If you do have amazu-shouga , it 's also possible you 've just found one that does n't taste that good . The quality of packaged Japanese pickles I 've found in the US is n't all that great , though I 've occasionally found decent umeboshi . You might try a different brand , or consider pickling your own ginger . The basic process for pickling the ginger is a hybrid between salt pickles and vinegar pickles : You peel and thinly slice the ginger , and rub it with salt , leaving it for at least an hour or overnight to sweat . You 'll then add a solution of sugar and rice vinegar , occasionally with a little bit of ume-zu , which is the salty brine extracted from umeboshi-making , or beet juice , if you want to guarantee a pink color .
A lot depends on what kind of cheese you are making . I will assume that you are making a standard , medium-firm , rennet-set cheese . I have had the most success adding seasonings and herbs with the salt . That is - after the curd has set , been cut , and drained but before it has been pressed at all . Work in the salt and any other flavors before placing the curd in the mold . I imagine any herb or spice would work - it depends what flavor you want . I have used basil when I had a bumper crop . I have also used dried peppers . As to dry or fresh - either would work . As with anything if you use dry then use a lot less . I prefer fresh because it is more tender . Other cheeses might be a little different but as a rule of thumb adding with the salt should work . Mozzarella seems like it would be trickier because the kneading of the curd would change things .
Absolutely . I do it all the time , with great results . The easiest way at home is to ' <URL> ' the chocolate . Get it up to the proper temperature as best you can - 115 &#176; F/46 &#176; C for dark , 110 &#176; F/43 &#176; C for others . A thermometer obviously makes this easier . If you do n't have one , it will be just melted . Doing this in the microwave is more difficult than a double boiler because it 's difficult to tell when it happens exactly and you overshoot more easily . Stir on a double boiler till the right temperature , take the chocolate off the heat and stir in additional , finely chopped , high quality unmelted chocolate ( not chocolate chips ) . Now stir it in as the mixture cools , it should all melt and ' seed ' the crystals into the chocolate . You 'll want to test before you declare victory . At this point , if it 's wrong , just reheat , and reapply with more unmelted chocolate . To test , simply dip a spoon in and let it cool in the fridge for a moment . The thin coating on the spoon should be shiny and snapable .
Volume Volume is usually the primarily advertised statistic for rice cookers . This indicates the volume of cooked rice that can be prepared in one cycle . Common sizes include 5.5 cups and 10 cups . 5.5 cups is completely adequate for a family of five people for a single meal . Bowl quality Bowls in entry-level models are typically aluminum . Higher end models will be stainless steel . The same heating properties present in pans are relevant here . Aluminum heats quickly , and unevenly . Steel provides a more even heat . Also of concern is the interior of the bowl . Nearly all bowls have a non-stick coating of varying quality . I 've seen the coating start to flake off within a handful of uses on the cheaper rice makers . Higher end bowls can have a durable coating that lasts years or longer . Cooking logic The simplest and cheapest rice makers will have basic static logic . You put rice in , push a button , and the logic simply applies X amount of heat for Y minutes . Higher end models also have additional functions including : Presets for multiple varieties of rice Delayed/scheduled cooking ( like a slow cooker ) Keep warm functionality Digital displays Elapsed/remaining time displayed Dynamic monitoring and adjustment of temperature/humidity Cooking/Heating method Most rice makers use a simple coiled electric heating element located under the bowl . This is a major cause of overcooked/browned/burnt parts where the rice contacts the heated area . This is exacerbated by cheaper aluminum bowls . Higher end rice makers use induction heating . Induction is a rapidly alternating magnetic field which uses the entire bowl as the heating element . This heats much more evenly and is far less likely ( almost impossible ) to burn the rice . The highest end rice makers add pressure cooking capabilities . Pressure cooked rice purportedly is softer , and retains softness longer than regular cooked rice . Brand &amp; price This is probably the most important . In my experience , you actually get what you pay for . Without fail every American brand rice maker ( presumably made in China ) I 've used has been atrocious . The most positive thing I can say about one is " it worked great for the first batch " . There is one Japanese manufacturer that stands out from the pack : <URL> . I can not overstate how amazing their product is . It literally just works , every time . I received the <URL> as a gift over two years ago . I have used the hell out of this thing and have never had a less than perfect batch of rice .
Why bother paying for instruction or books . The best way to learn is watching a video and practicing . Youtube Youtube has a great wealth of videos on knife skills . I 'm more a visual learner . I like to see a video . A book are not going to help me squat . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( video is labeled as sharpening although he is showing a knife being honed ) <URL> Sundry old Martin Yan episodes across youtube . Cleaver centric technique that requires paying attention to do safely , but can achieve a lot . Chowhound Chowhound has a great wealth of knife skill videos . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Other <URL>
<URL> The point of leaving the cookies to sit on the pan is to dry out the skin so it 'll solidify better . I 'd suggest resting longer ( up to 50 minutes ) or using a hotter oven .
While you can learn how to sharpen on almost any straight blade knife , my recommendation is to start on one that : Is n't expensive , ( try yard sales , thrift stores , and pawn shops ) Is n't very long , ( 6 inches max ) Is wide enough that wearing the blade away wo n't be a big issue , ( chef 's knife would be fine ) Is not too thin or too thick , ( not a boning knife or a meat cleaver ) Is a softer typer of steel , ( so that you will sharpen more frequently , and so it will be easier to grind back the edge if needed ) Does n't have a great finish ( the finish is the part that you 're most likely to mess up beyond easy repair ) . As far as sharpening tools go , I think you need several grades of whetstones to really get a great edge . You can buy them separately or as part of a kit . I would skip any other type of sharpener , even a honer for now ( again , so that you 'll be forced to practice resharpening more often ) . Then it 's a matter of practicing sharpening and testing the edge . Make really sure you get your technique down before trying to add ANY speed . Make sure your fingers are NEVER in the path of the blade . Work from roughest to finest whetstone . If you mess up on the whetstone angle , go back to the roughest stone and regrind to a fresh edge . Your practice knife will get scratched up and worn down faster than normal . When you 're comfortable with your skill , get a slightly nicer knife and a honing steel .
Well , you 're definitely right . Onions cooked at a high temperature act differently than ones cooked at a low temperature , per " the bible " aka On Food and Cooking . However , it does n't go in to much of an explanation as to why . Probably the most relevant aspects of what is in there are : When onions and their relatives are heated , the various sulfur compounds react with each other and with other substances to produce a range of characteristic flavor molecules . The cooking method , temperature and medium strongly affect the flavor balance . Baking , drying , and microwaving tend to generate trisulfides , the characteristic notes of overcooked cabbage . Cooking at high temperatures in fat produces more volatiles and a stronger flavor than do other techniques . <URL> Since a low temperature produces less volatiles , I assume that the natural sugars of the onion shine through instead . It 's probably also important to understand where the oniony flavor comes from . The spice , as you describe it , is the onions natural defense mechanism . However , it does n't exist defacto in the onion , but is rather the result of a chemical reaction . The onion stores very reactive sulfur in the cell fluid , and a seperate trigger mechanism in a storage vacuole . When you cut / crush / cook / peel the onion , you break the vacuole and the enzyme and sulfur cause a chemical reaction giving off the spice . <URL> &amp; <URL> )
If you 're making a sauce that is n't supposed to curdle , and it does , you throw it out and start over .
end question
start question
Uses for brewers/nutritional yeast ?
It 's a great addition in just about any clear stock soup ( non-cream-based ) such as chicken , beef and even vegetable . ( It 's actually great for vegetarians and vegans who may have difficulty getting enough of their b-complex due to a meatless diet . ) It enriches and deepens the flavor while providing a bunch of minerals . It 's also an easy way to " rescue " a soup whose depth of flavor and savoriness ( umami ) fell short . Couple of caveats : It might make your stock cloudy if you add too much It does n't seem to stay in solution in stock too well . Needs frequent stirring in the bowl to keep a consistent flavor
Modifying your original terms : Size : 2-3 quart/liter . I consider 2.5 quarts to be ideal . Material : Two options : hard-anodized aluminum nonstick , OR stainless-steel interior/exterior . With stainless , it should have either an encapsulated aluminum disk base or a tri-ply construction ( aluminum layered with stainless ) Bottom : Thick is good , and you absolutely must have aluminum here for conduction Handle : stainless is good , as long as it stays relatively cool . The handle absolutely must be riveted on , with thick rivets . Screws , glue , or welded handles do not last long-term . Tack-welded handles are the bane of the restaurant I work for right now ; we 've had several handles snap off in the last year . Additional things to look for : Weight : HEAVY . You want fairly thick cookware for even heating , but most of that weight should be from thickness of the aluminum disk . Design : A flared lip around the pot , to facilitate clean pouring . Shape : I 'm partial to shallow designs , which flare out at the top . Although it 's nonstick and not stainless , I love my <URL> for it 's extra-flared design . This lets it transmit heat more efficiently from the range , and allows it to safely hold a larger capacity of food . It also allows for faster and cleaner reduction of sauces . Lid : TEMPERED GLASS with a handle on top , and a flange to help seal tightly on the pot/pan . Tempered glass is very durable and lets you see the progress of your cooking without releasing the steam . The handle also remains cool , so you do n't burn yourself on it ; this is the second problem I have with solid stainless lids on many premium cookware lines ( All Clad , and most manufacturers ' tri-ply products ) .
There are three major things that will cause collapsed yeast raised breads : Underdeveloped gluten ( possibly from insufficient kneading ) , which does n't create enough of the gluten network to hold the gas from the yeast , especially during oven spring . This may be exacerbated by using low-protein flours , which do not generate as much gluten as high-protein flours ( called strong flours in Europe ) . This tends not to manifest as a collapse , so much , as a failure to rise . Considerable overkneading , to the point where the gluten network begins to break down , and can not hold the gas ( this is quite unlikely , unless machine kneaded ) Over-proofing ( allowing to rise or ferment too long ) , which creates more gas than the gluten cells can hold , leading to their rupture and collapse when the heat of the oven causes expansion and oven spring . This leads to collapse of the loaf . Without more information , it is difficult to tell which of these you are experiencing .
Oxtail would be your most likely substitute , but you have indicated you can not obtain it . The next best choice ( of those widely available ) is probably chuck , which is the shoulder muscle , and is well worked and flavored . It requires low and slow cooking for best results , much like shanks and tail do . Some stores -- even the chain grocery stores -- will special order for you if you ask them to , so you might be able to get shank . Depending on where you live , you may also try butchers at farmers ' markets , Dutch markets , or similar .
The existing answers already explain why yeast and baking powder wo n't work together . But even if they did , you would n't have a reason to use them . You seem to think that fluffiness depends on the amount of gas produced by the leaveners . In fact , it depends on both the gas and the ability of the dough to trap that gas . If you produce too much gas ( no matter whether through yeast or through baking powder ) , then the fluffiness will be less than when using the optimal amount of leavener . This happens because your dough can not hold the gas and the bubbles break , resulting in the dough deflating like a punctured tire . So even if combining two leaveners would have resulted in more " blowing big " action ( which it does n't , see the other answers ) , you would not end up with a fluffier end product . If you want fluffy muffins , you have to use a recipe and a technique which is best capable of retaining the gas produced by the baking powder . The amount of gas production is not a bottleneck .
Dry biscuits ( American ' biscuits ' - not cookies ) , or anything other flour based quick bread that dried out - if you 're trying to replicate the bread crumbs . You may be able to get by with a modified muffin recipe as well . You 'll want to avoid fats and oils to reduce the moistness . Yeast bread develops a particular flavor and larger hole structure than quick bread though . The flavor of a quick bread breadcrumbs should be slightly different , but in many dishes the subtle difference wo n't be overwhelming unless the breading is a ' star ' of the dish . The hole structure really does n't matter luckily - as developing that is a large part of the time factor of real bread . Drying it out will be the harder part . The denser structure holds moisture better , so slice it thin and give it low , dry , long heat . Personally , anything that you 're going to make for the purpose of breadcrumbs that is n't just a substitute ( like cereal , crackers , etc in the other answer ) , sounds like it 'd be easier just to make a loaf of fast rise bread to me .
It 's actually spelled ' roux ' , and is a mixture of oil and flour , cooked to remove the starchy taste of the flour . It 's a great thickener any time that you do n't need the sauce to be clear , and you have time to cook it down . I typically use it for cream sauce ( including cheese sauces , such as for mac &amp; cheese ) and gravies . As for benefits -- it 's habit at this point , so I 'm not really sure -- I guess it 's made from things I always have on hand . You can also get flavor from the roux , if you cook it longer , but you 'll adversely affect the thickening ability . Gumbo is normally made from a dark roux ( the Cajuns have a series of names for the color of roux , including ' brick ' , ' peanut-butter ' and ' chocolate ' )
First off , it 's good to understand the difference between active dry yeast and rapid rise yeast . Active dry yeast is a larger granule of yeast in which the outer shell is composed of mostly dead cells entombing the dormant nougaty goodness inside . It has to be proofed to seperate out all the cells and rehydrate the interior active cells . Rapid rise yeast is a typically a combination of 2 different strains of yeast ( so those with a very discerning palate might be able to tell the difference , I 've never really tried ) . The granules of yeast are smaller and dried slower to preserve more yeast cells . Ascorbic acid is also added to push the yeast into overdrive a little faster . A great video that helped me a lot is <URL> I have noticed before issues with Rapid Rise yeast not proofing very well the second time around . Apparently it 's designed to give you one really good proof and then die out ( play hard and die young ) . Instant yeast however is Rapid Rise yeast without the hardcore party attitude . It 's what they use at the King Arthur bakery test kitchen , so that 's good enough for me ! They say to use them interchangeably , but many other sites I see show a difference of about 20 % . 2 Tbsp Active Dry yeast ≈ 1.6 Tbsp Instant Yeast
I 've had the same problem once . The first substitute is <URL> . But they 're not easy to find either . The second one is using <URL> . Tamales will be done in the same time and you could eat the leaf if you want . I 've tried it once and it came out great . Here it 's a recipe for <URL> . Here it is a graphic <URL> . They are written in Spanish , let me know if you need a translator ;) PS . My mexican mother in law used to do it with chard .
<URL> states that one cake is the equivalent to one packet of dried yeast ( 0.25 oz or 2.25 tsp ) : One ( 1/4-ounce ) yeast packet of dry yeast OR 1 cake fresh , compressed yeast EQUALS 2 - 1/4 teaspoons dry yeast ( active dry or instant active dry )
As a substitute for untoasted sesame oil , most light oils will work ( light olive , peanut , canola , sunflower , etc ) . Any nut or seed oil should be pretty close . Toasted sesame oil has a much bolder and nuttier flavor . It could perhaps be approximated with a light oil and adding toasted sesame to your dish .
Use it the same as you would thai basil , or even " normal " basil . It 's a little more strongly on the licorice flavor side of things than lettuce leaf basil , but it still works nicely in conjunction with tomatoes , garlic , and other " italian " flavors .
It 's meant that way . Good for pies , etc. . <URL> types if you like .
Look at : <URL> Conversion Measurements for Using Different Yeasts in Recipes :
It 's absolutely fine to make the dough in advance , just do n't let it dry out . It even freezes well . There is more good information on <URL> on the subject . Keep it on the counter for up to a day , refrigerated for up to three days , frozen for up to 6 months ( for best quality ) . In any case that you want to hold the dough , be sure that your baking powder ( if using ) is of the <URL> variety .
I grew up with a Vietnamese mother that used to put fish sauce in nearly everything . While I ca n't exactly recommend all of her uses ( she once used it in a texas beef chili -- was not good ) , there are a few techniques that are good to know . A common method to create a savory sauce is to use fish sauce with sugar at a 2:1 ratio . For example , you can make <URL> by sauteeing fried tofu with diced tomatoes and adding 2tbsp of fish sauce to 1tbsp of sugar . This ratio can also be used in stir-fries . I would make sure to turn on your air vents when doing this -- the smell of fish sauce hitting a hot pan is ... different than what most people are used to . It works as a savory salt alternative in a lot of dishes . I use it to season fried rice instead of using salt or soy sauce . It generally is a good idea to add this during the cooking process , so the liquid can reduce and meld with the food . It can also be used to quick brine ground pork for savory asian dishes . I 'd add somewhere in the vicinity of a tbsp per pound of ground pork . I use this technique when making Thai <URL> . There are probably other marinating/brining applications , but I do n't have much personal experience with that . You can also use fish sauce to create a wide variety of dipping sauces -- in general it is paired with something sweet ( sugar or rice vinegar ) to help balance out the saltiness . It is also commonly watered down ( <URL> ) in vietnamese dipping sauces to keep it from being too overpowering . On a personal note , my favorite use is straight up on crispy fried eggs ( slightly runny yolk ) over white rice . It is n't for everyone , but it 's something I 've been making and enjoying for years .
It sounds like you have Fleischman 's Pizza Crust Yeast ( or a no-doubt quite similar product if from another manufacturer ) . The relevant phrase from the Fleischman marketing web site is : Pizza Crust Yeast is specially-formulated with dough relaxers that keep the dough from pulling or snapping back when shaping it . It is intended to make it easier to stretch the pizza dough into shape . The yeast itself is normal instant yeast , to the best of my knowledge -- the additives in the packet are what make it " pizza crust yeast " . Researching the additional ingredients other than yeast : Sorbitan monostearate -- According to <URL> is an emulsifier with a polar and non-polar ends : Sorbitan monostearate is used as an emulsifying agent in cake mixes , icings , baked goods , puddings , imitation whipped cream , hemorrhoid creams , and creams to treat dry skin . <URL> mentions that this helps the dough absorb the water . l-cysteine * -- is an amino acid , which is naturally occurring , and often extracted from hair or feathers . <URL> explains the science in bread dough , where it acts as a reducing agent : During mixing the gluten in the ﬂour is stretched and pulled apart so that it can be reformed during prooﬁng and baking to provide the needed strength and structure . Reducing agents act like mixing to reversibly break down gluten so that once they have been used up the gluten reforms . This mechanism is the opposite of oxidizing agents , which build up gluten . Reducing and oxidizing agent ascorbic acid * -- is of course Vitamin C , and a fairly strong acid . According to <URL> in Czeck Journal of Food Sciences , at concentrations under 0.6 % it has little effect on wheat flour , so it is unlikely to have any practical effect in a full batch of pizza dough . Its inclusion is probably ( as mentioned in <URL> ) as an anti-oxidant and preservative in the packet , rather than as an active ingredient in the bread dough . enzymes -- no doubt the particular enzymes and their ratios are proprietary to the brand you have , but according to the Wikipedia article on <URL> , they are used to increase transformation of starch into sugars to facilitate the action of the live yeast . Common enzymes used include : Amylases break down the starch in flours into simple sugars , thereby letting yeast ferment quickly . Malt is a natural source of amylase . Proteases improve extensibility of the dough by degrading some of the gluten . Lipoxygenases oxidize the flour . See also this <URL> which discusses various commercially available forms of yeast . My personal opinion is that I would not buy " pizza crust yeast , " since recipes are not designed for the presence of its dough conditioners . I would rather control my dough 's ingredients myself . However , since you have the product , why not try it using the vendor 's recipe ? I would be fascinated to hear how it performs .
Every substitution is probably going to require other alterations . Baking soda 's effects extend beyond leavening : it generally reacts with acidic ingredients ( making the batter less sour ) and also provides sodium ions which can affect flavor . If the substitute does n't react with acid as strongly , you may need to decrease acid ingredients or substitute neutral ingredients to obtain the same flavor ( e.g. , milk instead of buttermilk or yogurt , regular cream instead of sour cream ) . If the substitute does n't have sodium , sometimes adding a bit of salt may be necessary . As for the leavening action itself , any substitute will introduce its own issues in adapting . Unless you 're experienced with this sort of thing ( or like to " experiment " and possibly have cakes that fail in various ways ) , I would generally recommend finding a cake recipe that has leavening agents you actually have on hand , rather than trying a substitute . There are really only two common substitutions that often wo n't affect texture or flavor in major ways : ( 1 ) Potassium bicarbonate - can usually be substituted 1:1 for baking soda , but is generally tougher to find than baking soda . ( Look sometimes for it at drugstores ; baking soda itself can often be found as " sodium bicarbonate " or some other name in other countries at drugstores too . ) Without the sodium ions , you may need to add a bit of salt , roughly 1/4 or 1/3 of the amount of baking soda will be sufficient for flavor . ( 2 ) Baking powder - also often harder to find in other countries than baking soda . Also , other countries may have other formulations than what is found in the U.S. For standard U.S. baking powder , you 'd generally use 2-4 times the amount of baking soda in the recipe . The reason for this inexact ratio is a trade-off in flavor vs. reactivity . If you want the same reactivity with acidic ingredients , you 'd need 3-4 times more baking powder , but this often results in a " baking powder flavor , " sometimes described as " metallic . " But if you decrease the amount to avoid this flavor -- maybe twice as much as baking soda -- you wo n't react with as much acid , so you probably would want to reduce the amount of acidic ingredients in the batter . For baking powder outside the U.S. , you 'd need to look up the exact formulas/mixtures used and perhaps make further alterations . ( I 'm not going to go into the less common chemical alternatives -- like baker 's ammonia -- which are even less common for baking today . And I 'm not even going to bother with possibilities like homemade potash from wood ashes , which theoretically can provide some leavening . If you 're in a country where you 're that desperate for chemical leaveners , I 'd doubt you 'd have access to basic baking materials . ) Unfortunately , as mentioned , these two options are generally less common to find exact equivalents than baking soda . So , we move onto less reliable options that will require further recipe modification . ( 3 ) Egg whites as leavening - separate eggs and beat whites separately , generally to soft or medium peaks . Usually , fold into batter at the last moment ( generally in stages , first mixing in a portion of the egg whites more thoroughly to lighten , then gently folding in the remainder ) and bake immediately . This will only work by itself with relatively light cakes that do n't have a lot of heavy ingredients . Adding a small amount of sugar toward the end of beating may have a stablizing effect and prevent early collapse of a cake . Cream of tartar or a very small amount of other acids like lemon juice or vinegar can also prevent overbeating . ( Note that even if eggs are not separated , beating whole eggs or yolks until light colored will add in small amounts of air . ) ( 4 ) Creaming method - ignore recipe instructions and begin by creaming butter and sugar together until fluffy , often requiring at least 10 minutes of steady beating with a mixer for maximum results . ( By hand , this generally would be done for an hour or more traditionally . ) This will trap air bubbles that will ultimately leaven the batter ( the traditional method for pound cakes ) . This works better than egg whites alone for heavier batters ( e.g. , with more flour and/or butter ) , but it still will result in a denser cake than one with baking soda . Generally , continue after creaming butter and sugar by adding eggs one at a time while mixing vigorously , then fold in other ingredients more gently toward the end . ( If the recipe calls for a liquid sugar , like molasses or honey or whatever , substitute with dry sugar for more creaming action . ) ( 5 ) Yeast - there are <URL> devoted to the problems of converting a chemically leavened cake into a yeast-leavened one . Yeast is probably the only way to actually get the same volume without baking soda or other chemical leaveners , but it will usually change the cake texture significantly . Basically , yeast cakes tend to be tougher and more bread-like , while chemically leavened cakes tend to go for a softer cru
Bolted lettuce tastes bitter ; I 'd suggest putting it in your compost pile if you have one . Of course , if you like bitter greens , you could make a salad of your lettuce ( perhaps with a mix of other greens ) with some dried fruit , toasted nuts , and a little goat cheese ; the flavors might marry well .
There is certainly a difference between different yeasts . Different kinds of yeast react differently , are happy at different temperature ranges , produce different amounts of gas , live for different amounts of time . In my little world , however , it 's better to use a yeast that you use commonly and understand than it is to experiment with a different yeast that may not behave the way you expect . The thing is , " bakers yeast " is a generic term . If it called for rapid rise yeast , and all you had was active dry yeast , I 'd say to go out and buy some , or your bread would end up flat . Chances are you have one of those two kinds . They 'd both work in most recipes , but each have their peculiarities , and you 'd need to adjust . I 'd give it a shot , and see how it comes out . If your bread ends up whacky , then try something else .
end question
start question
How long does cooked garlic keep in fridge ?
In general the FDA recommends that you consume leftovers within 3-5 days ( See their website for specific foods ) . In this case , I do n't think the garlic is what 's holding you back . While garlic and herb infused oils do present some botulism risk , I think what they are getting at is the can of preserved garlic you 've had in the fridge for 9 months .
No more than 72 hours , maximum . You do n't know how long they 've been out of the water . I would freeze or cook them no later than tomorrow evening .
Unpeeled onions and garlic help thicken liquids ( just a little ) . The skins of onions and garlic are at least 10 % pectin , the substance that is used to thicken jellies . If you are making a stock or a soup , you can place the washed unpeeled garlic or onion quarters in an oversized herb sachet . After cooking you remove the sachet and discard its contents . The <URL> . You can read all about the science of garlic and onions in <URL> . While it does discuss the antioxidant effects of Alliums in general it does not treat the particular compounds that have been discovered in the skins .
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
Depending on the temperature in your fridge , cooked lentils will be safe to eat for 2 to 5 days when using a sealed container , filled with the cooking water . By immersing them , your lentils wo n't dry out and they 'll be ready to use whenever you need them - just drain the amount you need . If you 've got sufficient freezer space you could also freeze the cooked lentils . Just prepare a whole lot of lentils and divide them in individual portions to put in small freezer bags . Make sure you push out any air before sealing the bag . Freezed lentils will be fine anywhere from 4 up to 6 months . However , I would strongly recommend using dried lentils , which I 'm sure you 'll be able to find in Copenhagen . Just make a habit of soaking the amount of lentils you need for your breakfast and you 'll never have to worry about storing leftovers . It 's a lot cheaper too ! But above that , dried lentils tend to taste much better than canned lentils . :)
Black garlic is not a substitute for regular garlic , you add black garlic to get a different result . I would never say use 2 cloves of black garlic for every 1 regular or any other ratio because the changes are so fundamental that they really are totally different ingredients . The question is how much black garlic flavor you want , and only you can answer that . I 'd suggest that you taste it when it 's close to being done and if you want more add more then .
Bisquick-originated pancake and waffle batter lasts a day , two at the most . Data : in college , I made pancakes or waffles every day for a year and a half , making the batter on day 1 and then cooking it on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . Once in that time I got sick on Day 3 . Based on that experience , more than 24 hours is getting sketchy , though 48 seems to work most of the time .
Paul , I make my own pasta dough frequently . Since my standard recipe makes around 40oz ( 1 kg ) of dough , I always have leftover , so I 've had plenty of experience with saving it . Even with eggs , pasta dough will be fine in the fridge for a week ; the texture will be unaffected ( if anything , it will be better ) . If you want to keep it longer than a week , it can be frozen for several weeks wrapped tightly in plastic wrap , and more-or-less indefinitely if you vacuum-seal it . Glad to hear about your WWW recipe , I 'll have to try that .
Even with a whole bulb , break it into cloves . Put clove ( s ) on a cutting board . I usually cut off the root end of each clove . Lay a large chef 's knife flat on the clove , then smack the knife to crush the clove . This breaks the skin of the clove and makes it much easier to peel .
Anything can spoil eventually , refrigerated or not . Keeping something under a lid and refrigerated restricts the number of airborne colonizers that might get access to it , and the cold temperature means that even if they get there , they will grow much slower than at room temperature . For something to spoil , it needs to be colonized by bacteria or fungus spores , and it needs to contain some nourishment to support their growth , not too much chemicals that prevent their growth , and not too much competing life forms already present . So , things with a high concentration of salt or sugar tend to be unhospitable to bacteria and fungi growth , because they are hygroscopic ( they draw the water out of cells ) . Extreme high or low pH ( eg acidic ) also retards growth . Think of things like ketchup , mustard , jelly with labels that say " refrigerate after opening " but most people ignore them . Alcohol is unfriendly if the concentration is too high , and of course natural fermented foods are already occupied by human-friendly bacteria . Ketchup is sealed in a bottle , usually with no fingers or utensils inserted into it , so it stays pretty sterile . It is also protected by being hygroscopic ( due to high concentration of sugar and salt ) and its acidity . Ketchup as a word and concept is descended from an Indonesian fish sauce , and has been around much longer than refrigeration . I think you can leave it out with no worries unless you see obvious mold growth .
Up to 7 days ( homemade mayo as well ) . Egg whites/yolks out of the egg ( but not combined with the acid ) can last 3-4 days refrigerated , and eggs in-shell are good for 2-4 weeks depending on processing .
It depends on a lot of factors : what you 're describing is n't much different from making jam , and homemade jam is good for about a month , once you open it . Assuming you got the temp high enough to kill all the bacteria , the time will depend entirely on PH and water content . The more acidic , and the less watery the better . Generally things like this freeze well though , so , when in doubt , throw it in the freezer .
Truffles are a low acid food , and they grow underground , so they are at risk to have botulism spores present . Vacuum packing creates a low oxygen environment , which is what the botulism bacteria requires to grow and produce its toxin . Unless the truffles have been salted ( to 5 % by weight ) , acidified ( to a pH of 4.6 or lower ) , or frozen ( at all times after being vacuum packed ) , they are at risk for the growth of botulism . Some strains can grow and produce their toxins at refrigerator temperatures ( and most refrigerators have a temperature cycle that peaks in the more general growth range ) . While the growth is slow , it can occur . The risk is increased if the truffles have not been continuously refrigerated since they were vacuum packed . For this reason , mushrooms and truffles should never be vacuum packed and stored . You should discard these truffles . In the future , obtain your truffles from a reputable source ( which does not vacuum pack ) and use them fresh , or freeze them as botulism is not active at freezer temperatures . See also : University of Colorado Extension fact sheet on <URL>
This completely depends on all of the other factors involved in botulinum growth , not to mention the particular strain you 're concerned about ( there are several ) . Salt , acidity ( low pH ) , low moisture , and extreme temperature ( low or high ) will all slow botulinum growth significantly . There are proteolytic and non-proteolytic types of bacteria . The proteolytic C.botulinum bacteria will never grow in the refrigerator - they can not grow at temperatures below 12 ° C <URL> . The non-proteolytic strains can grow at temperatures as low as 3 ° C . That is very close to refrigerator temperature so clearly they will grow very slowly - again , the exact speed depends on other factors - but they will grow . According to <URL> , the proteolytic strains ( the ones that can not grow in the fridge ) are the ones that tend to produce gas and off-odours , so they 'll be more easily detectable . They also have far lower heat resistance , so they are easier to cook away . But of course , if they 've grown to a sufficient level , it 's too late to do that . As far as I know , there are n't specific guidelines for vacuum-packed foods , whether commercially packed or simply cooked sous-vide . I 'd ask you to consider that botulism is not the only type of foodborne illness that can grow in the refrigerator . There 's also <URL> , <URL> , and possibly some others I 'm forgetting about . Cooking ( especially sous-vide cooking ) does n't kill every last one of them , just enough to make the food safe . By the way , listeria and salmonella are both <URL> which means that they can grow with or without air . There 's also the small matter of your actual refrigerator temperature . Although the theoretical temperature ( 4 ° C ) is lower than that required for all but the hardiest of bacteria , once you move up even a single degree to 5 ° C there are many more kinds that can start to grow . How cold is your fridge , really ? I 've heard of some being as high as 10-12 ° C in parts ! If your fridge temperature is even slightly high , botulism will be the least of your worries . Honestly , given the incredibly tiny number of actual documented cases of botulism ( <URL> ) compared to the insanely high total number of food poisoning cases every year ( <URL> according to some sources ) , people seem to place far too much emphasis on that particular species . I realize that it 's one of the scariest on account of that whole " instant death " thing , but even if you could prove that your improperly-stored food is 100 % free of botulism toxin , you could still get seriously ill from eating it . You 're literally worrying about the least probable vector for food poisoning . Bottom line , I 'd strongly advise you to treat sous-vide food just like any other food in terms of food safety and freeze it if you plan to store it longer than 4-5 days . There are just too many variables at play to conclusively say otherwise .
Before being cooked , vegetables are like a wall built from tightly filled water balloons . Each cell has is filled with water ( well , technically cytoplasm , but ... ) which is essentially incompressible . One of the components in the cell walls is hemi-cellulose , which dissolves into the water when the vegetable is cooked . This allows the individual cells to partially deflate , expressing water and making the overall vegetable wilt . Think a blown up beach ball . Although the wall is soft and flexible , the air holds it rigid . Of course , air can be compressed , so a beach ball can be squeezed ; but water for all practical purposes is not compressible , so there is no almost no give in the individual plant cells . Once the cell walls loose their integrity , however , it is like the beach balls that comprise the plant have sprung a leak . They loose their shape or rigor , and at the large scale you see wilting or softening . Note that the presence of acid in the cooking medium can inhibit the dissolving of the hemi-cellulose , and permitting vegetables to better maintain their shape . This is one reason why , for example , canned vegetables have acid added to the canning liquid ( another being that acidity above a certain threshold inhibits the growth of certain dangerous food born pathogens . )
<URL> : 6 months at best quality . In my personal experience , it can last much longer and be just fine , though I think the longest I ever kept a box was a couple years , not 5 years like riotburn . StillTasty suggests that the concern after more than 6 months is lost potency , but I believe the potential to take on odors from the surroundings is much more of a concern ; store it in something airtight like you said , and you should be pretty safe from that . So I 'm sure it 'll last at least until next Christmas . And if you do get into baking , you might go through a box faster than you 'd think . Otherwise , it 's fortunately pretty cheap , and it does have other uses ( e.g. cleaning ) so it wo n't hurt you too much to just go for it .
In general the FDA recommends that you consume leftovers within 3-5 days ( See their website for specific foods ) . In this case , I do n't think the garlic is what 's holding you back . While garlic and herb infused oils do present some botulism risk , I think what they are getting at is the can of preserved garlic you 've had in the fridge for 9 months .
Food tends to become unpleasant before it becomes actually dangerous . I would try to eat things within 3 days of making them , though that 's just my personal guideline and is n't based on any scientific data . If you are n't going to eat it that quickly , freezing it after it 's been cooked and thawing it the day you want to eat it is probably a better idea .
Paneer can be used as is . Sometimes it is fried to extend shelf life . Cooks will also sometimes fry paneer until it is slightly brown and then put the fried cubes of paneer in hot water for a few minutes . This makes paneer very soft . If you do cook paneer , it will not melt , like most other cheese varieties , because it 's an acid-set cheese .
<URL> The link states it can be kept uncut for 2-3 weeks in the fridge , while cut pieces can last up to 5 days . I think since it 's a root it should hold up much like a carrot or turnip or other like fleshed vegetable .
end question
start question
why roast marrow bones at 450F ?
Bone marrow is made up of a large portion of fat . If you roast it low and slow , you render out a good portion of that fat and are left with a liquidy mess . Also the high heat will start to carmelize the bone marrow , providing much flavor .
Coffee taste is indeed subjective . However , there are some things you can look for since the added pressure ( versus drip ) can force extraction of flavours you do n't like . Below are some of the drivers ( Disclaimer , I do n't use the Aeropress ) : Oily beans : Towards the end of the roasting process the coffee oil can seep out ( sweat ) and you end up with beans that look wet . This may turn out ok taste with drip coffee , not so much for espresso types . Roast Colour : Drip coffee roasts tend to actually be darker and most espresso roasts are usually lighter in colour ( see illy or LaVazza Oro ) . This may be to compensate for the forces of added pressure extracting deeper and more into the bean . There are exceptions to this ( Bar Mexico in Naples uses dark roast but on a manual lever machine ) . Bean Type : Aeropress might handle some robusta ( similar to Muka ) as opposed to pure Arabica . More than 40 % and imo your coffee will taste like earth . Grind Size : Each bean type and locale and roast level will require minute grinder setting changes . You can make the best roasted beans taste awful with the wrong grind . Try varying your grind from fine to super fine and experiment . Usually the higher pressure requires finer grind with the exception of turkish coffee . Dosage : To the get right extraction , a balance of pressure , grind size , and dosage is required . Good cafes measure their dosage to ~ 0.1 gram when setting their grinder . If you find the coffee starting to clear up too fast in your extraction try increasing the dose .
I do n't think a pork sirloin roast will stand up to that kind of cooking very well . That is a very lean piece of meat , which does not lend itself to long cooking times at low temperatures . That type of cooking is best reserved for cuts of meat with lots of fat and/or connective tissue . If you put a pork sirloin roast in your cooker for 8 hours on low , you 're going to have one tough , dry piece of meat when you are through . You would be better served by cooking it in the oven at higher heat , for a relatively short period of time , like 400F for an hour or so . Bear in mind , you 're not going to get to a fall-apart tender state with a sirloin roast . This is n't a pork butt with which you 're dealing , which you 'd take up to an internal temperature of 195F or more . Rather , you 're going to want to target the safe temperature , and no higher . You want the meat to be juicy . Cut into thinner slices to achieve maximum tenderness .
Dark roast has a heavy bitter taste . As espresso usually is served pretty strong , people expect the bitter taste . Most bars serve 70/30 or 80/20 ( natural/dark roast ) blends . If the roast is made of the cheaper robusta bean , the coffee shop can save money . But , you can make an excellent espresso from 100 % natural roast arabica beans ( I do it all the time ) . People will notice the difference , even though they 're not conscious what it is .
Bone marrow is made up of a large portion of fat . If you roast it low and slow , you render out a good portion of that fat and are left with a liquidy mess . Also the high heat will start to carmelize the bone marrow , providing much flavor .
To be perfectly honest with you , in all my years of cooking in kitchens I never took the temp of the fish . It was always by feel and look . Yes , I know that the gov ' t has guidelines that say 145F for fish but really when it comes down to it , if you have an 8oz cut of salmon/cod/monk in the pan , sticking an instant read into the middle wo n't do you much good . ( Caveat : If it was a salmon Wellington I would shoot for 130F as it 's a fully enclosed package that you ca n't feel for doneness ) The thickness of the cut will make a huge difference in when you should pull it out as you get post-oven cooking during resting in which the heat continues to heat the core of the flesh up to a final cooked temperature . That 's why most chefs will take the roast out at a rare measured temp when they are shooting for a med rare serving state . If your question is what state should monk fish be served , IE med rare ( like salmon ) or rare ( like tuna ) then I would say med-rare is your best bet . Over cooking is a bad thing for monk fish and it goes from a lovely moist state to dry nastiness really quick . A nice way to cook it that helps to give you a little move wiggle room when cooking it is to wrap it in Parma ham ( prosciutto ) . The little extra wrapping tastes great but also gives you a little bit of buffer as you get close to that magical temperature of doneness . Hope it helps .
Sterno is ( roughly ) alcohol mixed with gel . The same type of alcohol ( ethanol mixed with enough methanol to make it poisonous ) is commonly used in marine stoves because it 's considered to be quite safe : it does n't explode and it can be extinguished with water . Alcohol also burns cleanly and quite completely , so there are essentially no methanol molecules in the flame that could land on your marshmallows and harm you .
I would suggest zucchinis . They taste very good with olive oil and they will be ready at the same time as the asparagus .
Given your lack of tools , we 're going to have to get <URL> on this roast . You 'll need some sort of flavorful liquid ( or a combination of them ) . Chicken stock or beef stock would work . I 'd normally also recommend using something acidic like red wine or tomatoes , however , using this method ( which is based on tinfoil ) , acids can react with the aluminum to produce off flavors . If you want to cook with wine or tomatoes , you can transfer the meat to your casserole after you brown it . ( More on this below . ) You 'll also need some type of mild tasting oil . Vegetable , corn , canola/rapeseed , peanut , light olive oil , will all work . Salt . That 's it in terms of software . Hardware : Paper towels . Tinfoil ( preferably the big , wide kind , and heavy duty ) . An oven . That 's it . Algorithm : This is basically the same technique that <URL> proposed , just using different tools . Adjust your oven 's rack to about 6 inches from the broiler . Turn on your oven 's broiler on its highest setting . Lay out two layers of tinfoil on your counter . Make sure the tinfoil is big enough such that if you were to place the roast in the middle of it there would be a border of tinfoil around the roast that is at least as wide as the roast itself . Optional : Put the tinfoil on a large sheetpan or cookie sheet . This will help you in transporting the device to/from the oven , and it will also ensure against spillage in your oven . If you do things right you wo n't have to wash the sheet . Pat the meat as dry as you can get it and put it in the center of the tinfoil . Pour a bit of oil on top of the roast and rub it all over . You only need enough to barely coat the entire roast . Generously salt both sides of the roast . I prefer using kosher salt , because it is less saline by volume , so you can more evenly distribute it without over-salting . You 'll probably use a good tablespoon or so . Put the roast under the broiler . Wait about 5 minutes , but that number is n't exact . Use your eyes . Just wait until it looks good and brown and crusty and delicious . Just do n't blacken the entire thing . When the top side is browned , flip it over to the other side . The best tool for the job here is a pair of tongs , but a fork will do . Brown the second side . Remove the roast ( which is hopefully on top of some type of pan for your convenience ) . Turn off your broiler and reset your oven to 275 degrees F. Fold up the sides of the tinfoil around the roast to make a sort of pan around it . Try to leave as little room around the roast as possible . Alternatively , if you want to use acidic ingredients , you can transfer the roast to the casserole at this point . The reason why you could n't use your casserole from scratch is that it is probably not broiler-safe . Pour in enough of the beef/chicken stock to just barely cover the roast . It should n't require very much liquid . Once the liquid is in , fold the tinfoil on itself to seal the top , such that you end up with a tinfoil package containing the browned meat and the stock . Try and make it airtight . Stick that in the 275 F oven . Just let it sit in there for ~ 3 hours . You do n't need to touch it . After ~ 3 hours , take it out . Hopefully the tinfoil did n't leak . If you did this correctly , all the cleanup you need to do is crumple up the foil and throw it out . You can also experiment with adding other vegetables ( e.g. , thinly sliced onions or whole garlic cloves ) . You can even add them from the very beginning . As I mentioned in a comment on <URL> answer , bottom round roasts have a lot of tough connective tissue which needs to be cooked low and slow ( < 300F ) in the oven in order to become soft and tender . However , if you were to cook the beef the entire way at that temperature the meat would end up being gray and tasteless . The reason is that the <URL> ( which are what turn the meat golden brown and make it taste more meaty and delicious ) do n't really occur below ~ 300F , which is the purpose of the initial sear .
Smell . Really , this is the most reliable criterion for practically any fruit . Flavor contains both taste and smell . For a strawberry , you want a fragrant smell together with enough sweetness . For both , the berry has to be ripe enough . If it was picked underripe , it wo n't smell good enough yet , and it will also be hard and sour . If it was picked long ago and is not fresh any more , it will have lost the more volatile components of its fragrance . So ripe , fresh strawberries smell great . I have had occasions when I entered a supermarket to quickly buy one thing , aimed at the correct aisle , but when the smell of good strawberries reached me near the produce , I turned and added a pack of them . I have never been disappointed with such strawberries . Also , if you smell the slightest hint of mold , fermentation , or foulness , you know they may not keep even one night . Another sign is that a ripe strawberry will be red through and through . A strawberry picked underripe will be white or even slightly greenish at the top . It does n't taste good then . But this is a negative sign , because not all red strawberries taste good . Do n't ever go by shape . The tastiest sort of strawberries my grandparents grew produced ugly , lumpy strawberries of a light , slightly orange color . They also had a few rows of a sort which produced perfectly conical , deep red strawberries , they looked like an advertisement - but they were hard and dry , and did n't have much aroma . Probably , there are some strawberries which both look and taste good - just do n't think that looks or color predict a good strawberry , because they are independent . And of course , any strawberries which have visible mold or fouled spots are not good any more . You can usually also recognize overripened strawberries in their appearance , but I do n't know how to describe it well . They just look old .
The discolored surface is a product of oxidation , the same thing that happens when you leave apple slices in the open air . Oxigen is a highly reactive molecule and it binds to anything it can find , in this case your steak . It is not rotten or unsafe to eat in any way , it just has an unpleasant color/texture when raw . Meat packaging is often filled with carbon dioxide , and since the oxygen is already binded to carbon it no longer reacts with the steak . The side effect of this is that your steak could have gone bad , but it still looks good . The pad just collects any fluid that might drip off the steak , again for aesthetic purposes . I 'd suggest to remove the wax paper and shrinkwrap it , this will prevent it from oxidizing .
As long as you monitor each cake for doneness individually , there is no reason not to bake them together -- assuming they both need the same temperature . If the sizes are radically different ( in terms of the thinnest dimension , which is usually the depth ) you may need to adjust temperature to control crust formation during the time it takes the cakes through to the center . If the cakes are close in depth , they should bake in approximately equal times . You may wish to use cake strips or aluminum foil to protect the thing easily burned permiter of a hemispherical cake . Note that 150 C ( 300 F ) is an atypically low temperature for baking a cake . See related : <URL>
Taste the meat and if it still seems edible to you then there is no reason to throw it out . When I make stock , I keep it on a simmer for much longer than three hours and any meat is completely tasteless by the time I 'm done . Three hours , however , is about how long you would cook meat to make a stew , so it 's quite possible that you could eat it . On the other hand , not all cuts of meat stew well and I 'm not familiar with this cut . If the meat has plenty of connective tissues ( i.e. collagen ) to gelatinise it should n't dry out too much . But the proof is in the pudding : taste it .
To toast walnuts , pecans , pistachios , macadamias , and other nuts , follow the same procedure as for toasting almonds : spread them in a single layer on a baking pan . Bake at 325F until they are light brown and fragrant , about 5-10 minutes depending on the amount of nuts . Check the nuts frequently and stir them to ensure even toasting . Always cool your nuts before chopping them . Nuts have a great deal of oil that has been brought to surface by the heat , and the oil must be allowed to be reabsorbed , or the nuts could turn greasy during chopping . ( information found at : <URL> )
Sure . <URL> , and I think there was an episode of Good Eats that described the process pretty well , too . I 'm not sure what you can get at the butcher in India , but you 'll want to find the belly of the pig . What you do is rub the meat with a cure , which is a mix of salt , sugar , seasoning , and " pink salt " ( a curing salt that is part regular salt and part sodium nitrite ) . Leave it in your fridge in a ziploc bag for a week or covered on a tray , flipping it over daily so that it cures evenly , then rinse it off . At that point you can roast it in a low oven , smoke it , or hang it to dry .
Eye of round is an excellent cut for braising . You can braise it in stock or red wine . An example recipe would be the classic Beef Bourguignon . It 's also a perfect candidate for slow-cooking in a crock pot , as well as simply roasted in the oven . If cooking it in the oven , use a thermometer and do n't cook it past medium . An overnight marinade can be used prior to roasting for additional flavor as well .
You will need the following : A pot that 's about 12 " in diameter and 4 inches deep Put the broth in the pot , you can buy broth packages usually at Chinese/Asian supermarket . You just need to mix it with water and boil . Food you want to cook in the pot . Sliced beef is my favourite , but mussels , beef balls , fish balls , shrimps , veggies , etc. . You will need chopsticks , hot pot scoop that looks like the following , so you can scoop the cooked food to your own plate : <URL> To add flavour , usually you dip the cooked food in soya sauce , but a mixture of raw egg , soya sauce and satay sauce is used as the deep . You can even add chopped chili , green onions and chili oil to it . Just make the broth . Cook the food you like as you eat . That 's it !
Espresso , steamed milk . It is n't a complicated recipe at all , but it does require some equipment and technique . Espresso : You need to use an espresso roast coffee that is finely ground . If you like Starbucks , then buy a pound from them . Milk : There are a whole bunch of beverages made out of coffee and steamed milk . My joke about Italians is that every time they make one tiny little change in the preparation of something , they give it a brand new name . You need to steam the milk to introduce air and to warm it up , subtly changing the flavour . If you watch the barristas at starbucks , you 'll see that they end up with a steel pitcher of warm milk with a thick foam on top . I 'll define a cappuccino as the base beverage . A Cappuccino is 1 measure of Espresso , 1 measure of the warm milk from the bottom of the pitcter ( Use a spoon to stop the foam from pouring out ) and then one measure of the dry foam spooned on top . A Macchiato is a DRY cappuccino . Omit the milk . Just spoon the dry foam on top . A Latte is a WET cappuccino . Omit the foam . You can spoon a little on top for appearances . I 've used the terms wet and dry . If you were to actually order a wet cappuccino , you 'd get something between the Latte and Cappucino . If you were to order it dry , you 'd get something between the Cappuccino and the Macchiato . The French Cafe Au Lait is strong coffee ( brewed , not expressed ) , with almost boiled milk . If you do n't have a steamer available , this might be the route to take . It 's similar to a Latte , but without the equipment .
Red bell peppers freeze really well after being roasted . This is the method I would recommend for you . The problem with freezing first is that it can degrade the peppers ( breaks the firm cell walls ) and would likely make them more difficult to roast afterwards . If you roast them first , the cooking starts the cell collapse itself and the peppers do n't tend to degrade more afterwards , plus your peppers are already roasted , so you 've saved yourself that step in your pasta making process . The process is pretty simple ... roast as usual , parcel into recipe-sized portions in small zip top bags ( do n't forget to date the bags ) and freeze or roast , put on a cookie sheet ( if you have one that fits in the freezer ) , and freeze in a single layer . Once frozen , they can all go in one big bag and they should n't stick to each other too badly . <URL> that explains the process with some roasting tips . And another <URL> .
Assuming by your wording , you do n't have a bbq on a balcony . Another alternative to the broiler , is a blow torch to get the nice charing . :-) <URL>
end question
start question
Can I make sweetened coconut from dried coconut ?
According to this step-by-step <URL> , you can definitely make sweetened coconut from dried coconut . Things You 'll Need : 1/2 cup desiccated coconut 1 tbsp . powdered sugar 1 1/2 tsp . canola oil 2 tsp . water Instructions : Blend dried coconut and powdered sugar with a whisk in a medium-sized bowl until the mixture is uniform . Combine the canola oil and water in a small bowl , stirring until the ingredients are well blended . Pour the liquid ingredients over the sugared coconut . Stir them to thoroughly coat the coconut . Let the mixture sit for 10 minutes , or until the coconut absorbs all the liquid . Stir the mixture once or twice to turn it over . Use the moistened , sweetened coconut immediately for best results . Alternatively , place it in a plastic freezer bag for short-term storage in the refrigerator or long-term storage in the freezer . While sealing the bag , press out as much air as possible . Tips and Warnings : The vegetable oil moistens the coconut and helps the powdered sugar adhere better . If desired , increase the amount of water in the recipe to 4 tsp . and eliminate the oil . Likewise , substitute the canola oil for safflower or sunflower oil . Do n't use olive oil , however , as its saltier flavor will mask or diminish the sugar 's sweetness . The recipe calls for a small amount of coconut because it 's best to use homemade , sweetened coconut as you make it . You can easily double or triple the quantities of each ingredient to make larger batches . Sweetened , shredded coconut will stay fresh for about a month in an airtight container stored in a cool , dry place or the refrigerator . If the instructions do n't work out for you , I 'd suggest re-hydrating your coconut in a bowl of room temp water , draining the water out of the bowl , blotting the coconut until damp , and then adding the sugar .
For most oils , you can re-use them several times , if you 're OK with ( or want ) the flavors the oil takes on from the food cooked in it . The thing to watch is the smoke point . That 's when the oil starts sending off whisps of smoke . For coconut oil , that 's 350F . As oil is re-used , that smoke point starts to drop until it 's no longer able to stay hot enough to properly fry food . We 're dealing with an oil that has a relatively low smoke point in the first place at 350F , as opposed to 450F for peanut oil , and proper frying needs to be pretty close to 350F in order to have the moisture in the food hold out the oil from rushing into the food like a sponge . That , unfortunately means that coconut oil is n't a great candidate for re-use .
The BBC lists strong white flour as simply flour made from hard white wheat , which tends to have a higher gluten content . By mixing all purpose flour ( German : 550 , French : 55 ) with the package recommended amount of vital wheat gluten or by using bread flour you should be able to make bread in your machine just fine . I usually use either AP flour or a mixture of AP and whole wheat ( German : 1600 , French : 150 ) , or even all whole wheat ( although with all wheat I find adding gluten is extremely helpful for getting a well-risen loaf ) . You can also buy other types of high gluten flour , either with that label or listed as bread flour . If you live in a part of the world with " 0 " and " 00 " flour , the protein content of " 00 " flour is similar to that of all purpose flour , but the grind of all purpose flour will be more coarse . " Panifiable " 00 flour has the gluten content of bread flour ( <URL> ) .
I would actually just make caramel . Place about 1 1/4 cup sugar and 1/4 cup in a heavy bottom pan and dissolve over low-medium heat then crank up the heat and let cook , without stirring , until the mixture turns a golden amber colour and starts smoking . Then use the resulting caramel to sweeten your coffee :-)
No . Sweetened condensed milk has a 40 % sugar content . It is very sweet , suitable for desserts and such . It is entirely too sweet to substituted into a curry . The consistency is drastically different . Evaporated milk is about the same consistency as heavy cream . Sweetened condensed milk , because of its high sugar content , is more the consistency of a warm caramel . Also , they are different colors , evaporated milk is white , sweetened condensed is light brown .
I 'm not sure I 've ever seen chipotle paste called for in recipes ; I searched around a bit and what I found was consistent with my experience . I saw chipotle en adobo , ground chipotle , and even whole dried chipotle . I also easily found recipes for chipotle en adobo . I do n't think you 'll have any trouble figuring out what to do with them . The most common way I 've seen chipotles , both in grocery stores and in recipes , is chipotle en adobo . You can make your own by simmering dried chipotles in tomato paste with vinegar , garlic , onion ( search for recipes if that 's not specific enough ) . I suspect that most chipotle pastes you might find are something like this , but pureed , and possibly cooked until thicker . The other common way to use chipotles is as a powder ; that 's as easy as grinding them in a spice grinder . If you 're using them in something that gets cooked for a decent amount of time , I 'd just do this and add them , instead of making chipotle en adobo or a paste out of them . Just think of them as a spice .
I make steel cut oats in a slow cooker , stick them in the fridge and then slice off a chunk to eat each day . In a slow cooker add 2 cups steel cut oats 8 cups water 1/2 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon cinnamon Cook on low for 8 hours . When complete , let cool some and transfer to another container and refrigerate . The next morning , scoop out a hunk into a bowl , splash a little milk on it and heat it up in the microwave . Add fruits and toppings as desired . For safety , the cooked porridge should be discarded after 5 days .
You ' can ' cook it from frozen , knowing that a few things will suffer . First , the outside will be somewhat dried out and over-cooked before it is done in the center , depending on how hot the oven is and the cooking time . That being said , if your Haggis is pre-cooked , it should be OK . You can also ' Hurry up ' the defrosting process by putting it under running water . This can affect texture , depending on what you are defrosting . Finally , you can speed-defrost something by using warm running water , but this carries SOME SERIOUS RISK if you do n't cook it right away . The bacteria will love the warmth and will start to multiply , but I have done this many times when I knew I was using a meat immediately .
Coconut oil has a low smoke point ( 177-204C depending on processing ) . Ghee has a smoke point of 252C . The effect of this is that it will be quite hard to stop the oil burning . But that 's not to say it would be impossible - softening onions and garlic in butter or olive oil is common , and they have lower smoke points still . But the texture from frying at a lower temperature will be quite different . It may also affect the flavour of your spices . In addition , the coconut oil will change the character of your curry significantly . That may not be a bad thing . ( all figures from <URL> )
What you need is to deflect the heat from the top of your pie . If you have two racks in your oven , and can position them so that the pie is in the middle with a rack above it , place a piece of aluminum foil directly above the pie . Another option would be to set a piece of foil on top of the pie after it has partially baked . Either way will protect the top from direct heat , allowing the ambient heat to penetrate and bake the whole pie .
The answer depends on where you live , and what type you have brought . In many countries that import chickpeas they heat treat them to kill seed-borne diseases and insects . The heat treatment process makes them more difficult to cook , and soaking times double or triple . Beans from exporters with phytosanitary certificates can be imported without heat treatment ; these are the ones you want to get . I do n't think you can tell which is which by looking at them . At the moment we have some particularly dark , dry , and dead looking beans that soak up beautifully in 8 hours ! Soak non-heat treated beans for 8 to 12 hours , heat treated beans for 24 to 36 hours . Some overly heat treated beans will never fully revive , and you are best to return these to the shop as " faulty " . Soak and cook without salt , unless you are going to mash them . They fall apart more readily if salted . If you are not mashing them , the secret to great chickpea taste is after soaking and cooking in water , is to lightly fry them with a little olive oil until dark spot appear , keep them or the pan moving so none burn . Then add the sauce , or add them to whatever dish you are preparing .
Coconut has a very mild flavor that is easily drowned by other things . In my experience , coconut rice does not end up tasting very strongly of coconut , although it is richer and slightly sweeter . I notice that many recipes call for salt and sugar , which are both flavor potentiators . Perhaps you could try these . At the end of the day , though , I fear you may have to use natural flavor , often falsely labeled as an " extract . " ( I have not been able to extract real coconut flavor well , and I 've never found a commercial product that does , either . ) Unfortunately , for some ingredients , this seems to be the only way to get the flavor I have come to expect from restaurants . Another such ingredient is pistachio .
First off , how do you store your yeast ? Storing yeast in the fridge helps it to last longer ; I 've had some yeast in my fridge for a year that is still going strong . As your yeast begins to become ineffective , I would personally get new yeast . Once yeast looses its power , you 're simply not going to get the same effect out of it .
<URL> by Andrew Dornenburg and Karen Page has a large section on food pairings . For carrots they mention orange , ginger , lemon , basil and mint . I think any of these could work well , if done right . My suggestion would be first to use really good , flavorful carrots -- preferably from a farmer 's market . Second , I would tone down or even leave out some of the usual carrot cake spices so that you do n't cover up the carrot flavor or the subtle flavors of your possible additions . Maybe fresh or candied ginger in the cake itself would be good . Orange or lemon curd and/or zest would work particulary well in offsetting the cream cheese icing . I 'm thinking basil and mint might be better saved for another dessert .
They are a small , white , mildly flavored bean . You can use cannellini or navy beans instead .
Jennifer Frazer experimented with frozen coconut milk and wrote about it on her blog . The conclusion is that you can freeze cococnut milk . The taste is preserved , but the consistency is not . Jennifer writes : The thing is , you can still use it just fine for purposes that do n't depend on coconut milk 's texture or consistency ; Coconut milk is an emulsion of oils in water . To freeze and thaw the coconut milk is enough to affect the emulsion . You can compare the situation to cow 's milk . Cow 's milk is also an emulsion and the mouth feel will change if you freeze and thaw it . References : <URL> <URL>
You do n't need a brand for brewed chocolate . You just take cocoa powder ( which is ground cocoa beans minus most of their fat ) and put it into boiling water . You do n't even need to strain . But I prefer to make mine with milk ( btw , I sometimes brew coffee in milk too ) . Solid candy from coffee is something else . What you call " coffee butter " is , in fact , coffee oil at room temperature . I ca n't find information about the breakdown of the coffee beans , but I am not sure if they have the starch content of cocoa beans ( which helps hold a chocolate bar together ) . Add to this the potential for a heart attack inducing amount of caffeine per bar of caffeeolate and you see why this is n't commonplace . I guess that the industry today would find ways around these problems . You can hydrogenize the oil ( although I do n't think it would attain the smooth texture of tempered chocolate , chocolate butter has some very special crystallization properties which allow a chocolate bar to have a silky but hard texture . It will be just grainy ) and you can decaffeinate the whole thing , and then mix it with some starch to thicken it , and as much sugar as there is in milk chocolate to counter the higher bitterness of coffee . But this will be as distant from real rich-flavoured coffee as 39 cent discounter chocolate bars are from real chocolate . There wo n't be an equivalent of premium dark chocolate ( which is the one that tastes of cocoa beans instead of sugar ) . If you love coffee so much that you want to try a coffeeolate bar , you are better off making coffee flavoured chocolate . If you want the least taste mix , start with a white chocolate bar . The easiest way would be to melt it and mix in a very small amount of cream with lots of instant coffee solved into it , but the taste will be bound by the instant coffee quality . The other way would be to brew the coffee powder in cream , very concentrated ( more than an espresso ) and add it to the melted chocolate . You 'll have to work at chocolate candy making temperatures ( 30 ° C to 32 ° C ) , if you overheat , you 'll have to retemper the chocolate .
In the interests of science I gave this a try . Used a can of carbonated water , boiled in my kettle . There was no boiling water explosion , although I more than half expected one . It seemed to maybe boil a little faster , but that 's more likely due to the fact that it 's less liquid than I usually heat . Being a tea fanatic I have a lot of flavored teas but I opted for PG Tips , figuring I would taste any difference a little more easily . I caught very little flavor difference from usual , maybe a little stronger but that could be chalked up to any number of things besides using carbonated water . So yeah , I think carbonated water would probably work in a pinch . Probably do n't put too much of it in the kettle , though . ( A small part of me still suspects that had it been full it would have shot boiling water everywhere ) .
Italian here :) I know that the oil is a well known trick everywhere ... but Italy . The main problem about pasta is that people just tend to cook it too much . The cooking time for pasta should be between 8 and 12 minutes , above this number it will be sticky . Spaghetti is the quickest kind of pasta to get ready , so just cook it around 8-9 minutes and it wo n't stick .
Canned beans are already cooked , so if you want the same texture ... yes . Soak and then cook your beans until they are just tender .
end question
start question
What is the name of this dish involving fruit & sugar - blended and baked thin and flat ?
This is called fruit leather . But I have never made it and can not comment on how to make it less chewy . I have eaten it though , and if my memory serves me right it was quite chewy and it most definitely got stuck in my teeth . Maybe it can not be avoided . Also , if you are cooking it at a low temperature ( I assume you are well below the boiling point ) the sugars will not caramelize . ( EDIT : Apparently , sugars will caramelize at low temperatures , but it will take a long time , see the comment by jkadlubowska below ) For that , much higher temperatures are needed . You are simply drying out the purée to the point where it becomes " leathery " . From a bit of googling it seems that 140 degrees F is the correct oven temperature to use .
In sum : YES , sugar DOES really help to extract fruit flavors . The answer quoted in the edit does NOT imply that " absorption is slowed down " in general . It merely states that in a sugar solution , sugar will generally not move out of fruit ; it does n't say anything about what else happens . Osmosis is simply a process by which the stuff on both sides of a barrier tries to come to equilibrium . Increasing sugar content in a solution will only decrease the amount of sugar that comes out of the fruit , but it will often simultaneously increase the water that diffuses out ( along with many things dissolved in that water , like fruit flavors ) . In other words , in a plain water solution , sugar will diffuse out of fruit to raise the water 's sugar concentration . However , in most cases when a sugar solution is used , it is deliberately higher in concentration than the sugar content within the fruit cells ( as in the strawberry example mentioned in the question , where there is basically no water at first outside the fruit , so water is forced out to bring the system into better equilibrium ) . Sugar is very <URL> , which basically means it attracts water . If the sugar solution has a higher sugar content than the moisture within the fruit cells ( as is true in most recipes using this technique ) , water will diffuse out of the fruit . Anything that is water-soluble , such as various flavor components , will come along with it to some extent . Meanwhile , sugar will also be forced into the fruit , changing its texture -- when done in excess over a period of time , such a process can actually preserve the fruit by lowering the water content substantially ( driving it out into the solution ) while raising the internal sugar content of the fruit , resulting in <URL> . You may note that candied fruit generally lacks many of the flavors of fresh fruit . This is because many flavor components were extracted along with the water by the sugar solution . Regarding questions that were raised in comments , the same process occurs with alcohol in a solution . There 's almost no alcohol inside the fruit , so alcohol 's presence outside the fruit will force water out of the fruit , carrying flavors along with it . Alcohol also tends to dissolve certain flavor components that water does n't dissolve as well , so it will gather different sets of flavors than water alone . Note also that different flavor components will come out of the interaction of this osmosis process with the cell membrane compared to , say , simply crushing the fruit , again partly because some flavor molecules are more soluble in alcohol .
" Filter " coffee in general , is coffee beans that have been roasted and ground and is for use in coffee making machines . This makes ' fresh ' coffee that may have a variety of qualities not found in instant - such as sweeter or more distinct flavours , etc. . " Instant " coffee is normally a coffee that has already been made ( they had the fun already ! ) and is dried ( usually through freezing ) into a dehydrated state , hence we just add water and get coffee . I would think that most people who have drunk proper ( freshly made ) coffee would prefer the flavour , quality and effects from caffeine , over that of instant . For me , instant is a back up , in case the real stuff runs out , but I feel always tastes a little woody and not as satisfying in terms of a caffeine hit . There are several coffees available now - Kenco Millicano is one - that offer both instant and some kind of coffee bean , but all I see is coffee grinds in the bottom of the cup , and not much difference in flavour .
Traditionally <URL> used radiant heat to cook meat . This would have taken place over an open flame , typically on a rotating <URL> . In modern times this method is now called <URL> . Modern roasting refers to dry heat cooking that takes place in an oven , the food is cooked by <URL> . Until the late 19th century this method was referred to as baking . <URL> is essentially the same as roasting in modern times . Baking most often refers specifically to the cooking of " baked goods " ( breads , pastries , etc. ) . However , the terms baking and roasting are often used interchangeably ( baked chicken , roast chicken ) . There does n't seem to be a hard and fast rule here as to which term is used . For example , you roast asparagus , turkey , chicken , but bake lasagna , casseroles , and also chicken . <URL> uses a combination of moist and dry heat to cook the food . This is what occurs in a crock pot , or in dutch oven/stock pot in the oven . Your meat will be cooked in an ample amount of seasoned liquid such as wine and/or stock . <URL> I had never heard of before . According to Wikipedia it 's a trademarked method of pressurized deep frying . I doubt this is what you were referring to .
I do n't think the bowl has anything to do with it , unless it is some sort of reactive metal , but you do n't normally find food grade bowls made of a reactive metal ? To stop surface oxidation of non-acidic fruit ( apples , bananas etc. ) coat them with a suitable weak acid . See this previous answer <URL>
Pies originally were specifically to denote enclosed items ( the crust sealed the item that was to be eaten ) . In many cases , the crust was n't actually eaten -- it was a nasty charred thing that was discarded . In time , pie crusts improved to the point at which you 'd eat the whole thing ... but the star was the filling , not the crust . Tarts , on the other hand , are closer to a shortbread cookie with some sort of a topping . The crust is typically a critical part of the item , rather than just being a container for something else . ( which in part is why people mention tarts being more shallow ; there 's a higher proportion of crust to filling ) . So , my best attempt at determining if I should call something a pie or a tart . Note that these are in order . ( as I 'm trying to make sure that ' pizza ' is a pie , not a tat ) fully enclosed by crust : pie full bottom crust , with a crumb or lattice top : pie no crust at all : not a tart , but not a pie , either . has no sugar or fat in the crust : pie chewy , flaky or crumb crust : pie not structurally sound enough to be picked up and eaten one-handed : pie was cooked in a tart pan : tart baked without a pan : galette over 2 " / 5cm tall ( not counting whipped cream or berries ) : pie less than 6 " / 15cm across : tart shortbread crust : tart ... I have no idea what I 'd categorize thing that did n't match something already .
Not too surprisingly given where you found it , it 's called an <URL> in most parts of the world . In Israel , it 's just called a chopped salad or ( according to the wiki article - I never personally encountered this ) an Arab salad .
Some people say it 's just preparation and the base is the same ground corn / corn meal , some people say for grits you need ( more coarsely ) ground hominy ( which is corn that has been soaked in lye or lime ) . Polenta can be found loose and really solid : grits are generally loose . Corn type may also differ , as may the dish 's ' typical cultural trappings ' ( fat cheddar and bacon vs. leaner stuff )
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
This is called fruit leather . But I have never made it and can not comment on how to make it less chewy . I have eaten it though , and if my memory serves me right it was quite chewy and it most definitely got stuck in my teeth . Maybe it can not be avoided . Also , if you are cooking it at a low temperature ( I assume you are well below the boiling point ) the sugars will not caramelize . ( EDIT : Apparently , sugars will caramelize at low temperatures , but it will take a long time , see the comment by jkadlubowska below ) For that , much higher temperatures are needed . You are simply drying out the purée to the point where it becomes " leathery " . From a bit of googling it seems that 140 degrees F is the correct oven temperature to use .
The difference between the two can be seen below ( the post it is from is an <URL> ) : The corn flour is the white , finer ingredient on the right . The first obvious difference is that the texture will differ between the two . The second is that it would have different uses . Both would be effective at displacing gluten-containing flours ( as in , neither would be helpful in gluten formation ) . In terms of substitution , however , corn meal is likelier substituted by something like semolina flour and corn flour is likelier better substituted by quinoa or garbanzo bean flour .
They 're rather different . Gyros are Greek in origin . They are simply meat , tomatoes , onion , and tzatziki sauce on pita . In Greece the meat is typically pork ( never had one ) . In America , specifically here in Chicago ( their local origin ) , the meat is a combination of beef &amp; lamb . Shwawarma is Middle Eastern in origin . The possible toppings are much more diverse , and can include : tahini , tabouli , fattoush , cucumber , and hummus . Tzatziki is n't typically used , at least not in America . The meat is also never pork , it can be lamb , beef or chicken . They owe their similarities to their common Turkish ancestor the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Sounds like the technique for <URL> , from <URL> , only with hot sauce added . I do n't think it has a name other than " pan fry/sear in caramelized sugar "
There is no real difference between types of granulated , white sugar . The options you are likely to see are cane sugar and beet sugar . Granulated sugar from sugarcane is often considered " superior " to beet sugar by Americans , but the idea that cane sugar is in any way superior to beet sugar has no basis . Granulated beet sugar and granulated cane sugar are completely interchangeable and indistinguishable . Swapping them will cause no issue . By the way - this is sugarcane : <URL> These are sugar beets : <URL> I 'd post a picture of the granulated sugar made from each , but it seems kind of pointless as they look the same . <URL> On this question ( almost an exact duplicate ) , some posters see a small difference . I never have . <URL>
This question has become blown out of proportion . I was just curious - then I started getting answers that quickbreads and cake are the same thing - which they " obviously " are n't . So I started doing my own research . <URL> says that the term quickbread was probably invented in the US after the discovery of chemical leavening . The Wikipedia references and some dictionaries corroborate this definition . Basically anything leavened with soda is quickbread . This does n't work . There are a great many things leavened with soda that ca n't be called quickbread . A good example is plain old <URL> . Obviously this is a semantic issue but one that needed solving . Two American cookbooks that I consider canonical recipe resources , The Joy of Cooking , and the Better Homes and Gardens cookbook , both have a separate quickbread section . In it are a variety of fruit breads as well as some biscuits and scones . On Food and Cooking muddied the water a bit by differentiating between quick breads such as biscuits and batter breads such as banana bread . These were grouped together , however , and contrasted against cakes . This book says that cakes are higher in fat and sugar and have a more delicate texture . Ratio , as linked <URL> , confused the terms a bit more also including a term " quick cake " but it differentiated between the different products with distinct ratios for the flour , fat , and sugar . With several competing definitions I decided to take an unscientific poll . I called 6 friends in Washington , Utah , Georgia , and Texas . I tried to find a variety of American cultures . Obviously it is biased by the fact that I know all of them . When asked " What is quickbread to you ? " without exception all of them replied " banana bread " When I followed up with : " What is the difference between that and cake " I received the following answers : " It is eaten at breakfast " " It has less sugar " " It is loaf shaped " " It is more dense " " It has a more open texture " My conclusion is that the historical definition of " anything with soda " is no longer useful . In cookbooks it seems to now be applied to chemically risen baked goods that : have as a rule of thumb a particular ratio of flour , fat , and sugar have less sugar than cake refers in particular to fruit breads , biscuits , and scones generally has an irregular vs uniform texture The popular definition ( among my extremely limited , unrandom sampling ) adds : tends to be loaf shaped And now I can sleep easily again .
Both crispy and caramelized onions are cooked for a long time , and will be very brown . However , they are cooked slightly differently . Caramelized onions are usually cross-cut on the onion to release its moisture , and then cooked over very low heat in a crowded pan , stirring infrequently , so that they gradually release their sugars and liquid and it turns to caramel . Depending on the onions and desired result , you may even cover them , an add a little liquid and/or sugar . The end result is very soft and very sweet . Arabic-style crispy onions are cut pole-to-pole in order to avoid rupturing cells in the onions . They are then fried over medium heat in an uncrowded pan , stirring regularly . This lets them dry out and become brown and crispy , even burning on thin ends . These onions should be a mix of crispy and chewy , and more savory than sweet .
The answer to the question is " Chap Zai " . The name for Chinese Crispy Roast Pork is " sio bak " by the way talon8 - I bought a tenderizer from Amazon exactly like the one you posted but the pins were not sharp enough to make the required number of tiny holes - and therefore the skin on the pork belly did not get that crystalised look where the fat has flowed out through the skin . My best result was by using a sharp knife but this took a long time . Anyway - long story short , I got this by emailing a number of Chinese supermarkets ( was never listed on their website shops ) and they told me the name . Would be good if anyone can verify this name ...
Toasted almonds match well with hazelnuts , cumin , nutmeg , rosemary , vanilla and cinnamon . Cranberries do match well with garlic , lime , chili and onion . So from a flavor-pairing point of view , if you want a spicy dip , it would be better to make a cranberry dip in itself with cranberries , sugar , chili , pineapple and coriander , like a chutney . Mustard is a gamble . Cranberries do match well with some acidity , like lime or pineapples . I would be worried about the vinegar to be too stingy . If it 's a garlic-based dip , I would focus on garlic , onions , rosemary and cumin .
Offal is a general term for any parts of the animal 's innards which are not the conventional cuts from the muscle and bone . It would vary by cuisine , but could include liver , kidneys , heart , brains , stomach , or tongue . Those particularly fussy about what they eat might even extend it to things like tail and neck , although most would n't regard these as offal per se . Tripe , on the other hand , refers specifically to the stomach . It 's usually washed , and often bleached , then slow cooked , although again , the preparation varies by region . Common tripe dishes come from the stomachs of cow and sheep , and despite falling out of favour as a cheap alternative to regular meat , it 's still quite popular in some parts of Europe .
end question
start question
Suggestions for convenient and safe methods of transporting a few meals without a vehicle ?
I think in general it is much safer to transport food cold ( frozen , even ) than hot . You can buy soft-sided insulated bags with straps - I see them in the grocery store - that should be ok for a trip of that length . I buy frozen food and then drive home for an hour with it , put it straight in the freezer , and would laugh at the thought of there being food-safety issues with that . So one approach is to make a lasagna , casserole , or the like in a disposable container , freeze it at home , take it to your relative 's and put it in her freezer . Now she has a semi-quick ( but at least easy ) meal waiting for her . ( A side note from remembering my days with an infant : something that heats up FAST and can be eaten with one hand will be more useful than a serves-12-needs-a-fork-heats-for-an-hour option . In other words burritos ( 2 min in microwave , can eat while holding the baby ) beat lasagna ( 60 + min in oven , you can forget and dry it out or burn it , then you need a plate and a knife and fork to eat it . ) Samosas are good one-handers , too . ) If you want to take something that is ready-to-eat , you could use the same bag to keep hot food hot , but I would probably suggest heating it up again on arrival .
My kitchen manager ( fine dining restaurant ) said that that the only thing a microwave should be used for in a professional kitchen is to heat water . Microwaving tends to dry out the outside of vegetables , and hurts both texture and flavor . Proper blanching takes about 5 minutes once you have water at a boil , and maintains both the crisp , fresh flavor and full texture . Blanching also tends maintain color better , because the outside of the vegetables heats to the same extent as the inside , and this is doubly true if you use an ice bath to cool vegetables after blanching . So yes , you are Doing Things Wrong . That said , we all take shortcuts at times , and microwave ovens do work rather well for thawing frozen vegetables . With frozen vegetables you 've already lost a lot of the texture , so the microwaving does n't do much further harm .
Your filling is basically a beef stew/casserole , so any cuts that suite long slow cooking are fine . They get cooked again while the pie is baked , so premium cuts will just be wasted The lower grade and ' off cut ' parts are what are most commonly used . Like rump , brisket , chuck , shank , neck etc Using a bench top slow cooker makes cooking this all very easy . The beef needs to be fully cooked before making the pie . An eight hour slow cook is fine You want the pieces to be a variety of sizes to fill out the pie shape , but make sure you have some at least the height of the pie filling . The larger pieces tend to be better , but that could be a matter of taste and culture You need to get rid of plenty of fat before and after cooking . A mouth full of fat in a pie is not nice . There is already plenty of fat in the gravy and pastry , so trim off all you can A good meat pie should have a solid layer of meat connected with gravy , not swimming . It should also not be so full as you ca n't eat it with your hands ( for a single serve pie ) without loosing half the contents Puff/flakey pastry works best and holds everything together Avoid overly strong flavoured gravies , you do n't want to hide the beef and pastry taste Before you attach the lid , place a slice of tasty cheese , or an extra generous serving of cracked pepper on top of the filling A respectable pie looks like this - thanks to Ponsonby Pies ( not made in Ponsonby anymore )
When you buy it , the fenugreek is almost certainly still alive , even if the roots have been cut off . It continues to respire and metabolize , or tries to . The leaves almost certainly wilted because the plant had no water . Treat it like flowers if you are going to hold it for a more than a day or two , by giving it water at the roots or root end of the stems ( if you have no roots , again like flowers , trim off the bottom of the stem , to allow a fresh surface to absorb the water ) . This technique also works with celery ( very well , in fact ) , parsley , cilantro ( eeew !!! ) and so on .
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
A few things can cause tomato sauces to become bitter : Overcooked spices . Both basil and oregano can become bitter with long simmers . Add them near the end of the process . Under-ripe tomatos . Store bought tomatoes are often picked green and ripened in the store . These tomatoes make less sweet sauces ( which may be contributing ) . Cooking in an aluminium pan . Aluminium reacts with the acid in the tomatoes and adds an off-putting flavour . Seeds/skin in the sauce . Both seeds and skins can be bitter . You can improve a bitter sauce by adding a small amount of baking soda ( or salt ) , and something sweet ( but not too much ) .
Gelatin is quite tolerant , but with a few restrictions : Never boil gelatine , because it looses it 's binding/gelling properties . Liquifying gelatine requires temperatures that feel " warm " to the touch , but not all recipes handle warm additions well - e.g. whipped cream . Cooling liquid gelatine for heat sensitive recipes should happen fairly quick , and so should incorporating the coolish gelatine to the other ingredients : Stir well or you end up with " gummy bear " - like lumps . So without knowing the details of your recipe I suggest using fairly warm water in the range of " warm bath water " or " comfortable for washing hands " but not at all " hot " . ( Note that I do n't give a precise temperature range on purpose . ) Hot tap water should suffice , but heating it on the stove is fine , too . Just use gentle heat and do n't let the gelatine rest on the bottom of the pot to avoid overheating . Depending on your next steps , you might want to stir the liquid gelatine until it 's barely warm to the touch or add a few spoonfulls of whatever cool mixture you are planning to bind , stir , then add to the rest . For warm other ingredients , extra cooling is not required , just mix and let set .
I know of four reasons to let your unyeasted dough sit for a while : Gluten relaxation . user9074 has already explained this . The gluten that has formed during kneading needs time to relax , which will make the dough easier to work with and cause the cooked bread to be more tender . Gluten formation . Kneading is n't the only way to get gluten molecules to link up . Time works well too . There are " no knead " bread recipes where you just mix the dough and then let it sit in a cool spot overnight , or in the fridge for a day or two . A few hours sitting on the shelf may improve your dough by letting more gluten molecules connect . Autolysis . The flour itself contains enzymes that will break down some of the starch and proteins in the flour and improve its flavor . The effect of autolysis will be greatest if your dough does n't include salt , but it may be a factor even with salt added . Hydration . It takes time for the flour to really absorb the water that you add . If you 've ever made a pie crust you 'll know that pie dough changes dramatically during the rest period . It becomes soft , smooth , and pliable . That transformation happens because the rest period gives the flour time to soak up the water . I expect that giving your dough time to hydrate will improve it as well . These are just some reasons why resting could improve your end result . Ultimately , there 's an easy way to answer your question . Make up a batch of dough and give it time to sit . Prepare another batch just before cooking . Cook up some parathas from both batches and compare . I bet you 'll find a noticeable difference . All that said , I 'd also bet that unrested parathas are better than no parathas at all . Do n't let short time prevent you from making them any way you know how . If you 're into experimenting , there are ingredients such as dough relaxers that you could add to get some of the same benefits that you get from a long rest , but in a shorter time .
Where do you live ? European Pyrex is made from borosilicate glass , the same as in laboratory 's equipment ; American Pyrex is made from common soda-lime glass . If you are in America , do n't bother trying it at all ; soda-lime glass is sensitive to thermal shock . Even though it 's tempered for kitchenware , it is nowhere near good enough for the burner . In Europe , you could take your chances if you have a bowl you do n't mind risking . However , there is still a significant chance that it will break on the burner some day . While I think that they use the same raw material for both kitchen dishes and laboratory test tubes ( which are obviously OK on a gas burner ) , kitchen stuff is much thicker . This makes it much more likely to break under thermal expansion . If you decide to make the experiment with a borosilicate Pyrex , take care to warm it gradually , starting with a small flame , and do n't pour cold ingredients into it . Proceed at your own risk . And ask yourself if you really have no pots better suited for the task .
I 've used C-clamps before . You set the macademia in it , then tighten it down 'til it cracks . You can keep a gloved hand around the nut while turning the screw with the other hand to avoid the risk of flying shell bits . ( but you should be turning slow enough that it does n't crack explosively ) It does take some time , but it 's less than a minute per nut . It goes faster when they 're all similarly sized , so you 're not adjusting the clamp signicantly to fit the next one .
One way to modify the recipes ( but you wo n't get the smooth texture of the original recipes ) is to cut the onion and carrot a lot smaller than the original recipe ask for . You want to almost dice it . When you are frying the onion and carrot in the pan , do it for like 1-2 min rather than the whole 5 minutes . And finally you will need to cook it in the stock for much longer than the recipe asks . You want to bring the stock to a boil then let it simmer covered to allow the carrot to become really soft . Then use something with a big flat surface ( a large wooden spoon or something similar ) to help you mash the rest against the side of the stock pot . The results will come out a lot lumpier than the orginal recipes but some texture and " unblended " bits of carrot is actually pretty good in carrot soup .
To answer in the language of the question asked : Medium holes with a cutting edge on bottom ( look like large raindrops ) : used for shredding . Small holes with cutting edge on bottom : used for shredding when you want it finer than the larger size . Outward protruding holes with spiky edges on all sides : used for grating . Wide holes that look like a smiley : used to slice things to an even thickness . As for recipes ... I generally do n't use the slicing portion too often , as I can get fairly consistent slices with a knife , but if you 're not so skilled , it could be used to slice potatoes for an au gratin ( might need to slice them in half first , is the slots are n't wide enough to fit the whole potato ) , or to slice firmer cheeses . It can also be used for slicing cabbage for coleslaw ( again , once cut down to fit ) , cucumbers or carrots for salads , etc. . As the blades are n't razor sharp , there are some softer items ( eg , tomatoes ) that it just wo n't work for , that you 'd have to do by hand or get a much more expensive mandoline . The grating side I only generally use for hard cheeses , when I need a more powdery texture than I can get with the shredding sides . I 've also used it for zesting citrus ( although it only works in large quantities , as you end up losing about 1/2 a lemon to the groves and it does n't release without a brush ** ) , and I 've used it for pulping carrots ( was mixing them into a sauce , and I did n't want identifiable bits ) The shredding sides are the ones I use the most , with the choice of side dependent upon what size I want the resultant shreds . I use it for firmer vegetables and fruits that I 'm baking into breads ( zucchini , carrots , apples ) , potatoes for hash browns , medium cheeses for firmer cheeses ( when I want this texture ) , etc. . Although a food processor can be used for this task , you have to consider a couple things ( besides initial cost &amp; space it takes up ) : it 's really easy to go and shred lots of cheddar cheese in a food processor , but it cramming all in there and fusing back together from the force and heat , defeating the purpose . Chilling the cheese helps , but you also need to keep dumping the work bowl out . If you have a strong arm and a small food processor , a hand shredder might actually be faster and give better results . When using a shredding disk for firmer things , you do more damage than by hand , resulting in lots of liquid being given off . Sometimes , this is better ... I have a potato kugel recipe that comes out very light as I can get more of the liquid out after having gone through the food processor ... so you may want to try both tools ( if you already own them both ) to see which one gives you better results . ** ... I 've heard you can wrap it in plastic wrap , use the grater , and then pull the wrap off to get it to release ; I 've never tried it , in part because I now have a microplane grater , but also because I 'd be afraid of getting bits of plastic in the food . I also want to say that I saw the trick the context of pulping ginger or garlic , but it 's been long enough ago that I do n't know that I can trust my memory
I think the Albacore and Sea Bass are both great ideas . I 'm not sure about the Swordfish . It would be fine in the Crudo or Ceviche , but I do n't know how it would be as Sashimi . Fish that I 'd look at for this are : Yellowtail Halibut Tuna Sea Bass Scallops ( to think outside the " fish " box a little ) Salmon I 'm not sure if those are " in season " for you , and I ca n't find a good resource to determine that . I 'd suggest getting a list of 5-6 fish and heading to your local fishmonger / farmers market / or Whole Foods and ask what 's in season . Personally , I 'd do Tuna , Yellowtail , and Scallops if you wanted to do 3x3 .
Last summer was a long time ago . The National Center for Food Preservation has this to say about <URL> Oils may be flavored with herbs if they are made up for fresh use , stored in the refrigerator and used within 2 to 3 days . There are no canning recommendations . ... Pesto is an uncooked seasoning mixture of herbs , usually including fresh basil , and some oil . It may be frozen for long term storage <URL> is a serious enough hazard with oiled herbs that I 'd not trust a dash of lemon juice on top of the oil to protect me from getting sick after 9 months storage . You 're much safer freezing the stuff as recommended . Ice cube trays produce nice pesto cubes that you can store safely in a freezer bag for at least a couple years .
The main goal with temperature is to kill anything nasty . Those nasties die based on temperature and exposure . Much like a human could live forever at 95 degrees , for a long while at 110 , shorter while at 150 , and would die instantly at 750 , so for all the stuff in Pork . 160 is considered a safe temperature because at 160 , everything dies instantly . The FDA has a chart for all this , <URL> . You 'll see that even 120 degrees is safe IF you cook it for 21 hours ! I cook a lot of sous vide , so these temperatures and times are easy to get and be precise about . The thing you need to be careful about is that the time table shows the amount of time that the whole piece of meat needs to be at a given temperature , so make sure you heat it through before you start counting . I 'll regularly do pork chops in the 135 range , and it 's lovely and moist without the stringy overcooked texture you get when well done .
From <URL> magret refers to a specific breed ( the <URL> , not to be confused with the Mallard ) : Magret refers specifically to the breast of a mulard or Barbary duck that has been force fed to produce foie gras . From <URL> : Sometimes called " duck steak , " the magret ( breast ) of the Moulard duck is known for its rich flavor and dark red meat . Try it pan seared and find out why the French swear by the duck .
Essentially , food pathogens can not grow below 4.0 pH and vinegar is significantly more acidic that that . If you go <URL> and scroll down a bit , there is a good , succinct explanation . They use brines of 38 and 44 percent vinegar " for taste and safety " . With this basic information , it would be easy to create brines that are safe and suite your taste . You really do n't need salt , sugar , spices or herbs for safety for vinegar pickles ( though you do need salt for lacto-fermented pickles ) . The acidity alone will do it . Of course , you probably want your pickles to taste good , so those other ingredients will be necessary . I should also add , that the site I linked to adds a cook step . This makes the pickles safe immediately after cooking . Without a cook step , the pickles will become safe over time , as the vinegar permeates the product , but may not be safe immediately . It seems that the addition of a low temperature cook step is an interesting innovation that improves safety and the ability to maintain a crunchy product .
Here 's what I ended up using , which I picked up from Home Depot in the Hardware aisle . It fits quite snug , and cost about $ 0.60 for pack of 2 . WARNING : no guarantees this cap is safe for food . Use at your own risk ( even though it is molded plastic , the dyes and treatment process may make the plastic prone to leaking chemicals )
If your caramel rolls are the kind with a sticky , gooey mass in the bottom of the pan that is flipped upside down out of the pan , then I would say that the rolls wo n't really get good and caramely in a stoneware pan . You 'd be better off baking one pan of rolls at a time in the metal pan . While one pan is rising and baking , just chill the other part of the dough ... either plain in a bowl , or prepared into a log that only needs to be cut . If the caramel rolls are more like a cinnamon bun , then the stoneware dishes should do fine in a pinch . This is assuming they are glazed stoneware and not terra cotta . Cooking time will increase a bit as the stoneware will take longer to heat up ( it will also retain the heat longer when removed from the oven ) . You could always just go out and buy some foil pans . I do that when I make rolls ( caramel , cinnamon , and sticky ) for the local fire company 's carnival . They go through 17 = 20 dozen rolls each year . I know baking rolls can be a lot of work , so what I have found to be very helpful , is to make the dough the night before baking . Cover with cling film , and let it have a slow rise in the fridge all night . ( you will get improved flavor too . ) The next day , divide the cold dough up and prepare as usual . They will take a little longer for the rise in the pan after shaping , but it sure is a lot easier on you .
Alton Brown says never to cook a cheesecake in a springform pan . He uses a regular pan and lines it with parchment paper so that the cheesecake wo n't stick to the bottom .
end question
start question
How does the USDA grading system work ?
The grade is by whole carcass . <URL> History of beef grading in the US <URL>
I 'll try to break this down into components to make it simpler . If a <URL> starts by combining sugar and a solid fat ( creaming ) , this incorporates small air bubbles into the batter which will be seed bubbles for the carbon dioxide produced by chemical leavening . Occasionally , this creaming is used alone for leavening ( as in traditional poundcakes ) . If the flour is added straight to this , it can help prevent the batter from curdling later if a colder ingredient is added . This also coats the flour with fat , preventing gluten development and making a very fine , tender crumb since the flour is " waterproofed " before other liquids are added . If eggs are added to the fat and sugar , you can make an emulsified cake but the presence of water when the flour is added can make it slightly tougher . Some <URL> ( usually with oil ) require all the liquids to be mixed together , and then added to all the dry ingredients which have already been mixed . Again , this can sometimes lead to a tougher cake since the flour is exposed to water . <URL> is to mix all the dry ingredients , then incorporate the solid fat into that , then add liquids . This will usually lead to tender cakes as the flour has been coated with fat before liquids are added . If a <URL> is leavened with whipped egg whites ( or whole eggs ) , those will be added last to prevent the bubbles from being knocked out by excess stirring . You pretty much always want the fat to be present when the flour is added though . As you saw in your recipe , adding liquid to the flour without the fat will allow too much gluten development and make your cake tough and dense .
It is a common misconception that the shelf life of a cooked food ( = mix of ingredients ) is the same as the shelf life of the shortest-lived ingredient . I can not stress enough how wrong this assumption is . As with any cooked food , the shelf life of hot chocolate should be about 3 to 5 days in the fridge , with a cumulative stay in the danger zone of no longer than 2 hours . An explanation of why the assumption is wrong : Food spoils when bacteria ( or sometimes other organisms like mold ) create a colony in it . For this to happen , the food has to offer all the conditions an organism needs for survival . Most cooked foods are nutritious enough to ensure the survival of simple organisms . There are single ingredients which hold for longer . Bar chocolate is a good example . The reason for that is that they are not a complete medium . Chocolate does not have enough moisture for bacteria to grow in it . But as soon as you mix any ingredient with something else , you can not know if the other ingredients have not added the factor the bacteria have been missing . So , if you mix for example water ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no calories ) and flour ( practically indefinite shelf life because it has no moisture ) , you get dough , which will have large bacterial colonies within 3 days . Exceptions in the other direction ( food that spoils sooner than 3 days ) are foods which decompose on their own . For example fish - it goes bad quickly even at fridge temperature , but the reason is the fish 's own enzymes , not bacteria . That 's why it is normally held on ice , if not frozen outright . As a side note , you can not rely on the expiration date of milk anyway . It is OK for traditionally pasteurized milk . But the expiration date of ESL and UHT milk is only valid as long as the packaging has not been broken . Once you open it , it is again good for about 5 days . Conclusion : For anything cooked , up to 5 days in the fridge is a good assumption . Make it less for food which is known for high risk of contamination ( e.g. food containing raw eggs ) , but never longer , even if the expiration date of the ingredients is longer than that .
Your assumption that there is nothing living inside the package is incorrect . Food irradiation does not sterilise the food . It is very , but not totally effective . Therefore , given enough time , the meat will still spoil . Irradiation does effect the quality of the food , so I imagine a balance needs to be struck between safety and quality .
Fresh seafood should n't be overly " fishy " . It 's generally older seafood that will get a stronger " fishy " smell and flavour . That said , there are 3 approaches to a " less fishy " result : Absorb/reduce fishiness : you can always try something like soaking it in milk ( which you can then save to use for a fishy bechamel when your sister is n't dining with you ) . You could then rinse it off and cook it however you want . This should help " absorb " some of the fishiness and make it milder . Disguise fishiness : The other angle is to " cover up " the flavour with lots of spicy glaze or garlic/lemon flavours instead . Pick mild seafood : The other thing to try is to pick a more mildly flavoured fish ( e.g. a white fish instead of something like tuna or salmon ) . Avoid oily fish as they tend to have a stronger flavour . Choosing something really fresh also falls into this category .
I do n't think it 's just one thing : The foil reflects radiant heat , meaning that the only remaining way to propogate heat is through conduction and convection . The foil is an impermeable barrier which helps to keep the moist air ( created by boiling off the moisture in the surface of the bread ) near the sandwich , which reduces the rate at which the bread dries out , and we need dry items for them to burn . It 's possible that retention of the moisture within the foil slows the heating of the enclosed system as there 's less loss of thermal mass , but I doubt that 's a significant factor in most situations . You might be able to test which of the other two is the more significant factor by running a test with foil that 's been perforated such that it 's not a good barrier but would still be reflective , and see how that compares .
The right size is important , because baking times are designed for a specific batter thickness . If a recipe is meant for a 26 cm pan and you pour the whole batter in a 18 cm pan , it will be much thicker and the middle wo n't get done before the top burns . That is why high cakes are made by stacking layers , not by baking one high cake . You can pour a batch of batter into multiple small cups and have it turn out all right as long as the height stays more or less the same as it would have been in the large pan . My advice is to calculate the area of the pan given in the recipe and the area of your silicone cups , so you can know how many cups to use . You do n't have to be completely precise , for the average cake it is not too terrible if you have + -0.5 cm difference in batter height . If the difference is larger , you can still get good results , but you should adjust the baking time . The resulting cupcakes will still have the thickness of the normal cake , or somewhat more if you use less cups and bake accordingly longer . I would advise against trying to bake high-rise muffins from normal cake recipes . Even a sponge cake recipe might need some adjustment of the amount of baking powder before working as a high muffin . Other types of cake , especially the more exotic ones ( genoise , flourless cakes ) are unlikely to bake well if you fill them into deep cups .
Soak them for a while in warm water , and you 'll be able to use them , yes . However It is equally important to know that you should reserve the liquid for its essential mushroomness , and yet also that said reserved liquid should be run through a coffee filter to remove grit .
You should always try to first bring hot quinoa to room temperature and follow the rest which you already mentioned . That works great , else if you try to pack it when it like burning hot , then the steam kind of stays in the packed room which later creates moisture and later spoils the food even though you keep it in the refrigerator . Best worked for me is by cooking quinoa in the night . Now I have lot of time to bring it to room temperature followed by pack it , store it and use it .
You can also preserve herbs by wrapping them in damp paper towels ( either completely or just around the stems ) and then placing the bundle in an open plastic bag ( or one with holes poked in ) Replace or re-wet the towels when they get dry . It 's the equivalent of a vase without the worry about it spilling .
It 's wax . Apples contain wax in their peel naturally and the amount varies between different varieties . Some do n't feel waxy at all . It is there to prevent the fruit of drying out and the industry sometimes adds wax as well ( especially to fruits that will be exported long distances ) , to keep them fresh longer . As for removing the wax , you could <URL> .
As you are no doubt aware , there are 5 basic tastes - salty , sweet , sour , bitter and umami . Umami is the savoury flavour of mushrooms , cheese , cured meats , and so on . MSG is essentially ' pure ' umami . In other words , MSG is to umami what salt is to salty and sugar is to sweet . So if you add it to savoury dishes ( throw a parmesan rind in to vegetable soup while it 's simmering ) it enhances their savouriness .
A lot of sourdough recipes do n't call for a sponge , per se , because the starter essentially already is a sponge . The purpose of a sponge in a bread with normal yeast is to allow a longer fermentation time and extra time for enzymatic reactions to happen in the flour before adding it to the final batch . This is n't necessary with sourdough the starter is continuously fermenting and reacting . And your guess is about right , if the proportion of starter you add is too high , the waste products and dead yeast cells in it can cause changes in the gluten that make it very slack and unusable .
I also liked home cooking and thought it would be a good idea to try it professionally , and here 's what I learned : The best way to learn to cook professionally is by getting an entry level job . This is what I did . People will hire you without experience if you seem humble , reliable , and willing to learn . Come in cocky or expecting a lot right in the door , and you 'll be ruled out . You should apply for a chain/fast food fry cook , or in fine dining , a prep cook or dishwasher . Culinary school can help speed this up , but you 'll be paying tuition to learn a job that starts out a little above minimum wage . In my mind , this is a really craptastic deal , although the schools make out like bandits . Once you get your first job , even if you 've done culinary school , you 'll be useless for a few months . Home cooking emphasizes creativity , but professional cooking is all about speed , efficiency , and consistency . Think of it as assembly-line cooking . Restaurants are the very definition of " School of Hard Knocks . " Be prepared for hazing and getting grief from the other staff . You 'll get your ass kicked for a while , and then slowly start to become useful . But once you get the hang of it , it can be an incredible rush ! If you 're a fast learner and can handle the environment , it 's possible to start out as a dishwasher and end up owning your own restaurant . It 's also very possible to end up a single , scarred alcoholic with an empty bank account . If this already describes you well , then you 'll fit in just fine . How well you do is entirely up to you and your abilities . The industry advice for anyone who says they want to become a chef is " Do n't do it ! " Go read Kitchen Confidential . Now imagine you 're responsible for managing that madness of drugs and mayhem , working 60 hours a week for a wage that barely touches middle class ! Still sound good to you ? There are 5 different skill-sets you 'll need to make it to head chef : Line cooking skills . You need to be able to manage your time to cook rapidly and reliably , with every dish turning out the same . Culinary school can help a bit with this , but experience is the real teacher . Stress management and calm . If you are n't the type to keep your cool in a crisis , you 'll never make it . Professional cooking is one of the most stressful jobs out there ; you will have nights where the dish machine breaks and a cook walks out , all before a busy weekend . In those situations , it 's up to you to figure out what to do . Management . You need to be able to earn the respect of a team of cooks , many of which will be " difficult personality types , " ranging from prima donnas to lazy assholes to hardened felons . The only way to learn this is experience . Business sense . The restaurant industry is a challenging business at best , with high rates of failure and slim profit margins . You need to be able to cut deals with suppliers , figure out how to promote your establishment and build business , and manage expenses . Creative cooking . You need to be able to come up with delectable specials to use up the 20 pounds of squash you got for a steal , or something special for a catered dessert . Buying a restaurant with no food service experience is a phenomenal way to get rid of excess money . Excess money , as in everything you have . On the other hand , starting from the bottom is a good way to see how you 'd do . To open a restaurant as chef/owner you 'll want a minimum of management &amp; business experience plus 3 years in multiple restaurant kitchens . That 's the minimum if you 're very talented and driven . Honestly , 5-10 years experience is a more reasonable expectation . If you try to do it without the experience ... well , <URL> . Even restaurants with experienced management and a solid business model can fail . I do n't want to crush your hopes and dreams , but this is something you really do n't want to jump into without trying it at a lower level . The Food Network makes a chef 's job seem glamorous , but what they do is just the opposite .
My knowledge about the phenomenon itself is limited but I did see it mentioned in " Modernist Cuisine " ( Nathan Myhrvold , p. 147 ) Many recipes for foie gras , liver , sweetbreads , and other offal include a soaking step before cooking . For kidneys , this step serves a very simple purpose : to remove any trace of the animal 's bodily fluids . Recipes often call for soaking foie gras , liver , and sweetbreads in milk . It is often said that milk improves the taste , purges blood , lightens the color , or affects some other property of the meat . We were skeptical , so we tried several experiments . With a mild-flavored organ meat like foie gras , we could taste a difference , but , frankly , in our tests , we prefer the taste of water-soaked to milk-soaked foie gras . With stronger-flavored organ meats , there is even less of a difference than with foie gras . So our suggestion is to simply soak the meat in water . So , there you have it .
Halogen hobs are a type of electrical resistive hob which work just like a halogen incandescent bulb . In fact , the reason why incandescent bulbs are being phased out is that they are so inefficient , giving off most of the energy they use as heat instead of light . A halogen hob uses the same kind of tungsten filament as the lamps , instead of the iron found in the widespread electrical hobs . The benefit is that it warms up quite fast , much faster than iron . I have n't shopped for resistive cooktops in recent years , so I do n't know how the market is . It 's possible that they are very rare and expensive , or that all the new ceramic cooktops use them and the manufacturers do n't mention it on the label , so the public is unaware of it . They do n't work differently than standard burners , just faster , and they do n't look much different from the outside . You also do n't need any kind of special cookware for them , I have no idea why the manufacturer of that pan decided to tell you that it works on both " electric " and " halogen " , when it is the same thing where pan suitability is concerned . Update as per ChrisH 's comment : Because the halogen works mostly with radiant heat , it 's important that you do n't use a pan with mirroring bottom , that 's probably why the pan was labelled as suitable for halogen besides " electric " . This is probably important for iron-heating ceramic cooktops too , because the ceramic also lets a significant part of the iron 's radiant heat through .
Coriander , the plant , is the one whose leaves are called cilantro in many regions - the Spanish name for the plant . Of course , in some regions , the leaves are called coriander ( or coriander leaves ) as well . Coriander , the spice , is indeed the dried fruit/seeds of the plant , commonly sold both whole and ground . The seeds have a very different flavor from the leaves . As for dried cilantro , the leaves ? They 're going to be pretty much flavorless compared to fresh cilantro . Cilantro loses its aroma quickly when heated or dried . Obviously there 's still something left , or you would n't be able to buy dried cilantro , but it 's not going to be a striking addition to a dish . If you can get it fresh , it 's worth it .
The crisper provides a somewhat enclosed environment , which prevents moisture from escaping as rapidly . Vegetables keep best at a certain humidity , higher than that typically found in the rest of the fridge , but not so high that condensation starts accumulating on them . Vegetables kept in too-dry air in the rest of the fridge will tend to dry out and shrivel up faster ; those kept in the crisper will retain their water and texture better , keeping them crisp . Leafy vegetables are also much more prone to drying out , since they have much more surface area , while hardier vegetables with a decent skin on them ( like bell peppers ) do n't dry out nearly as quickly . Fruits benefit somewhat from this as well , but do n't generally need as high a humidity as vegetables . Some crisper drawers have little sliders on them which vary the size of the opening to the rest of the fridge , letting you vary the amount of circulation and therefore the humidity ; you can adjust this to suit what you tend to store in the drawer . If you have two crisper drawers , both adjustable , then it might be a good idea to put fruit and hardier vegetables in one , and more vulnerable vegetables in the other .
As to the science behind why this works , I can only guess . However , as to other things you can try for this trick , I managed to find some references from old cookbooks about using slices of potato for clarifying their deep-fryer oil . Other suggestions were a slice of bread or lemon peel . Weird -- but interesting . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> When you have finished frying , clarify the oil by frying a piece of bread , a strip of lemon peel , or a slice of potato in it .
I ca n't speak to specific chemicals/aromatics for mushrooms , but this kind of thing does happen with all kinds of food . The initial cooking is releasing aromatics that were previously bound up in the food somehow , so you quickly get some stronger flavors . But aromatic molecules are volatile ( that 's why you smell them ! ) and also generally more prone to breaking down , so as you cook longer , they escape , or are broken down into something else without so much flavor , leaving you with something milder . Think about onion , for example . When you first start sauteeing it , there 's a lot of really strong onion smell coming off , maybe even enough to make you cry if you 're prone to it . If you eat it then , it 'll still have plenty of sharp onion flavor . But as you cook longer , those flavors mellow out ; going to the extreme , slowly caramelized onions have no sharpness and very little onion flavor . I think the initial strengthening of flavor may be stronger with mushrooms because of their structure . They seem dry at first , with all the water bound up inside . But as you start to cook them , their structure breaks down and they quickly release a lot of water , and with it , those flavors .
end question
start question
How Long Does Tomato Juice Last ?
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
Tomato paste is just tomatoes with the water removed , essentially . I 'd slice the tomatoes in half and roast them ( cut side up ) at 350 degrees F for an hour ( this will concentrate the flavour nicely and you can add s &amp; p/olive oil/herbs/garlic if you want ) . Then mash them through a sieve or food mill to get a smooth consistency . Then put that tomato puree in a pot and just boil them down until it 's as thick as you want . As it gets thicker , you 'll need to stir it regularly to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pot and burning .
Marsala is a <URL> , that is , a wine to which extra alcohol has been added . Therefore , you can store Marsala outside of the fridge , in a cool place ( 15-20 ° C ) , away from direct light . In these conditions a bottle can sit there for several weeks/months with no obvious degradation , as you would expect for fortified wines . Generally it is suggested to drink Marsala or similar wines , such as Porto or Banyuls , in the following 4/5 months , but I had bottles opened for a year or so and they were still good , although the flavour faded a bit . As for Marsala all ' uovo , it has pasteurized egg yolks in it , and even home-made recipes call for a pasteurization step . In general I would store home-made one in the fridge to be on the safe side , but do not serve it too cold . Commercial ones may also have preservatives ( aside from the added alcohol of Marsala ) in them , and are safe to leave in a cool place for several weeks .
Lime juice is n't going to make it less spicy , if anything I 've found it accentuates the spiciness a bit although I 'm not sure of the mechanism . It could be that the acidity frees up more capsaicin compounds ( what makes hot food hot ) , or wakes up your taste buds more . Most likely you have simply added a weak jalapeno . Peppers of the same variety can vary in heat strength quite a bit depending on the where and how it was grown , although you 'll get weak and strong peppers from the same plant . You can make up for the lack of spice by adding more jalapeno or a bit of hot chili powder .
Bisquick-originated pancake and waffle batter lasts a day , two at the most . Data : in college , I made pancakes or waffles every day for a year and a half , making the batter on day 1 and then cooking it on days 1 , 2 , and 3 . Once in that time I got sick on Day 3 . Based on that experience , more than 24 hours is getting sketchy , though 48 seems to work most of the time .
<URL> : 6 months at best quality . In my personal experience , it can last much longer and be just fine , though I think the longest I ever kept a box was a couple years , not 5 years like riotburn . StillTasty suggests that the concern after more than 6 months is lost potency , but I believe the potential to take on odors from the surroundings is much more of a concern ; store it in something airtight like you said , and you should be pretty safe from that . So I 'm sure it 'll last at least until next Christmas . And if you do get into baking , you might go through a box faster than you 'd think . Otherwise , it 's fortunately pretty cheap , and it does have other uses ( e.g. cleaning ) so it wo n't hurt you too much to just go for it .
The short answer is 1-2 years for traditional pickles , assuming a good recipe with adequate salt content and fermentation time ( traditionally anywhere from a month to a few months ) . For modern quick fermented homemade recipes , where the pickles are fermented in a week or so instead of months , I 'd recommend using them up within a month or two . Some representative sources ( note the bolded bits about fermentation time ) : " Fermented or processed pickles also have a very long shelf-life , about two years . " ( <URL> ) " FERMENTED PICKLES : The oldest method of pickling , when a naturally occurring bacteria transforms the sugars present in the ingredient into an acid , preserving the food . These are called ' processed ' pickles , and though they take as many as five weeks to cure , they last up to 2 years . " ( <URL> ) " The product is completely fermented in 3-6 weeks ... In contrast to salt stock brining procedures [ i.e. , pickles removed from their liquid after fermentation and stored in a very heavily salted tank for future processing ] , genuine dill pickles do not require desalting and are often sold with the filtered fermentation liquor that is produced during the process . The product must be consumed within 12 months . " ( <URL> ) While these are common estimates , many books on the subject wo n't even give such shelf-life estimates ( e.g. , Sandor Katz 's The Art of Fermentation ) , because there is so much variability depending on recipe and storage conditions during and after fermentation . The other issue is that fermented brined pickles are " alive " in the sense that they continue to have microbial activity even after refrigerated . Unless you " process " the pickles after fermentation by heating to a high temperature and canning , you should expect that pickles will change their taste and texture continuously . You might like pickles that are " just finished , " but dislike their flavor or texture after a month or two in the fridge ( or the reverse ) . Traditional pickle-makers often take advantage of these changes , for example by selling " half sours " which taste like something between a fresh cucumber and a pickle and have only been partially fermented . " Half sours " and other pickles that have not completed fermentation before refrigeration have a much shorter shelf-life ( usually a few weeks ) , because the lack of full acidity in the liquid and remaining sugars and other nutrients in the cucumbers may still allow other things to grow and for spoilage to occur . Even after a longer fermentation , expect pickles to gradually get more sour and to soften in texture as the months go by . However , with adequate salt content and full fermentation , and as long as you are not contaminating the storage container , there 's no reason to expect they will actually " go bad " at refrigerator temperatures for at least a few months and potentially much longer . Traditionally , long-storage pickled cucumbers were fermented in ( and subsequently stored in ) a cool place , like a root cellar or other underground compartment , which probably stayed around 50-55 degrees Fahrenheit most of the year . At these cooler temperatures , pickles usually needed to ferment for at least a month and sometimes a few months before achieving full flavor . Since the root cellar temperatures were often above refrigerator temperatures , they would then continue to get even more sour and gradually begin to break down as the months went by . However , the purpose of storage was to have cucumbers available throughout the year , so last year 's batch would be used up and then be replaced by the new harvest . Today , most people tend to ferment homemade pickles faster ( often at room temperature ) and often with less salt than the season-long ferments of the past would use . This produces pickles more quickly , sometimes in as little as a week or so , with pickles that are not as extreme in their sourness and saltiness as the long-storage pickling of the past . The flavor profile can also be somewhat different , due to greater activity of some microorganisms at room temperature . Depending on the recipe , they are often not as stable and should probably be consumed within a few weeks or months . ( For example , Alton Brown 's relatively fast pickle <URL> recommends storing the pickles no longer than two months in the refrigerator . )
According to <URL> website , 5 to 7 days in the fridge .
Let 's start with a definition of cooking . The Oxford English Dictionary defines to cook as : To prepare or make ready ( food ) ; to make fit for eating by due application of heat , as by boiling , baking , roasting , broiling , etc. . However , from a chemical point of view , what happens when you are cooking meat is that you are using heat , amongst other things , to <URL> the proteins of the meat . Denaturation can also be achieved by other means , such as marinating the meat in an acid , such as citric acid ( contain in lemon juice ) or acetic acid ( contained in vinegar ) . You can also use other agents to induce denaturation , but they are not always fit for eating . However , it is important to understand that from a purely cooking perspective the two things are not the same : " cooking " with lemon ( I guess it is fine to use the verb to cook as long as you put it in quotes ) , gives a completely different result than cooking with heat . This is because other chemical reactions happen during application of heat and because , obviously , you do not end up with an hot product !
If you whisk very cold cream in a very cold bowl , and keep it very cold , it should hold for about 3-4 hours . Longer than that and it can start to separate .
I have always made sure that I only defrost enough to meet the needs of the moment for sushi . If you cut the blocks into 4 to 8 rolls worth , they should defrost under running water in just fifteen to twenty minutes , just about the time it takes me to do a batch of sushi rice . That said , fish once defrosted will start to lose flavor immediately but will remain edible for 2 days . Once it starts to smell , get rid of it immediately , and I would play it very safe on that " starts to smell " the faintest whiff should be enough to send it to the bin .
Short answer : tomato sauce is a <URL> . Another interesting link can be found <URL> . Tomato sauce in an interesting creature . Think about ketchup . You try you shake some out and nothing . So you tap the bottle a little bit , still nothing . Tap it a little harder , and a little harder , and suddenly boom : a flood of ketchup . The " jumpiness " of tomato sauce is caused by the same physics . Basically , tomato sauce has two things in it that contribute to this characteristic : water and tomato pulp . At first , the tomato pulp is just lying around every which way , which makes the sauce act a lot thicker . But when the strands of pulp are aligned , it makes the sauce act a lot more like water . Heating up the sauce increases the pressure on the sauce , allowing areas of the sauce to become much more fluid , resulting in bubbling , popping , and the flinging of tomato sauce all over your clean white shirt . The same effect is what makes ketchup come flying out of the bottle - when you whack it hard enough , the pressure changes the state of the ketchup , and the ketchup literally flows like water . Edit : updated with relevant information Unfortunately , when I managed to get a hold of Mr. Steingarten 's lovely book , <URL> , * I discovered that the passage regarding tomato sauce as a non-Newtonian fluid was exclusively regarding ketchup , and not general tomato sauce as I thought I remembered . However , this description is still a valuable one , and it does help explain this particular characteristic of tomato-based sauces ( after all , ketchup is a tomato based sauce ) [ p 96 ] : It was only after I had send a stream of ketchup streaking across my wife 's favorite tablecloth , a lovely hand-printed Indian cotton from a shop on the rue Jacob , that I telephoned Professor Malcolm Bourne at Cornell for a lesson in non-Newtonian fluids . Sir Isaac Newton wrote the laws governing liquids that flow like water : the more force you exert on them , the faster they flow . But ketchup is different . Composed of tangled red tomato fibers suspended in a sweet and acidic colorless serum , ketchup behaves like a solid both at rest and under low levels of pressure : but then , at some higher threshold , it suddenly begins flowing like an ordinary fluid . That 's why the frustrated ketchup lover who loses patience with gentle taps on the bottle 's bottom and prematurely shifts to a powerful wallop ends up with a gush of ketchup over everything . Ketchup and mayonnaise are known as Bingham fluids , named after the scientist who characterized them early [ last ] century . * Personally , I think that The Man Who Ate Everything is a must-read for anyone interested in culinary science , and a should-read for anyone interested in food . Second Edit : Due to a handful of downvotes that I received while I slept last night , I guess some clarification is needed : I just want to be absolutely clear here , I am in no way implying that . I offer this information as an example of how tomato pulp suspended in liquid acts . The fact that " tomato sauce is thick " does n't really hold up . The question even clearly states : " Of all the sauces and creams I prepare in a hot pot , tomato sauce is the most jumpy " , which presumably includes thick ones . If thickness was the only factor ( and I 'm not saying that it is n't a factor ) , we would see similar actions from cheese sauces , bechamels , gravies , and a variety of soups . While these sauces/soups do splatter , tomato sauce is significantly more " splattery . " Put a pot of tomato sauce next to any other sauce/soup , take your pick , and heat them to the same temperature . I can pretty much guarantee that given similar conditions , you 're going to be wiping up a lot more tomato sauce than the other one . One last edit : <URL> on Slate indicates that it 's a combination of the above ( being a " plastic liquid " ) , the viscosity , and pectin , as pointed out by Brendan in a comment below .
Heavier limes tend to be more juicy , but another important factor is the color and texture of the skin . Look for the brightest green ( sometimes with almost a yellow tinge ) and smoothest skin you can find . Many bumps or shriveled looking areas are good indications that there will be less juice . If that 's all that 's available in your store , though , just get more of them . If they have broken skin , I always avoid those . I 've gotten them home and found that even if there 's juice , at least the section near that break has gone dry and sometimes discolored , definitely a waste of my money and time . Another thing I 've found helpful , which can be done easily in the grocery store , is a smell-test . ( This also works with lemons , which to me are just as confusing . ) When very juicy , the skin has a scent , which may be subtle , but definitely different than those with none . It 's one sign of freshness , similar to knowing when to pick them from the tree . As Josh Caswell said in his excellent answer about pith , there 's nothing wrong with rolling them around in your hand in the store ; not enough to damage the lime of course , but enough to warm them up just a bit so they 'll release some juice and a nice smell . I do n't know where you 're from , but in Massachusetts , in the Northeastern United States , the produce department is often quite cold , so I do that with all my citrus choices . <URL> has some good pictures and information , and even mentions using them for cocktails ! <URL> gives the same basic information , with a video that I found helpful . To answer the question that was asked about the importance of skin thickness , it 's something I do n't generally think about when I shop , so I did some research . Most sites did n't mention it , especially with the common lime which is the most popular variety , but there is <URL> that does recommend choosing a thinner skinned fruit . They should feel firm and heavy for their size , because heavy limes will produce the most juice . Select limes with thin skins , avoiding the thicker skinned fruit , which is an indication of less flesh and juice . I know you did n't specifically ask , but just to add that if you have limes at home and you 're not getting the maximum effortless , free-flowing juice , you can microwave them for about 20 seconds . It helps release the juice , and works for other citrus fruits too . I 'd watch carefully , because I 've overheated my fruit doing that . It 's fine if I 'm going to use it for cooking or in my hot tea , but for cold drinks and things you then have to wait for it to cool off , which may be more effort than you need .
In general you need to consider the purpose of the ingredient , and what would happen to it during the cooking that it 's missed . For example , there 's no point stirring a spoonful of flour into a sauce after cooking , since the flour needs heat in order to thicken the sauce . In the case of the tomato paste , not much will happen to that particular ingredient during cooking . It may have caramelised a little , depending on the cooking method . It would have infused more deeply into some of the other ingredients . But these are subtle things . Taste your finished product . If you feel it would benefit from an extra boost of tomato flavour , by all means stir in some tomato paste .
I have n't really experimented , but if imagining how dry that stuff is and the amount of salt that goes inside one those , I would say in the months/years range . Just keep it in a cool dry place . .
Freezing juice will definitely not harm the juice itself , but it might harm your container if you 're not careful . The juice can expand quite a bit during the freezing process , so make sure that your container is n't completely full before you freeze it . If the juice is already in a container ( i.e. you bought it ) then keep in mind that the container might not be designed for freezing and could explode at freezing temperatures due to the expanding volume . If you 're not sure , you might be better off transferring them to some large freezer bags . I should also mention that freezing will only slow down the enzymatic activity that degrades fruit ( and fruit juice ) over time , not stop it completely . Most fruit juice has been boiled to inactivate the enzymes , but if yours has n't , then you might notice ( bad ) changes in the colour and taste over time . If you plan to consume it within a few weeks , or if the juice already has various preservatives , then do n't worry about it , but if it 's very fresh juice and this is for long-term storage , then you might want to briefly boil it before storing if you 're not sure about its history . Keep in mind that the above will itself alter the taste , so if you plan to do it , test it on a small amount first to be sure that you can live with the " blanched " taste .
Surely you figured something out by now , but here is what I would do . First , look closely and carefully for surface mold . Look around the rim of the container . If that is clear , smell the oil for rancidity . If it stinks , throw it out . At this point , it looks good and it smells good . I ca n't imagine a dish where the roux is not thoroughly heated , so unless you are pioneering some kind of cold ingredient , cold roux dish , I think you are good to go . The sealed roux in the fridge should behave like a confit and retard spoilage for a while . If you did a dark roux ( like a cajun style ) it should last a really long time . They sell it in jars in New Orleans supermarkets , and if memory serves , the jar said something like 90 days in the fridge after opening .
Lemon juice thickens condensed milk in the same way it would " thicken " regular milk , i.e. , by curdling . Basically , milk has two general types of proteins : casein and whey . The casein is what forms the " curds " in " curds and whey . " Both proteins are somewhat unusual in that they do n't tend to coagulate with heat ( as eggs proteins do , for example ) . Thus , they will survive largely intact even with the processing of condensed milk . Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking explains what happens when they encounter acids , though : The casein family includes four different kinds of proteins that gather together into microscopic family units called micelles . Each casein micelle contains a few thousand individual protein molecules . . . . Around a tenth of the volume of milk is taken up by casein micelles . Much of the calcium in milk is in the micelles , where it acts as a kind of glue holding the protein molecules together . One portion of calcium binds individual protein molecules together into small clusters of 15 to 25 . Another portion then helps pull several hundred of the clusters together to form the micelle ... One member of the casein family is especially influential in these gatherings . That is kappa-casein which caps the micelles once they reach a certain size , prevents them from growing larger , and keeps them dispersed and separate . One end of the capping-casein molecule extends from the micelle out into the surrounding liquid , and forms a " hairy layer " with a negative electrical charge that repels other micelles ... If [ milk ] gets acid enough to approach pH 5.5 , the capping-casein 's negative charge is neutralized , the micelles no longer repel each other , and they therefore gather in loose clusters . At the same acidity , the calcium glue that holds the micelles together dissolves , the micelles begin to fall apart , and their individual proteins scatter . Beginning around pH 4.7 , the scattered casein proteins lose their negative charge , bond to each other again and form a continuous fine network : and the milk solidifies , or curdles . Thus , if you add lemon juice to regular milk , it will curdle and thicken , just as milk does when it sours naturally or when it is fermented into yogurt , kefir , cultured buttermilk , etc. ( which all involve bacteria that acidify the milk ) . The same process happens if you add acid to condensed milk .
In theory the elements could last 10 's of years , there is nothing in typical electric element design that limits their life . I would expect modern oven elements to last at least ten years with daily use They may fail prematurely due to damage ( being knocked ) in the oven while hot , from surface oxidation due to improper cleaning , or because of slight manufacturing faults
Opened wine spoils fast . Red wine lasts about 1 day , white wine lasts about 3 days . You can prolong this slightly by putting it in the refrigerator , but only by a few days at most , and it depends on the wine . It may be " safe " to consume for much longer , but the taste will be way off , even for cooking purposes . If you 've opened it - finish it . ASAP . There are exceptions : " Cooking wines " such as cooking sherry and rice cooking wine have an array of preservatives added and will keep for much longer . But do n't leave perfectly good Chardonnay just sitting around to oxidize .
end question
start question
What do I do with all this cheese ?
Buy the packaged crescent rolls and roll a slice of cheese in each roll before you bake it ... just in time for Thanksgiving ! Alternately , you can roll it with a slice of meat and mini flat breads for a quick snack .
The fleshy party of the fruit of <URL> is is supposed to be sweet and pleasant . However , it does not taste like chocolate . Chocolate is made from the nibs or seeds within the fruit of theobroma cacao , after it is fermented ground , and processed , and is in no way sweet . The nibs themselves are very low in sugar , and contain alkaloids ( such as caffeine or theobromine ) which are bitter . This probably evolved to discourage predation or disease to the seeds themselves . This is very similar to the way peach kernels ( the seed within the pits ) are not terribly sweet , although they certainly grow within a fruit that is . So no -- there is no such thing as naturally sweet chocolate . A related tree , Cupuaçu ( <URL> ) is cultivated more specifically for its fruits , which are sweet and said to taste something like pineapple . Again , the fleshy fruit is not analogous to the seed which eventually becomes chocolate .
Melting them together makes the chocolate less sticky and therefore less likely to stick to your melting pot . Probably would n't cause any other problems if you did them separately ; there is no chemical reaction between the chocolate and the butter . Either way its convenient to melt them together so that you can do it all at once and save time .
First , finely chop the onions . This makes them smaller , faster-cooking , and less of a textural presence in the dish . Do it by cutting straight through the poles of the onion , resulting in two halves . Then chop off the knobs and peel off the outer layer . Run the knife 8 or 9 times along the vertical ( from pole to pole ) , but do n't sever one end completely . Cut finely across these verticals to make a fine dice . Run the knife over the pile a few times if your cut is n't small enough . Second , cook the onions . The purpose of sweating is to draw moisture out , concentrating the flavor and enhancing conversion from starch to sugar . Heating the onions releases their aroma and reduces the chemical bitterness they exhibit when raw . Heat up some oil in a pan to medium-low heat . Add the onions . Add salt . I would n't cover the pan , since the lid will prevent steam from escaping . Stir/shake to prevent sticking or burning . The onions will get soft and then translucent . ( Eventually , if you kept going they would get limp and browned ; this is referred to as caramelized and considered a different thing than sweated , so although it 's just further along the same spectrum , you should n't go that far for this recipe ) . That 's how I 'd do it and why . I do n't know if it 's a textbook answer .
Use <URL> . It will handle considerably higher temperatures without burning/smoking .
Seltzer and carbonated water are the same thing . Club soda is slightly different . <URL> The term seltzer water is a genericized trademark that derives from the German town Selters , which is renowned for its mineral springs . Naturally carbonated water has been commercially bottled and shipped from this town since the 18th century or earlier . Generally , seltzer water has no added sodium salts , while club soda still retains the sodium salts . So , the primary difference is that seltzer has no added ingredients , but <URL> : Sodium bicarbonate , sodium chloride , sodium phosphate and sodium citrate are added to club soda ... <URL> of the ingredients list and taste of various types of fizzy water . So to answer your question directly , you can make seltzer just by carbonating regular tap water , and you can make club soda by adding potassium bicarbonate , potassium sulfate , or baking soda to water and carbonating it .
For an astringent/bitter twist to the flavour , for a scent , and the visual gloss effect ** Mediterranean people have been doing this for centuries For best effect they are probably using a first cold press oil ( Extra-virgin ) from young olive trees ( less than 50 years old ) . It is often quite green in colour and has a pungent and astringent odour These are often only available from boutique olive farmers , in expensive small quantities e.g. . <URL> or <URL> . Expect prices around NZ$ 50 to NZ$ 100 per litre It is sort of similar in concept to squeezing a fresh lemon over a dish It 's a bit over fashionable at the moment , but in some dishes it really works ** the three s 's - sap ( or ) , scent , shine
I usually do n't buy crumbled tofu , but since you have that , I would suggest making tofu burgers . Add another hearty ingredient , like lightly roasted finely chopped walnuts , or baked eggplant cubes . Combine with chopped onions , garlic , grated carrots , and breadcrumbs . Bind with beaten egg . Season with your choice of herbs or spices , such as thyme , oregano , basil . Form into patties , fry lightly in olive oil and sprinkle with tamari ( or soy sauce ) until both sides are browned . Bake until fully cooked in the oven at 375 degrees . Serve on a bun just like a beef patty .
Double-yolked eggs are the result of an anomaly in the egg generation process in the hen . They can happen in any breed of hen , on any feed . It is a result of two ova being generated at the same time , and then encapsulated in a single shell . According to <URL> , it happens more often with younger hens . I am not aware of any process to intentionally foster double yolked eggs , but that does n't mean such a thing does n't exist . They are safe to eat , although they may be visually startling .
I do n't know how you would describe the flavor of bay -- I would call it a subtle savoriness , with a complex aroma . Bay is very tough -- almost sharp . It is generally not eaten directly . Instead , the whole leaf ( or several whole leaves ) are put into a dish or sauce to cook with it , then removed prior to service . The shortest recipe I have for using bay is in a rice pilaf while it cooks , which is 15-30 minutes depending . I am not aware of an upper time limit . Here is a Miami Herald article offering some other perspectives on using bay leaves : <URL> As they Herald points out , many folks prefer Turkish bay rather than California bay , because it has a more complex , subtle flavor . ... I believe custard in Britain had bay as a traditional ingredient -- you might make a custard with a single bay leaf to get some sense of what it tastes like without lots of competing strong flavors . ... Update : Serious Eats Food Lab has just published an article , <URL> with lots of good information that may be of interest .
Do n't spray with water with a standard squirt bottle . Get an <URL> . It 's pressurized , so you get an almost aerosol-fine mist , which prevents the kernels from getting soggy . It also adds flavor , in addition to the powdered seasonings you add with it . Or you could use an infused oil and skip the powdered seasoning altogether .
make waffles ! that 's what we do with ours , besides bread . sourdough waffles with syrup have this great sweet/sour balance going on that is really wonderful .
It has been said : Better safe than sorry . You have n't measured the absolute sugar or acidity levels . Freezing it will do no harm . -- <URL> <URL> I 'm definitely not an expert with baking , but I 've worked with fruits in other contexts . The only time I would be worried about freezing would be if I added oil , like for a marinade or such . In your context I think freezing is fine , and sounds like it would be a convenient way to make larger batches to reuse throughout the year . PS : That puree sounds awesome , I might have to try that to marinate some chicken or pork chops !
I actually debated asking a similar question last month , as I managed to set mine on fire the day after Christmas , and based on the new one I got , differences I 've noticed ( mostly features I miss from the old one ; also a few things I 've noticed at my neighbors and mom 's house . Insulated top ; If you frequently run out of space in your kitchen , and need to keep stuff on top of the toaster oven , it comes in handy . ( and some allow the top to open up so you can expose the top so it could be a bread or plate warmer ) Is the rack connected to the door so , when you open the door , the rack pushes out a couple of inches , so you do n't have to reach in to extract things and risk burning yourself ? ( okay , I admit , there 's a few drawbacks to this ; it means the rack is n't easily removable to be cleaned or if you need to pull it all the way out because there 's something that got pushed to the back , and the next item ) Multiple racks or rack heights . The different positions might be useful for the broiler , but the multiple racks really are n't that useful ; things wo n't toast right when they 're blocked by another level , and they do n't tend to cook evenly when in oven mode , either . ( maybe if it 's a convection ... it 's my neighbor 's toaster oven , so I have n't played enough with it ) If you leave both racks in there , then you 've barely got any space in between to grab things out , so you 're risking burning yourself . ( and well , they do n't have that last feature where the rack pops out when you open the door ) Location of the controls ; some are on the side , some are on the bottom . Controls on the bottom are more prone to getting damaged by things getting pushed around on the counter , but I prefer it for a few reasons -- ( 1 ) the toaster oven 's narrower , as there 's no wasted space to the side ; ( 2 ) the door opens higher up ; this means you can have a large plate on the counter without it getting in the way when you want to open the toaster . Convection ; some have it , some do n't . Broiler ; not all can do broil ( top element ) only . Depth of the unit ; some of them bump out so they can fit a round pizza ; if they also have a little bracket so you do n't accidentally push it up against the wall , there 's hardly any space left on the counter . How exposed the elements are ; some of the newer ones have grills over the elements , I have n't had mine long enough to see if that 'll protect it from melted cheese dripping on 'em , which I think was the cause of my toaster fire . Turn-dial vs. brown-ness setting . I do n't know how to explain this one . All of the toaster ovens in the stores I looked in have a dial , where you have to turn the dial past 10 min , then back to the little reference marks for the darkness that you like your toast ; My old one just had a setting at the bottom , you set it to toast , and hit the button . If you wanted to shut it off , you opened the door . Of course , with this style , there was n't a timer on the oven , either . Turn-off-via opening the door : Some do , some stay on . I 'm used to it , but of course , if that 's the only way to shut it off , that also means you have to open the door to shut it off when there 's a fire inside , which means better airflow . ( or unplug it , but when the plug 's on the other side of the toaster , that one 's not a great option , either ) . Electronic controls : I personally view it as something else to break , but they might be able to do something special ; I 've never bought one , myself . Cord length ; only really a problem when you 've got an old kitchen that does n't have a plug every 12 " or whatever the new standards seem to be ; but you really do n't want to plug a toaster into a power strip if you can help it , so if you know you 're going to need to run it 3 ' down the counter , check the cord length . ( and which side it attaches , just in case you 're then going in the wrong direction with it ) Crumb tray . I hear other people use 'em . They 're supposedly important so you do n't catch the thing on fire . Accessories . Some come with a little tray to use ; some of them also have a little insert to turn it into a broiler pan ( so you lift it out of the pan a little bit , so it wo n't stew in whatever drips off ) . And I understand that you need some air flow around the pan , but in my opinion , something 's wrong when the tray that comes with the toaster is 1/2 the area of the rack ; it 's like they were n't even trying , they just tossed in a tray from some other oven . Others come with a little tool so you can pull the rack out so you do n't burn yourself ( which then gets lost or broken and thus sucks ) Size . If you tend to make toast for lots of people at a time , then some of the larger toasters might be worth it ; If you 're single , the 6 or 8 slices of bread at the same time ( but not the size of bread you like ; you can only fit two of those ) toasters might be a bit overkill ) And they now seem to measure themselves by ' size of a pizza I can fit ' , which makes no sense to me , as everyone knows the correct way to size toaster
It is certainly a fermentation . A simple chemical neutralization would n't need that much time , and would n't produce lasting fizz . You can be certain that there are wild yeasts everywhere : in the air in your kitchen , on your elderflower , probably on your utensils , etc. . It is impossible to say which ones prevailed in the fermentation , the ones you brought in with the elderflower or the ones which came into it from some other sources .
At Marriott hotel , where I worked for a while , we used similar flakes . Our technique was to add a good splash of boiling water first , incorporate the chocolate flakes by mixing it into a smooth paste ( more or less ) , and only then add hot milk . I guess the idea is that it is much more of a challenge to incorporate a small amount of solid into a large amount of liquid , however if you turn that solid into a paste first , its almost like your mixing two liquids . You 'll find that the same technique is used for making a bachamel sauce . For convenience sake , try using a small amount of hot milk , instead of water . Also , having your liquid boiling might help , which is hard to achieve in a microwave . e.g. when making a classic chocolate sauce which contains butter and cream , the chocolate is only fully dissolved when the liquid is boiled .
1 . Chemical leaveners There are two " oldfashioned " chemical leaveners , both still used today in traditional German and Scandinavian gingerbread recipes : Potassium carbonate ( potash or pearl ash ) and Ammonium bicarbonate ( salt of heartshorn ) They do have their own quirks and pitfalls , but if nothing else is available ... If you can get baking soda , mix with cream of tartar to make baking powder . If your store does not stock it , you pharmacy most likely will carry " sodium hydrogen carbonate " ( which is another name for baking soda ) either as treatment for heartburn , it 's an antacid ( because it reacts with acid , neutralzing it and making these nice bubbles , as we know from baking ... ) or as topical treatment for allergic reactions of the skin ( poison ivy and others ) . 2 . Biological leaveners This boils down to Saccharomyces cerevisiae , aka . baker 's yeast or brewer 's yeast . Of course you get very different results and have to follow a different procedure . But here are some recipes where they are used somewhat interchangeably , e.g. some types of pancakes or waffles and , obviously , bread ( vs. sodabread ) . The charming thing about yeast is , that if your are really , really far from a store , you can still get your hands on yeast : Start a sourdough using the yeasts naturally occuring on fruits or the air around you . Probably not the kind of substitution you had in mind , though . 3 . No leaveners With good technique , you can incorporate a lot of air ( because that 's what all leaveners are supposed to do ) in your baking goods by whipping your eggs well . There are various approaches : You can whip the whole eggs . Whip the yolks ( with hot water or over a water bath to stabilize them ) to Zabaione-like consistency . Whip the whites and fold into your batter . You will want to bake these batters right away before the bubbles get a chance to burst . The air will expand during baking and the hardening egg/flour-mixture will trap them in the baked goods . Contrary to many recipes out there there is no real need to bake a pound cake or even sponge cake with baking powder if it 's done right . Other recipes without leavener ( or rather with the egg trapping steam generated by a rather high water content ) are the members of the popover family ( Yorkshire pudding in the UK , Pfitzauf in Swabia , some dutch pancakes ) and pâté a choux . Puff pastry relies on thin layers of butter separating the layers of floury dough and trapping steam between them .
I agree with yossarian , if I question it , I chuck it . Although in this case , the salmon probably will not harm you , it might just taste bad . Loss of moisture ( freezer burn ) , taking on of flavours , etc. . I would n't eat it because it would n't taste great . My father-in-law would eat it , because you do n't throw out food ( his rule ) . Bottom line , if it has been in the freezer for those two years straight , it wo n't give you food poisoning or harm you . It 's just a matter of palate . But rest assured , it wo n't taste great .
Moisture-release is not a result of the cooking process but of the quality of the chicken . Try the following experiment : Buy halal or kosher chicken breast Buy the cheapest chicken breast you can find . Now put two pans on the stove , and put the industrial chicken breast in the left pan and put the kosher/halal in the right . Ensure both pans have the same heat setting , the same amount of fat ( I prefer duck fat for frying chicken breast ) and watch the amount of moisture coming out of the left one and the fat actually being soaked up by the right one . So the easiest way to avoid this is to buy good quality chicken ...
Venison is , generally , an extremely lean meat . This means it responds well to two cooking methods : very very fast and very very hot ( grilling , perhaps roasting with a lot of basting , or lard the meat first ) , or very very slow and moist ( braising ) . This is of course dependent on the cut ; loin is best grilled , shoulder is best braised ( due to the connective tissue ) , leg is best roasted . I would n't use plain water as a braising liquid . 50/50 water and red wine , or stock and wine , or just stock ... cider would be lovely , so would various juices .
end question
start question
Does kale taste sweeter and more flavorful after being frozen ?
You have misread the Wikipedia quote . It says ( emphasis added ) : Kale freezes well and actually tastes sweeter and more flavourful after being exposed to a frost . While not terribly well written ( since there is the red herring that it freezes well ) , this does n't mean that the harvested plant was frozen , but rather that the live plant in the ground was exposed to frost . This causes it to begin converting starches to sugars in preparation for winter , giving it a sweeter taste . Per <URL> , for example : Frost enhances the flavor . Some of the tastiest kale is harvested under a foot of snow ! Never harvest kale until after a hard frost or two . A few freezing nights make all the difference in flavor as the kale plants need a hard frost to transform their starches into natural sugars .
The easiest way to measure a cup of flour is of course to take the measuring cup , plunge it into your bag of flour and just lift up a spoonful . The problem with that is that the plunging and lifting will compress the flour inside the cup and actually get you more flour than you wanted . If you spoon the flour into the measuring cup you minimize the compression and will get a more accurate measurement .
Hot gasses such as steam and CO2 trapped inside the dough by the crust are important to help properly bake the bread , as well as to give it form and structure . If you cut a slice off the end of the bread before the bread has finished baking , you completely change the conditions under which the bread finishes baking : steam will escape rather than building up , the internal temperature probably wo n't rise as much , and the bread will tend to dry out rather than cook . If you 're not sure whether your bread is done , you should take its temperature . An instant-read , digital thermometer with as fine a probe as possible is best because it compromises the crust the least . For the same reasons , you should let bread cool as @justkt suggests before cutting into the loaf . Bread smells great when it 's hot , but it tastes best when it has cooled somewhat .
No . It is not general practice to add bleach to rice . The brown rice bran is removed through mechanical processes . As to whether he should continue to indulge this worry ... I 'd be more concerned about [ insert common American male problem here ] before ammonia in rice . <URL> This review has many free references in it . Should you want further peer-review reading , I can provide it .
More head = less carbonation , which will change the mouth-feel of the drink , albeit largely imperceptibly for most people ( myself included ) . Less carbonation will also change the actual perception of flavour ; it will taste sweeter , mostly .
The biggest issue 's your facing is the lack of Gluten which helps trap the air created by the baking powder ( Fluffy ) and the lack of fat ( Moisture ) . I also sure the sugar would be adding a little extra strength . However the Picture on the original recipe looks dense and dry anyway . I 'm assuming you 're not using butter purposely , for much the same reason you 're using honey instead of sugar . Taking these two as a basis and working on the recipe you have provided . I think the following may work for you : <URL> Mix the warm Milk , Syrup , Milk , Oil and Yeast and leave to ferment for a while ( 15-25min ) Mix the dry ingredients , sieving to trap some extra air . Beat the eggs until fluffy and pale ( This would be easier with a couple of teaspoons of sugar if your willing to add a tiny amount ? ) Mix beaten egg to yeast mix , then add to dry mix , mixing well preferably with a dough hook if you have one . It 's going to be hard to do by hand as it 'll be sticky as hell . Add to baking dish ( es ) and leave to prove for an hour . Then beat it back down and leave a further 40min . Bake as described in the original recipe . May need a little longer . We 're aiming for more of a brioche type dough rather than a soft batter or firm bread dough here so more flour may be needed . The above recipe should work well . The only issue may be trapping the air , if this is the case adding 2tsp of Xanthan gum to the dry ingredients will make it work much better . The texture will be much lighter ( Fluffy ) , the additional Oil and Egg should increase the moisture side of things . Hope this works well for you :) , I see no reason it should n't .
This deli meat you speak of is generally made of small scraps of mechanically-separated meat that are essentially " glued " together into a solid mass by enzymes that partially break down the tissue . This processed " meat brick " does n't really have the same texture as an intact muscle tissue , which has individual muscle fibers aligned along a " grain " that makes it pleasantly chewy . Folding/layering/rolling slices of processed meat gives it more of a texture and chew , and tricks you into thinking you 're eating an actual piece of animal muscle instead of meat-flavored jelly .
There are two types of sesame oil you can normally buy . Pure sesame oil ( or just sesame oil ) has a mild sesame taste . Refined sesame oil is used as a cooking oil and only has a hint of sesame flavour . Toasted sesame oil is made from toasted sesame seeds ( and therefore tastes like toasted sesame seeds ) . Aside from the labeling , you can easily tell it apart from pure sesame oil by its much darker colour and stronger aroma . It is not a cooking oil , it 's more of a condiment and used frequently in Asian cooking . Neither of these taste exactly like sesame seeds on a bun , obviously , but the sesame flavour in toasted sesame oil in particular is very noticeable .
Assuming your roux is flour based , the original recipe mixture was able to be a sauce because the proteins in the flour formed gluten and created that lovely thickness we enjoy ( your seasonings sound like a nice combo ) . The water from the other ingredients are trapped in the gluten . Unfortunately , when you freeze it , the water molecules form sharp shapes like knives and cut your gluten strands . This is n't a noticeble problem until your defrost it . It does n't matter how quickly or slowing you defrost . The damage was done when it was frozen . To work around this issue , you have to freeze it faster ! Professional establishments can super freeze things super fast . Freezing faster will make smaller knife-shaped ice crystals and that reduces the damage . TIPS : freeze in smaller portions and shallower depth on a pre-frozen metal cookie sheet . Defrost and strain the sauce . Make a new roux and add the defrosted &amp; strained sauce . The flavor comes from the frozen sauce and the new roux recreates the gluten .
To my experience , the cutting " trajectory " ( not sure if that 's the right vocab ) of a dull knife is less consistent and less controllable than a sharpened one , and is more subject to be influenced by the texture of the material being cut , especially cutting something hard , thick and fiber-ish such as carrot or big melon .
Two properties of salt that oregano does n't have : water solubility : you drop salt in water , you put it on chicken , you put it in tomato sauce . Most or all of it ends up dissolving , making it easier to mix . osmosis : related to above . Sprinkle some salt on raw meat . Come back in 5 minutes and you 'll see beads of liquid on the meat , almost like it was sweating . That 's a combination of salt dissolving into the liquid on the surface of the meat , and osmosis pulling less salty water out of the cells of the meat to balance the salty water on the surface . In 10 minutes , some of that liquid will have disappeared . Part of this might be due to evaporation , but part of this is due to the liquid pulling salt into the cells , which changes the equilibrium and allows for the cells to draw liquid back in ( principle behind brining meats ) . Salt has a natural way of penetrating organic matter that oregano and many other seasonings do n't . There are other mechanisms at play too -- salty foods can make you salivate , which may make something feel " juicier " in your mouth . I 'd highly recommend <URL> as a start .
<URL> , a major component of lemon oil , is not very water soluble , and will leave a sticky residue on your hands til you wash with soap and water .
This does n't answer your question directly , but spices are only a small part of the picture . Below are some techniques to get more flavor in your soup . Longer Cooking Depending on the type of soup you 're making , you may just need more time . Some flavors just need more time to get out . This is especially true of meat and bones . It 's possible to make a ham and pea soup in an hour , but simmer that ham for 3 hours and it 's night and day . Rest overnight Many stews , chili , etc. seem taste " better " the next day . Give an overnight rest in the fridge a shot and see if the flavor improves . Add volatile flavors later There is a caveat to go along with longer cooking . Some items work over long cooking times , while others lose flavor . In addition to meat/bones , garlic , onion , bay leaves ( and others ) benefit . Many fresh herbs , pepper , vanilla , saffron ( and others ) lose their flavor from the heat . If you are cooking for a while , you might try adding some more volatile flavors later in the process . Add salt early Salt helps to extract flavors , so add it early on in the process . Do be judicious with it , however . Long cooking tends to concentrate flavors , so you can easily make it too salty . Sweat vegetables / brown meat Before getting any water involved , sweat your onions , celery , peppers , mushrooms , or whatever vegetables or playing in this game . Likewise , brown your meat . The maillard reaction is necessary for developing great flavor from the meat .
Certainly yes . In fact , aged egg whites can whip better - sensitive applications like macarons will frequently prescribe holding the separated egg whites for a day or two before using .
<URL> by Andrew Dornenburg and Karen Page has a large section on food pairings . For carrots they mention orange , ginger , lemon , basil and mint . I think any of these could work well , if done right . My suggestion would be first to use really good , flavorful carrots -- preferably from a farmer 's market . Second , I would tone down or even leave out some of the usual carrot cake spices so that you do n't cover up the carrot flavor or the subtle flavors of your possible additions . Maybe fresh or candied ginger in the cake itself would be good . Orange or lemon curd and/or zest would work particulary well in offsetting the cream cheese icing . I 'm thinking basil and mint might be better saved for another dessert .
Basic Physics of the System Bread rises ( as you probably know ) due to microorganisms , primarily yeast , converting sugars into CO ₂ + byproducts . The CO ₂ forms bubbles , stretching the gluten in the flour . In order for the bread to rise , the microorganisms must produce CO ₂ faster than it can escape from the dough . Graphed over time , the amount of CO ₂ produced would start at 0 , fairly quickly rise to its maximum ( as the yeast , etc. come back from dormancy ) , then slowly decrease , eventually to 0 ( as they run out of food and/or are overwhelmed by byproducts such as alcohol ) . The amount of gas escaping from the dough also changes over time . It must obviously start at 0 , and probably increases over time ( after all , there is more to escape ) , and eventually of course its all escaped and thus it must be 0 again , but I 'm not sure of its exact shape . So , a diagram : That 's the basic physics of the system . At some point , the bread must fall . ( Well , maybe in a 0-g environment it would shrink instead of fall , but ... ) How the Environment Matters The microorganisms are very sensitive to fairly small changes in their environment . In particular : Temperature . If your kitchen is 70 ° F and the author 's is 80 ° F , it could easily take twice as long . The lower the temperature , the slow the microorganisms go ( up to a point , once it gets too hot , they 're not happy either ) . Hydration . If your bread dough is lower hydration ( drier ) than the author 's , it 'll be slowed down again . The recipe is written in volume measures ( cups ) , as you know flour packs down . That leads to huge variations in how two different people measure it . Make sure to measure it how the author says to ( hopefully it specified somewhere in the book ) . Scoop-and-sweep vs. sift-and-sweep can easily be 25 % different . Preferably , spend $ 25 on a kitchen scale , and do your baking by weight . Salinity . Salt slows down yeast . If you happened to substitute table salt for kosher salt , and still measured out 1 1/2 tablespoons , you 've used more salt than the author wanted . A fair bit more . Age of your yeast . If your yeast is old ( and sometimes the packets in the store have been sitting for ages ) , it may not have the same potency as a fresh packet would . It 'll probably take longer ( but as long as it rises , it 'll likely be fine ) The times in the book could just be nonsense . Authors and editors do sometimes make mistakes . Other times they 're in a rush , and just take a guess . " Yeah , it was about two hours ... " The book could just be wrong . Also , generally speaking , slower leads to better flavor . So its not a bad thing . Summary Give it longer . Provided you 've covered it in plastic ( so it does n't dry out ) , it 'll eventually fall . Keep in mind that " fall " does n't mean it 'll return to its original size , just that it 'll fall back from its maximum size . The " or flattens on top " comment in your book is a pretty accurate description of what it looks like . Normally , while its rising , there is a dome shape on top , with the center as the highest point . When it starts falling , that dome vanishes , and may even invert ( as in , the center will be the lowest point ) . I 've made preferments that take upwards of 20 hours to fall . It will eventually happen . And when it takes forever , it 'll probably taste better .
Your proposed method is possibly dangerous , you 'd be warming it enough for botulism to thrive , but not enough to kill it . When you cook it , cook it properly and all at once . What I 'd suggest is simply cooking it on Friday , then re-heating it saturday , or getting up early enough to cook it through on Saturday . As for when to thaw it if it 's a truly heroic size I 'd thaw it in the fridge starting 48 hours before you want to cook it . As for how long I 'd usually do 20 minutes per pound plus 20 minutes as long as the meat is room temperature to start with , so for 7.5 lbs , so that 's near enough 3 hours as makes little difference . Not that long really , if you wanted to serve at 1pm you 'd want to get it out of the fridge as early in the day as you can , get the oven on at 8:40 on 350F ( 375 F on a conventional oven ) , get the meat in at 9 , roast till 12 , then rest it for an hour . Crank the oven up to max for the last 20 minutes to get the crackling extra crispy .
When you are making blueberry muffins , frozen and fresh blueberries will give different end results . Frozen blueberries will almost " melt " when you bake the muffins , because the skin becomes more fragile after freezing . If you use fresh blueberries , they will be more intact after baking and will sometimes still " burst " when you bite into them . Which of these outcomes you prefer is entirely subjective ( though obviously frozen are better ) . As for the taste , some blueberries will have more taste than others . If they are grown out of season , they will most likely be flavourless . This goes for both fresh and frozen blueberries . I 've found a brand of frozen blueberries that I use for muffins that give a have a nice taste year around : others may be terrible . For the remark your wife made about frozen blueberries being rotten : I do n't know where you live , but that is most certainly forbidden in the US and Europe , and probably most places where frozen blueberries are available . That is the only part of her argument that was most definitely wrong . Everything else is subjective or depends on the specific brand of blueberries or even the time of year .
The recipe 's goal is to use the natural bacteria in the beets and beet peels to cause the fermentation . The thing about using natural bacteria is that you never know what these are going to be , so it 's a crapshoot what flavors you are going to get . Beets produced in one farm may have radically different bacteria in them , different varieties grown in the same patch of land could also vary significantly . It 's the same process as making a sourdough bread starter using natural yeasts - you may get a nice smooth and delicate flavor , or you could get something that will take the paint off of a door . The point is that you may be doing everything right , it 's just that 's what you are going to get from the process . Looking at the science of the natural yeasts and assuming the recipe writer is not talking complete BS , it could be that the delicate bacteria spoken of in the recipe is being out-competed by the other natural bacteria in the water you use , and on the surface of the container , lid , and airlock . The thing to do in this case is to reduce or eliminate these other bacteria so that the beet bacteria will be the only game in town . To do this use sterilized water ( buy distilled or simply boil your water for a few minutes before letting it cool completely ) , or run your water through a filter which will remove or kill bacteria . Then use a chlorine solution to sterilize every single piece of equipment you will use . That means the container , lid , lock , spoons - anything that will come into contact must be very clean . Wash your beets in sterilized water as well . I 'd do that to the equipment even if I used a culture , it will increase my chances of a good result . If that does n't work you may have to accept that is the way natural kvass will taste . It could be that the writer of the article likes it that way , or simply does n't know what he/she is talking about . In that case consider using a culture - there 's no dishonor in it and you 'll get something drinkable .
Starch is composed of two polymers ( linked chains ) of glucose ( sugar ) : Amylopectin and Amylose . Amylopectin is a branched and much larger molecule than Amylose . Starch molecules in a grain of rice are actually arranged in a semi-crystalline state . The granules are about 2μm in size in rice ( different plants have different granule sizes ) . Starch becomes soluble in water when heated . The granules swell and burst , the semi-crystalline state is lost , and the smaller amylose molecules leach out and form a network that holds water . Although the network of molecules holds water , it will of course have a larger volume than the volume of neatly-aligned molecules plus water . This process is called gelatinization . So you can imagine that in a dry rice grain , the strands of starch are like the fairly neatly stacked threads in my T-shirt , some shorter , some longer branched nets . As you heat it , the threads get moving and tangled up , absorbing the water , but also expanding even more in size like that big mess of lint in my clothes drier . A similar process happens with popping corn , except the water is contained in the kernel of corn and not added . It 's quite apparent to see how much larger the volume of a bowl of popped corn is compared to the small package of unpopped corn with water inside .
end question
start question
Is this extremely soft " French raclette " cheese actually meant for raclette ?
I do n't know whether it 's meant to be melted but it 's not how raclette cheese in France or Switzerland is usually like . Livradois is not a region I would spontaneously associate with raclette either . Having grown up in the Alps , I would personally consider raw milk raclette cheese from Savoie or Valais as the most authentic and those cheeses definitely hold their shape , even at room temperature . That said , raclette is not a protected name in either Switzerland or France so it 's produced all over the place and it 's increasingly common to find flavored variants ( with black pepper , mustard seeds , etc. ) I also know people who like to melt blue cheese or reblochon ( a soft cheese from the Savoie area ) under a table-top raclette grill so why not some other soft cheese ? Finally , note that what passes as the ' traditional ' way to prepare raclette is neither a table-top grill nor melting the cheese in a pot and dipping bread in it , fondue-like , but actually exposing the whole piece of cheese to some heat source and scrapping the melted bits as you go , as shown on the <URL> .
As Jefromi already mentioned in a comment , the sandwich bread common in the Western part of the world is soft and often sweet , ready to eat . When you search online for <URL> you will only get images of roasted bread with various fillings . I think the bread you refer to is in a half baked form , which you can find in supermarkets here sometimes too : it is used here mostly for baked sandwiches with cheese . The bread is only ready when going through another baking cycle .
Again assuming you 're using the same recipe ... I do n't think you need to leap to different kinds of flours as in <URL> . You could be using the same type ( probably all-purpose ) and even the same brand , but purchased and stored somewhere else ; it 'll end up with a different moisture content , and perhaps fluffed differently , so your volume measurements might not actually end up getting you the same amount of flour . If you 're trying to follow her recipe exactly , there 's really no harm in simply reducing the flour a bit to get the texture you remember .
I spoke with the farm that sold me the kohlrabi ; they have seen people make something akin to mashed rutabaga by boiling kohlrabi for ages and ages , so it gets about that soft . Note that mashed rutabaga is apparently still firmer than mashed potatoes , but obviously soft enough to mash into a pulp . For a stir-fry , they suggested a match-stick shape rather than medallions ; my second such stir-fry found them to have about the texture of halfway-cooked onions , soft enough not to crunch anymore but firm enough to hold their shape on a fork .
There are several main reasons , historically : Cows , sheep and goats have udders , and can be milked by hand into a bucket . Pigs ( or cats , or humans for that matter ) have nipples , where you need to suck the milk out . Consider that most of the cheese in the world was invented before machinery was able to create a vacuum , this means that the only option would have been to suck milk from the pig and spit it into the bucket . For making cheese , the fat/protein ratio in the milk is important . It changes , obviously , from species to species , which is why there are n't many hard yellow cheeses made of goat 's milk . Lastly , I have actually had camel 's milk ice-cream , which goes to show that it 's just a cultural thing mostly .
Revised answer ( old answer removed due to accidentally swerving off-topic and to some extent containing incorrect information ) Even though ethylene biosynthesis happens throughout the banana most-likely none of it occurs in the stem itself as it contains a small percentage of the metabolically active tissue . There are n't as many studies that focus on the stem of the banana specifically as I imagine it 's not a very attractive topic , but the current-day findings that we have highly support the assumption of insignificant ethylene gas production ( or none at all ) in the banana stem and it 's why wrapping it will pose virtually no difference in the further ripening of a banana . Links to relevant studies : <URL> <URL> <URL>
100 % keep going . Make sure you got cloth with something heavy on top of it to press the cabage . I do cloth , flat plate and a heavy jar filled with water to keep squeezing it down . Cloth has to be tuggen in not to let any outside matters in and liquid has to be above the cloth for about an inch or so . What ever floats above , remove together with the cloth , wipe the rims of pan , rinse the cloth in boiling water to kill unwanted bacteria and replace . You will be good . I start chewing on it in about to weeks or so ( when I wash the cloth I take some to use ) and it tastes great . Not fully fermented but still great to eat ( mind you , I make at least 20 liters per batch ... ) You will have great cabbage as long as it is submerged , salted enough and weigh down .
Pickle recipes meant for longer-term storage will include instructions for sealing the jars . While some recipes may have you use hot jars and hot brine that will result in a fairly reliable seal ratio ( meaning most of the jars will properly seal ) , other recipes will have you put the filled and closed jars in a boiling water bath to be processed for a specific amount of time . I 've found this method to yield an even higher ratio of properly sealed jars . In either scenario , the sign of a sealed jar ( assuming you are using canning jars with a lid and ring system ) is an indented dome on the lid . Jars that do not seal properly will still have a protruding dome . Most recipes will have all the specific information you need to make pickles including the shelf life of sealed jars . The Ball canning jar company has a good website : <URL> Best of luck - I hope your pickles are a tasty success !
Heinz and some other companies sell a product that they call ' chili sauce ' , which might be what you 're looking for . It 's a tomato-based sauce , with some spices and seasoning , but it 's not particularly spicy . If you have access to Dutch &amp; German ingredients , you might replace it with one of the thicker shashlik sauces ( aka ' curry ketchup ' ) . If you have access to UK ingredients , you might try brown sauce . If you wanted to make it yourself from scratch , see <URL>
You can call the manufacturers and ask them if it is " INDUCTION READY " The packaging &amp; the insert with specifications &amp; instructions should say that . Youu can ask the customer service at Amazon too , may be they will have the answer . But I also located an answer on the internet , which I am including the link : <URL>
Buy whole bean coffee ( preferably freshly roasted , maybe even from a local roaster ) . Start with a rough grind . Use a burr grinder to achieve a more consistent grind . If the grinder has a french press or coarse setting use that , else experiment with it to find a consistency that produces coffee you like . Take out your plunger and place 1 T of grounds per 4 oz ( 115 g ) of coffee that you are making . Again you can experiment with the amount of coffee you put in to get something that suits you taste . Use 4 oz of water per T of grounds that you put in the press . Fill your press with water no more than about 1 " ( 25 mm ) below the spout ( if you have a smaller press you go a bit higher , but not too much or you 'll spill ) . The water temp recommended is ~ 200 ° F ( 95 ° C ) ( just short of boiling . Stir gently , if you have a large pot use a chopstick . If you have a small pot a plastic spoon or coffee stirrer will work . Put the plunger in the coffee and press down slightly so all of the grounds are below the water level , this will press out some of the air in the grounds and also ensure even wetting . Wait ~ 4 minutes ( again , experiment here to determine best flavour ) . Press your pot slowly and gently . If you encounter too much resistance wait a moment ( or even pull back on the press a bit ) and then continue ( too much resistance can indicate too fine a grind , try a larger grind next time ) . When your plunger is all the way down wait a few moments and then pour . Waiting a bit allows some of the sediment to settle out of the coffee so you get less in your coffee cup . Some sediment is normal and provides body , but too much can be a turnoff . If you will not be drinking all of the coffee you made , decant it into a different pot so that it does not continue to steep in the grounds . While there is some <URL> here . A lot of what you do is informed by your own tastes and preferences . Experiment with it and see what you like . Spend some time deciding what kind of coffee , how long it steeps , how fine a grind you need and even how much sediment you like .
Yes , it depends on brand , humidity , etc. . My local variety is 1:4 to 1:4.5 ( polenta : water ) to get to that softness level Add nothing else until you have the polenta at the desired consistency and softness
Custard should taste eggy . This is a feature , not a bug . However , from your mention of flour , I think what you 're talking about is a souffle , not something like a creme brulee or along those lines . Would that be correct ? Edited based on subsequent clarifications : Ah . Your method is sorely lacking , and your ingredients are off . You need to temper the yolks first , you need to use yolks only , and use cream instead of milk . Here is a smaller version of what I use at work for creme brulee : - 1L 35 % cream - 11 egg yolks - 1C sugar - 1 vanilla bean , scraped Bring cream to a simmer with the vanilla seeds and pod ( you can use approx 1.5 tsp vanilla extract , pure not artificial , instead ) . While it is heating , beat the yolks and sugar together until just incorporated . Pour the cream into the eggs whisking briskly to prevent curdling . Pour mixture through a fine chinois . Skim off foam , pour into ramekins . Place ramekins in a pan , add water to 1/2way up the sides . Cover pan with foil . Bake at 275 ( convection ) or 325 ( non convection ) for approx 40 minutes , until wobbly in the centre but set . Chill until set , eat . The deflation is caused by a souffle effect coming from including the egg whites , which are never used in a custard -- custards , creme anglaise , etc , are always yolks only . When you include the whites , air will be trapped inside temporarily , and will escape/collapse when the mixture cools . If you bake until fully stiff with my method , you will get hard and rubbery custard by the time it is set in the fridge . Also , save the whites -- they freeze well -- for meringues or souffles .
I was able to track down the dish . It is called Lahuhe . There is a picture of it here : <URL> Thank you to everyone for trying to help me out .
Cheap cheese is , as others have explained , cheap for a reason . You should be able to find old/extra old ( AKA " sharp " / " extra sharp " ) cheddar cheese in the cheap section , which makes a reasonably good starting point - this cheese does have some flavour . Daniel says he simmers the milk ; I generally start with evaporated milk , which is even more economical than regular milk and keeps in the pantry forever . Although I would not use evaporated milk in just any recipe calling for milk , it happens to work quite well for Mac 'n Cheese . Other common additions to help offset the lack of flavour in poorly-aged cheeses are : Salt . Remember , salt is essentially a flavour enhancer and will bring out the natural taste of any other ingredient . Mustard . Prepared mustard is OK , but concentrated mustard made from dry mustard and a small amount of water is even better , so you can avoid having to add too much liquid . This does n't enhance the flavour of the cheese , but it does share some of the " sharpness " associated with cheddar and makes a good complement . As a bonus , it also acts as a natural emulsifier for the sauce , helping to minimize separation and curdling . Ground cayenne or red pepper . Although most people probably do n't associate Mac 'n Cheese with piquant , a small amount of this wo n't make the sauce noticeably spicy , but it will add a bit of the same " kick " you get with very old cheese . If all else fails , my " secret weapon " for Mac 'n Cheese is - not kidding - the sauce base from Kraft Dinner ( AKA Kraft Macaroni and Cheese Dinner for you Yankees ) , especially if you can get the " extra sharp " version . This stuff is dirt cheap ( often just 99 cents for a package ) and before you dismiss this as heresy , keep in mind that the idea is not to use the whole thing . Just a teaspoon or two to enhance your homemade sauce . If you do n't approve of such shortcuts then you should n't be buying cheap cheese in the first place , right ? So there you have it . Try some or all of the above ; I 'm sure you 'll end up with something that 's at least acceptable , if not great .
Short answer ? Not a damn thing . The term is pretty much meaningless in the US ; at best it only means that the product does n't have added colors , artificial flavors or synthetic " stuff " . From the <URL> : What is the meaning of ' natural ' on the label of food ? From a food science perspective , it is difficult to define a food product that is ' natural ' because the food has probably been processed and is no longer the product of the earth . That said , FDA has not developed a definition for use of the term natural or its derivatives . However , the agency has not objected to the use of the term if the food does not contain added color , artificial flavors , or synthetic substances .
The softness of ice cream is going to depend on a variety of factors : Use of gums and other binding agents , amount of sugar , the amount of fat , and especially the amount of " overrun " ( air ) that is churned into it during the freezing process . Less expensive ice creams will usually have a softer " chewier " texture than premium ice creams due to more gums and a great amount of air being churned into it to increase volume . More air = more volume = more yield for the same amount of ingredients used .
1 - Oil is separated in curries normally after you have cooked spices or sauces for ~ 10-15 mins . You can tell by seeing " bubbles " appearing and the oil by making a thin layer on top of your sauces/curry . 2 - It varies , but normally after 10-15 mins the oil separates from your curry . 3 - Normally after cooking for 10-15 mins most of the water dries up which causes the curry ( mostly made of thick sauces ) to separate from the oil . 4 - It 's always good to let the oil separate from your curry because of two things :
The problem is , the mass produced chicken most of us are used to does n't taste like chicken . The expression ' tastes like chicken ' is therefore used for most anything that 's not particularly assertive . There was an episode of Food Detectives , <URL> where they served a few different meats to professional chefs ( Alex Guarnaschelli and Aarón Sanchez ) , who had problems identifying all of the meats they were being served ... I ca n't remember exactly what all of the results were , and I ca n't find a transcript ; I remember Alex being distraught when she realized she was eating guinea pig ) . And the cooking show <URL> had a regular segment of ' name that meat ' , where he 'd have hot dogs , or jerky , and try to have people guess what they were . ... Part of the issue with substitution is going to be something that has similar cooking characteristics , but that you do n't have a reaction to . ( I 'm actually surprised that you 're allergic to chicken , but then listed other poultry ) Turkey 's likely the closest of the stuff you listed , particularly if it 's the mass produced stuff , it 's going to have a similar lack of flavor that most chickens sold in the US has ; duck tends to be richer . I have n't had any game birds recently , so ca n't comment on the pheasant . Alligator I 've only had a few times , and the only time in the last decade it was deep fried , so the meat did n't come through . ... For substitutions , it 'd depend on how you 're cooking it , and what part of the bird . For instance , in place of chicken wings , I might consider frog legs . ( although , it 's probably been 25 years since I 've had 'em , but I seem to recall them being chicken-like ... I just ca n't remember if they were like white or dark meat chicken ) ... but they 'd be closer in mass than turkey wings . For chicken breasts , I 'd go with turkey breast cutlets , so they 're closer in size . For ground chicken meat , ground turkey will work , just check to see if a recipe calls for a leaner or fattier mix , and get the appropriate turkey . Chicken thighs and legs are a little more strongly flavored ... rabbit might actually work , or duck or pigeon if you have a source .
Yes , a well cultured sour dough is actually sour . The bacteria in the culture , lactobacilli , emit lactic acid as a waste product of their metabolism , making the dough acidic and sour .
end question
start question
Why is it important to add salt during cooking ?
A few general reasons : As soegaard says , the salt is often better distributed through the food if it 's added during cooking . This is especially true for foods which have been carefully assembled ; you ca n't always just stir things up ! Some foods also take a while for flavors to soak through ; think about potatoes in a chunky soup . If you add salt only at the table , the liquid will benefit , but the potatoes will generally taste bland , like they were unsalted . Then there are things where it really needs to be cooked in - I doubt many people want to sprinkle salt on a chocolate chip cookie . Sometimes the quantities need to be pretty small , so mixing a small amount into the whole recipe is doable , while if you tried to add it at the table , even a little sprinkle would be too much . Baked goods are a good example here too . Virtually everyone likes at least a little salt , so it 's usually quite safe to add at least a little . The food will end up tasting good to many people , and then some can add more . Often the groups of people that we eat with have similar enough tastes that it 's a non-issue . Sometimes salt actually affects the cooking process , not just the flavor . It can help draw moisture out of sweating vegetables , softening them faster . It 's abrasive ( before dissolving , of course ) , and can help denature proteins . But of course , if you 're eating with people who do n't like much salt at all , and salt can easily be added at the table ( a pureed soup , for example ) , then there 's nothing wrong with waiting until then .
The water pan does affect humidity in the cooking chamber and therefore , it does change the how quickly moisture evaporates out of the meat . The question really becomes - " Will the meat be moist enough without the water pan ? " Which , to a degree , is personal preference . Some choose to not use a water pan and baste instead , some use both and some neither . I would recommend trial and error . Brisket is relatively pricey so I would recommend using pork shoulders . Smoke one with the pan and one without and see if you think the moisture content is satisfactory . The briskets wo n't cook exactly the same but the relative moisture level in the shoulders should give you a decent estimate . I personally always use a water pan , but I do n't usually fear meat from a smoker being " too moist " , and it does wonders for temperature stabilization . I also have a larger smoking chamber than a WSM so it 's possible that too moist is a larger concern for you . One last note , while cooking too hot for too long will inevitably dry out your meat , cutting a brisket or shoulder without letting it set for at least an hour ( ideally 2 ) after cooking will also dry it out .
Salt is perhaps the most basic and effective flavour enhancer , and so it 's fairly obvious why we have it on our dinner tables . The popularity of pepper is down to the Romans , who were crazy about it . Thanks to the longevity of the Roman Empire , pepper was imported for hundreds of years , helping to establish it as the most popular spice , and keeping the price high . Bill Bryson reports in At Home that : When the Goths threatened to sack Rome in 408 , the Romans bought them off with three thousand pounds of pepper .
If it calls for tightly wrapping it , they 're trying for steam . More than likely , they 're just trying to shield the top from radiant energy , so the top does n't brown before the whole thing is cooked through . If you 're ever baking a cake , and it 's starting to brown , but a toothpick is still coming out wet , I 'll move it to a lower rack , and put a sheet pan on the rack above , to keep it from browning much further , but not seal it in such a way that it would steam the cake .
That great taste comes from the compounds produced by the <URL> . It not one reaction but many that occur when the building blocks of proteins and sugars react as food is heated . Many new compounds are produced giving the cooked food a richer range of flavors . The <URL> produced by the Maillard reaction give roasted peanuts their characteristic aroma , in particular <URL> . To produce pyrazines , you need to heat your peanuts above 70C , with 110C to 170C ( 230F - 340F ) suggested by most cookbooks . For unshelled peanuts at 110C it can take up to ten minutes for the amount of pyrazines produced to reach its peak . If the peanuts are not dry , you may need to add up to 20 minutes of oven time ( longer on a tawa ) at a lower temperature to dry them . Color will be your guide . The flavor of the pyrazines will be masked by oxidizing oils in the peanuts , so keeping them in an airtight container helps preserve that nutty-cracker-peanut flavor .
( 1 ) Taste . When you salt your eggs DOES affect taste because it affects the way your tongue comes into contact with the salt . If you salt your eggs before or during cooking , some of all of the salt dissolves in the water that is in the eggs ( raw eggs , overall , are roughly 75 % water ) and is dispersed over the surface of your eggs while they cook . When you salt your eggs after cooking , crystals of salt remain on the egg and , when these crystals come into contact with your tongue directly , they produce a brighter salty taste . So basically , the way your tongue registers saltiness depends on concentration , not just amount . Think about how differently a pinch of salt tastes directly on the tongue as opposed to the way that same pinch would taste if dissolved in a drop of water . So ... the tongue registers a brighter salt taste when it comes in contact with salt directly . That does n't mean that salting eggs after cooking is better - it means that it affects perception of salt differently . Go with whichever you prefer personally . ( 2 ) Texture . Whenever I have a question about food science , I consult Harold McGee 's book " On Food and Cooking , The Science and Lore of the Kitchen . " He states unequivocally that salt DOES NOT toughen eggs . According to McGee , the only egg preparation that is harmed by the addition of salt is and egg white foam ( whipped egg whites ) . So from the standpoint of texture , salt whenever you feel called to do so . Controlling the heat when you fry an egg is the single more important factor in determining the texture of your cooked eggs .
When you approach the low end of the low-and-slow cooking methods , a concern that is normally not an issue in faster cooking methods starts becoming important : how long will it take the food to get to safe temperature ? You want the food to be above 140 F ( 60 C ) for the entirety of the cooking process , for safety , although having that happen instantly is not possible . Therefore , you want the temperature to get to that threshold as quickly as reasonably possible , especially for the surface of whole cuts of meats where the greatest risk of pathogens are . Therefore , I would urge you to err on the side of caution and safety , and use the extra coal at the beginning of cooking until the food reaches at least 140 F . Once it gets out of the danger zone , and into the safe zone , you have much more freedom . However , barbecue is far from exact . I would not worry about a 10 or even 15 F disparity . Your final outcome will likely be indistinguishable . Still , once the food is safe , if you wish to allow the temperature to be somewhat lower , that is the time to do so .
The purpose mixing the butter and sugar until creamy is to distribute air through the batter that will help leaven the cake in the oven . Skipping this step can create a denser cake . You want to add the air into the batter before adding the flour in order to prevent over mixing , which creates gluten ; causing a tougher texture . Beating the eggs until foamy and folding them into the batter or adding the eggs to the butter/sugar and beating until fluffy will also create a lighter texture . The sugar does not need to dissolve in the butter , but it should be evenly distributed . <URL> gives a good visual on how creamed butter &amp; sugar should look .
The consistency of royal icing depends on many things , including the size of your eggs , but also the humidity/weather . So if you know what stiffness you want , it 's perfectly valid to add sugar until it " feels right " . ( I usually make royal icing with meringue powder rather than fresh egg whites , which removes one variable from the equation [ the size of the eggs ] , but I still have to adjust the sugar to get the right consistency . ) As far as troubleshooting , if you 've been whipping away and it 's still gloopy , by all means add more sugar . If you overdo the sugar , you 'll know immediately : it 'll be too stiff to mix . ( In which case , depending on the quantities involved you can either just add a teaspoon of warm water , or you can whip up another egg white separately until soft peaks form , then fold it into your icing . )
Based on experience and experimentation alone ( I bake bread several times a week ) , I 'd say to be consistently safe you probably want to max out around 3 % in baker 's percentages . 2-2 .5 % is much more common , but I 've done as much as 3 % . After 3 % , things got very inconsistent . Sometimes it would work if the structure was just right , but mostly I got loaves that did n't rise well . If I did my math and conversions to weight right , it looks like you 're probably in the 2 % range , so you should be able to add about 50 % more salt . EDIT : It must be higher , but I 'm not sure how high . Bread Baker 's Apprentice as a 4.2 % Poolish Focaccia and other others in that range . BBA seems to max out in the low 4 's .
You will get the roasty , caramelized flavors ; how much influence they will have on the overall flavor of your stew will depend on several factors including : How deeply you roast the them How much you add , proportionately , into the stew How strongly flavored the other items in the stew are Roasting the vegetables will also cook them , so you will want to add them to the stew much later , so they do n't overcook . If you google <URL> , you will find several recipes for inspiration . As to whether this is a superior , or heartier flavor , that would be a matter of opinion . You do n't mention roasting celery or onions ( partners with carrots in the classic mire poix ) , but these are also excellent candidates for roasting , as are all types of root vegetable .
I suggest starting with this <URL> for more information on brining . Much of what would be transferred into your turkey is liquid from the osmosis , but some salt , and sugar if you choose to use it , would be added as well . If you purchase an " enhanced " turkey that has already been injected , you do n't want to brine it . The injection has a similar effect . If you 've made an enhanced turkey in the past , you 've already eaten a bird with added sodium . <URL> states that the turkey will gain 10 % of its weight in a combination of water and sodium . Your brine comes out to about 3.9 % salt , so your 12 lb turkey will gain ( ( 12 lbs * .1 ) * .039 ) = .0486 lbs = 21 grams of salt from a 3.9 % brine . Your average soda has 55 milligrams of salt per serving . The total amount of salt from your brine will be spread over the entire turkey , so divide that amount by the number of servings you expect that turkey to provide to get the number of additional milligrams of sodium per serving of turkey from brining . If at the end of the day you do n't want to brine , in that same article McGee also suggests a way to keep turkey moist without a brine . EDIT : I did my math wrong above , and have corrected the formula and results .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
As Kosher salt goes there is also a difference in the types . Many chefs ( myself included ) recommend and prefer Diamond Crystal brand Kosher salt . Diamond Crystal ( owned by Cargill ) uses a patented process of producing salt known as the Alberger Process . In in the interest of keeping the explanation simple , essentially it creates flat salt crystals with a hollow diamond shape and jagged edges . The hollow shape provides for quicker dissolution and the jagged edges help it stick to food better rather than bouncing off as is the nature of the cubic structure of basic table salt . For this reason many seasoning and food manufacturers use Alberger salt as a " dry emulsifier " . I was on a tour with Paul Prudhomme at his seasoning plant near New Orleans and he explained that the jagged edges help to keep it suspended and blended with other seasonings and dry ingredients . Morton 's kosher salt is composed of large crystals that are rolled to flatten them . They are flat but not hollow so take a bit longer than Diamond Crystal to dissolve . Morton 's Kosher salt also has Yellow Prussiate of Soda added to it as an anti-caking agent ( " when it rains it pours " ) which tends to leave a slight bitter ( not as bad as iodine ) taste in the back of the throat . Diamond Crystal brand is simply salt . Alberger salt has a lighter bulk weight than granulated salt so 1 teaspoon of Diamond Crystal salt is going to be less salt than either table or Morton 's kosher salt . Look at the two packages side by side in the store sometime . They are both 3 # boxes but the Diamond Crystal box is much taller due to the increased volume of the hollow crystals . Looking at the nutritional information panels you 'll also notice the serving size for each is 1/4 teaspoon but the Morton 's has 418 gr . sodium per serving vs. about 200 for Diamond crystal ( again , due to hollow crystals ) . Some people recommend increasing salt by 25 % when using Diamond Crystal in recipes . In cooking you can easily salt to taste and know that since it dissolves more readily you should be able to determine seasoning by taste without oversalting . In baking I typically use it measure for measure and have n't had any major issues yet . In yeast doughs however you must be cautious to make sure that the crystals do dissolve in the liquid so as not to cut through the gluten strands during the kneading process ( as well as to evenly disperse ) .
I think the water content of the rasgullas cause it to break . To make sure that they 're ready , after you drain the water from the paneer , take a bit of paneer on your palm and knead it with your thumb for about 40 seconds . You should be able to roll out a firm yet <URL> off it . If you ca n't form balls , it means you will have to squeeze out more water from the paneer . In the end you should have something like a soft dough . It takes a while to get it just right . If you ca n't make perfect balls in your first few shots at it , you can make rasmalai / kheer/paneer pedas out of it , so it wo n't be a wasteful disaster after-all . Refer to these articles/videos : Sources : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL>
Salt itself does n't really have a perceptible odour . However , salt added to other ingredients will usually react with some of them , which will indeed cause a change in the dish 's overall smell . There are several different reactions involved : Salt will draw fluids from most fruit , vegetables and meats . The fluids have an odour that was previously trapped within the food 's structure and is now available to your nose . Salt makes a fluid more acidic , which causes all sorts of changes . For instance , the difference in smell ( and other properties ) between a fresh cucumber and a pickled cucumber is mostly due to the brine , which is water with a high salt content . Salt may facilitate other chemical reactions in the organic molecules of the dish . Obviously , different molecules have a different smell . Each of these reactions may occur separately or together , depending on the specific ingredients used and a host of other factors , of course , but salt can definitely cause a change in the smell of a dish .
One kitchen I used to work in had a dry store that was basically a shed and in winter when the flour would be particularly cold we would always warm the flour before making bread . It always worked beautifully . The thing is you 're looking for the overall best temperature for your dough for the yeast to be active . So it 's no good mixing warmish water with cold flour - your dough temp will keep the yeast sluggish . That was our theory anyway .
According to <URL> , the preparation of a wat begins with chopped onions slow cooked , without any fat or oil , in a dry skillet or pot until much of their moisture has been driven away . Fat ( usually niter kibbeh ) is then added , often in quantities that might seem excessive by modern Western standards , and the onions and other aromatics are sautéed before the addition of other ingredients . This method causes the onions to break down and thicken the stew .
Yes that 's exactly what it means , apply salt to the steak . You should n't coat it , but you should apply salt very liberally . It 's actually hard to over-salt a steak ; many inexperienced cooks actually underseason the steak . I suggest about 1 tsp per side for a good ribeye . Salt it about 10-15 minutes prior .
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
end question
start question
Why does roasting add a flavour to the peanuts ?
That great taste comes from the compounds produced by the <URL> . It not one reaction but many that occur when the building blocks of proteins and sugars react as food is heated . Many new compounds are produced giving the cooked food a richer range of flavors . The <URL> produced by the Maillard reaction give roasted peanuts their characteristic aroma , in particular <URL> . To produce pyrazines , you need to heat your peanuts above 70C , with 110C to 170C ( 230F - 340F ) suggested by most cookbooks . For unshelled peanuts at 110C it can take up to ten minutes for the amount of pyrazines produced to reach its peak . If the peanuts are not dry , you may need to add up to 20 minutes of oven time ( longer on a tawa ) at a lower temperature to dry them . Color will be your guide . The flavor of the pyrazines will be masked by oxidizing oils in the peanuts , so keeping them in an airtight container helps preserve that nutty-cracker-peanut flavor .
I just noticed that your recipe uses water . That 's an ideal way to get tea flavor into things - you can replace it with concentrated tea . Assuming you use teabags , you should be able to steep two in that 2/3 cup of water . Tea is a fairly subtle flavor , so you may not taste it too much in the bread , but this is easy and doable with what you have ! There 's also instant tea , if you want to try to boost it - but it of course wo n't be as good as real , fresh tea . ( You could buy chai concentrate , but I think it 's usually about double strength , so not really better than you 'll do on your own . ) I 'd then replace the spices normally in your recipe with chai spices . If you 've ever made chai from scratch , you could use that recipe as a guide , but it sounds like you might not have . There 's an awful lot of variety here , from region to region , and in Western variations ; you could search around online for chai recipes that appeal to you . I 'm not an expert ( I 'm from Texas ! ) but from what I know , here are some common spices , with the most standard ones toward the top : cardamom cinnamon fresh ginger black pepper fennel cloves Cardamom is pretty much required , and that 'll help give you a flavor very different from your usual spice blend . I 'd mix/grind up the spices separately from the rest , smell them to see if they 're what you 're looking for , and adjust as needed before mixing into the rest . Aiming for a similar total volume of spices to that of the original recipe should work fairly well . It might be a bit spicier , since you 'll also have the tea , but that 's probably fine . ( Fresh ginger obviously wo n't go with the dry spices , if you use it - maybe a teaspoon or two minced ? )
Vanilla extract adds the flavour of vanilla ! Not as nice as using a real vanilla bean , but significantly cheaper and much easier to get hold of .
As a vegetarian , I regularly try to compensate for the lack of meat in a normally meat-containing dish using a number of methods , though I feel none can truly replace the addition of meat perfectly . In my experience , duplicating the effects of the addition of meat to a dish requires considering individually the effects the addition would have . First I 'll address the fat added . Since the lard present in bacon is high in saturated fats , you can attempt to duplicate that using vegetable oils that are high in saturated fats , like hard margarine or palm oil . While I would n't normally advocate with using an oil specifically because it has higher saturated fat content ( for health reasons ) , in this case it will likely help the quality of the finished greens . Consider using a smaller proportion of the more saturated fats by adding in a lighter/healthier oil , like canola or grapeseed , as a portion of the added fat . There is no single rule for getting the fat content of a dish like this right , and it 's often a matter of taste . The smokiness added by the bacon is also a consideration . While liquid smoke could work , the volatility of the product can contribute to the flavor getting poorly concentrated in the food . I have had good results with both smoked salt and smoked black pepper in concentrating smokiness in a dish , and I have found that adding either more near the end of cooking encourages the flavor to be retained more prominently . For the savoriness added by the aminos in the pork , there is a wide variety of vegan options for its substitution . A good place to start , in my opinion , is to use a vegan not-meat bouillon ( e.g. from <URL> ) as the base of the broth . The addition of nutritive yeast ( and to a lesser extent mushrooms ) can also help infuse the broth with umami , and is a common ingredient in vegan broth preparations . If desired , the addition of liquid aminos ( e.g. <URL> ) , and/or MSG can help further improve the savoriness of the greens . For the texture added by the bacon itself your intuition of using TVP or vegan bacon is likely the way to go . While neither adds much flavor itself ( vegan bacon being far more mellow in its baconiness ) , they are probably your best bet for duplicating a meaty texture .
Some of the volatile flavors will be diminished , but I 've managed to make fairly good drinks with the help of mint that I kept frozen . In my experience , freezer burn starts to become visible after two or three months , and starts to harm flavor probably around 4-6 months . I 'm not sure preparing the drink will work really well , but if you just defrost the drink in the refrigerator , it probably wo n't be terrible . Active thawing with heat will probably cause some harm . Many infusions and teas become a bit cloudy and lose color after bottling or freezing , which is why most bottled teas use an enzyme ( not usually a listed ingredient ) designed to mitigate that .
Dry and even heat . There is still a difference , even with the same cut of meat and using a roasting rack to avoid roasting the cut in its juices : meat on a rotating skewer will be exposed to uniform heat . If you set the temperature of a home oven to 350 & deg ; F , the top of the roast will be exposed to that temperature , but the bottom , in line of sight to the heat source , will be much hotter . <URL> also cook the meat by convection and use the heating elements to create the outside crust . As the meat roasts , it becomes darker and absorbs more of the radiant heat from the roasting coils . So the outside ends up getting overcooked unless the roasting coils are carefully controlled , which is kind of hard to do . In a convection oven the temperature is constant around the roast .
Hot peppers wo n't work with brine , as brine is water-based and capsaicin ( the pepper hotness ) is not soluble in water . You would need an oil-based marinade to pass the ' heat ' .
It looks to me like you need umami . One easy , healthy thing you can add is powdered dried shiitake or porcini mushrooms . I just throw the dried mushrooms into a spice grinder , it 's a powerful punch . EDIT : ( SAJ14SAJ refers to the same concept , glutamates , in his answer )
Garlic is a wonderful vegetable that can add intense flavor , and is also praised by many people for its healthful benefits . But as is the case for most strongly flavored foods , personal preference varies widely . You 've already established one reference point , in that the amount you 've used in the past was insufficient to result in a flavor that you personally found strong enough . So , the obvious next step is to increase that amount gradually each time you prepare that particular recipe until you reach a point you find most pleasing , or at least until the garlic flavor sounds a note that harmonizes with the dish . Note that garlic cloves vary not merely in size , but also in intensity of flavor ; depending on the source , age , and other factors . With experience , you 'll gain a sense of this , partly from the aroma and " feel " of the garlic . As is the case with many cooking techniques , with practice you 'll become better at judging this too . Also to consider , is what form you 're using the garlic in your recipe . For example , a meat roast recipe may call for whole cloves to be inserted , causing the flavor to disperse from the inside out . A sauté or sauce calling for minced garlic , distributes the flavor more evenly . Using a garlic press goes even farther , releasing juice and making it almost like a paste -- this works very good in a marinade , but it might be too strong for other things . You can also throw whole cloves of garlic in with potatoes while steaming them -- the garlic will become buttery soft and blend in beautifully to make delicious garlic mashed potatoes . If your garlic is burning , most likely the heat is too high , or else you 're cooking it too long . At what point you add it to the dish , depends on what you 're cooking , and what other ingredients are included . If I 'm sautéing up a collections of vegetables , I 'll usually begin with onions in the skillet first , and mince up the garlic while they 're starting to cook . The onions will have " sweat " a bit , reducing the chance of the garlic burning . Your task now is to experiment with all of these things , observing the differences in how it appeals to your own taste . If you only ever cook for yourself , you 'll be all set . However , if you 're cooking for others , you may wish to moderate the garlic level , to suit the tastes of your guests -- for that , there 's no rule of thumb . If you 're cooking for diners who normally eat bland or packaged food , a little garlic can go a long way . But for people who are used to ethic food where garlic is prominent , it might be impossible to use too much . The key to seizing control of garlic and mastering it in your kitchen , is to explore and understand how it tastes to you . Doing so will give you the knowledge and skill to wield garlic with confidence . Have fun , enjoy garlic , and listen to feedback from your guests .
I 'll try to answer this . Concerning the first recipe you linked , it does n't matter at all whether you add it first or not , since there is no extraction going on . Theres no fresh coffee , no fresh vanilla . Just extract , which of course is already extracted , so no extended wait time is needed ! There might still be room for improvement , letting flavors ' marry ' and so , but I 'd say a day should be enough . The second recipe is different . It steeps fresh coffee in alcohol , and here it 's going to need time . One month is however an extreme amount of time . Usually , hot water and coffee is steeped for seconds , and cold water and coffee is often steeped for 12 hours . Consider that alcohol is a stronger solvent than water . But if going for a true alcoholic extraction , pure is better / faster , so you should steep before adding water , and the sugar probably does n't make much difference . This said , I 'm not sure you should actually let it steep in alcohol at all , and I 'm not sure you should dilute it either . If I was doing this , I would go for water cold extraction . I 'd be concerned that alcohol would extract too much , the same as too long hot water steeping leads to bitter , sour , pungent coffee . I 'm not sure why you would want to dilute it with alot of water either . Water adds nothing to the party . Dilute it when using it instead , this leaves you free to choose each time . Perhaps you 'd like to mix it with milk instead , sometime ? Do you have a french press ? Let 1 part coursely ground coffee steep in 3 parts cold water over night . Use the filter / top to filter it , and pour it into your vodka . I 'm not completely sure , but I think 1 part extract to 4 parts vodka would be fine . Use the same ratio of sugar as in the recipes you linked , or after taste . UPDATE : I did n't completely read the second recipe before I answered . It says to boil the vodka-mixture . Sure , the alcohol does n't vanish in an hour , but I 'd still say it 's an unacceptable waste ( spirits are expensive where I 'm from ! ) . Also , the effect is the inverse of destillation , so you are left with a weaker , but sweeter , drink . I 'm not sure why it says to boil it . It says that it 's to ' thicken the liqueur ' , but they could just use less water instead . Good luck !
As stated by <URL> ; The crisper provides a somewhat enclosed environment , which prevents moisture from escaping as rapidly . Vegetables keep best at a certain humidity , higher than that typically found in the rest of the fridge , but not so high that condensation starts accumulating on them . Vegetables kept in too-dry air in the rest of the fridge will tend to dry out and shrivel up faster ; those kept in the crisper will retain their water and texture better , keeping them crisp . Leafy vegetables are also much more prone to drying out , since they have much more surface area , while hardier vegetables with a decent skin on them ( like bell peppers ) do n't dry out nearly as quickly . Fruits benefit somewhat from this as well , but do n't generally need as high a humidity as vegetables . Some crisper drawers have little sliders on them which vary the size of the opening to the rest of the fridge , letting you vary the amount of circulation and therefore the humidity ; you can adjust this to suit what you tend to store in the drawer . If you have two crisper drawers , both adjustable , then it might be a good idea to put fruit and hardier vegetables in one , and more vulnerable vegetables in the other . Also , by always putting vegetables in the crisper drawer , you can prevent potential cross contamination between foods i.e. , the vegetables can never come in contact with raw meat , because they 're all in their own separate drawer .
I suggest starting with this <URL> for more information on brining . Much of what would be transferred into your turkey is liquid from the osmosis , but some salt , and sugar if you choose to use it , would be added as well . If you purchase an " enhanced " turkey that has already been injected , you do n't want to brine it . The injection has a similar effect . If you 've made an enhanced turkey in the past , you 've already eaten a bird with added sodium . <URL> states that the turkey will gain 10 % of its weight in a combination of water and sodium . Your brine comes out to about 3.9 % salt , so your 12 lb turkey will gain ( ( 12 lbs * .1 ) * .039 ) = .0486 lbs = 21 grams of salt from a 3.9 % brine . Your average soda has 55 milligrams of salt per serving . The total amount of salt from your brine will be spread over the entire turkey , so divide that amount by the number of servings you expect that turkey to provide to get the number of additional milligrams of sodium per serving of turkey from brining . If at the end of the day you do n't want to brine , in that same article McGee also suggests a way to keep turkey moist without a brine . EDIT : I did my math wrong above , and have corrected the formula and results .
Traditionally , for almost all of my recipes , the vanilla is added as soon as you remove the pot from the heat . You definitely want the heat to meld the vanilla flavor with the fats , but you do n't want to cook it . I would highly recommend splitting the bean lengthwise and either adding them that way to allow milk access to the flavorful seeds , or simply add the seeds alone . I 'd opt for the former , and fish out the husks after the sauce/pudding has cooled . Or , as you say , use ground vanilla bean as-is and you 're all set .
Garlic in pickling recipes is just for flavor . It does not effect the chemistry of the pickle -- either for vinegar pickling , or fermentation pickling ( other than adding more vegetable mass to be pickled ) . ( This part of my little quest to close old questions with no answers , and no other substantive answer has been offered in the week since the question was asked . )
There 's an old children 's story about making Stone Soup . In it , a penniless begger offers to teach people how to make his favorite recipe : soup , made from a stone ! He boils some water and drops a stone in , and while it 's " cooking " , keeps mentioning offhand things like " It 'd go great with some carrots " or " Celery would be lovely in this " . The townspeople rush off and get celery , carrots , potatoes , onions , and the like to add to the soup , until eventually , they 've made proper soup in his pot along with the stone . So basically , the whole " stone soup " thing was a clever con game by which the begger can eat for free ( or , in kinder versions than the one I recall , to trick the townspeople into learning a lesson about sharing ) . The stone adds nothing to the soup .
A few general reasons : As soegaard says , the salt is often better distributed through the food if it 's added during cooking . This is especially true for foods which have been carefully assembled ; you ca n't always just stir things up ! Some foods also take a while for flavors to soak through ; think about potatoes in a chunky soup . If you add salt only at the table , the liquid will benefit , but the potatoes will generally taste bland , like they were unsalted . Then there are things where it really needs to be cooked in - I doubt many people want to sprinkle salt on a chocolate chip cookie . Sometimes the quantities need to be pretty small , so mixing a small amount into the whole recipe is doable , while if you tried to add it at the table , even a little sprinkle would be too much . Baked goods are a good example here too . Virtually everyone likes at least a little salt , so it 's usually quite safe to add at least a little . The food will end up tasting good to many people , and then some can add more . Often the groups of people that we eat with have similar enough tastes that it 's a non-issue . Sometimes salt actually affects the cooking process , not just the flavor . It can help draw moisture out of sweating vegetables , softening them faster . It 's abrasive ( before dissolving , of course ) , and can help denature proteins . But of course , if you 're eating with people who do n't like much salt at all , and salt can easily be added at the table ( a pureed soup , for example ) , then there 's nothing wrong with waiting until then .
<URL> has a list of Umami-rich foods along with natural concentrations of glutamate . I 've copied some of their list below ( included some meats for comparison ) in case the link disappears ( concentration number is mg glutamate/100g food ) . There 's also some information at the above link about how to prepare the foods to maximize the umami taste . Food/Concentration : Beef/107 Tuna/188 Nori/1378 ( not a typo ) Tomatoes/246 ( the riper the better ) Fresh Shiitake Mushrooms/71 Dried Shiitake Mushrooms/150 Enoki Mushrooms/22 Soy Beans/66 Potatoes/102 Sweet Potatoes/60 Chinese Cabbage/100 Carrots/33
This seems to be a myth based on the idea that wine can be ' bruised ' by popping the cork or handling the bottle roughly . ' Dr Vinny ' , Wine Spectator Magazine 's advice expert , has this to say on the subject : Someone asked whether or not making a cork " pop " when you pull it will bruise the wine . Others have also asked about bruising in relation to decanting . I 've never had a wine that was fine one moment and damaged the next because of handling , and can safely say that bruising wine is a myth . Source : <URL> and also : A wine does not get " bruised " by moving it around . And let me address some other myths , such as that wine will bruise if you make a cork " pop " or bruise if you decant it : no and no . Outside of smashing a bottle on a concrete floor , there is nothing I know of that will take a perfectly fine wine and damage it in one movement . Source : <URL> You are more likely to have a problem with an old , crumbly cork falling into the wine than some pseudo-homeopathic magic going on when the cork pops .
There is a large collection or reasons , some are : Differences in makes and models Modern form over function problems Crap EU standards ( EN 60350 etc ) that limit the amount of power a element can use . It 's something like < = 0.25 W per cm2 , and a typical domestic over is around 1100 cm2 For same standards the typical total KW/h of modern over is 3.5 KW/h , where ovens of twenty years ago where around 4.5 KW/h \
For sure , @TFD is correct that you should be wary of Wikihow - in the link you shared , the proportions of ingredients listed at the top do n't appear to match the actual amounts of ingredients shown in the pictures . " Honey Roasted Peanuts " is a catch-all phrase that is used to describe just about any type roasted peanuts in a candy coating . The catch-all extends to recipes that do n't even call for much honey ( typically a touch of honey and a bunch of sugar ) and to recipes that do n't even call for much roasting . To get roasted peanuts in a candy coating using an oven , you either have to roast-then-coat or you have to coat-then-roast . The primary difference is oven time . If you use cooked peanuts , you only need to cook the coated nuts long enough for the candy coating to bake onto the peanut - you 're just honey-glazing the peanuts - they wo n't be in the oven nearly as long as they would be if you were roasting raw nuts . It 's a fairly quick process that 's easy enough to gauge by sight . Technically , you 'd be roasting the honey coating onto the nuts - not roasting the raw nuts in honey . Note - Planters nuts are labeled as " Dry Roasted Honey Roasted Peanuts " - the peanuts are dry-roasted first then coated then roasted again . Also , for what it 's worth , the ingredients list shows they contain more sugar than honey by weight : <URL> . If you use raw peanuts , you would need to keep them in the oven long enough for the peanuts to roast as well . Given the oven time your link recommends , raw peanuts would not cook - so that would be one fundamental reason why your link specifies that you not use raw peanuts . Potential flaws of Wikihow aside , your link proposes a way to roast honey onto nuts , not a way to roast nuts using honey . You can certainly honey-roast raw peanuts using more time in the oven - but the timing could present problems with the coat-then-roast method . The candied coating is going to brown as your mixture cooks in the oven making it difficult to visually gauge when your formerly raw peanuts have cooked sufficiently ( or if they are cooking evenly ) . Also , you should be aware that once nuts are cooked and hot , it is very easy for them to go from done to burnt in very little time - it is probably pretty easy to burn your mix if you overshoot the roasting . It would definitely be easier to determine when a honey glaze has roasted onto cooked nuts than it would be to know when raw nuts were finished cooking in a glaze . But if raw peanuts are easier to come by or if you want to have literally roasted honeyed peanuts , it 's definitely possible but I would recommend looking to a more reputable source for guidance ( especially for cooking time ) . And once you start roasting your mix , stir/rearrange the nuts thoroughly and frequently to insure even cooking and to keep burning at bay .
end question
start question
Do some fish smell " fishier " ? Why ?
Certain people who are " super smellers " who have a heightened sensitivity to smells . Assuming you are n't one of them : fish smells " fishy " when it 's starts to age . If you can find a reputable fish monger , that would help . That said , if you 're sure you have fresh fish , and some fish just simply smell more , you can cut down on the smell , by a quick rinse and a <URL> . As for why fish smell fishy ... it has to do with <URL> . Amines get released as bacteria work to release them . Salmon , Tuna , others ... are higher in amines , while <URL> . You 'd have to do a bit more research to find out more specific species ...
" Pure vanilla extract is made by macerating and percolating vanilla beans in a solution of ethyl alcohol and water . " [ Source : <URL> There is alcohol in it , that 's why it smells like it has alcohol in it :) So it is perfectly normal . Personally , I find extracts and essences of vanilla to be a complete waste . To get that lovely vanilla smell and vanilla taste , add vanilla beans . To combat the relative high cost of vanilla beans , buy in bulk and store correctly , your vanilla beans can last for ages .
Certain people who are " super smellers " who have a heightened sensitivity to smells . Assuming you are n't one of them : fish smells " fishy " when it 's starts to age . If you can find a reputable fish monger , that would help . That said , if you 're sure you have fresh fish , and some fish just simply smell more , you can cut down on the smell , by a quick rinse and a <URL> . As for why fish smell fishy ... it has to do with <URL> . Amines get released as bacteria work to release them . Salmon , Tuna , others ... are higher in amines , while <URL> . You 'd have to do a bit more research to find out more specific species ...
As Kosher salt goes there is also a difference in the types . Many chefs ( myself included ) recommend and prefer Diamond Crystal brand Kosher salt . Diamond Crystal ( owned by Cargill ) uses a patented process of producing salt known as the Alberger Process . In in the interest of keeping the explanation simple , essentially it creates flat salt crystals with a hollow diamond shape and jagged edges . The hollow shape provides for quicker dissolution and the jagged edges help it stick to food better rather than bouncing off as is the nature of the cubic structure of basic table salt . For this reason many seasoning and food manufacturers use Alberger salt as a " dry emulsifier " . I was on a tour with Paul Prudhomme at his seasoning plant near New Orleans and he explained that the jagged edges help to keep it suspended and blended with other seasonings and dry ingredients . Morton 's kosher salt is composed of large crystals that are rolled to flatten them . They are flat but not hollow so take a bit longer than Diamond Crystal to dissolve . Morton 's Kosher salt also has Yellow Prussiate of Soda added to it as an anti-caking agent ( " when it rains it pours " ) which tends to leave a slight bitter ( not as bad as iodine ) taste in the back of the throat . Diamond Crystal brand is simply salt . Alberger salt has a lighter bulk weight than granulated salt so 1 teaspoon of Diamond Crystal salt is going to be less salt than either table or Morton 's kosher salt . Look at the two packages side by side in the store sometime . They are both 3 # boxes but the Diamond Crystal box is much taller due to the increased volume of the hollow crystals . Looking at the nutritional information panels you 'll also notice the serving size for each is 1/4 teaspoon but the Morton 's has 418 gr . sodium per serving vs. about 200 for Diamond crystal ( again , due to hollow crystals ) . Some people recommend increasing salt by 25 % when using Diamond Crystal in recipes . In cooking you can easily salt to taste and know that since it dissolves more readily you should be able to determine seasoning by taste without oversalting . In baking I typically use it measure for measure and have n't had any major issues yet . In yeast doughs however you must be cautious to make sure that the crystals do dissolve in the liquid so as not to cut through the gluten strands during the kneading process ( as well as to evenly disperse ) .
Swai and catfish are biologically related , but Tilapia is a Cyclid and as such quite far removed . I think the biological relation is not all that critical to their similar taste which you dislike though . The taste of fish relies on a few factors such as : Their living environment ( Fresh , brackish , salt water ) The type of soil on the water bottom ( silt , sand ) The diet of the species ( other fish , water based plankton or bottom dwellers ) Catfish is a bottom feeding freshwater species and likely to have a relatively similar taste to other species that share their living environment and diet . As such I 'm willing to bet you also do n't like the taste of Carp very much . Perhaps the solution lies in finding a fish that has a similar texture to Catfish but is a sea dwelling fish eater . That way you might get the appreciation from your eaters while being able to enjoy your own dishes more .
North American cookware companies seem to use the terms " saute " and " sauteuse " interchangeably , but technically , the saute pan is the straight-sided one , and the sauteuse or " fry pan " is the slope-sided one . In French cooking equipment terms , the straight-sided one is called a " sautoir " , and the sauteuse has higher sides and while angled out , they are not curved . The curved , shorter sided one is called a poele ( and probably what most North Americans would identify as a " frying pan " ) . So the issue is really that there are a lot of different names floating around for just 3 types of pans . When you saute , you want to maximize cooking surface area , so that things do n't steam . Sloped sides will reduce the cooking surface , so that 's why a saute pan will have straight sides . Regarding the lid , it would be used in the case that you want to cover the pan after a sear , to braise or steam . It also makes your pan more versatile . Regardless of the etymology of " saute " , according to La Cuisine de Reference , the definition of saute is to cook quickly in a small amount of oil , and any of the aforementioned pans can be used for this cooking technique . " Sauter - Cuire rapidement des petites pièces de viande , de poisson ou de légumes dans un sautoir , une sauteuse ou une poêle , avec un peu de matière grasse . "
Which could mean one thing for sure . The density and weight of the grams which float is way too lower than the ones that sink . Which means , there is a possibility that it is hollow inside , because of some bug infestation or small worms/bugs gotten inside them , eaten them making it hollow . Else the natural weight if the gram is practically very low , and the growth is incomplete. , Former being the most probable cause . If would examine the lot for any worms/bugs to ensure that 's not the case . If proved clean , and the number of floating grams is much less , then I will just ignore and use . On the other hand , it there proves to be bugs/worms in the lot , the better option is just to discard them to be safe . Because , pulses and lentils infested with bugs mostly no longer taste the same . Thanks . Hope it helped .
Yes , the freshness is the factor . In the US eggs are sold in three grades : AA , A , and B ( rare ) . The grading is based primarily on age . AA are the freshest , and B the oldest . Here is a diagram depicting the internals of an egg : The characteristics of the freshest eggs are : A large thick albumen ( white ) A small thin albumen A sturdy thick chalaze A small air space A sturdy round yolk when lying flat As the egg ages the following things happen : Thick albumen breaks down , getting smaller Thin albumen gets larger Chalazae degrades getting thinner and weaker Air space increases Yolk membrane weakens , when cracked it lies flatter Embryo may become visible as a red speck As a result of the weakening membrane the yolk is indeed easier to break . Michael 's suggestion to use your fingers to separate the eggs is spot on . The edge of an egg shell is a little too risky for reliable separation of eggs .
Working in restaurants similar things to this happened a lot . Our quick fix that usually did the trick was 50/50 vinegar and water and boil it off as mentioned above . Lemon juice or even orange should work instead of vinegar for a better scent . At a guess , the more acidy fluids help break down any splatter that may have gone into the vents . Hint : this is also great to do just before cleaning the microwave , even baked on splatter comes off easily after the steam .
I did a little bit of digging on the topic and found this TapTrip blog post : <URL> It also references a Cultura Bunka article in Spanish called <URL> To quote : During Muromachi Period ( 1336-1573 ) , japaneses [ sic ] used to transport the raw fish inside of baked rice to keep it conserved during long trips . Then , they started to eat this meal which was called sushi . [ ... ] But , making sushi was hard because took a long time and was a little expensive . Only during Edo Period ( 1603-1868 ) japaneses started to eat the raw fish freshly caught from the ocean with rice thanks to a sushiman called Hanaya Yohei . So it appears the short answer is indeed " just an accident of culture " ( or history ) so-to-speak . I will also quote from a short article <URL> * Raw fish dishses have been eaten since the Nara-era . At first , people ate raw fish pickled with vinegar as " Namasu " . Then , from the Muromachi-era , people started to eat " Sashimi " . And a bonus small bit on careful preparation of Sashimi : Sashimi is the main dish in the Japanese cuisine , and the cooks consider carefully the best way of cutting the fish , arranging the fish , shellfish and squid , give importance to the proper use of condiments , and the best combination of fish species when serving . The thickness of sashimi is determined according to the collagen ( main protein in the connective tissue ) content of the fish used . * [ Foods Food Ingredients J. Jpn. , Vol . 212 , No. 8 , 20 ] Keiko Hatae Wayo Women 's University 2-3-1 , Kohnodai , Ichikawa-shi , Chiba 272-8533 , Japan
Can I convince you that electric is better ? No , I ca n't , because I do n't think it is . The issue I have is related to how long it takes to warm up ( and cool down ) . Electric cook tops just do n't respond quickly . Little too hot ? Too bad , nothing you can do about it ( in time to save a dish that 's starting to burn anyway ) . Not hot enough ? Check back in 2 or 3 minutes . I find this particularly irritating when a recipe requires varying heats while cooking . Sorry I do n't have better news for you .
Interesting question , tried to search and it is very hard to find any real answer , I did find <URL> which speculates that since duck eggs have thicker shells they have longer shelf life .
All of the answers you are looking for have been touched on in various parts of this question : <URL> Summary : Expiration dates are for best quality only . Nothing magical happens on that date . Truly fresh eggs ( i.e. from the chicken ) will hardly degrade at all even after a year in storage . Supermarket eggs are washed , removing the protective layer and lowering the shelf life . Some supermarket eggs are already contaminated with salmonella , and there 's no test you can do to find out for sure ( other than eating them raw ) . This will cause serious problems if you leave them in storage for several months , unless you freeze them . Lastly , damaged eggs will simply go rotten . You wo n't always see the damage , but you 'll definitely smell it by the time you hit that best-before date . As with just about every other food , you 're better off interpreting the sell-by or best-before dates as a conservative guideline ; any food can go off before the date if it 's been damaged or mis-handled , and many foods will still be fine long after they " expire " . <URL> is a good resource for finding out how long various foods actually last in storage .
This is another case for anthocyanins , the same compound that causes garlic and ginger to turn blue . Anthocyanins are pH sensitive , only appearing blue or purple when in the presence of acidity . As you cook the beans , the cells begin to rupture and lose water , which causes the acid around the anthocyanins to be diluted . As this happens , they lose their color allowing the green chlorophyll ( which was always present ) to show through . <URL>
Air pockets . It 's why wormy beans/grains will also float - the surface tension of the water prevents it from entering into small crevices . If you have cracks or holes in the grains that contain air , the whole ensemble will less dense than the surrounding water and will therefore float .
Trout - fried in butter with almond chips . Simple , quick , utterly sublime ...
The strongest smells in mayonnaise should be vinegar and egg . There should n't be any yeast , and therefore any yeast smell , so that is a bit concerning . I am not sure what might imitate a yeast smell . I do n't know how to counter the smell since I am not sure what the origination of the smell is . Does it taste okay ? Is the texture okay ? I do find that homemade and store brand mayonnaises have pretty different smells in general .
The fishy smell comes from amines - you want a low pH substance to take the smell away , like lemon juice or vinegar . Some brands of " shower cleaner " will do the trick . Bicarbonate of soda absorbs " general " odors , but it is alkaline and not the best choice in this case .
Onions have a lot of sugar in them . All they want in the world is to burn and fill your kitchen with oniony smoke . The solution , as with all things heavy in sugar , is to turn down the heat and stir frequently . That said - if your olive oil was extra virgin then it might have been your oil that started burning before the onions did .
Well , sometimes eggs have non-visible ( or non-visible without candling - shining a very bright light into the egg and looking at the light coming out of the egg ) cracks . That would be one possible cause - the crack pre-existed . Even if it was not cracked when graded , cracks both visible and invisible are possible in the distribution process . Getting cracked from moving around in the pot is possible , depending on how hard you boil them . If actually boiling them I 'd suggest a simmer , but in fact I do n't suggest that at all - just boil the pot of water , lower eggs in with a spoon , turn the heat off and cover - yank when they suit your concept of " done " ( if hard boiled , 20-30 minutes by this method . ) " Coddling " is sometimes used to describe this , though it 's also used to describe cooking ( without shell , and possibly with added ingredients ) in a specialized ceramic container ( an egg coddler . ) Anyway , it greatly reduces the odds of cracking via " rattling around in the pot " ( though not why I do it that way ; I do it because it appears , observationally , to reduce my incidence of overcooking the yolk and making it nasty . )
end question
start question
How best to pan-fry tofu ?
For pan frying you probably want to start with a firm tofu . It 's a good idea to press the tofu to remove excess water : wrap the tofu in a cloth and place it between two cutting boards , weighting the top cutting board with a heavy book or other similar object . Wait at least twenty minutes ( you can prepare the rest of the vegetables/onions for the stir fry at this point . Once the tofu has been pressed , cut it into the desired pieces . It 's a good idea to fry it at medium-high heat in only oil first , then add sauces ( soy sauce , vinegar , whatever ) only after the tofu begins to brown slightly . Note : the above wo n't simulate deep-fried tofu . For deep fried tofu , you may want to use a softer tofu , still press it before using , and coat the cubes in corn starch before frying . Of course you probably know you can deep-fry at home with just a large pot of oil . For a different texture you can freeze the tofu before frying . Although not fried , I would also recommend that you try baked ( marinaded ) tofu to see if you like that texture/flavor better . You would still want to press the tofu , then slice it rather thinly . You can reapply the marinade during baking for more flavor .
Tofu is high in protein , with a neutral PH. And it ( normally ) does n't contain any preservatives like salt , sugar or nitrates . Bacteria love foods like that . If it 's past the date , chuck it out .
If you mean cleaning in terms of getting rid of the ' beard ' , use clean pliers and a lot of elbow grease . It 's hard to pull that out . If you mean just cleaning the shells , use a stiff bristled brush and scrub . If you mean cleaning the sand from the inside of the mussels , put the live mussels in a large container full of water and cornmeal and leave overnight in the refrigerator . The mussels should flush the sand out and replace it with cornmeal ( never tried this method , but I 've heard it works well . )
Yes ! Cooking with extreme heat is the killer of nutrients in vegetables . Therefore in traditional stir frying , timing is important . The goal is to coat all the vegetables with oil and searing their outer surface and not allowing the heat to transfer into the core of the vegetables . I personally do not like to cook with that kind of a heat , it is just too violent . Instead , I let the vegetable to stay in room temperature and cook them with medium heat , in a regular non-stick pan . However , I stop cooking them while they are still firm , lightly golden and vibrant .
A metal pan will not crack simply from cold liquid . If you heat it up to a very high temperature and submerge it in cold water , that 's not such a good idea . But deglazing is just a tiny amount of liquid . Now , aluminum is another story - if it 's hot enough and you pour cold water ( or cold anything ) on it , it can warp , even with a relatively small amount of liquid . And for Teflon and other " coated " cookware , you can ruin the coating that way . But heavier steel or cast iron - no way . If you 're really concerned , just keep the deglazing liquid at room temperature . Deglazing is usually done with vinegar and you keep that at room temperature anyway , right ? I deglaze my CI all the time with cider vinegar and have never experienced even the tiniest crack in 10 years . I 'm pretty sure it 's safe . It 's great , actually ; CI deglazes very easily , you just need a small splash of vinegar .
As far as I know , Korean and Japanese tofu are effectively identical in taste and preparation : my Japanese wife , who is generally quite particular about her ingredients , happily buys Korean brands from a Korean grocery for her Japanese cooking . If you 're dead set on making your own , in both countries the key ingredient for curdling is nigari ( Japanese ) aka 간수 gansu ( Korean ) , basically <URL> . Epsom salts are magnesium sulfate , so close but not the same thing ; lemon juice is out of the question ( for one thing , neither countries had lemons until recently ! ) . When experimenting , bear in mind that both countries use several different styles of tofu . " Standard " tofu/dubu is momen-dofu in Japan , but Korean soft tofu ( sundubu ) is even softer than Japanese kinugoshi-tofu and more akin to a rare Japanese type called oboro-tofu .
Store them unwashed . Take out any " bad " ones . I 've had decent luck adding some paper towels to wick away extra moisture that seems to speed up the spoilage . <URL> . I have no idea who keeps a fridge empty enough that they can store full sheet pans in there , though . I 've never tried this , but <URL> . * shrug * Then of course , wash and freeze them spread out on a sheet pan ( to make it easier to separate later ) . I assume this is n't what you want to do , but it is very effective , depending on how you plan to use them .
I have never made madeleines myself , but looking at the recipe and reading Elendil 's concerns about the batter running , I would think you could fashion an impromptu " madeleine pan " out of aluminum foil . It wo n't be the easiest thing in the world , and you 're not going to get the perfect shell look , but I think you 'll be able to get the right general shape and depth with a little craftwork . These look like something I would love to make , so I did a little research and a few people said they poured the batter into a sheet pan ( in a very thin layer ) and then cut them into squares after . Not exactly the same final product , but if you 're dying to use the batter I think it would still taste great . As Elendil suggested , the people who said they were able to make them on a cookie sheet found that they were very flat and crispy ( though still tasty ) .
If you let it sit in the sauce overnight then it 's no longer a sauce , it 's a marinade . That 's fine , but marinating is something you generally do with tough , cheap , and/or dry cuts of meat such as chicken breasts or top rounds ( beef ) . For a full chicken , especially the wings , drumsticks and thighs , a marinade is entirely unnecessary and in my humble opinion simply dilutes the deliciously moist interior and often makes the whole thing soggy and depressing . Generally the goal ( or at least my goal and that of the majority of restaurants I 've been to ) for chicken wings or even a traditional roasted whole chicken is a nice crispy , golden-brown , well-seasoned skin with juicy meat on the inside . You ca n't get that if you douse it in sauce before grilling it . The water in the sauce will inhibit the Maillard reaction that causes browning ( and crisping ) , and as Mike points out , the sauce may even burn . In fact , it almost certainly will burn ; most store-bought BBQ sauces only last a few minutes exposed to direct heat . With that in mind , the best time to sauce a grilled ( BBQ ) chicken is after it 's cooked , or more precisely , when it 's nearly cooked . Go ahead and season it liberally and coat it in butter or oil beforehand , but wait until it is no more than a few minutes away from being done before you sauce it . You 're not trying to cook the sauce , and it takes no more than a few minutes to get the sauce to bind to the skin - i.e. a few coats with 30-60 seconds each to reduce and form a sort of glaze . This is true for almost any meat and any cooking method as long as you 're not marinating - BBQ chicken , fried or convection-baked wings , smoked or oven-braised ribs - you almost always want to sauce it right at the end . If your technique and ingredients are good then the meat , not the sauce , should be your main attraction .
Deglazing removes caramelized bits ( the " browned " bits ) from the bottom of your pan or skillet after cooking meats or vegetables . It is usually accomplished by putting stock , sauce , wine , or even water ( or really any liquid ) in the pan over heat after the pan has been emptied of whatever was cooked into it and any rendered fat and scraping the browned bits into that sauce with a spatula . The browned bits dissolve into your liquid to create an excellent sauce for whatever you just cooked in the pan .
Seasoning does not preserve food . Some foodstuffs normally used for seasoning , like salt and vinegar , can help to preserve food , but the concentration you need will make your ricotta unpalatable . Salting can preserve food , when combined with dehydration . Bacteria need a humid environment to live in . Salt is hygroscopic , it both helps dry out the food you are preserving ( usually meat ) and directly dehydrates any bacteria which come in contact with it , killing them . Even then , you want to use charcuterie salt ( a mix of NaCl and NaNO2 ) to prevent botulism , as pure table salt ( NaCl ) does n't kill Clostridum Botulinum . Trying to get ricotta preserved that way is counterproductive . Not only will it be way too salty to taste well . You will also have to dry it out to the point where neither mould nor bacteria can grow on it . Hard cheeses are durable exactly for these reasons , but dried-out ricotta is not tasty . In fact , I am not sure that " the yellow stuff " you see is " toxic " , it could just be dried-out . Still , I would n't be willing to risk eating it , even if the taste was acceptable . You could try preserving your ricotta by adding acid . To have it hold a long time in the fridge , it has to be as acidic as a typical pickle recipe . I only mention this because you say that you spice it heavily . But frankly , I ca n't imagine anybody wanting to eat ricotta that sour . The option I would choose is freezing . You already mention " the freezer " , but if you are really freezing it , then it sounds like you are thawing and refreezing the whole container . Alternatively , maybe it was a slip of the keyboard and you meant to say that you are holding it in the back of the fridge . Whatever you meant , I would suggest freezing it in portions , for example using silicone muffin moulds . Once you have frozen your ricotta ( you can add spices it first , if you prefer ) , remove it from the moulds and place it in a freezing bag . Only thaw the amount you will need for a single meal . This should work well enough , in the worst case you 'll have a layer of freezer burn to remove .
Salt moves due to differences in concentration , from regions of high concentration to regions of low concentration . So , when you boil brined fish , you surround the salty flesh with low salt concentration liquid , and thus the salt moves out to equalize the concentrations . Steaming the fish will not result in as much movement of salt , because steaming applies less total liquid to the surface of the fish . Steaming works because the very hot steam condenses onto the cooler food , and by condensing it liberates heat ( which transfers to the food ) . However , you still will have some movement of salt because the condensed steam on the surface of the fish remains at a lower salt concentration . Also , steaming is much gentler on the fish , since the meat is not being constantly agitated by boiling water . With less agitation comes less leaching . Grilling is the transfer of heat from pan to food , or from direct heat source to food . The temperatures are typically much higher than for steaming ( steam is at 212F , 100C ) , so you get entirely different chemical effects from the process ( e.g. , caramelization ) . Therefore , I doubt the fish would " fry " in its own oil in the case of steaming . If you 're concerned about maintaining the salinity of your brined fish , you could consider steaming it en Papillote , or even in foil . This would result in the fish cooking in its own moisture , essentially eliminating the leaching of salt ( although some salt would move to the surface , carried by the water ) .
Grilling/broiling would be a good alternative to pan frying , as the more intense heat will crisp the skin much more effectively than baking . It is a generally healthier cooking method because the food is not sitting in oil ; any fat will drip off into the grill pan .
Generally speaking , frying gives a better crust due to the higher direct heat producing more Maillard flavours . A good , heavy , screaming hot pan is required . Oil the steak , not the pan , with vegetable or groundnut oil ( olive oil will burn ) , and baste with butter towards the end for extra flavour . If your steak is thick , you might try a reverse sear - roast the steak at about 150 ° C until the centre is 10 ° C off your desired doneness level ( if you do n't have a digital probe thermometer , invest the small amount they cost , it is completely worth it ) , then sear the outside on your mega hot pan . This avoids you having to overdo the outside just to get the inside right .
A couple things : make sure you 're removing enough of the fat from the pan . Too much fat will keep the sauce thin ( and will also tend to separate out afterwards ) . Also , fat will not evaporate -- if your remaining liquid is fat , the temperature will rapidly rise , and very quickly things will burn . depending on what you 're adding , you may need to use a thickener . There is a reason three of the five mother sauces have roux . ( Hollandaise has egg , which thickens , Tomate has tomato which has lots of pectin , which also thickens , so those two do n't need it ) . A good stock or broth has plenty of gelatin , which will thicken especially upon cooling . When you add your deglazing liquid , you need to thoroughly scrape up the fond and stir it in . Keep stirring , especially towards the end when its somewhat thick . Also especially if your pan has hot spots . Turn down the temperature . This should go without saying when things are burning . Some heat helps with deglazing , but after that you do n't actually need anything more than a low simmer -- higher evaporates faster ( important , since the meat is often resting &amp; cooling ) but not burning the sauce is more important .
Since you love bacon , I strongly recommend getting a <URL> . That way , you can cook both bacon and sausage at the same time . I 'd slice the sausage to about 1/4 -1 / 2 " thick and lay them on the grill . Takes less than 10mins to cook both bacon and sausage , and you do n't have to flip either . Another good thing about the grill is that the slanted surface drains the grease .
No , it 's not necessary . You can do it , and if you 'd soak them for about an hour , the cooking time will diminish strongly ( half ) . I 'm not sure if this would affect the chalky taste . Which kind of lentils do you use ?
I make stir fry all the time and do the same thing as you . I would make extra , enough for 2 - 3 meals . The thing I do to prevent the vegetables from getting too mushy in the refrigerator is by cooking the stirfry about 75 % ( I make sure if I am doing this that the meat is fully cooked first ) and then take out the portion that I intend to refrigerate . This allows me to either finish cooking it in the microwave if I am taking it to work or reheat it up in the stove if I am staying home . Also since I am taking the portions from the upper part of the stirfry , there is less sauce that the vegetables will be steeping in so that should solve your problem of too much sauce . Another thing you should remember is that the types of vegetables you use makes a big difference . If you choose all vegetables that turns really soft when cooked ( onion , squash , peppers ) then reheated stirfry using those vegetables will be not as unpalatable . The trick is to use a variety of textured vegetables . Also I dont want to state the obvious but if your problem is your sauce , have you ever tried using a different ( lighter ) sauce recipe ?
The key to this is really high heat and pan-fry in a single layer , very quickly . The goal is to get that nice brown caramelized surface and barely cook the interior and then get it out of the pan before it starts to seep water . Also , wait to season with salt until it comes out of the pan so it does n't draw out the water prematurely .
The Maillard reaction begins around 150 ° C . You do not need that exact temperature . Usually , you do n't even want that exact temperature ; even baking temperatures usually hover around 175-200 ° C ( 350-400 ° F ) , and those temperatures are held for 20 minutes or more . Pan-frying is almost always a fast cooking process lasting no longer than 10 minutes . Thus , almost every cooking oil has a smoke point at or around the ideal temperature . Butter is a bit too low around 121-149 ° C ( 250-300 ° F ) , but the vast majority of liquid oils - peanut , sunflower , corn , canola , sesame , even EVOO - all have smoke points from 150-260 ° C ( 300-500 ° F ) . See Wikipedia 's <URL> for a fairly complete list . Avoid butter and unrefined flaxseed/safflower/sunflower oil ( commercially-bottled oil is almost always refined , except for EVOO ) . Of course , this does n't say anything about cooking time or sticking . When we talk about frying or sautéing in oil ( i.e. to get the Maillard reaction going ) , we usually want a quick sear , and for that you really want to get the pan screaming hot so that you can get a good sear on the outside without doing much to the inside . Clarified butter , coconut oil , or any other of the highly-refined oils are the best for that purpose . If you 're really trying to prolong the cooking time , i.e. pan-frying a chicken breast all the way through , then I guess you 'd stick with a lower smoke point oil , such as EVOO or unrefined peanut or sesame .
end question
start question
How necessary is it to marinade meat before making jerkies ?
Marinating your meat makes it safer primarily by introducing it to salt , which kills bacteria . It is possible to make jerky safely without it , though you need to be careful . You should use lean meat ; fat is the most likely component in the meat to go bad . It 's also important to regulate the temperature closely and make sure hold the meat at temperature for long enough . You can get some really really nasty bacteria if you do n't cure meat correctly , so it 's worth taking some time on it . Check out <URL> for more info .
Assuming it 's a proper removable ( some old ones were n't ) inner crock pot you could ( as in your other answer ) . BUT That pot will take a long time to warm up when you put it in and turn it on . I would suggest assembling all the ingredients in another container ( which may also fit better in the fridge ) and turning them out in to the ( ideally preheated ) crock pot in the morning . Otherwise you will probably need to add some time even on top of the extra time for starting all ingredients at fridge temperature . This is roughly what the manual for our previous slow cooker recommended . Our new one is a non-stick steel inner pot ( for easy browning ) and will warm up much faster - there 's no recommendation to preheat this model .
I 'm not so lucky as to be able to get whole raw milk & hellip ; Wait , then there 's a flaw in your premise . Check the label . Any milk treated using high-heat processes like UHT , pasteurization or ultra-pasteurized milk does n't sour like it used to in your grandmother 's days ; it spoils & hellip ; goes rotten . Spoiled milk is not the same as soured milk . The ultra-pasturized milk sold in the supermarket is essentially a dead product , with little to no live bacteria . When it goes bad , it rots and should be thrown out ( or you can <URL> with it ) . Modern industrial pasteurization kills the " good " bacteria that once made sour milk a wonderful thing for cooking and making bread and cheese . Substituting " Sour Milk " If you have a recipe calling for sour milk , put a teaspoon of vinegar in a cup of fresh milk and let it sit for a few minutes . That 's about the best you can do if you do not have access to raw milk .
That is absolutely fine . 00 flour is super-overpriced here , so much so that it is hardly ever used . Semolina is often used on the pizza peel , but really not all that often in the dough itself . There are more recipes for pizza dough than probably anything else on the internet . Some use all-purpose flour , some use bread flour , and some use no wheat at all . You can get away anything with some experimentation . <URL> has some of the best instruction around on everything pizza . You do n't say where you are from , but know that " all-purpose " flour has a different meaning to some people in India , and will behave differently than the medium-gluten wheat flour that is " all-purpose " to most of us . That does n't mean you ca n't use <URL> ( what is sold in much of India as " all-purpose " flour ) , just that it will behave differently . There is no safety issue at all to mixing flour types . Assuming that the flours are safe individually , they will be safe combined .
Taken out of context , that does n't make much sense , but I can think of several similar claims you might have heard - all of which are true and most can be found on the <URL> and the sites of most other agencies : Perishable food should not be left in the " danger zone " ( 4.4 ° C - 60 ° C or 40 ° F to 140 ° F ) ( room temperature ) for more than a total of 2 hours ; 1 hour if the temperature is above 32 ° C / 90 ° F ( mouth/gut temperature ) . Freezing does not reset this countdown , it only stops it temporarily . Thus , it is not a safe practice to thaw and refreeze food several times ( especially if it 's being brought above refrigerator temperatures ) . Cooking does reset the countdown , but unless you are in a completely sterile environment ( hint : you are n't ) , you still have to keep food out of the danger zone after cooking , which is why guidelines say to refrigerate within 2 hours . Most people reheat their food to " warm " or even " hot " but not cooking temperature . Unless you reheat to an internal temperature of 74 ° C / 165 ° F , then all that time in the danger zone after cooking is cumulative . So if you do what most people do and reheat food to 40 ° -50 ° C , a nice comfortable eating temperature , then you 'd better either ( a ) only reheat the portion you plan to eat , and/or ( b ) throw out any uneaten portion instead of putting it back in the fridge . Really it 's all about the cumulative amount of time , since being fully cooked , that the food has spent in the danger zone . Theoretically , if you boiled the same piece of chicken every 12 hours and quick-froze it immediately afterward , it would stay safe indefinitely . It would also have no flavour or texture left , so I do n't recommend it . Since most people do n't carefully measure the internal temperature of food when they reheat it , we have the " best practice " of only reheating perishable food once after it 's been cooked , because otherwise it gets really hard to estimate how much time is left on that metaphorical clock . And , obviously , do n't leave it in the fridge for more than a few days , because it can still spoil in there , just slower .
You could do it , and it would certianly cause the meat to be cooked . However , I suspect it would lead to a less-than-tasty result . There are two potential issues here that I can see : If you 're steaming , the temperature maxes out at 100 degrees Centigrade . This leads to longer cooking time , and a " washed " look . Think of how the chicken meat looks in chicken soup . You 'll be losing the Maillard reaction , which is what gives that lovely outside texture to anything fried . This is because of the relatively low temperature of steaming , and the lack of liquid ( oil ) to react with .
You ask about coating , but it is actually not very important . There are other criteria with much higher priority when you are making caramel or other types of candy . The important thing about pan when making caramel is even heating . Especially when making your caramel dry , you can not afford hot spots , because you can not stir . But if you are taking the candy into the later caramel stages , even heating becomes important for syrup-started candy too . You need a responsive pan if you are making caramel . Sadly , the most evenly heating pans are also the least responsive and vice versa . I would never make caramel on a resistive stove in iron , but I use a small enamelled Dutch oven for caramel on my induction plate . A good sandwiched steel with an aluminum core should offer a decent tradeoff between evenness and responsiveness on most stove types . You also need the correct size pan . If your caramel is less than 1 cm deep , it is very hard to handle without burning it . If it is deeper than 5 cm , there is too much of a heat gradient in the depth . Choose the pan diameter such that your caramel depth will be between 1 and 5 cm roughly . If you are going to add any kind of liquid to the caramel ( or butter ) , you 'll experience lots of foam . You need a deep walled vessel to catch this foam . Use a deep sauce pan or a small pot instead of a frying pan . You want 10 cm wall above the caramel level . Aside from a seasoned cast iron pan , I have n't experienced a coating adsorbing flavors . PTFE , ceramic , enamel , anodized alu or no coating - none of them matters . Use whatever you have handy . For cleaning , follow Elendil 's advice for dissolving the smears in hot water .
I would never leave it unseasoned . Carbon steel rusts . If you just cook with sufficient oil , and let it cool down with the oil still inside , and then clean gently ( preferably without any soap ) , the inner bottom will indeed session itself with time , as tfd mentioned . But the rest of the pan will be exposed to the air and will create a layer of rust . If you do n't use it frequently enough , or if you prepare acidic food in it before it has gathered some seasoning ( and most vegetables are acidic ) , you will get rust on the bottom too , before seasoning has had time to build up on its own . Ingesting rust is not an immediate health risk , but it is better to avoid it . Our bodies were n't designed for it , and you might end up with too much iron in your diet . It is also porous , so the pan would be hard to clean well . And it looks really shabby to have a rusty pan in the kitchen . And if this is your first " normal " pan after years of non stick , you might be amazed at the amount of oil needed to prevent food from sticking . It looks terrifying to our modern " fat is bad " eyes . And you still have to be careful , despite the oil . With time , you will learn to cook the right way , but having it seasoned first certainly helps . There is no law requiring you to season , but to me , the above reasons are enough to always season .
The change in flavor is mainly affected by packaging and how long before it gets frozen . Packaging : If you have vacuum sealed chicken it will last quite a while . It wo n't get freezer burnt , dry out or pick up flavors from other freezer occupants . I would say properly packaged will last months to a year range depending on your taste buds . Time before freezing : I have a habit of buying meat to cook right away , but end up freezing it raw several days after the fact . I then see it a week or two later and pull it out to cook . It never tastes as good as when I freeze it immediately .
Two things - If the marinade is very strong or salty then the meat could simply become over flavored . If the marinade includes a meat digesting enzyme such as papain then leaving it too long could turn the meat to mush .
The nature of deep frying , contrary to expectation , is that it is a dry cooking method . The heat from the oil vaporizes water at the surface of the food . The steam coming of the food pushes the oil away from the food , and keeps oil from soaking in during the main frying process . This is also what causes the bubbling . The consequence of this is that by its very nature , deep frying rapidly dries out the surface of whatever is being cooked . From some foods , including some meats , this would leave the outside of the meat dry , tough , and rubbery . A coating of breading prevents this by providing a barrier between the hot frying oil and the meat . The breading itself also browns , which adds flavor and crunchiness that can greatly enhance the appeal of the food item . It may also have spices or other flavors or seasonings in the breading to compliment the food . Still , not all meats have to be breaded before deep frying . For example , chicken wings are often deep fried plain . The skin browns and bubbles and gets very crispy . So , the main reasons for breading are : Protect the food product Add brown , delicious crunch Add flavor through other seasonings
If it 's refrigerated , it 'll last for at least a week , as long as you did n't pre-dairy it . Unrefrigerated , I would n't trust it for more than a day . Coffee is a crappy growth medium and it should start out the next best thing to sterile , but , even covered , its going to start to get moldy . Obviously if you add dairy , then you 're dealing with that dairy shelf-life , and that is n't very long at all .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
Taste the meat and if it still seems edible to you then there is no reason to throw it out . When I make stock , I keep it on a simmer for much longer than three hours and any meat is completely tasteless by the time I 'm done . Three hours , however , is about how long you would cook meat to make a stew , so it 's quite possible that you could eat it . On the other hand , not all cuts of meat stew well and I 'm not familiar with this cut . If the meat has plenty of connective tissues ( i.e. collagen ) to gelatinise it should n't dry out too much . But the proof is in the pudding : taste it .
Despite the myths ( and some here will disagree with me ) , the large flavor molecules in brines do not penetrate into meats more than a milimeter or two at the surface . This is not the same with the salt , which will slowly migrate throughout the body of the cut . Marinades can add flavor , but it is again a surface treatment , mostly from the marinade literally sticking to the surface of the meat . Mops are the same idea . As you have mentioned , you can inject a liquid into the meat , and then it is inside , but it will not penetrate past where it is injected . Therefore , your best plan , depending on what the star ingredient you must use is , is to find a way to get it more intensely applied to the surface of the meat . Depending on what you have , this may be to : Incorporate it into your dry rub Incorporate it into your mop ; for liquids , possibly reducing it first ( for example , an ale ) to intensify the flavor without the bulk from the liquid Reduce it and inject it , knowing that the flavor will pretty much stay where it is injected Rules permitting , incorporate it into your sauce ( again , possibly reducing it for intensity ) The more bulk of the substance you can get to adhere to the meat , or inject into the meat , through these methods , the more powerful the affect will be . Since taste is closely related to aroma , I would suggest sticking to exterior treatments such as rubs and mops , where the aroma will trigger the taste perception more directly .
We do this regularly with regular dishes and fine china . Neither say " oven safe " . My mother has also done it for years . The process is fairly simple : Put our oven on it 's coolest setting ( about 175 ° F or 80 ° C , I think ) Wait for it to reach temperature Turn it off Put dishes in and close the oven . We just stack the dishes . As Joe points out , they 'll warm faster if you do n't stack them . However , I usually do this when I 've got 6-8 dishes , so stack is easier . Be careful when taking the dishes out . They 'll be hot . We 've never had a problem with dishes using this method . However , if you do n't think your dishes will stand getting hot , use your own judgement as there 's a wide variety of quality and materials used in place settings .
I think you 're on the right track . Curds exist with many fruits , but the most common are all very strongly flavored ( citrus , raspberry , cranberry , etc ) . As long as you use a fruit that will add a lot of flavor before adding too much liquid ( or reduce the liquid out ) , you should be fine .
There is n't really a " test " , per se , to tell if a bread is a " real sourdough " or not . Without getting overly technical , the tangy " sour " is created by a lactobacillus ( bacteria ) culture feeding on the byproducts of the yeast used to make the dough rise . The byproducts of the bacteria produce the lactic acids which give the resulting bread its sour taste . The taste of sourdough can be simulated by adding other acidic components to the bread dough . Practically speaking , the only way to tell the difference is if you have the experience of a refined palate that you recognize the taste difference . Ah , but here 's the tricky part . Once a baker has a stable culture of yeast and bacteria ( starter ) , they 'll save a bit of the fermented dough to add to the next batch , and so on for batch after batch . It is not unusual for bakers to continue their culture for years or even decades . So the problem of recognizing the authenticity of sourdough is that each bakers ' sourdough will have it 's own distinctive taste . Yikes . So much for the standard taste test . There is one test I can think of ; although , I do n't know how practical this is : A very " healthy " sour dough culture is the result of having reached a really stable and balanced , symbiotic relationship between the yeast and bacteria . This is desirable because it prevents other undesirable bacteria from setting up shop . Because of this inherent stability , real sourdough breads are very resistant to mold and other reactions that cause them to go bad . So , if your sourdough bread seems to last longer then you would expect from fresh bread , that might be a good indication of real sourdough . Of course , this can also be the result of preservatives added to the bread ; so & hellip ; no help there .
One potential downside to this method is that with a thick coat of flour , you 're mostly browning the flour , not the meat , and thus possibly creating different flavor compounds than if you were searing the meat directly . <URL> are <URL> . If you 're doing this , you should probably shake off excess flour to leave a very thin layer so that you still get browning on the meat itself . The related problem is that you 're less able to accurately measure the amount of flour , less able to make sure it 's easily browned , and thus less able to control the overall balance of thickening power and flavor it contributes . Roux ( flour cooked in oil as a base for sauces ) <URL> , but <URL> as it cooks . You could monitor this over the surface of your meat , but that goes against the typical wisdom of not moving meat around the pan as it browns - that is , you ca n't see how browned the floury surface is getting when it 's face-down . Personally , I 'd prefer tighter control over both of these processes over the convenience gained by browning the meat and flour together . You can easily brown the meat , remove it from the pan , then add the flour and some additional oil to create a separate roux without losing much time . A slurry will work too , but takes plenty of cooking before it loses its raw , grainy flavor .
Several sources as <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> practically insist that you salt steaks before cooking them . I do n't think McGee experiments with or discusses exactly when to season/salt a steak in his books , but <URL> that he is also in favour of pre-salting . The fact that so many people seem to prefer this technique would seem to indicate that there 's at least some merit to it , even if the science is n't well-understood . All of the arguments I 've heard against salting steak ( or beef in general ) before cooking seem to be <URL> in nature . When pressed for an explanation , many of these people claim that the salt draws out moisture which will subsequently dry out the cut . In practice , the amount of moisture it draws out is practically negligible unless you actually cure it , which means using lots of salt and letting it sit that way for a long time . I do n't know anybody that does this . Well , <URL> ( warning : do not follow the advice on that page unless you are fully prepared to ruin a perfectly good steak ) . When pressed , most of these people ( including Anita Lo , above ) say that the water it draws out to the surface will inhibit the <URL> . This is true - the presence of water does inhibit the Maillard reaction and any significant quantity of water will give you a steamed gray steak instead of a delicious seared brown one . But the key word here is significant . No reasonable amount of seasoning will draw out so much moisture that you actually end up with a puddle of boiling water underneath the steak , and even if it did , you would simply pat the steak dry before searing it . You do pat your steaks dry , do n't you ? Also note that this applies to dry seasoning . When marinating a cut of beef it is another story entirely . Salt in a marinade really does create brining and that will tend to make the meat juicier . When meat brines , it absorbs extra moisture - the meat still loses moisture when cooked but the added moisture from the brine helps to offset it ( this , again , is all in McGee ) . A saline solution also dissolves a portion of the tougher proteins in the meat , resulting in a more tender result . Salt is a great thing to have in a marinade , which is why some of the simplest of marinades - soy or teriyaki sauce - are so effective . Just , again , make sure to pat that beef dry before pan-searing it if you want to get any sort of browning going on . Anecdotally - for what little that 's worth - I find that there 's very little difference in tenderness whether seasoning with salt briefly before or shortly after cooking ( before resting ) . I 've done both and I honestly do n't think I could identify which was which in a blind test , except perhaps for the consistency of the " crust " that forms when you really pile on the salt - this is a favourable result for many , and I 'll often do this if I 'm in the mood . But all in all , the scientific data on this subject is scant ; the results are very inconclusive . And it just does n't matter that much ; the debaters seem to put entirely too much emphasis on this point when there are far more important factors in preparing a great steak or roast , such as additional seasonings , what it 's seared in , temperature and heat distribution of the pan , and let 's not forget the cut and grade of meat . These things have profound effects on the final result , and if I were obsessive about beef to a fault , then I would concentrate my efforts more on finding better quality ingredients and equipment rather than fussing over the salt issue .
end question
start question
Is Bar Keeper 's friend safe to use on cookware ?
Yes it is completely safe . It is even <URL> . • To get rid of stuck-on food or discoloration , and stains from using too high of a heat , we recommend cleaning your All-Clad with a product called Bar Keeper 's Friend . Bar Keeper 's Friend even has a cookware specific cleanser , <URL> . I 'm not sure of the difference between this and their regular cleanser , since they are n't required to list ingredients , but it is marketed specifically for cookware , and priced equivalently . Other manufacturers recommend this product as well , as noted on the <URL> page . You should also check out <URL> on how to remove brown stains . The accepted answer there is BKF . If you have something particularly terrible that BKF ca n't handle , you can always use <URL> , though I daresay your wife will say no to this . :-)
My italian grandma does it , but says to really make sure they dry out . You can dry them out and then freeze them , if it makes you feel any less hesitant .
In the US , commercial jerky is inspected by the Food Safety and Inspection Service help ensure safety . See the <URL> for detailed information on commercial jerky preparation methods , which must include a " lethality " step based on heat , acidity , or other means to ensure pathogens are killed . They may also use more sophisticated methods to ensure proper drying . Googling " <URL> " will yield a wealth of University Extension results based on FDA research , providing specific recipes for safely creating jerky at home . Traditional methods ( soaking in brine , then drying ) are not sufficient to kill all pathogens ( not just parasites ) . The FDA now recommends the the " hot pickle cure " method as the most effective way of creating safe jerky . See for example the recipe published <URL> . In summary : Treat the meat carefully prior to jerking , using proper refrigeration and so on . Prepare a brine of the proper strength , and bring it to a boil . Dip the jerky pieces into the boiling brine long enough for them to turn grey . Dry in a temperature controlled dehydrator , checking for sufficient drying ( the meat should crack when bent ) .
For vegetable knives , the main advantage of the front-side single bevel is that it 's easier to make super-thin cuts . For example , a test of knife skill involves paring daikon radish to remove the peel , then continuing to cut to make a long continuous paper-thin strip , longer than you would be able to make if you just sliced it . See , for example , <URL> People who have mastered this skill can also make remarkably fast matchstick cuts after making the long piece , and the lack of back bevel may reduce the amount of food that sticks to the knife . Some of these single-bevel knives that features a slightly concave backside ( urasuki ) , which may also reduce the amount of adherence of food to the knife . For crab knives , the honing is on the opposite side to the hand ( the back of the knife ) , which may reduce the amount of shell fragments that could embed themselves into the meat , and probably allows the meat to cut more cleanly . In practice , though , most Japanese households use dual-beveled knives . Single-bevel is more common in professional kitchens , especially in the Kansai area where fancy cutting techniques are used in presentation to a greater extent than in Tokyo or north Japan . Although I have a nice nakiri knife and a cheap santoku , both are dual-beveled . Knives meant for cutting regular fish or meat are usually , but not always , dual-beveled , the exception again mostly being for professionals . ( I think yanagiba and sushi knives are usually single-bevel , but are again mostly used in professional kitchens and almost never at home ) . I thought sobakiri and udonkiri were typically single-bevel to help push the cut noodles away , but more recently I am less sure that the single-bevel is as common as I had previously thought for soba or udon knives . The Japanese wikipedia entry for usuba knives suggests that the single-bevel edge is more durable , so , if true , that would be an advantage in high volume restaurant use . In my experience a thin , well sharpened Japanese blade may chip more easily than a thicker blade , so that resonates with me , even though I 'm not 100 % sure the notion that a single bevel is more durable is more than received wisdom . With practice , I think you can get slightly more precision cuts with a single bevel than with dual-bevel knives , however , I do n't think they are as easy to use for cooks with average knife skills .
I believe that if you cut/scrape off the mold the rest will be fine . With a huge chunk of wrapped and refrigerated parmigiano reggiano , for example , I have been scraping it off before grating it for over 18 months now with no ill effects .
On another couple of sites ( <URL> for starters ) I found the answer to this . It appears that mould is expected sometimes in the Pancetta making process and as a general rule of thumb as long as it is n't too green and furry then it should be OK . I 've followed Ruhlman 's advice and dabbed the spots of mould with a vinegar soaked cloth and it wiped straight off and looks fine . My meat was coming up to the end of it 's hanging time anyway so rather than worry about it further I 've refrigerated it . I hope this helps anyone that stumbles across this with the same issue .
The smoke produced from a heated oil is n't all too different from the smoke produced by a fire . You are essentially burning that oil and causing rapid , incomplete oxidation ( or rather <URL> ) . In actual fact , the peroxidation will start to occur long before you hit the smoke point ; however , smoking is an indicator that this is happening very rapidly . The net effect is very similar to that of rancidity , in that it will produce many <URL> and <URL> , and while this is n't the place to be debating whether or not that 's bad for you , I will simply point to the aforementioned link on free radicals and say that at the present time , the prevailing belief is that these free radicals have deleterious effects . It 's up to you decide what level of risk is acceptable to you . The effect may in fact be identical to that of rancidity , although I ca n't confirm that with a source at this time ; all I know is that heating an oil up to its smoke point will increase the oxidation rate ( make it go rancid faster ) , and rancidity in turn lowers the smoke point , so the two are definitely related . So what I 'd say is , if you do n't mind the idea of occasionally eating rancid fat , then go ahead and smoke it all you want ; otherwise , you might want to be more careful . <URL> , even if the actual ingestion is n't . So again , be careful . Avoid overheating oil if you can . By the way , saturated fats like coconut oil , animal fat or ( clarified ! ) butter tend to have the most immunity to this particular chemical breakdown , as evidenced by their naturally higher ( unrefined ) smoke points . Lipid peroxidation works on the double bonds , which do n't exist in saturated fats ( polyunsaturated fats have the most ) .
It 's an old source ( 1922 ) , but divides the rhubarb into " leaf stalks " , " prominent veins , " and " leaves . " It states that the leaf stalks are the only edible portion . ( 1 ) In addition , oxalates are in all parts of the plant . But only specifically stated to be in lower quantities in the stalk ( 2 ) . In fact , people susceptible to kidney stones can be advised to avoid even rhubarb stalks ( 4 ) . Cooking the leaves can actually INCREASE the toxicity . ( 3 ) Logic would dictate that the veins , being the transition point from stalks to leaves would have a value in between the values in the stalks and leaves . Thus safety indicates one should avoid eating them . Sources : 1 : <URL> 2 : <URL> 3 : <URL> 4 : <URL>
You should never eat freshwater fish in raw preparations . Freshwater fish are far more likely to have nasty parasites such as the <URL> , that can only be killed by cooking . There is a slew of other <URL> that can be harmful if not killed . Unless you want to end up on an episode of <URL> , stay away .
Try a <URL> . This will keep your butter fresh at room temperature for a fairly long time ( weeks , not days ) .
At least one recipe specifies " <URL> , " another " <URL> , " others more vaguely " <URL> " or " <URL> . " Note that it also depends on whether the recipe you 're using adds milk or not , if it " <URL> . " Probably the best piece of advice is this one : Horchata will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days ; use common sense . From : <URL>
In between freezings it is wisest to cook it . So if you take out raw meat , and then cook it , you can freeze it again . If you take out cooked stuff , you should get it piping hot throughout , cool it quickly , and then freeze it again . It may not have a super pleasant texture - if you do n't ave an emotional attachment to it , you might want to just toss it .
Sterno is ( roughly ) alcohol mixed with gel . The same type of alcohol ( ethanol mixed with enough methanol to make it poisonous ) is commonly used in marine stoves because it 's considered to be quite safe : it does n't explode and it can be extinguished with water . Alcohol also burns cleanly and quite completely , so there are essentially no methanol molecules in the flame that could land on your marshmallows and harm you .
Use a carbon-steel wok ! The shape works very well to keep the unpopped kernels in the hot oil , while the popped kernels end up on the cooler sides . I usually use about 2 T of oil and 1/3 c of popcorn to make enough for two people . If you want to keep with the Chinese theme , Szechuan peppercorn-salt goes extremely well on popcorn ! To make it , grind Szechuan peppercorns and kosher salt in a spice grinder .
Hot water and detergent might be enough , but after serious mold growth , I 'd use a disinfectant . The easiest way to do this would be to disinfect your cooker with bleach , which is very effective at killing mold on non-porous surfaces . After thoroughly washing and rinsing your cooker , make a solution of 10 parts water to 1 part bleach and allow it to soak in your cooker for a few minutes , then dump it out and allow the cooker to air dry . <URL> ( note that the caveat here is that bleach is n't effective for porous surfaces . Anything that you 're cooking on should be an acceptable surface for using bleach on . )
If all the seasoning is completely removed , it will look shiny like brushed or polished metal . This takes a lot of time , and often power tools . I would first ask whether this is what you want to do : does the pan feel waxy , and have a surface that turns glossy when heated ? Then there is wax which can be easily removed with a scrub-brush while water is boiling in the pan . Finish with a little soap and hot water , and you 're ready to season . If it is , in fact , the seasoning you want to remove ( if , for example , it is coming off in places , or parts are rusting , typically on cookware which has been left outside ) , the easiest procedure is to heat the pan very hot , either in the coals of a campfire , or in an oven on ' clean ' to burn off the previous coating ( do n't do this with a pan coated in wax , the wax will burn and smoke ) , then brush with steel wool until the metal pan starts to show through . You will need to season with several coats of an oil like crisco or coconut , and this will take a lot of time . It 's rarely necessary to strip a pan unless it is in awful condition . At the point you 're at , I 'd assume that any wax or residue is gone from your work with the steel wool , and that you do n't need to go as far as to strip the whole thing . To salvage it , put aside the steel wool , scrub with a plastic brush and hot water until the black residue is gone . Clean a little more using a rag and oil ( which will pick up oil-soluble debris ) until that is clear . Then season as you normally would , using a light oil like crisco in the oven .
I discussed a similar subject in this question : <URL> Raw fish is n't safe to eat if it 's just been sitting around . However , the raw fish used in sushi/sashimi has been frozen ( typically flash-frozen ) in order to kill any parasites , making it as safe as any other food . Most distributors of sashimi also have their own methods and internal regulations to ensure food safety , but specifics are understandably hard to come by . Suffice it to say , it 's far safer to eat properly-prepared nigiri or sashimi than it is to eat an undercooked hamburger .
Last evening , I left one empty ( but dirty ) sauce pan unattended on the induction stove top as the dish washer was full . The stove was turned off , but dirty as well , and the pan was slightly touching the controls . During the night , there was a small power outage ( 2 computers were powered off this morning while one was n't ) and apparently , that was enough to have the stove turn on by itself , start cooking and burnt the left-over sauce completely black . Moral of the story : Even when you 're tired after a late meal : clean the stove before going to bed . Leave dirty pots in the sink and not on top of an induction stove !
Here 's a neat list of plastics &amp; whether they 're supposed to be microwave-safe or not : <URL>
Sprouted onions are perfectly safe to eat . If far advanced the texture may not be ideal ; yours does not sound very far advanced at all ( not even green . ) Considering you can eat green onions , there 's nothing to fear from onion sprouts .
end question
start question
What types of meat should I pound and why ?
Meat is pounded as a mechanical means of tenderizing by damaging the connective tissues . It also makes the meat thinner and flatter , which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly . Pound tougher meats ( cheaper steaks ) , and meats of uneven thickness ( chicken breasts ) . Avoid pounding the bones in the meat . You do n't want little pieces of bone chipping off into meal . Do n't pound already tender pieces ( premium cuts , dry aged steaks ) . Think tenderize , not pulverize . You should not be making any holes in it . If you 're going to marinate , do that after pounding . Wrapping the meat in wax paper first will help prevent a big mess . Do both sides of the meat .
Taste the meat and if it still seems edible to you then there is no reason to throw it out . When I make stock , I keep it on a simmer for much longer than three hours and any meat is completely tasteless by the time I 'm done . Three hours , however , is about how long you would cook meat to make a stew , so it 's quite possible that you could eat it . On the other hand , not all cuts of meat stew well and I 'm not familiar with this cut . If the meat has plenty of connective tissues ( i.e. collagen ) to gelatinise it should n't dry out too much . But the proof is in the pudding : taste it .
It sounds to me like you are making your pudding almost as thick as it should be . It should be able to stand up a little . In other words , if you spoon some into a desert cup or small bowl , it should make a pile . It should n't be solid like ice cream , it should be smooth , but still stay in a pile shape . Do you have custard where you live ? It should be similar to that in thickness . Though custard is very different from Chocolate pudding .
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
I looked at the first 8 recipes that came up on a Google search . All but one just said " Dry White Wine " . One said , " dry white wine , such as Sauvignon Blanc " . So , I would say that 's your answer . Any dry white wine will do , perhaps Sauvignon Blanc might be ideal .
<URL> , using olive oil to fry is basically a waste of money . " After I 'd heated them , none of the olive oils had much olive flavor left . In fact , they did n't taste much different from the seed oils . " According to a <URL> I have access to , you could use high oleic sunflower oil for frying as it degrades better .
You can look for a CSA in your area , <URL> : CSAs consist of a system of weekly delivery or pick-up of vegetables and fruit in a vegetable box scheme , sometimes including dairy products and meat . You can use <URL> to try to find one in your area .
Clingwrap works fine for me -- but I do n't use a meat tenderizer -- I just use a small but fairly heavy pan ( but not my cast iron , as it 's not smooth on the bottom ) . When I was in college , I tried a few things . I can get pretty decent results just hitting it with my cutting board . ( with it between saran wrap ) . Part of it might be technique -- if I 'm doing chicken breast I first slice is sort of following the taper of the breast , so it 's neither with or across the grain , but kinda of diagonal . You also do n't want to hit straight down -- you want to angle the blows , so you 're actually pushing the meat out , and not just trying to force it through the counter . And I should mention that I 've only ever pounded out poultry and pork -- I assume beef would be the same , but I have no experience to confirm or deny it .
I 'd use the recipe they have on their site for <URL> as a guideline , since it 's very similar in terms of size and shape to a beef roast ( just not as heavy ) . They estimate 10 minutes per pound , which is more or less consistent with the per-side estimate of most broiler recipes ( which is very similar to infrared cooking ) . So start with an estimate of 40-50 minutes but do what they recommend and monitor the temperature very carefully . I have to point out that 4-5 pounds is very heavy/large for high-heat cooking methods like broiling or grilling ( or infrared ) ; it 's not the same as infrared " frying " a turkey or a leg of lamb which has a very high surface area/weight ratio . Steaks would no doubt come out great this way but larger roasts respond better to roasting , so do n't be too surprised if your roast starts to get seriously charred on the outside before it 's sufficiently cooked on the inside . You might want to consider starting with smaller , 2-3 lb roasts , and move up the weight next time if those come out perfectly . Based on their claims , it should take roughly the same amount of time for one large item vs. two smaller items anyway .
If you need the eggs raw , you could submerge them in boiling water for 5 sec . That would kill any bacteria on the shell and the egg would still be raw inside . Put the eggs in cold water right away to prevent the egg from heating up by the residual heat in the shell . I have tried this many times and the eggs do not cook . If you are serving the eggs to very young children , pregnant women or someone who are sick , you should buy pasteurized eggs instead . But normally it 's safer to eat eggs from chickens you raise , than the ones from a factory , because they are more healthy and their immune system is well developed enough to kill the salmonella itself .
You should get a carbon steel wok with two short handles ( not one long handle ) . You want the steel to build up a patina of oxidized oils , which rules out stainless steel and aluminum and non-stick . You could conceivably get a cast-iron wok , but those are really heavy . You want the two small handles so you can pick up the wok , but you do n't want long handles that will dump hot oil or food everywhere if you bump them . Unlike a saute pan , you do n't toss the pan , you toss the food . ( Tossing the pan pulls it away from the flame , which is bad when stir-frying ! ) Your best bet is to go to an Asian grocery . You 'll be assured of getting a product at a good price . Should n't cost more than $ 25 , I do n't think . Oh , one other question is what sort of stove you have . If you have an electric stove , ( a ) I 'm sorry , and ( b ) you have to get a flat-bottomed wok . If you have a gas stove , you can either get a flat-bottomed wok or a round-bottomed wok , but the latter only if you get a wok ring that holds the pan just above the flame . You want as much heat going into that pan as you possibly can manage !
This should n't be a problem . What I recommend is to go in this order : Do n't pre-salt the food , other seasonings are fine but anything with a high sodium content should be left out Cook to your desired temp ( and I would recommend pasteurizing since it 's not a direct serve situation Pull food from bath and plunge immediately into an ice bath filled about half and half with cold water and ice to rapidly drop the temp of the food Once chilled , put in freezer to store , leave them directly in the bag your cooking with . If your using ziplocks I would suggest wrapping them in plastic wrap and then putting them back in the ziplock before freezing . When it 's time to reheat , repeat your sous vide process from the initial cook . It will take the same amount of time it initially took to bring the core up to temp + the time it will take to unthaw the food in the bath . Reheating direct from frozen is your best bet for quality . Post-sear the food and add salt at that point . Adding salt at this point will prevent the food from taking on a cured texture when it is frozen and held for a period of time . Enjoy !
As <URL> , the protein <URL> is the main cause of the red color of meat ; it achieves this color when exposed to oxygen . Red meat ( or dark meat ) is myoglobin-rich , from " slow-twitch " endurance muscles , while white meat has little myoglobin , and is from " fast-twitch " muscles . So it really is the protein in the meat , as you guessed ! But we can understand better than that . Myoglobin is related to <URL> , which is in blood : myoglobin has a <URL> while hemoglobin has four heme groups . In both cases the heme groups are bound up in a globular protein ( a <URL> ) ; that surrounding structure is very different in the two proteins . Heme groups are good-sized organic molecules , but the important thing is that at their center , there 's an ionized iron atom , which is capable of binding to various other things , allowing things like hemoglobin transporting oxygen in blood , and myoglobin temporarily holding onto oxygen the muscle cells will use soon . Myglobin is most present in slow-twitch muscles , which are used frequently or continuously , and so need the stores of oxygen for endurance - these muscles are what we call red ( or dark ) meat . Fast-twitch muscles , used for quick burst of energy , do n't need these oxygen stores , so they do n't have much myoglobin . The central part of heme looks something like this : The gray bonds around the edges are the connections to the rest of the molecule , which we do n't care about right now . It 's the various things that can bind to the iron atom ( that question mark ) that are responsible for the color of both blood and red meat . There are several states we see in meat : When there 's no oxygen bound to it , it 's bound to water , and is purple/blue . We know this as the color of blood in veins , but you can sometimes see this in vacuum-packed meat , which is n't exposed to oxygen at all . The iron is in the +2 oxidation state ( two electrons removed ) . With oxygen bound to it , which happens instantly when exposed to air , it 's red . This is true for blood which has collected oxygen from the lungs , as well as meat in the state we usually see it . Again , the iron is in the +2 oxidation state . With the iron ionized further into the +3 state , it can again bind to water , turning brown . This happens after prolonged periods without exposure to much oxygen , for example , meat that 's been stored in its packaging for a while . It also happens when the protein is destabilized by acidity or temperature , explaining why cooked meat turns brown . If you cook it slowly at a low temperature , the protein is n't destabilized as much , and some pink color can remain . With nitric oxide bound to it , which happens in both cured meats and smoked meats , it turns pink . Similarly , carbon monoxide in oxygen-deficient gas or charcoal grills can also turn it pink . There 's a great deal of variety in myoglobin content of various meats , accounting for much of the variation in color . It all depends on the animal and the role of the muscle . Remember , the myoglobin is used for temporary oxygen storage . This means that more powerful , frequently-used muscles need a lot of myoglobin - for example , young cattle are n't using their muscles much yet and have less myoglobin , while whale muscles , which are constantly used and need to last through prolonged dives , have 25 times as much myoglobin and look black . This is actually pretty cool from a nutritional standpoint : the redder the meat is , the more iron it has ! Whew ! So that 's red meat . White meat , on the other hand , is from myoglobin-poor fast-twitch muscles , so it does n't get in on all that exciting color-changing stuff . Poultry breasts as well as a lot of fish fall into this category . While some fish ( like tuna ) have plenty of slow-twitch endurance muscle , most fish do n't need a whole lot , because cruising in water is relatively easy . They instead have a lot of fast-twitch muscle for quick turns and sprints , with a layer of slow-twitch muscle near the skin - this is the dark layer you see in some fish ! In addition to the Wikipedia articles above , this answer includes significant information from the always excellent <URL> , by Harold McGee - notably it contains nice little diagrams of the various heme states . Much of the same information can be found scattered around the internet . Wikipedia 's <URL> article briefly covers the cooking transformations . For the variety of meat colors , there 's this Exploratorium " <URL> " article or this <URL> about white/dark meat in turkey .
The resting period is not generally done by an absolute temperature -- you would have measured for ( near ) your target temperature before before taking the piece out of the oven or off the griddle or whatever . Traditionally , it should be proportional to the size of the cut or roast . 5-10 minutes is good for a steak or individual chicken pieces , depending on their thickness Medium size roasts and smaller poultry , say 10-15 minutes Large roasts and large poultry ( like a turkey ) , up to 30 minutes . If you do want to measure by temperature for more precise results , Kenji Alt of <URL> recommends based on practical experimentation , for steaks : Ideally , no matter how well-done you 've cooked your meat , you want to allow it to cool down until the very center has reached 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) . At this stage , the muscle fibers have relaxed enough that you should have no problem with losing juices . He also reviews some of the science , and various explanations for why the resting works . Cook 's Illustrated 's <URL> performed an experiment with several roasted pork loins , cutting them with no resting , or resting of 10 , 20 , 30 , and 40 minutes . They found that even a 10 minute rest cut down on juices expressed by 60 % compared to the unrested roast . They found far less difference in the roasts that were rested for longer periods , although there was continued improvement in the juice retention . They summarize ( original emphasis ) : So what to do ? Curb your enthusiasm and let your meat rest . But not for too long . The most dramatic decrease in moisture loss for these pork loins took place during the first 10 minutes of rest . Additional time helps -- but not if that means your dinner will be cold . If you 're cooking a big roast , you can wait longer -- about 30 minutes . Thin steaks should only wait 5 to 10 minutes before you dig in . This shows that the traditional advise on resting times is actually fairly effective . Note : Thanks to <URL> for sharing this reference .
Meat is pounded as a mechanical means of tenderizing by damaging the connective tissues . It also makes the meat thinner and flatter , which helps the meat cook faster and more evenly . Pound tougher meats ( cheaper steaks ) , and meats of uneven thickness ( chicken breasts ) . Avoid pounding the bones in the meat . You do n't want little pieces of bone chipping off into meal . Do n't pound already tender pieces ( premium cuts , dry aged steaks ) . Think tenderize , not pulverize . You should not be making any holes in it . If you 're going to marinate , do that after pounding . Wrapping the meat in wax paper first will help prevent a big mess . Do both sides of the meat .
Roasting the bones first will add a deeper flavor . The roast flavor may or may not be desired , it depends on your preferences . This is from the article I 've posted below : " Roasting caramelizes them , heightening sweetness and deepening flavor . But any blackening will make meat stock bitter . ' You do n't want that burned bone thing , ' cautions Keller . " <URL>
A really well-sharpened santoku-style chef 's knife is usually my choice . But , it does depend on the type of slicing ... such as thick/thin discs , wedges , or dicing . While I understand that a serrated blade can help with slicing a super-ripe tomato , when I want really thin disc-shaped slices , something very sharp and preferably a thinner spine . The favorite in my kitchen is definitely a Henckel santoku chef blade . Some versions can have a very thick spine , and would n't work as well , though . This type of choice is also more utilitarian if you 're cutting any other veggies at the same time , or making additional cuts in the tomatoes , such as when you 're also going to be halving the discs or full-on dicing . Things I like the thinnest slices on are a ham and cheese melt , roast beef sammy , a sub for the road , and sometimes for a garnish . ( hors d'œuvre , anyone ? ) Also , when I 'm cutting tomatoes into wedges , I also like to use this same type of sharp , non-serrated blade . Otherwise , I find it harder than necessary to do the smaller divisions after the 1/4-of-a - tomato size . I nearly always do 1/8 or 1/12 sized wedges for salad , so it is n't terribly often I use a " real " tomato knife . When I do , is when it 's for a lunch and I do n't want to sully a larger blade , or when doing large batches . Getting the core out is certainly easiest with a smaller , serrated blade .
Do n't take anything that costs much : You may have it taken away from you by border controls . In some parts of the world being able to confiscate nice things is a perk of the job . You want to enter ( or leave ) the country , you part with the knife . It could also be illegal to bring in knives over a certain size Hostels are famous for being rife with theft . Having some nice folding knife just begs for someone to take it Traveling is hard on equipment It does n't really matter anyway : who cares about the knife , anything will do . Ingredients and technique are what matters If I were you I 'd get a cheap , short cooking knife from some hardware store . Also make sure it looks like a cooking knife , you do n't want anything that could be mistaken for a weapon ! If you lose it , or it gets stolen , or broken , or you give it to someone who needs it more than you do then you just buy another cheap knife at a market somewhere . If you have an expensive piece of equipment it 's just another worry .
All of the following are generally cooked items : Shrimp , ebi , available raw in sashimi , but almost always lightly poached . The poaching brings out sweet and subtle flavors otherwise masked by a metallic tang . It also prevents the highly perishable shrimp from losing texture to spoilage . Octopus , tako , available raw in sashimi when sliced very thinly , but otherwise poached lightly . The poaching reduces toughness and brings out additional flavors in an otherwise bland meat . Eel , unagi , as you noted , is ALWAYS grilled , and steamed . This is necessary to achieve the truly transcendent flavor and texture of unagi . In fact , the cooking of eel is such a challenge that it is generally a whole separate chef profession in Japan . Most eel comes from one of the professionals , because sushi cooks know they will never be able to match the quality themselves . Improperly cooked eel becomes tough and has unpleasant flavors . Raw , the blood of eels is even toxic ! Sweet egg omelet , tamago , is by definition cooked . This is not to say that raw egg does n't have a place in Japanese food though ; tamago kake gohan is a dish of raw egg on rice , with soy sauce . Cockle is lightly poached Crab , kani is always cooked because ... well eating raw crab meat is just vile . For further reading , I highly suggest the <URL> . Food Safety : Sushi is only prepared from the very freshest and highest quality seafood , and sushi chefs are trained to identify parasites and signs of spoilage . In addition , some areas ( including the EU ) require sushi to be frozen for 24 hours to kill parasites . If that was n't enough to help settle your stomach , the pickled ginger and wasabi served along with sushi are more than garnish or simple condiments ! Both ginger and wasabi have potent and documented anti-microbial and anti-parasite properties . Ginger is also well-known for combatting nausea . Source : the CRC Handbook of Medicinal Spices , <URL> for wasabi and <URL> for ginger . ( links are to Google Books copy ) .
Foor food safety , the recommendation means that the coolest part of the meat should reach the target temperature . For something like a beef or pork roast , the coolest point will be generally in the very center of the roast . For chicken or turkey , it will often be where the leg joins the body . You may need to probe more than one more place to find the coolest reading . Now , because the meat surrounding that coolest point is at a higher temperature , the meat will continue to cook after it is removed from the oven . How much of an increase will depend on how big the roast is . In other words , a large roast will have a greater thermal mass -- more meat towards the outside will be at a higher temperature , and the heat will transfer into the coolest point , raising its ultimate temperature . So , the practical answer to your question is that you need to anticipate when the target temperature will be attained . To err on the side of food safety , keep the meat in the oven until it reaches or is very close to the target temperature . With a little experience , you 'll be able to gauge how much of a temperature increase occurs with various roasts , and remove it from the oven earlier . The bottom line however , is that the roast needs to ultimately reach the target temperature .
end question
start question
How to remove the flavor from whisky stones ?
If your " whisk ( e ) y stones " are actually stones , they are pourous all the way through . You 'll need the thouroughly saturate them with water and a bit of vodka to rid yourself of the water - and alcohol-soluble flavors that have been absorbed . If you do n't have the patience for the repeated soakings that will be required , I had good luck putting mine through a self-cleaning cycle in my oven . You have to make sure that they 're completely dried out or they 'll crack/explode .
Yes , the flavor is definitely affected . First , there is the point of solubility . Salt does n't dissolve all that easily in water , and unlike many other crystals , its solubility does n't improve with heat . So you have to either stir a lot , or let the dish to sit for a longer time after the salt is added , or both . Else you end up with uneven salting in liquid dishes like soups . Thicker things like sauces are very marginal , and if you add salt to cooked dry stuff ( steaks , casseroles and whatnot ) , you 're guaranteed to end up with clumps . But even if you succeed in getting your salt evenly distributed , the flavor is different . The liquid components may be OK , but anything solid ( pasta , meat , vegetables , whatever ) will not be penetrated by the salt . So if you salt your dish to the point where the liquid tastes normal , you get bland pieces swimming in an OK sauce or broth . At that point , most people just automatically think that it is still bland , and continue to salt , resulting in oversalted broth/sauce with bland veggies , which in my opinion is even worse . Third , the salt is n't used only to add taste . A saline solution 's chemical properties are quite different from those of pure ( or tap ) water . Marinading with salt ( with or without liquid ) changes the texture of steaks ( but does so rather slowly ) . Vegetables cook firmer in salty water , instead of getting mushy . And then there are all the amazing things it does to grains ( because it affects both starches and gluten ) . In short , do n't bake a yeast dough without a pinch of salt . Sadly , all this means that there is no way for both of you to eat what you want/should . My advice is that you should definitely salt the food even for the low-sodium eater at the proper cooking time , you just should use a much smaller amount - even a gram of salt per liter of water can be useful for the chemical changes you want , and should n't add too much of a sodium load to a normal sized portion . As for bringing your portion to your own taste , you will have to put up with the worse saltening . Just take care not to oversalt as a reaction , it does n't really help .
After washing them , fill them with a mild bleach solution ( one tablespoon for each cup of water ) and let them out in the sun exposing the stain for a whole day . Make sure children and animals can not reach the containers with bleach . There used to be a product called Cascade Plastic Booster that you could add to your dishwasher that would remove the stains . It 's no longer sold but its main ingredient was benzoyl peroxide at 5 % , which you may buy in most drugstores .
When I get this , it 's almost always old grease that did n't get washed off properly in the first place . We have some newer storage containers that are , for some reason , really strongly attractive to grease and have to be washed very carefully with lots of detergent or they 're sticky next time we go to use them . My usual solution is to rub the whole thing with undiluted dishwashing liquid and let it sit a minute or two . Then I rub/rinse with the hottest water I can stand until it 's all squeaky clean . This usually works . If your grease is several layers deep or really old , you might have to resort to a grease cutter like Formula 409 or one of the citrus-based degreasers , followed up with plenty of detergent . I would not use solvent any stronger than a commercial cleaning spray because of the risk of damaging the plastic . I also would not scour the plastic . The scratching will make it exponentially harder to get all the way clean , and the deepest scratches can harbor bacteria ( ask any home brewer who scoured his brew bucket how much it increases the risk of infection ) .
Garlic flavors are soluble in oil , simply chopping up garlic and putting it in with the rice will not distribute the flavor well . I would recommend you chop the garlic finely and then infuse into a tablespoon of oil or butter by putting the pan on very low heat for a few minutes . Then add the rice and stir to coat the grains with the infused oil before adding water and cooking as normal . How much garlic to use depends on how strong your garlic is and how garlic-y you want it to taste . 5 tbsp of rice is n't much , for a medium garlic flavor using average strength garlic a whole small clove or half a large is probably enough . With the garlic I grow I 'd add a few slices from a clove at most . Another option would be to cook the rice and then stir in the garlic infused oil afterwards , The benefits to this option are that you can drain the rice after cooking without all the flavor going down the drain .
Try using a bow style bread knife . It works well because it allows you to put pressure on the opposite side of the loaf . Also , the bow helps you visually line up the slice .
There are two main types of charcoal , briquettes and hard lump . The first comes in preformed pieces , so they are all the same size and include a filler material . They will sometimes also have lighter fluid in them already and be " easy start " or something similar . Hard lump is just charcoal from hardwoods with no filler . These will usually be in all kinds of shapes and look like " natural " pieces of wood ( albeit in charcoal form ) . Hard lump is easy to light , burns hotter , and leaves much less ash than briquettes . It also has a better flavor . I strongly recommend hard lump charcoal . Wood is usually used to provide smoke as a primary function rather than heat . Smoking on your grill gives a lovely smokey flavor ( d'uh ) . The standard way to use wood is to soak it in water for a period of time prior to cooking . Packages will often say to soak for an hour , and that 's ok with wood chips which are very small ( but I recommend longer ) , but it is n't good for anything larger . I generally soak wood for at least 18 hours . Wood also comes in various sizes , from very small chips ( slightly larger than a coin ) to large chunks bigger than a fist . The smaller the chips , the less heat they provide and the faster they burn up . These are generally better for shorter smoking times . Large chunks can smoke for 12 + hours if they are properly soaked . In both cases , I put the wood on to already burning coals to get them going . You can also use just wood to create your heat , in which case you do not soak the wood . When you hear about woodfire ovens , this is what they do . However , I think this is a hassle as it 's harder to get the wood lit than charcoal and does n't provide as much smoke since you have n't soaked the wood . So it 's really sub-par in my view . The exception is if you are doing low and slow smoking on some types of charcoal grill , you can use a small bed of coals to light large chunks of soaked wood . Once they get smoldering , this becomes the only source of heat as the coals go out . They smolder hot enough to get new wood going if you find you need more . Great for 12 hour smoking at 200F for Boston Butt or Brisket . In terms of wood , you want hard woods with low amounts of resin / sap . No glue , nails , etc. . It wants to be natural . This is a <URL> of types of wood and the smoke they produce . Common woods for BBQ in the SE US are hickory , mesquite , and cedar . I 've used old wine barrel chunks which have a really nice flavor , and also bits of rosemary branch ( thick from a large plant ) which did n't turn out as well as I 'd hoped . You can even use the shells of nuts like pecans . This is really a question of seeing what 's readily available and experimenting with your own personal taste . You can also use wood with a gas grill by putting it in a smoking box or tin foil with holes in it , and placing directly on the heating element . Wood chips work best for this . I 've never had much luck with this though . It 's hard to get the chips smoking and , more importantly , gas grills do n't have the airflow through them to properly move smoke over the food . I switched to charcoal pretty quickly and a <URL> about two years ago , and I 've never looked back .
If you want to be really lazy about it , just get yourself a <URL> . Pour in the soup , the fat will rise to the top , and you can do what you want with it ( i.e. dump it ) . If you 're reading this in an emergency , you can do this with just a strainer . You 'll get better results if you chill the strainer before each skim , i.e. by rinsing it with very cold water . The fat will tend to congeal on the cold strainer the same way it congeals when it 's actually chilled . I 've also heard that the fat will cling to certain leafy vegetables , like lettuce . If you have a lettuce head kicking around , try peeling off a leaf and dusting the top of the pan with it .
Chickpea puree with sesame paste would be hummus . Hummus can be served warm or cold , so you could serve it straight out of the can if you wanted . To warm it up , I 'd avoid heating it with any kind of direct heat , but it should be fine microwaved briefly . When it is served warm , it 's not hot by any means , so a gentle heating is all that 's needed .
You can add quite a lot of tomato paste/puree but this will mask the fresh flavour of your tomatoes . I think I 'd just reduce the soup down once it was made or add carrots . Carrot flavour really complements tomato soup and many tomato soups recipes require carrots . The starch will then help you thicken the soup .
You can not make good hummus from canned chickpeas , you should make it from fresh dried beans The beans need plenty of soaking and rinsing When cooking , add one tsp of baking soda per cup of beans . Baking soda chemically softens the bean proteins . Never add salt or other flavourings during the bean cooking stage Traditional hummus is somewhat coarse , but very soft ( due to baking soda ) . It is made with a minimal amount of olive oil , but drizzled with olive oil and a sprinkle of cooked , and still warm chick peas when served Restaurant hummus is often just over processed junk made in a factory with a commercial grinder ( like a peanut butter grinder ) Also , see <URL> if your chickpeas never go soft
Use part of the shell you just cracked to scoop it up ; it will attract the broken bit . Also , if you frequently end up with bits of shell in your eggs , you should revise your cracking technique . Eggs should be cracked on a flat surface ( countertop or plate ) not a sharper surface like the edge of a bowl .
I 've found stones in dried beans , so it 's no myth . Not common , but I 'd say I find one every year or two . If you simply swallowed a small stone , it would almost certainly pass without harm , but as TFD pointed out in his comment , biting down on one could be an expensive and painful dental experience . What I do is spread the beans out on a kitchen towel in a single layer . For dark beans , I use a light-colored towel and vice-versa for light beans . It 's very easy to spot any foreign objects that way and it takes less than a minute , so it 's worth doing in my opinion . You can then easily toss the beans into a pot by just picking up the four corners of the towel and dumping them in . I should add that I 've found little balls of dried dirt far more often than actual stones . Those would most likely dissolve and get washed away when you rinsed the beans , but it demonstrates that stones can be in there .
Getting the Vanilla from the bean to the taste bud takes time . While many will advocate the use of fresh vanilla beans ( as you have tried ) , I have always preferred the flavor that is granted from a good vanilla extract . In my opinion it is stronger and better distributed throughout the dish . Whether you buy or <URL> I think you will get a more consistent and rich flavor that way . ( note : thanks to @rfusca for providing the extract link in a <URL> )
Beetroots do have an earthy smell , that 's normal and can get stronger if you just cook them in water . I can think of two approaches to work with this : Try roasting them in an oven ( optional : wrapped in some aluminum foil ) until tender . They will develop a sweetness whith perhaps some earthy undertones . Add an acidic component like vinager or lemon juice to the cooked beets and let rest for a few hours ( or pickle them ) . But you might consider how/where the beets were grown : If the " soil " smell is too strong , it might be because there was too much fertilizer or manure in the soil , which beets tend to absorb .
If you have raw milk and let it sit , the cream will indeed rise to the top . To separate , you can just wait and skim off the cream as you did . However , if you store the raw milk in the refrigerator , it will take longer for the cream to rise . Perhaps that is why you are having difficulties . Alternatively , you can use a spigot jar to drain the " skimmed " milk from the raw milk , leaving the cream behind . I think you end up with about 1/10th of your raw milk that is cream .
What you are describing is often worst when the vegetables are thrown together without care as to what vegetables will do well stewed for a while , and which vegetables only need to be heated through and will suffer if they are cooked longer . A great example of that is in the case of typical " frozen mixed vegetables " . Carrots are never nicely tender in mixtures like that . Lima beans are downright chalky and peas are total mush . If you want to use frozen vegetables , avoid mixtures . Pick the vegetables that you actually enjoy , and add them to your soup at a time appropriately distant from the time that you actually want to serve the soup . So bring lima beans to a hard simmer before you add corn , bring that to a hard simmer before you add frozen potatoes , add frozen carrots , bring that to a hard simmer before you finally add peas just before you serve - your soup will be better than emptying a bag of mixed vegetables into broth .
What 's wrong with letting the liquid escape ? The liquid is good ! When I freeze sweetcorn , I slice through just the outer part of the kernels , and then turn the knife sideways and scrape to release the rest of the delicious gooey liquid inside them ... I 'm not particularly fond of the flavor or texture of the cob-side anyway , and the creamy result can be packed and frozen with a minimal amount of air . I highly recommend using a chef 's knife instead of a paring knife though . A big cutting board and a <URL> also come in handy . If you 're doing a lot of corn at once , a baking sheet works well to catch the juice . Growing up , we 'd get a bunch of people together and do bushels of the stuff in an afternoon - cooking , icing , cutting , scraping , and packing simultaneously . With a bit of practice , you become quite fast at it . But , if you 're simply looking for a quick way to process the ears alone , there are specialized tools made for this job : search for <URL> or <URL> . You could probably use a mandoline as well , provided you 're able to adjust the depth of the blade . Frankly though , this seems cumbersome . Practice with the knife ...
Here are a few options : Make a salt barrier around the jar . Keep jar in a bowl full of water . Use air-tight container ( does n't need to be a jar ) . Any of the above should keep ants away from your honey .
It 's not going to be nice to drink a day later , no matter what . I 'd use it in baking a chocolate cake or something like that instead , if you ca n't bear to throw it out . The problem is not just the reheating , which will further cook the coffee and affect flavour , but that it 's been losing aroma and oxidizing for a day first . If you 're serving it to anyone you like even a little bit , serve them fresh coffee !!
end question
start question
Saucepan in the oven ?
Generally oven cooking gives a more even , surrounding heat rather than the direct and concentrated heat from below that a hob supplies .
I ended up skipping the parchment paper . I had 6 small-medium pizza worth of dough , and padded all pizza-dough with semolina , as well as padded peel with semolina prior to each slide-in-to-oven . Prior to first pizza I put some semolina on the steel in the oven ( though it might 've been unnecessary ... yet to confirm ) All 6 pizzas turned out great , with quality crust . It was n't really messy , might 've been two three burnt spots , simply before the steel cooled off , I grabbed a wooden cooking spoon , lightly scratch , and pushed it out onto another plate . Update Confirmed you do n't have to add anysemolina flour or anything to the steel , pizza wo n't stick .
Yes , preheating warns up the entire interior of the oven which is important for keeping the air hot such as when you open the door . It helps the oven bounce back to full heat much sooner . If you do n't preheat , it will take several minutes before the oven reaches proper cooking temps , and interfere with even heating . If you want to see the difference most dramatically , bake some chocolate chips . First without any preheating and then when those are supposed the be done , do another batch and bake them for the same amount of time . If you are baking something for an hour or more , it may not make much difference , but shorter baking times can be dramatically affected .
Working in restaurants similar things to this happened a lot . Our quick fix that usually did the trick was 50/50 vinegar and water and boil it off as mentioned above . Lemon juice or even orange should work instead of vinegar for a better scent . At a guess , the more acidy fluids help break down any splatter that may have gone into the vents . Hint : this is also great to do just before cleaning the microwave , even baked on splatter comes off easily after the steam .
Part one : Yes , put oil in first then put on a low/med heat . Generally cast iron should be heated gently , depending on your stove it should probably take about 5 minutes to get to a good temperature . The oil shouldnt evaporate - I 've never experienced this . As to the type of oil - I use various depending on circumstance vegetable or olive usually . Part two : I generally shake the pan gently - when the oil becomes more less viscous ( more runny ) then it is at a good temperature to start cooking . You can also put something like a small piece of onion or bread into the oil - if it starts bubbling and generally cooking then its good to go . Some people use a couple of drops of water to see when it spits but I dont like doing this partly due to the safety factor and also due to the fact itll splatter over the stove top . It depends a little on what you are cooking - if you are looking to brown some meat for example you 'd probably want it a little hotter than if you were just going to make vegetable soup .
In short , kind of , but only with the proper accessories/equipment . You 'll never match a grill or griddle but you can get surprisingly close . As was mentioned in other answers , what you 're going to lose most is the sear . I was given a Corningware Microwave Browning Dish a while back and found that it actually works pretty well when you 're stuck with only a microwave . They were apparently popular when microwaves were new and exciting , but people did n't know how to use them well and they faded into oblivion . I 've seen them on sale on eBay so you might be able to find a good price there if you 're going to be stuck in the hostel for a while . The basic idea is , there 's a special kind of microwave-safe metal inside the base of the casserole . You heat this with nothing on it for 3 minutes to get it nice and hot . When you drop the patty on , it immediately sizzles . You use the microwave function to heat the inside , while the hot surface sears the outside . Although you 're likely not going to get a perfect burger , you do get a real nice Maillard reaction on the outside of both sides ( assuming you flip halfway ) and if you play with the cooking time and power ( to reduce that rubbery texture from overcooking ) , you can get something that 's ( in my opinion ) a good 75 % - quality burger compared to a griddle or grill . I actually burned pork chops on it once , that 's how hot the surface gets . As a bonus , similar to a nice Boos block , there is a gutter around the outside and the plate is slightly concave , so the juices run off into the reservoir and the burger wo n't sit in fat during the cooking . After reading the other answers ( ElendilTheTall 's specifically ) , I would think if you combined the steaming method to cook the burgers , with the microwave browning dish to sear , you could probably get a really good result . If the burgers were fully cooked via steaming you could probably heat the dish and sear the burgers without even turning the microwave on ( except to heat the casserole initially ) . I believe Alton Brown did an episode where he talked about a specific type of brick that you can find at most hardware stores which is microwave-safe for the same searing purpose , but I ca n't find that info right now .
If you 're worried about the aluminum foil , you can always just use a covered casserole dish ... it might not hold all of the steam in , though . ( there are methods , like mixing a pough of flour and water , then using that to seal the lid on the pot ) . Also , if you 're worried , I 'd just consider not using acids , like lemon ; aluminum pots and pans react to acids , and I 'd only assume aluminum foil would to . You could also switch to parchment paper , which is the original for cooking ' en papillote ' ( in paper ) . But ' better ' is subjective -- easier to clean up ( aluminum foil wins , I think ) , cheap ( maybe the casserole dish , as it 's reusable ) , more impressive ( probably the parchment paper ) . As for spicing ... search for ' chicken en papillote ' on any internet serch engine and you 'll find lots of recipes .
Generally oven cooking gives a more even , surrounding heat rather than the direct and concentrated heat from below that a hob supplies .
I do n't think it 's just one thing : The foil reflects radiant heat , meaning that the only remaining way to propogate heat is through conduction and convection . The foil is an impermeable barrier which helps to keep the moist air ( created by boiling off the moisture in the surface of the bread ) near the sandwich , which reduces the rate at which the bread dries out , and we need dry items for them to burn . It 's possible that retention of the moisture within the foil slows the heating of the enclosed system as there 's less loss of thermal mass , but I doubt that 's a significant factor in most situations . You might be able to test which of the other two is the more significant factor by running a test with foil that 's been perforated such that it 's not a good barrier but would still be reflective , and see how that compares .
Stretch and fold should be done in both directions . One stretch and fold , in most techniques that I read , is stretching like you stay , folding , then rotating 90 degrees and repeating . You can see an excellent example of stretch and fold in <URL> and <URL> . Where they do it and then turn it - that 's one stretch and fold .
Wikipedia , as well as all 12 serbian recipes I found specify full-fat white brine cheese ( cow or sheep milk ) . Only one of them called for a type of cream in addition to the cheese . In Western Europe , Turkish groceries can carry typical Balkan white brine cheese . If you do n't have access to one , buy feta . Cow and sheep cheese are considered substitutes in Balkan cuisine - the cooks are aware that they have a difference in flavor , but they use what they have at hand , similar to the way that an apple recipe will call for crisp apples , but wo n't specify Pink Crisp or Elstar apples . So both cow and sheep feta will do in principle . But I have noticed that supermarkets sometimes carry expensive real Greek feta , which is high quality , and only cheap western-made cow feta-style cheese , which is of inferior quality and has a rubber texture . If you are not sure of the quality , go for the real imported feta ( which will be sheep ) , not the feta-style .
Here 's what I do - it simulates the high direct heat and then lower , indirect to finish ( like on the real grill with multiple zones ) : Put the ' grill ' on the top rack ( make sure its not coated or non-stick , that it can take high heat ) . ( I do mean to put a pan under this to catch grease . ) Turn the oven to broil for a few minutes . Prep your chicken . Put it in the oven under the broiler for a few minutes ( I ca n't really give you a time here because it depends on thickness and other things ) , but you 're trying to promote that browning and a bit of char like the grill . * After its been in a few minutes and browned/charred somewhat , pull it out and quickly flip it and repeat . If your dish is n't fully cooked to your liking , move the item to the middle rack and turn the heat down some . Pull it out when finished and Rest the meat . Enjoy To be honest though , for indoor grilling - I usually preheat the oven to 400 , get some grill marks on a cast iron grill pan , and then finish in the oven . Its only when the volume is too much that I do the above method . Cast iron grill pan for a couple of servings has always been much less troublesome than the broiler which can bring items from tasty to ruined in record time for me . * Some people close the oven door here , some do n't - its the difference between if you just want to sear it or really start to cook it . I pretty nearly always close the door , but I 'm also the guy who always puts the lid back on the grill .
You could do it as others have mentioned on the lowest setting , You want a temp around 150 degrees F ( 65 degrees C ) . When you do this prepare for drippings . Cut the meat about 50 to 75 % thicker than you want the finished product . To thin will turn it into paper . We soak our meat in a soya sause , sugar , garlic &amp; pepper brine . To add different flavor we will add a hot sauce and honey to make a sweet/hot flavor . Let the meat sit over night in the brine at the least . Stir it a few times to make sure it soaks evenly . you should use a metal screen to put the jerky on , it does n't work well to lay it in a pan . it will just cook in the juices if you do . spray no stick on the screen it helps . Good luck .
Mid height for cakes in non-convection ovens , slightly above mid height for thin cakes , top for cookies . In a convection oven it does n't matter because the airflow distributes heat evenly throughout the oven 's volume .
I have had great results by taking individual garlic cloves and cutting the root end off each , but leaving them in their papery skins . Then you put those dry into a small saucepan ( ideally one with a thick bottom ) over low-to-medium heat . Put a lid on it , and let it go for 20 minutes or so , shaking vigorously every couple of minutes to turn the cloves over . When the cloves are really soft , you 're done . The paper skins protect the garlic cloves from burning , but the direct contact with the hot pan cooks them nicely . When you 're done you can squeeze the soft , roasted garlic goodness out of the root end of the skins . This is a particularly nice technique when you want roasted garlic flavor but only need a few cloves , not a whole head . The first time I did a recipe that called for this process , I was sure the garlic would scorch or the skins would catch fire , but it worked great .
The big key is just to soak the plank before using it , that way it wo n't burn while it 's in the oven . The amount of time needed to soak seems to differ among experts , but soaking for an hour should be long enough to cook the salmon without the wood burning .
You can do anything with charcoal . One trick that we used to do when we were camping was to line a cardboard box with foil . Several metal grates or skewers would be stabbed into the box walls and a grate with a few coals hung near the bottom . We would use it to bake bread and pizzas . To control the temperature use more or fewer coals . <URL> As long as you are building things - another option to consider is solar oven . They consist of an insulated container , a transparent window , and a reflector . There are a <URL> to choose from . Some of the more permanent models can get above 350F as long as there is direct sunlight . This model was just one of top results from Google but it is a typical design : <URL>
Convenience : It 's more convenient and easier to monitor the temperature inside the home . The oven has a thermostat , where the grill temperature needs to be monitored and adjusted manually . No smoke left : Is could be assumed that the smoke has been exhausted . Too much smoke : The smoke flavor could become too strong if finished on the grill .
Even given a standardized recipe and method , cooking times are always only a guideline . Quality recipes always give you a test for knowing when the product is done . The reason for this is that there are many uncontrolled ( at least from the recipe author 's point of view ) such as , in the case of ribs : Exact dimensions of the ribs Natural variation in the composition of the ribs Starting temperature Variation in your particular oven That said , the variable most controlling over the time it takes to cook ribs , given a standard recipe and method , is the thickness of the set of ribs . A longer strip of ribs ( btw , the full set of ribs on one side is called a slab of ribs -- country ribs are not normally sold this way ) does n't make much difference , as the heat will penetrate through the thinnest dimension . Ribs are a complex food to cook as they benefit from low-and-slow cooking methods , which allow the touch connective tissue of the ribs ( collagen ) to slowly convert to unctuous gelatin . This conversion is temperature dependent , taking many , many many hours at around 140 F , but happening in an hour or two at 180 F. Note also that <URL> are a different cut than <URL> ( the baby variety come from a younger , smaller animal ) . Country style ribs are cut with a lot of meat on the bone . In practical recipes , the amount of time this takes will depend on the exact cooking method such as braising , roasting , or barbequing . Recipe request themselves are off-topic here at Seasoned Advise , but you can find many recipes easily by googling " <URL> " . Indivdual recipes will give you a guideline for a basic cooking time related to the method used in that recipe , and a test or condition for knowing when they are done . For example , this recipe for <URL> s from the Food Network suggests an estimated cooking time of 1 1/2 hour braising , and tells you that they are done when when the meat is tender ( which you would test by poking with a fork , or just trying some ) . An alternate method , as suggested in <URL> from Cooks.com is to roast the ribs in the oven . They use three-stage method where the ribs are covered in foil in the middle stage , but the total cooking time is about 3 1/4 hours . They carefully describe how you know when the ribs are done : " the meat should just about fall off the bone . " . Note : I have n't tried these particular recipes ; they only serve as examples . The bottom line is , ribs are generally done when they are quite tender , which you can easily tell by poking them with a fork or trying them . How long this takes will depend on what method you used , the size of your ribs , and a myriad other factors , but will be on the order usually of 2-3 hours .
When you do n't preheat , you cook your food at a lower temperature as your oven heats up for the first 5-15 minutes , depending on the target temperature and your oven 's strength . For forgiving foods , like a casserole , this may not affect you much - you 'll just have to bake longer than the recipe says to . As long as you 're careful , you 'll be fine . But if you 're baking something that should be baked for a short time at a relatively high temperature , your results are going to be very different . For example , take traditional Southern biscuits : they 're baked very hot for less than ten minutes . This cooks them all the way through , and browns the top and bottom . If your oven starts out cold , they 're going to be done in the middle before they 're brown ! Beyond under-browning , you 'll also run into problems like lack of rising in steam-leavened foods . Pastries , in particular , could probably be disastrous .
end question
start question
How to prepare Stevia leaves for consumption ?
Stevia leaves are commonly cut , then hung for drying , then either ground up into little flakes and used sparingly in drinks such as teas or recipes . The leaves themselves are also very commonly used unground as garnish in drinks as well as added to recipes . Just remember to compensate accordingly for the extra sweetness they will provide , and you really cant go wrong with some experimentation at first . In terms of a particular recipe I 'm not really sure what to recommend so hopefully this is still helpful .
No you do not need to remove them , unless you 're talking about very large squid . Good to eat ? I prefer the flesh and not the tentacles , but basically anything that is n't what you remove when cleaning ( the internal ' bone ' and assorted goop attached to it ) is fine . Best method for cooking is very , very fast -- squid needs fast nigh heat , usually no more than 40-60 seconds depending on size . Dust with cornstarch and deep fry very fast , or sautee in butter very fast . Too long and you will be chewing rubber .
When you buy it , the fenugreek is almost certainly still alive , even if the roots have been cut off . It continues to respire and metabolize , or tries to . The leaves almost certainly wilted because the plant had no water . Treat it like flowers if you are going to hold it for a more than a day or two , by giving it water at the roots or root end of the stems ( if you have no roots , again like flowers , trim off the bottom of the stem , to allow a fresh surface to absorb the water ) . This technique also works with celery ( very well , in fact ) , parsley , cilantro ( eeew !!! ) and so on .
Chickpea puree with sesame paste would be hummus . Hummus can be served warm or cold , so you could serve it straight out of the can if you wanted . To warm it up , I 'd avoid heating it with any kind of direct heat , but it should be fine microwaved briefly . When it is served warm , it 's not hot by any means , so a gentle heating is all that 's needed .
Using the refrigerator for the first rise is absolutely easy , but that is not what you are asking about . For a second rise , tweaking your current approach a bit , I suggest : Place yout bread ( s ) on a baking tray or similar or use a well-floured banneton ( basket ) . Find a plastic bag large enough to fit the entire tray or the banneton plus a bit extra room inside . Lightly " blow up " the filled bag and close with a clip , rubber band or similar . You are not creating a " ballon " , just enough to have the bag " float " a bit over the loaf . Another option would be placing a glass , can or similar object next to your loaves to support the foil tent from below . You need not create an air-tight seal , but you want to limit the loss of moisture to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . For a single boule , an inverted bowl can protect the loaf enough , or if you use an appropriately sized Tupperware or similar bowl in lieu of a banneton , just close the lid . A few additional thoughts : For round loaves ( boules ) a banneton or in a pinch , a bowl , helps to keep the loaf in shape . Especially for long proofing times the tension created by shaping the loaf might not be enough to hold over hours , causing the loaf to " flow " sideways . Flour the basket well and do n't worry about excess flour at the bottom ( or top , depending in technique ) of the loaf , simply brush it off after baking . You do n't need to put parchment under the loaf if you transfer them to a pizza stone or pre-heated tray . Do n't try to lift a baguette by hand , use a sword-shaped <URL> or , in a pinch , a cutting board and roll the baguette onto the peel and back onto the pizza stone or second tray . That said , damp paper is n't much of a problem unless it is so wet that it will simply tear . Rolls or other small items are easier to pack into a plastic container - plus they bake quickly in the morning , which may add a bit of convenience ( or allows for a few extra minutes of sleep ) .
Shrimp are extremely lean and have very little connective tissue , which means that the longer they cook the harder they get . Fresh shrimp , for example , only need to be fried for about one minute per side ( depending on their size ) . This makes cooking frozen shrimp very difficult : By the time the outside has thawed and is perfectly cooked , the inside will still likely be frozen . If you cook them long enough for the inside to thaw and cook ( e.g. , 30 minutes ) , the outside will likely be extremely hard . I would recommend thawing the shrimp before cooking , for example , by leaving them in the refrigerator overnight . Another quick way to thaw them is to place them in a bowl and run a stream of cold water over them in your sink . Next , thoroughly dry the shrimp , which will help <URL> and promote the <URL> . Only cook the shrimp until they turn slightly pink and begin to curl on one side , then flip . Depending on the size , this should be no more than , say , two minutes per side . Then proceed with the remainder of the recipe . Also take into account if the recipe calls for simmering the shrimp in the cream sauce ; if so , then this will continue to cook the shrimp and you will not need to fry them as long .
Stevia leaves are commonly cut , then hung for drying , then either ground up into little flakes and used sparingly in drinks such as teas or recipes . The leaves themselves are also very commonly used unground as garnish in drinks as well as added to recipes . Just remember to compensate accordingly for the extra sweetness they will provide , and you really cant go wrong with some experimentation at first . In terms of a particular recipe I 'm not really sure what to recommend so hopefully this is still helpful .
A real quick search brings up a list of high-protein snacks that are easy to make up . <URL> Crispy Lentil Energy Bites ( 8.6 g protein per two bites ) The Best Homemade Granola ( 8 g protein per half-cup ) No-Bake Quinoa Peanut Butter Crunch Cups ( 8 g protein per two cups ) Chocolate Peanut Butter Protein Bars ( 5.8 g protein per bar ) Dark Chocolate Crunchy Coconut Cashew Sesame Bars ( 9.5 g protein per bar ) Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Protein Balls ( 5 g protein per ball ) Protein Muffins with Quinoa , Prunes , Dates and Coconut ( 18.2 g protein per muffin ) Zesty Black Bean Hummus ( 16 g protein per 1/2 - cup serving ) Roasted Chickpeas ( 21 g protein per 1/4 - cup serving ) Portobello Eggs with Sun-Dried Tomatoes and Goat Cheese ( 16.8 g protein per cap ) PBJ Yogurt Bowl ( 22 g protein per serving ) Paleo Cinnamon Raisin Flatbread ( 12.2 g protein per flatbread ) Roasted Edamame , Three Ways ( 15 g protein per cup ) Savory Greek Yogurt Three Ways ( 17 g protein per cup ) Protein " Brookies " ( 7 g protein per cookie ) Follow the link above for photos/recipes Also , some simpler options <URL> Just searching for " high protein snacks " prompts a huge amount of resources to play with .
Wash the shrimp and remove only the head . Insert a bamboo skewer along the shrimp from head to tail , running along the legs without touching flesh Drop into boiling , salted water for 3-5 minutes ( do not put a lid on ) ; after this period , they 'll change color and rise to the top . If they feel firm , they are cooked . Quickly place them into ice water , which helps them have good color and stops the flesh from shrinking and becoming hard . When shrimp are cold , remove from ice water and drain in a colander . To remove the skewer , use a screwing motion . For nigiri-sushi : Remove shell from around body , but not the tail . Butterfly cut open , cutting from head to tail along the belly with the knife only going halfway in . Use the knife or your fingers to open it up and flatten it carefully , without further breaking the flesh . Remove vein and rinse with lightly salted water . Lay on papertowels to drain . If using for sushi rolls , remove tail and cut in half lengthwise .
I recently published a guide for pressure cooking frozen meat - so here 's how to do your chicken breasts : Cover your chicken with water , salt and any other aromatics that you 'd like to use . Pressure cook for 5 minutes at high pressure ( the cooker will take MUCH LONGER to reach pressure , this is ok but some electric pressure cookers may time-out and need to be re-set ) . Open with Natural Pressure Release . General rules for pressure cooking frozen meat plus my tips : <URL> Frozen meat pressure cooking times : <URL>
Try brushing the tortilla with oil , and baking it upside down over a steel bowl .
When you want to freeze things so that they do n't stick together , you need to freeze them separately and then combine later . So , for example , if you 're freezing blueberries , you can freeze them on a cookie sheet and then combine them in one bag or container . For chicken , I would n't advise freezing the pieces uncovered ( as you do for blueberries ) . Instead , I would package the pieces in containers that only hold one meal 's worth . You can always defrost more than one package if necessary . This could be a plastic container or wrapped individually in plastic wrap or aluminum foil , or even a zippered plastic bag . Any of these would allow you to unwrap individually and defrost .
Dredging in lightly salted cornmeal and then frying ( shallow frying is fine , but deep frying is magical ) is an absolute classic in the Southern US , where catfish eating is big . I usually just put the plain filets in the cornmeal without first dipping in egg or milk . I do n't think it 's necessary -- though I 'd go with milk if I were forced to use something . After dredging , I let them sit on a wire rack for a minute or so before frying to set the cornmeal ( which I would do if using egg or milk also ) . Generally , though , most treatments that work for a mild , tender white fish will work . Recipes for flounder or sole ( Sole a la Meuniere for example ) , or ones that look for rockfish or striped bass will work really well . Bear in mind that catfish does have a distinctive flavor , though it 's not really strong . Some people do n't care for it , and they tend to describe it as " muddy " tasting . Personally , I do n't see it . If you like the catfish OK , but find the flavor intrusive in some applications , adding spicyness or acid ( lemon juice , vinegar ) will mute it .
Here in China , it is normal to reuse tea again and again . Typically the first cup from the tea is bitter . Chinese people commonly pour one cup and then throw it away and drink the second cup from the same leaves . Workers here can be seen with a large mug or jar of tea . When drunk , they top up the water again with hot ( but not boiling ) water . This will go on all day . The next day , however , they will not reuse the tea . My Chinese wife always tells me off if I reuse the previous days tea leaves . She says they are bad for you , though I have never had any problem myself .
You should always try to first bring hot quinoa to room temperature and follow the rest which you already mentioned . That works great , else if you try to pack it when it like burning hot , then the steam kind of stays in the packed room which later creates moisture and later spoils the food even though you keep it in the refrigerator . Best worked for me is by cooking quinoa in the night . Now I have lot of time to bring it to room temperature followed by pack it , store it and use it .
The main thing you need to do to prepare a plank for grilling is to soak it in water first . Otherwise , it can catch on fire and you 'll have a mess . For seasonings , you can use anything that you would use when roasting something . For salmon , you could put down some lemon slices and rosemary .
There is no reason to worry . The worst thing which can happen is that a piece of bay leaf , being somewhat hard , can lodge somewhere in your digestive system , necessitating a trip to ER . But a medical paper on the topic starts its discussion section with the sentence " Reports discussing ingestion of bay leaves have been exceedingly scant " . They only cite 10 references in the period 1950-1990 , and most of these are general studies of foreign bodies in the esophagus , not specific studies of bay leaf ingestion . Given how often bay leafs must find their ways into people 's digestive systems ( they feature in our food ) , it is safe to conclude that only a tiny fraction of ingested bay leafes cause problems , else there would be more studies mentioning such cases . The same is true for side effects different from mechanical obstruction : if this had happened , somebody would have published it . The paper I mentioned is " Bay Leaf Impaction in the Esophagus and Hypopharynx " by Stephen K. Buto , MD ; Tat-Kin Tsang , MD ; Gerald W. Sielaff , MD ; Laurie L. Gutstein , MD ; and Mick S. Meiselman , MD. . Sadly , it is n't freely available ( I could read the full text because my uni has a subscription ) . I guess that if you are working as a cook , your workplace may decide that even if the chance for a customer choking on a bay leaf is something like one in a million , they 'd rather instill removing bay leaves from dishes as a policy . Probably prudent , although there are more important risks to care about .
I make stir fry all the time and do the same thing as you . I would make extra , enough for 2 - 3 meals . The thing I do to prevent the vegetables from getting too mushy in the refrigerator is by cooking the stirfry about 75 % ( I make sure if I am doing this that the meat is fully cooked first ) and then take out the portion that I intend to refrigerate . This allows me to either finish cooking it in the microwave if I am taking it to work or reheat it up in the stove if I am staying home . Also since I am taking the portions from the upper part of the stirfry , there is less sauce that the vegetables will be steeping in so that should solve your problem of too much sauce . Another thing you should remember is that the types of vegetables you use makes a big difference . If you choose all vegetables that turns really soft when cooked ( onion , squash , peppers ) then reheated stirfry using those vegetables will be not as unpalatable . The trick is to use a variety of textured vegetables . Also I dont want to state the obvious but if your problem is your sauce , have you ever tried using a different ( lighter ) sauce recipe ?
A medium saucepan would probably be in the 8-10 inch range . Your sugar is n't colouring because the heat is n't high enough or it 's high enough but not long enough . Just keep cooking , the change will happen . You can try less water but if you 're not familiar with working with sugar , better to err on the side of caution ; I do work with caramels a lot , and when I know I 'm liable to get distracted by other things I have on the go I purposefully use more water than needed to give myself breathing room . Are you using the correct size of dish as specified by the recipe ? Some of the caramel will dissolve into the filling as you pour it in and as it cooks ; I would n't worry about the thickness at this stage . Beyond that , I would personally stay far , far away from anything done by RR . I do n't criticise cooks lightly , and I generally try to cook some of their recipes before I 'll pass judgement . The recipes of hers that I have tried , both from 30 minute meals and the website , are uniformly awful . Poorly written , ingredient quantities are off , and generally they just taste nasty .
It 's easiest to skin the deer when it 's still warm , but since that is n't an option let it hang for a day or two , if the weather is n't going to get above around 40 degrees F . If this is your first time , definitely have a helper on hand to help you hold the deer . Have a hacksaw and a sharp knife on hand . A small electric knife/chainsaw is helpful but not necessary . Growing up , this is how we did it : Peel the hide off ( start from top , go to bottom ) . Cut out the tenderloins with your knife . Quarter the deer with the hacksaw and bring the quarters inside individually to cut further . Be sure to look up some more videos/articles , but it 's not too difficult . Have plenty of freezer bags and freezer space on hand . It helps to have a " team " cutting up the quarters ... it 's not hard but it 's a lot of work . Enjoy !
end question
start question
How do I make raw peanut butter creamy ?
You 've pretty much answered your own question . Put the PB in a blender , drizzle in a little peanut oil , blitz and season to taste with salt and a little sugar if you want it . I 'd add them all slowly : you can always add , you ca n't take away .
It is possible to do at home , but it is very labor intensive and requires equipment that most people do n't have at home . The first major step is to <URL> ( ie tapioca flour ) . The cassava must be cleaned and peeled , then finely grated or milled to break the cell walls and expose the starch . This mass is then washed in a large amount of water and the insoluble pulp is strained out and the starchy water reserved . The starch-water mixture , called " Starch milk " , is allowed to settle for 6 + hours and the water is drained off until a thick slurry is left . This slurry is then either purified further with more water then dried to form the flour . The additional washing of the slurry is important to remove residual insoluble fiber and , more importantly , cyanide-related toxins naturally found in the cassava . Traditional cultures dried the slurry on basketwork trays , but it is more efficient to do it in an oven at low temperature with regular raking and turning . The dried starch would then be sifted and used for cooking . <URL> or pearls from tapioca starch is relatively easy compared to the processing of the cassava . The tapioca starch is mixed with boiling water to form a dough which is then kneaded and rolled into the desired size balls . The tapioca balls are then cooked in boiling water until transparent . Other sources : <URL> <URL>
The easiest solution that comes to mind would be to figure out how much you need for a sandwich , remove that from the jar , set it on the counter to come to room temp ( or put it in the microwave for 10-15 seconds ) and then spread it when it 's warmed up . " Refrigerate after opening " does n't mean that it must be in the fridge every second , though ... so even if you left the entire jar on the counter for 30 minutes to warm up , it should n't pose much of a problem .
This is a recipe that we used for the concierge lounge when I was a chef in the main kitchen of the Disney 's Grand Floridian Resort &amp; Spa : Paneer 5 cups whole milk 2 tablespoons lemon juice Bring the milk to a boil , add the lemon juice so that the milk separates into the curds and whey . Add a bit more lemon juice if necessary . Let set for approx . 5 mins . Line a strainer with a cheesecloth and strain the milk . Reserve the whey to use in curries instead of water . Squeeze the excess whey out of the curd and fold the cloth around the paneer to form a 4-inch square . Place the paneer on a plate and place a heavy weight on top to squeeze out excess whey . Leave for about 4 hours to set .
Peanut butters that are not " all natural " include cheaper oils along with sugar and emulsifiers to keep the mixture from separating and to make it lighter and smoother . That lack of emulsifiers could make a huge difference but it depends a lot on the recipe . In a normal cookie dough fat is creamed with sugar and eggs are beaten in one at a time which adds a ton of emulsification power from the lecithin in the yolks . Additionally - the fat will bind with the flour and be baked into the cookies . Like Jefromi - I have not had any problem with the fat from natural peanut butter separating out after baking . If you made a cookie dough and either left out the yolks or did n't beat it well enough to properly emulsify - and then let the batter sit out for a while before baking I would fully expect the peanut oil to separate .
Oil is hydrogenated by bubbling hydrogen through it at high temperature ( on the order of 400 to 500 degrees F ) , in the presence of a catalyst such as nickel . Air is 0.00005 % hydrogen , you are probably not using temperatures high enough , nor doing it for a significantly long period of time , nor having an appropriate catalyst present . The amount of hydrogenation introduced via this recipe is somewhere between none and vanishingly small . However , coconut oil itself is about 92 % saturated fat -- which means the fats are naturally saturated with hydrogen . While a natural saturated fat , not a manufactured one , coconut oil is saturated . If your recipe is delicious and you enjoy it , eat up in moderation like anything else ( chocolate excepted ) . :-)
Ganache is made from chocolate and heavy whipping cream . You could add hot cream to the chocolate until you get the consistency you are looking for .
I recommend <URL> I have it and use it every week to make lemonade : It 's absolutely delicious . It 's all I drink , no more soda . Last week I made cherry juice . De-pitted the cherries and repeted the same steps as above . I 've also made carrot and beet juice , but they test very strong and work better when you mix them with other juices - orange juice for example . My experience with juicing grapefruit is not good . The juice comes out very bitter and tastes very strong . In general , to reduce the bitterness in citrus juices , peel the fruit first before adding it to the juicer . As in the lemonade example , I sometimes use the lemon peels to make <URL> , or keep a few in the fridge to garnish my coffee . If you have no use for them , they will at least make your garbage smell very good . Maintenance You need to clean the juicer after each use , which can be discouraging . If you have someone who lives with you , have them help . My husband peels and juices the lemons , I wash the juicer parts while he mixes the lemonade in the pitcher . It takes us about 15 minutes from start to finish . Experiment You can throw anything in the juicer as long as you remove large pits and cut it to a size that fits the opening . It will fit a whole lemon but you need to halve an apple . The juicer - at least the model I have - also comes with a recipe book . Not that I ever used it . I just use whatever I have left over and try to make something tasty .
I learned that the flame on the gas stove was to strong so I will try lowering the flame .
Sounds like you want <URL> . If you search google you will undoubtedly find recipes for this abomination . It is designed to meet nutritional needs while minimizing the need for utensils . You did say taste and texture were n't important .
All you need to do is put the liquid on a spoon and slowly lower it into the bath while tipping so it falls off . It may take a few tries but it is n't difficult to master . Naturally , larger spheres are a bit more delicate so will require gentle handling to remove from bath , rinse , and plate .
Type of flour : rice Liquid : soda ( seltzer ) water Mix as little as possible . Lumps are okay . Dip quickly , drop into 350 veg/soy oil .
You can give your candies hard shells by dipping them into a melted mixture of one part water , two parts sugar , and 1/2 part corn syrup . Melt those ingredients together over medium to medium-high heat until the sugar has totally dissolved and the mixture is at the hard crack stage ( 295-310 & deg ; F. / 146-154 & deg ; C. ) . Remove your pot of glaze from the heat and place it into a waiting metal bowl of ice water . Once the glaze has stopped bubbling , begin dipping your candies immediately . Once dipped , set them on an appropriate , lightly greased surface to cool ( use a flavorless oil or kitchen spray for greasing ) . You 'll want to skewer your candies to dip them ; never attempt to dip candies into hot glaze by hand . You 'll also want to set everything up for dipping before you make your glaze : have your bowl of ice water ready ; have a greased tray or marble slab/counter ready to receive your dipped candies ; have your kitchen to yourself ( distractions are n't good when working with hot glaze ) . Your glaze will cool very quickly , so work carefully but efficiently .
Nutella is over half sugar by weight ; peanut butter might be more like 5-10 % depending on brand/style . That already sounds like enough that it wo n't make a good one-for-one substitution in most things , especially anything that 's not already pretty sweet . It probably also means that it 'll have a slightly different resulting texture ; nutella is already a bit less thick ( probably again affected by the sugar ) , and I believe this is pretty obvious when heated , though it 's been a while since I tried .
Tomato paste is just tomatoes with the water removed , essentially . I 'd slice the tomatoes in half and roast them ( cut side up ) at 350 degrees F for an hour ( this will concentrate the flavour nicely and you can add s &amp; p/olive oil/herbs/garlic if you want ) . Then mash them through a sieve or food mill to get a smooth consistency . Then put that tomato puree in a pot and just boil them down until it 's as thick as you want . As it gets thicker , you 'll need to stir it regularly to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pot and burning .
Making Mozzarella is not fantastically difficult , but certain things during the process are critical , probably the most important is temperature . If it 's your first time making cheese , you might find the buying a ' starter kit ' the easiest way to get up and running . These will provide you with all the important items you needm such as rennet . If you feel brave , then you forego the kit and dive right in . For Mozzarella try to find Buffalo milk , which is what ' proper ' Mozzarella is made from . It 's lower in cholesterol than cows milk , has more protein and makes a much richer cheese . If you ca n't get Buffalo milk use the best full fat , non-homogenized milk you can find . Here 's a recipe I 've used before <URL> Here 's a link with the differences between Buffalo milk and cows milk <URL> Whilst it 's quite possible to make virtually any variety of cheese at home , some cheeses , such as blue cheese , require a place to develop at the correct temperature and for quite long periods of time . ideally , this would be a temperature around 10c with a humidity around 70 % and a time for maturing at around 2 to 3 months . Here 's a good place to start : <URL>
Classic Chevre uses a bacterial culture as well as rennet to coagulate the cheese , but that is not the only way to make a goat 's cheese . The recipe you linked to does n't have a long incubation time , so I doubt there 's any intention that the buttermilk is inoculating the cheese and there 's no rennet . So I think the " bacteria " idea is a red herring . A very simple goat 's cheese can be made with goat 's milk and lemon juice . I have had great success with it . It does make a fairly soft cheese , though how soft depends on how long its left to drain . The recipe I use has 1/3 cup ( US ) lemon juice to 1 quart milk . I 'm in the UK so this works out as 2 lemons per litre . The result is quite " lemony " and you might want to use another acid source ( white wine vinegar for instance ) but if you keep trying you can home in on what you like . Simple acid cheeses like reasonably high temperatures . My recipe uses 180 - 185F ( which may be hotter than you have used ) before adding the lemon juice . The other thing is , its generally much easier to just let the milk sit after acidification so the curd can develop . 10 minutes is usually enough , but you can always leave it 20 or 30 minutes if the curd is slow to set . The guilty kitchen recipe goes straight to ladling out the curds . That is something you do for a ricotta or high acid cheese ( which may sort of be what they are aiming for - I do n't cook with buttermilk myself so do n't have the experience ) but I 'd want to let things set a bit first with a simple goat 's cheese . So : warm slowly to 180-185F , add lemon , sit , strain through cheesecloth to the texture you like . Crumbly may be an indication that its not setting long enough ?
Panko wo n't stick to chicken ( too dry ) , but will stick to egg . Egg wo n't stick to chicken ( too smooth and non-absorbant ) , but will stick to flour . Flour will stick to chicken . Dredge first through flour , then through ( well beaten ) egg , then through panko . It 's a tricky combination , but if you do it right the results are excellent . Any dry spices you want to put in can go in the flour . While I do n't know for sure , I would certainly would n't include any oils in the coating , as none of flour/egg/panko will stick to oils .
Yes , store them individually . First , wrap them tightly in plastic wrap , preferably one that says it 's specifically for freezer use . Then wrap this tightly in aluminum foil . They 'll keep for months without freezer burn this way .
I 've done it before without problems . Even if they 're peanut butter &amp; jelly ( something that 's typically stored in the fridge ) , it has so much sugar in it that it 's inhospitable to microbes . If you want to play it extra safe , and the sandiwiches wo n't be easten shortly after you leave , you could place them in the freezer and then let them thaw in your bag . ... all that being said , if you 're in the US , the TSA considers peanut butter to be a gel , so wo n't let you fly with a container of it . I have no idea what their rules are in sandwich form . ( I 've never tried it , as I typically fly w / cold cut sandwiches , and just take them straight from the fridge before I go ) .
end question
start question
What does the rind say about a cheese ?
You can learn a lot from the rind of a cheese . <URL> There are three types of rind : Bloomy , washed , and natural . While I do n't think it is technically a rind I would also list waxed as a category . Bloomy rinds are formed when molds and such that grew during the cheese aging are smashed flat . Usually such cheeses will have unique textures because of the action of the mold . Think of the creaminess of brie as an example . The rind is edible if it is in good condition . Washed - the cheese is wiped with vinegar or similar while it ages . Natural - The top layer of the cheese is allowed to dry as the cheese ages . Parmesan is a good example of this . Waxed - Wax is applied to inhibit drying and mold growth . It is common with many semi firm to firm cheeses and does n't tell you much except the favorite color of the cheese marketing people . Cheddar is almost always waxed . Some cheeses do n't have a rind at all - this generally means that they were n't aged . Cream cheese , queso fresco are examples . Mozarella and feta are both brined and so do n't have rinds . Of course - it is a good thing when you can see any rind at all as odds are good that the cheese was n't mass produced for an undiscriminating clientele .
easiest way is to mix it with the sauce and heat both up together . Usually I 'd do this in a pan , but you could use a microwave . If you have to heat the pasta up on its own , what I usually do is do it in a pan and add a little boiling water , just a couple of tablespoons , enough to stop it sticking , and keep stirring until its warmed through . If it starts to stick add a little more water . You could do this in a microwave I 'd bet , but I do n't have one .
Short answer ? Not a damn thing . The term is pretty much meaningless in the US ; at best it only means that the product does n't have added colors , artificial flavors or synthetic " stuff " . From the <URL> : What is the meaning of ' natural ' on the label of food ? From a food science perspective , it is difficult to define a food product that is ' natural ' because the food has probably been processed and is no longer the product of the earth . That said , FDA has not developed a definition for use of the term natural or its derivatives . However , the agency has not objected to the use of the term if the food does not contain added color , artificial flavors , or synthetic substances .
Gruyere is DELICIOUS . It melts without getting too gooey or soupy , and it is the traditional cheese component of a <URL> ( if you 're into that ham thing ... ) . You could actually probably use any of the cheeses in that " variations " list , but I love Gruyere so that 's my recommendation . It 's widely available but tends to be kind of pricey here in the US . Brie is also a good choice ; since it is soft to begin with , it melts nicely . ( Just make sure to cut off the rind before putting in the sandwich - that would be a weird texture combo . ) It 's great in grilled or toasted cheese sandwiches because of the richness and slightly buttery flavor . As a local reference , check out <URL> for some tasty ideas ; they do classic grilled cheeses with cheddar , American , gruyere or mozzarella , but they make others that have additions of other non-cheese components .
Grana padano and pecorino romano are two other very savory , hard grating cheeses that work well on pasta . They taste a bit different than Parmigiano-Reggiano , but are quite good in their own right and often less expensive . You can also look at parmesan type cheeses that are not actually Parmigiano-Reggiano . For example , Whole Foods often has one from Argentina that offers a reasonable price/performance tradeoff . All of that said , in many people 's opinion , nothing is really quite as delicious as true Parmigiano-Reggiano .
Those are called " Eyes " by cheese makers . The appear when bacteria convert lactic acid into propionic acid and carbon dioxide , or metabolise citrate . These bacteria occur in dairy products , though they can also be added to the curd to get the characteristic eyes . See for example <URL> on Wikipedia .
Usually a cheese tasting would have more variety in terms of texture and flavour and you 'd progress from the mild to the stronger . However , if your goal is to compare a lot of similar cheeses to contrast with each other , you 'll need to have more palate cleansing and balancing in between each cheese . A lot of the cheeses that you 're considering are aged ones , which tend to be quite sharp and salty . For the harder/saltier cheeses , acidic accompaniments will be important . Things like granny smith apples and tomatoes would be ideal . Something juicy and thirst quenching like melon ( or the tomato ) would also be important to include . Proscuitto , while yummy , would probably just add more sharp saltiness to an already overwhelmed palate . As for dried fruits , another classic for cheese courses is dates since the sweetness makes a nice contrast . You might want to consider including something like a raisin bread as well as crackers for serving the cheeses . Chutney is delicious on crackers with cheese and could help balance the fact that most hard cheeses are eaten as a garnish more than on their own ( e.g. on a salad , on pasta , etc ) . However , this might interfere with the " tasting " atmosphere you 're aiming for . If you want to pair with something non-alcoholic , a sparkling water is probably a good place to start since the fizz will be refreshing and the water wo n't introduce any other flavours to the palate .
If you cut it with a knife , you 'll tend to get a very smooth surface . If you tear it open , whether by hand or with the aid of a fork , it 'll tend to break on more natural places in the crumb , giving a bit rougher surface . When toasted , that tends to result in more contrast of texture - the bits sticking up will brown more and get crunchier .
You can learn a lot from the rind of a cheese . <URL> There are three types of rind : Bloomy , washed , and natural . While I do n't think it is technically a rind I would also list waxed as a category . Bloomy rinds are formed when molds and such that grew during the cheese aging are smashed flat . Usually such cheeses will have unique textures because of the action of the mold . Think of the creaminess of brie as an example . The rind is edible if it is in good condition . Washed - the cheese is wiped with vinegar or similar while it ages . Natural - The top layer of the cheese is allowed to dry as the cheese ages . Parmesan is a good example of this . Waxed - Wax is applied to inhibit drying and mold growth . It is common with many semi firm to firm cheeses and does n't tell you much except the favorite color of the cheese marketing people . Cheddar is almost always waxed . Some cheeses do n't have a rind at all - this generally means that they were n't aged . Cream cheese , queso fresco are examples . Mozarella and feta are both brined and so do n't have rinds . Of course - it is a good thing when you can see any rind at all as odds are good that the cheese was n't mass produced for an undiscriminating clientele .
You 've already given the name for this process in your question . Reduction is the cooking term used for thickening and intensifying the flavor of a food by simmering or boiling away some of the liquid .
In the U.S. biscuits are made with chemical leavening , they use baking powder to cause them to rise . Rolls ( or dinner rolls ) are yeast bread . There are obviously other differences in the recipe ( s ) but baking powder vs. yeast is the essential difference .
Milder cheddars are for melting . They get used in things such as grilled cheese sandwiches , grating into chili , nachos , or in quesadillas . In these uses , they do n't need the full-bodied flavor of a sharp cheddar , but they do need to melt down into soft , gooey , creamy deliciousness . Sharper cheddars are for flavor . I commonly see them in sandwiches , macaroni and cheese , topping salads , and as part of cheese boards . The reason it works like this is that " sharper " cheddars get their bite from additional aging , which develops a richer flavor but makes the cheese drier and increases the melting point . That said , there are no hard and fast rules for how to use mild vs. sharp cheddar . In my house we always use extra sharp cheddar because even everyday cheese should be a gustatory delight . It 's a little trickier to make into a quesadilla or melt on a cheeseburger , but the extra tang is worth it !
I do n't have any info on the affect of pH , but cornstarch can make your compote separate when canned : <URL> . Two alternative thickeners are tapioca and clearjel . I 've used clearjel for canning with excellent results . I have n't used tapioca to can , but do prefer it in my pies . ( posted as an answer per Sobachatina 's recommendation )
In all cheese making and especially with young cheeses like cream cheese , fat adds a lot to the flavor and texture . You can skim off extra fat but your cheese will be thinner and less richly flavored . Shaking the cream in wo n't help if you are using a fermented method ( as opposed to using boiling and acid to curdle the milk ) because it will separate out again during the fermentation . Your thickened , fermented milk will be richer on top where the cream rose . It will mix back in when you drain the cheese and form it .
To my experience , the cutting " trajectory " ( not sure if that 's the right vocab ) of a dull knife is less consistent and less controllable than a sharpened one , and is more subject to be influenced by the texture of the material being cut , especially cutting something hard , thick and fiber-ish such as carrot or big melon .
The number specifies the diameter of the grinder plate # 5 is 2 1/8 inches # 8 is 2 1/2 inches # 10 and # 12 are 2 3/4 inches # 20 and # 22 are 3 1/4 inches # 32 is 3 7/8 inches
I have never added butter to sponge sheets when making swiss rolls , jelly rolls , or anything similar in the past . It 's just straight up bread flour , sugar , and eggs . I can only think of three possible reasons why butter might be added : To improve the flavour ; To keep the sheets moist and help prevent overbaking , as any fat would be used in cake batter ; however , this is generally not a major concern in cake rolls ; or To help prevent it from sticking to the sheet ( do n't bother ; if you have this problem , use a silicone mat ) . Reasons # 2 and # 3 are n't very convincing to me , so I would only bother adding butter if you prefer the taste of swiss rolls with butter added . I do n't think butter would help with rolling at all , in fact it might make rolling more difficult on account of making the sheets more crumbly and less able to hold together under pressure .
" Shocking " the food stops the cooking process , preventing the food from losing its color and texture .
<URL> , a major component of lemon oil , is not very water soluble , and will leave a sticky residue on your hands til you wash with soap and water .
The term " bad " , when applied to cheese , can actually refer to a <URL> ( p. 14 ) , several of which are caused by improper or over-aging and only some of which are dangerous . The issues that you most likely need to worry about are : Moisture loss applies primarily to soft cheese and is probably the first negative effect you 'll see . In a sealed package , it will " sweat " as Ivo points out , caused by water evaporating and then condensing again on the packaging , forming little droplets . Unsealed , it will simply dry out and become hard . This is not spoilage , and the cheese is still perfectly good to eat , it just might not have as pleasant a texture and might have a slightly flat flavour . You can just cut off any hardened edges . Oxidation gives a slightly metallic taste but more importantly leads to rancidity - discoloration and a sour smell/taste . This is caused by light and is why you should store cheese in a dark place . If you left it in the car during the afternoon , it may have been exposed to a good deal of light . However , <URL> and wax paper in particular is an oxidation inhibitor ( that 's why cheese is often wrapped in it ! ) . Light exposure also would have been minimal at night . You 're probably fine in this respect , but use your nose . If it smells sour , do n't eat it . The chemical process itself results in peroxides and free radicals , which are obviously not good to eat , although there seems to be some debate about just how dangerous they are ( some say it raises the risk of cancer , although I 'm unable to find an authoritative source , and this might just be an urban myth ) . Mold is the most obvious form of spoilage and usually also the last . Although most mold is technically aerobic , many strains are capable of growing with very little oxygen , and I personally have seen mold growing on an unopened package of cheddar that I 'd forgotten about for several months . I 'm sure I do n't need to tell you that mold is n't safe to eat ; however , by the time there 's enough mold to be dangerous , you 'll be able to see it . Contrary to what Ivo 's post suggests , the mold you 'll see growing on spoiled cheese is not the same as the mold that the cheese was made with - some cheeses , like parmesan , are n't made with any mold at all , although they can certainly grow mold later on . The molds used in cheese-making are typically some variety of <URL> , which is safe to eat . The mold that grows weeks later could be anything , and is not safe to eat . Ivo is also partially correct in saying that the packaging does not prevent mold growth ; however , it does slow it down by restricting the available oxygen . On the whole , I tend to agree with the other answers that your cheese will almost certainly still be good after only 1 day . Keep in mind that cheese is thought to have been popularized as a <URL> before refrigeration existed - the whole idea is that it lasts a long while , usually well over 24 hours before food safety becomes an issue .
end question
start question
Does adding sugar to tomato type sauces affect acidity ?
Weak organic acids such as those found in fruits and vegetables ( citric acid , malic acid , tartaric acid ) do n't react with sugars . 1 There is no change in acidity , which you correctly defined as measured by the pH. At the same time , sweet and sour are two tastes which are real antagonists - adding something sweet actually reducess the sourness we perceive , as opposed to just distracting us from it . So the sugar changes the sourness ( the taste ) , but not the acidity ( the chemical property ) . Hearing it otherwise comes from the fact that most people do n't even realize that there is a difference between the two terms , and use them interchangeably . 1 They can partake in reactions as catalysts , for example to create invert sugar when cooking up sugar syrup , but the acid itself does not react away .
Any kind of flavoring , really , so long as the application will accept a syrup substance . They make killer milkshakes / malts . Add them to all kinds of desserts , beverages . I 've occasionally replaced extracts and granulated sugar in a recipe with a flavored syrup but you have to experiment with the right combinations as this tends to either overpower the dish with flavor or not make it as sweet .
White sugar was commonly used as a preservative in the past , in much the same way as salt . It 's wildly hygroscopic ( like salt ) , and an excellent desiccant , so if you packed something in it , it would accelerate the drying process . This is actually the origin of fruit jam and fruit preserves , which are still common today , even after better methods of preservation are available . Salt was more common simply because many things like eating/living in WET sugar , so you had to be careful with how much water was in the thing you were trying to preserve . But as long as the sugar was dry it 's an extremely hostile environment for bacteria and little crawly things . Kept dry , it will last forever .
The most significant factors are probably : Muscle function and activity Fat content and distribution Diet of animal Age Basic muscle structure in most vertebrates is somewhat similar , so taxonomic relatedness is often not paramount in matching flavors . ( There appear to be <URL> in flavor , particularly among many " beefy " animals , though . ) There 's a reason that many people say lots of random meats <URL> . Since muscle structure is often quite similar even in very unrelated animals , a lot of reptile and amphibian meat can " taste like chicken . " The texture is often different , because muscles may be used in different ways , but if you put the meat through a meat grinder , the flavor would n't be as varied . ( Thus alligator sausage is not as adventurous or odd tasting as you might think at first . ) What makes " light meat " vs. " dark meat " often has a lot to do with <URL> , and if you try similarly colored meat from different animals , it often has <URL> . Ostrich meat tends to be dark and " beefy , " while many parts of pigs are advertised as " white meat " which is presumably closer to birds . I remember my first experience a number of years ago eating a smoked turkey leg -- it was smoked for a very long time and cooked slowly for many hours . It tasted almost exactly like ham . And it was like ham : a leg muscle from an animal with similar fat distribution in that area which was processed in the same way . The " gaminess " of wild animal meats often has to do with ( 1 ) increased age , ( 2 ) different/more varied diet , and ( 3 ) more muscle activity than most domesticated animals get . In my experience , for example , farm-raised venison is distinctly less gamey than wild venison . Moreover , most of our farm-raised animals these days tend to be slaughtered rather young ( generally as soon as mature ) , so as to maximize profits . If you encounter older meat from old farm animals which are slaughtered late in life , it often has " gamier " or " deeper " flavors than the young animals we are now used to . We also tend to breed domesticated animals to maximize muscle content in certain desirable areas of the animal ( e.g. , chicken breasts ) which often tends to make them more " bland " and less gamey , because the animals do n't generally need so much muscle in those areas and thus never use them much . ( It 's notable that tastes have changed significantly over time . Years ago , it was common to hang wild game for days or weeks until it began to rot in a process called mortification . While it tenderized the meat , it also had the effect of heightening the " wild " gamey flavors of each individual meat , which was considered desirable by many . In most industrialized cultures today , the trend is toward blander and blander meats , with young , lean animals the norm , and the boneless skinless chicken breast -- with the flavorful fatty skin and bones/connective tissue removed , produced from chickens which never exercise and eat uniform bland diets -- as one of the most common meat sources . ) Muscle texture and fat distribution can also create distinctions , even if flavors are not that different . Most muscle tastes somewhat similar , so it 's often the fat that makes the big difference , since the fat tends to store energy from whatever food sources the animal has . As Harold McGee describes it in On Food and Cooking ( p. 134 ) : Fat : The Flavor of the Tribe The machinery of the red and white muscle fiber is much the same no matter what the animal , because it has the specific job of generating movement . Fat cells , on the other hand , are essentially storage tissue , and any sort of fat-soluble material can end up in them . So the contents of fat tissue vary from species to species and are also affected by the animal 's diet and resident gastrointestinal microbes . It 's largely the contents of the fat tissue that give beef , lamb , pork , and chicken their distinctive flavors , which are composites of many different kinds of aroma molecules . The fat molecules themselves can be transformed by heat and oxygen into molecules that smell fruity or floral , nutty or " green , " with the relative proportions depending on the nature of the fat . Thus , wild or older animals are more likely to have different sources for fat ( and more marbled fat mixed into muscle ) , which gives it a more distinctive ( " gamey " ) flavor . Fish meat tastes a lot different mostly due to fats/oils distributed throughout ( instead of in pockets like most higher vertebrates ) , and the structure of the muscles tends to create a flaky texture due to different usage and less connective tissue . There are also distinctive chemicals ( particularly in the fat ) that give fish its characteristic " fishy " flavor , but when you encounter very " mild " fish , it 's the texture and fat distribution that makes it most different from another white meat . One last thing I would mention is expectations . Many , many studies have shown that pre-existing assumptions can have a great impact on our experien
I 've been a fan of brining for a while and NO , adding flavouring to the brine wo n't make much if any difference in relation to the brining itself , which makes a lot of difference . I have employed my most wishful thinking many times with brine , on the basis of the fact that pretty much every reference to it in recipes , on cooking shows , etc. , always seems to promote the idea that the flavour will diffuse in the brine and be absorbed by the meat . This is some kind of " look at the Emperor 's New Clothes " tradition .1 I 've gone to ridiculous extremes to test this , sometimes adding many ounces of e.g. , paprika or thyme to < 1 gallon of very salty ( 4 tbls/quart ) brine with a chicken overnight -- which is actually too much time , a few hours is plenty with that much salt . In some cases I 've gone overboard with the salty part , but despite all the piles of herbs , powders , an entire bottle of hot sauce , etc. , you at best get maybe a hint of something on the surface . In short , my opinion now is that while brining is awesome for pork and poultry -- salty and moist meat being far superior to dry and bland meat -- adding something to the brine and expecting it makes a difference is a complete waste of time and materials . As per one of my comments on the question , I 'd guess the issue here is that brining exploits osmosis . From <URL> : Brining makes cooked meat moister by hydrating the cells of its muscle tissue before cooking , via the process of osmosis , and by allowing the cells to hold on to the water while they are cooked , via the process of denaturation . The brine surrounding the cells has a higher concentration of salt than the fluid within the cells , but the cell fluid has a higher concentration of other solutes . This leads salt ions to diffuse into the cell , whilst the solutes in the cells can not diffuse through the cell membranes into the brine . The increased salinity of the cell fluid causes the cell to absorb water from the brine via osmosis . The salt introduced into the cell also denatures its proteins . The proteins coagulate , forming a matrix that traps water molecules and holds them during cooking . This prevents the meat from dehydrating . So the idea is that the meat absorbs salt ions , which then causes it to absorb more water . This is through the cell walls , and I do not think large particles such as the stuff we might associate with " flavour " would be included . Of course , some of the brine may be drawn into the meat between the ( large congregations ) of cells , but this is probably not a significant volume . 1 . Some of these recipes call for really paltry amounts of flavoring too , an inadvertent testament to how nice the Emperor must look naked ( " Umm -- I can so taste the rosemary from the brine ! " . Hogwash . ) . They also often involve paltry amounts of time ( " brine for 20 minutes " ) , I suppose because if you can pretend to taste rosemary you can also pretend to taste salt and appreciate moistness . If you do n't have at least an hour , do not bother . At least quadruple that for a whole turkey .
Fresh herbs should , generally , be added closer to the end of a recipe . Dried herbs should be added fairly early on during the cooking process so that they have time to " develop " and more fully release their flavors . Fresh herbs and spices , however , will generally have more subtle flavors , and they are usually best used for seasoning at the very end of the recipe , rather than actual cooking . You can check out more details about how to use different kinds of spices in <URL> . For your specific case , I would say to definitely add the basil in at the end -- maybe five or ten minutes before the sauce is finished , as you said . It may even be a good idea to remove the pot from your heat source after you have added the basil so that the herbs can infuse their flavor without actually cooking into the sauce . You have to be careful not to cook too much of the flavor out with fresh herbs . If they simmer too long with the rest of the dish the subtle flavors can be easily overpowered by other ingredients .
You are trying to add the yoghurt at too high a temperature . Let the dish cool to around 75 deg C before adding the yoghurt , and make adding the yoghurt the last thing you do before serving .
Usually this question goes the other way around ( how to adjust recipes for high-altitude cooking ) ... The main effect that altitude has on cooking times and temperatures is how it affects the boiling point of water . At higher altitudes , water begins boiling at a lower temperature , so anything boiling will not reach as high of a temperature , and often needs to be cooked longer . Higher altitudes can also cause leavening to have a greater effect . You may need to add extra leavening ( yeast , baking powder ) to get the same amount of rise that you had at a higher altitude .
Major ways of thickening a sauce -- or , for that matter , some other liquid : Starch ( e.g. , flour , cornstarch , tapioca , arrowroot ) Emulsion ( e.g. , butter , cream , yolk , mustard , blending in lecithin-and-fat ) Coagulated protein ( e.g. , blood , egg , pureed seafood ) Gels/polysaccharides ( gelatin , alginate , xanthan , pectin , agar agar , guar gum ) Suspension ( general puree of solids ) Note that some of the examples of one category can also fit into another .
Chia seeds can be used without soaking , but they absorb a LOT of liquid and create a gel . If this is n't accounted for in your recipe , they could cause the finished product to have an odd texture . At the very least , I 'd add extra liquid to your batter and let it sit for a few minutes to check it 's consistency before you use it .
Note : This answer goes in a bit more detail than necessary to answer the question . If you truly only care about the hydration , please only read " Water/flour ratio " and " Flavor of the bread " . I have added the other information as well since the effects are similar to that of a change in hydration . I 've frequently baked ( about once to twice a week ) with sourdough for 4 years now . I 'm not a professional . The only thing I can take a bit of pride in is that a professional baker who tested a loaf of my sourdough bread told me that it 's " fantastic , considering the little possibilities available to control the conditions the sourdough and loaf are exposed to at home " . So while far from perfect , I 'd consider my sourdough breads and knowledge pretty good . Most of what I 'm writing now was first read on the internet somewhere and confirmed through testing it with my own sourdough culture ( I 'm still using the same one I started out with ) . Apart from the flour you use , there are several factors that affect the taste of the resulting bread : Temperature This has , in my experience , the biggest impact on the taste . The following rules apply : Anything over 40 ° C is deadly to the microbes in your sourdough . Lower temperature : More acetic acid , less lactic acid , yeasts develop more slowly . Higher temperature : More lactic acid , less acetic acid , yeasts develop more quickly . Lactic acid bacteria prefer temperatures at around 30-35 ° C Yeasts like temperatures around 25 ° C best Note : Your sourdough can be 1-2 ° C warmer than the environment due to microbial activity . That can be important to keep in mind . Water/flour ratio Most of the time , people use a ratio of 1:1 water/flour for the sourdough and that will give you good results , but you can play around with that ratio to change the taste to your liking : Lower water content causes more acetic acid production and less developed yeasts Higher water content will make it easier for the yeasts to grow and increase the lactic acid content I 've found that having more than 1.5 times the amount of water compared to the flour will hardly have any effect on the dough anymore and I 'd recommend stirring the dough every couple of hours with that much water . On single staged sourdough , using less than 0.75 times the water compared to the flour is also not a good idea and you will probably be required to add yeast in the bread dough . Salt and oil Adding these , especially salt , to the sourdough already will have a considerable impact on the sourdough taste . A sourdough made with salt in it will taste quite different from one without it . I 'm not quite sure about why this is , but it may have something to do with the yeasts growing more slowly ( more information below ) . Both salt and oil will slow down the growth of the yeasts , but do n't have much of an effect on the lactic acid bacteria . Adding oil mainly affects the mechanical properties of the dough ( it will be softer and more ductile ) . It also helps with the structure of the bread ( the air bubbles in the bread will be smaller and more uniformly distributed ) , especially in the presence of an emulsifyer ( lard is both fat and an emulsifyer , so it works well in this regard ) . For this reason , it does n't make much sense to add it to the sourdough already . Of course , if the fat is n't tasteless , it will also add to the taste of the bread ( I love using natural olive oil in my wheat breads ) . Flavor of the bread Sourdough actually has some pretty complicated chemistry that I know little about . However , here are some effects that I do know : Lactic acid will give your bread a mild , sour taste . This works very well for wheat breads . Acetic acid gives you a stronger , more sour taste ( very noticable while eating ) . This works great for rye breads The amount of yeast in your sourdough also has a big impact on the smell and taste of the bread . Yeast is beneficial to the bread not only for it 's leavening properties . Apart from CO2 , it also produces ethanol , which will esterify the lactic acid to ethyl lactate over time , which in turn has a strong flavor . Okay I think that 's it . I hope this helps you .
Ahh , the complexities of blending . Have you tried pulsing the smoothie ? Short bursts tend to stir up some of the stuff that sneaks below the blades .
In general you need to consider the purpose of the ingredient , and what would happen to it during the cooking that it 's missed . For example , there 's no point stirring a spoonful of flour into a sauce after cooking , since the flour needs heat in order to thicken the sauce . In the case of the tomato paste , not much will happen to that particular ingredient during cooking . It may have caramelised a little , depending on the cooking method . It would have infused more deeply into some of the other ingredients . But these are subtle things . Taste your finished product . If you feel it would benefit from an extra boost of tomato flavour , by all means stir in some tomato paste .
You can certainly use a Dutch oven ( DO ) for cooking sauce . A good DO is probably one of the most versatile pieces of equipment in the kitchen . It cooks , it bakes , it even fries ! It will certainly make sauce and the high sides will even help prevent splatters . I would n't worry about the lack of a long handle , the weight of the DO will keep it stable . If anything , the weight is its primary fault . A good DO is also a heavy DO . It can be a bit daunting to lug out every time . Since you mentioned Le Creuset , I 'm assuming you 're talking about enameled cast iron - not ' normal ' cast iron . And hence have n't addressed that you certain sauces and such may not be well suited to ' normal ' cast iron , but enameled is fine all around . Can you use a enameled Dutch oven for sauces ? Absolutely . Should you ? There are less weighty options , but at the end of the day it will make the same sauce .
It depends on a lot of factors : what you 're describing is n't much different from making jam , and homemade jam is good for about a month , once you open it . Assuming you got the temp high enough to kill all the bacteria , the time will depend entirely on PH and water content . The more acidic , and the less watery the better . Generally things like this freeze well though , so , when in doubt , throw it in the freezer .
These products are called thickeners . Gum Arabic is often used for this as well as karageenan , xanthan gum , sometimes corn starch or potato starch . You have to experiment with the different thickeners so you get the consistency you want .
For some teas , the strainer does matter . For a particular variety of green tea that I was considering importing years ago , the producer recommended a certain type of fine mesh strainer for best results , as apparently the leaves were just the right shape to clog up the " standard " Kyuusu-style mesh strainer . ( Kyuusu is a type of Japanese teapot with the handle on the side instead of opposite the spout ) . With black tea , I found that those glass teapot strainers with the little slits in them worked fine , but were a pain to clean . For Japanese green teas , though , they were a disaster , as tea leaves got stuck in them and the infusion never got very complete , and the water refused to drain in a reasonable amount of time . As a result , I refuse to buy another glass teapot with those little slits , because they were too unreliable for anything but large leaf black teas or certain " fruit teas " ( as they were called in Germany ) . Korean style one-person tea cups with large holes in the strainer component work reasonably well for green tea ( and are designed for green tea ) , but often require toothpicks or bamboo skewers to clean if tea gets stuck in the holes . My favorite teapots mostly use the Japanese-style steel mesh , though I have had good luck for certain teas with built-in clay strainer holes if they brew small quantities of tea .
For a brine , no it does n't really matter , except that granulated sugar will dissolve more nicely than raw sugar . The sugar is for flavor more than anything else , though it does help the brine some . It also promotes browning of the meat . If you change one kind of sugar for another , I 'd use a 1:1 swap by weight rather than volume so you do n't have to worry about crystal sizes . Though the sugar does help the brining action some , the salt is the important component . From <URL> : How does brining work ? Brining promotes a change in the structure of the proteins in the muscle . The salt causes protein strands to become denatured , or unwound . This is the same process that occurs when proteins are exposed to heat , acid , or alcohol . When protein strands unwind , they get tangled up with one another , forming a matrix that traps water . Salt is commonly used to give processed meats a better texture . For example , hot dogs made without salt would be limp . In most cases , we add sugar to the brine . Sugar has little if any effect on the texture of the meat , but it does add flavor and promotes better browning of the skin .
In my experience at expensive tempura restaurants , sesame oil is almost always used at least as part of the blend , but my understanding is that it is not the roasted kind , which has far too low a smoke point . I 've been to a restaurant in Izu , now closed , where it was obvious because we were seated right in front of the fryer and the smell was quite noticeable , and the fancy place I went to in Tokyo was apparently using sesame oil as well , but they had more effective ventilation , so it was mostly obvious from the flavorfulness of the results . I 've seen unroasted sesame oil in middle-eastern markets and I know some companies sell it in the US , so it is obtainable , and I 've seen it at about $ 40/gallon on Amazon . I also know from experience that a blend of the roasted sesame oil and neutral , high-smoke-point oil will have a higher smoke point than just straight roasted sesame oil , and will add flavor , so it 's at least possible that some people do that . At home and at inexpensive restaurants , other vegetable oils are frequently used , and there 's a simple tempura set that you can buy as a gift pack that I 've seen used as a winter gift . This is usually cottonseed oil or a blend . In some regions , an ambiguous blend called " salad oil " is commonly used . It is not unheard of to use tea seed oil ( camellia ) , which is increasingly available in the US at Asian markets ( when I ran a specialty import business , I used to sell sell some that a Chinese tea importer was purchasing until he shifted his focus to larger packages suitable for restaurant use ) . The Japanese entry for tenpura on Wikipedia confirms that a custom blend of sesame , cottonseed and other oils is often used at tempura shops . The Tokyo style and Kansai style is a bit different , with many Tokyo shops serving a darker version thanks in part to sesame oil and egg , and Kansai region versions leaning a bit whiter thanks either to using neutral vegetable oils or lack of egg . I 've used canola oil but it tends to leave an unpleasant aroma in the air , especially after the second use . If I were in the US and on a budget , I 'd probably choose peanut oil , but it will taste different than most of what I 've seen in Japan . I doubt that I 've ever encountered peanut oil-fried tempura in Japan , though there 's a chance I just did n't notice . In practice , I 've found that the most important thing to get good results from homemade tempura is to prevent overloading the fryer , because the temperature will drop too quickly . This is true for other kinds of fried goods as well , but is far more important for tempura because the coating should be fairly thin . As an unpracticed amateur , I 've found that using a modest amount of katakuriko or cornstarch in the flour blend helps produce crisper results . It 's fairly difficult to get an assortment of different items to be ready at the same time , so consider making it in " courses " if you want flawless results , or make only one or two items at a time . Tempura restaurants tend to have wide , slightly shallow fryers , whereas most fryers meant for western deep-frying tend to have several stations of deep pots , since it 's ok in many cases for things to be submerged , like when making french fries . It 's quite unusual for tempura to be completely submerged . Edited to add : Assuming you 're coating with a batter ( there are some types that are dusted with flour or katakuriko rather than a full batter ) , I get far better results by keeping the batter ( or the flour ) very cold .
More head = less carbonation , which will change the mouth-feel of the drink , albeit largely imperceptibly for most people ( myself included ) . Less carbonation will also change the actual perception of flavour ; it will taste sweeter , mostly .
end question
start question
What is a good website or book to learn kitchen techniques ?
<URL> is an extremely useful guide to every technique you can imagine . Each step of each technique is fully illustrated with photographs .
Flavor-wise Nicoise and Kalamatas are somewhat close , probably the closest most readily accesible substitute for most people .
Scottish , Use equal amounts of ginger to substitute for galangal . And yes , it is the best substitute available from your average non-Asian grocery store . If you can get your hands on dried , powdered galangal , however , you can do better . Add about half the amount of ginger , and around midway through cooking add a teaspoon of powdered galangal for every tablespoon of fresh in the recipe . The combination of fresh ginger and powdered galangal will be very close to fresh galangal in flavor . Also , if you make a field trip to an Asian market , peeled galangal cut into chunks freezes quite well .
Tomatoes grow on a vine . But it is possible to pick them unripe , ship them unripe ( which is much easier than shipping ripe tomatoes ) , then gas them with ethylene at the destination . Ethylene acts as a plant hormone and causes ripening . But tomatoes ripened in storage do n't taste the same as vine ripened ones . The compounds a tomato builds are dependent on the amount of UV light it gets , the surrounding temperature , the speed of ripening , the nutrients it gets during ripening , and many other variables . There are lots of tasty compounds it creates while ripening on the vine , which are absent when it ripens in storage . This is why vine ripened tomatoes are tastier . It is also more expensive to let them ripen naturally , therefore the producers label the vine ripened ones as a sign of quality , else customers would n't be willing to pay the premium .
US Jalapeno and Anahiems ( red jalapenos ) are usually under 2,500 . If you cook them a little bit , it will also reduce the spiciness , while maintaining the flavor .
It really depends on what you 're keeping in the fridge . In my Navy days , we basically had areas for different type of products , which were organized differently . What we used to do was more or less this : Vegetables : This is more or less per vegetable , but worked for us . For instance the carton of tomatoes or cucumbers next in line was on a middle shelf , next to all the other vegetables next in line for their type . The other cartons were stored right at the bottom of the rack , basically on the floor . Once a carton was finished a new one was moved up in its place . Peeled vegetables : We occasionally peeled enough potatoes ( or carrots , or onions ) for 2-3 days . In this case , the potatoes were stored in a kind of bin with water . Unpeeled potatoes were in sacks in the back of the fridge . Once the peeled bin was empty , we 'd change the water and peel more potatoes . Meat : Most meat was in the freezer for reasons which are obvious once you 're carrying supplies for more than a few days . However , every afternoon the next day 's meat was moved into the fridge for defrosting . It had it 's own cabinet in the fridge on one side . Dairy : Dairy products usually came in trays for us , and there were never too many of them as we were a 100 person galley . These are generally light enough so that when a new shipment arrives , you can just lift the old things and place the new ones under them . At worst , you take the old stuff out , put the new in , and then put the old back in on top . Prepared dishes : Sometimes we 'd make a coleslaw or something in the morning to serve for lunch . Obviously , it needs to be refrigerated during the wait . These things had their own shelf , and were put there until needed . We 'd only ever have those for the next meal , though , so not much of a queueing issue . Special items : Anything that was particularly special ( rare or expensive ) was kept in a 3foot cubed locked cabinet in the fridge , where prying hands could n't reach . Hopefully , that 's not a concern for you . That 's it . The only other adivce I have is to use big ( gallon , half-gallon ) modular boxes that stack well , if you need to keep a lot of prepared things .
The resource we generally use here on Seasoned Advice is <URL> . Feel free to edit this answer to include other resources .
The problem is that there are different types of olive oil that are used for dramatically different purposes . A high quality ' cold pressed extra virgin ' oil often has fruity notes that are destroyed when you heat it , but is great for drizzling over things at the last minute , or cold applications such as salad dressings ... but note that the US labeling laws are lax , so something labeled as ' extra virgin ' in the US may not qualify as such in Europe . For most cooking , I use a good grade olive oil ( ' virgin ' , but not ' extra virgin ' ) for cooking with , not the extremely expensive stuff . For frying , there 's ' extra light ' olive oil which has a higher smoke point but little to no flavor on its own . It 's refined to such a point that you might be better off just going with any neutral flavored oil ( canola/rape , soy , corn , etc. ) Price depends on a lot of things , and a lot of it 's marketing and worthless -- if you can , I 'd look for other signs of quality ... like if there 's a packing date . Older oil is more likely to have deteriorated , and in a worst case , have gone rancid . ( more likely if it 's in a clear glass bottle ... if you 're buying large amounts of oil , keep it out of sunlight , or even better , buy it in a can ) Note that packing dates can also be cheated -- they might press the oil , then hold it for months before it 's actually bottled for sale . Also beware of ' blended oils ' . This is when they cut olive oil with something less expensive , but still try to pass it off as ' olive oil ' . ' Imported from Italy ' is another suspect label , as it might be foreign olives that were sent to Italy before being imported . ( but there 's nothing wrong with non-Italian olives ... the Greeks and Spanish make some great olive oils , and we 're starting to see more <URL> ) . ... Also note that olive oil can be classified like wines -- some companies might press a single variety of olive ( eg , Kalamata , Castelvetrano ) , which can have dramatically different flavors . They might be fruity , grassy , buttery , or even peppery . Regions can also have an impact , as some areas press olives while green , and others wait until they 're black . I wo n't get into these , as that 's more a matter of personal taste .
I 'm not sure exactly what you 're asking - whether you want brands of sour cream whose reduced-fat version is as tasty as the full-fat version , or if you want to substitute something else in place of sour cream . For the latter , it depends somewhat on what you 're using it for . I find that in a lot of dips , substituting plain lowfat or fat-free yogurt works fine . It might result in a thinner consistency than if you use sour cream , but it generally works . If you 're looking for a substitute that has the consistency of sour cream , try lowfat or fat-free Greek yogurt . It 's thicker than regular yogurt and much closer to sour cream 's consistency . I sometimes do this is with dips or when baking ( Greek yogurt works very well as a substitute for sour cream in sour cream coffee cakes , for example ) . Substitutes typically work well when the sour cream flavor is n't all that important anyway . In this case , you could use the light or fat-free versions of sour cream and probably not notice much of a flavor difference . If you 're looking to replace sour cream as a condiment , however ( on tacos , burritos , or as a topping for soup ) , you 'll definitely notice a different taste if you use regular or Greek yogurt . For many things , a yogurt substitution still works ; it just tastes different . As far as brands of lowfat or fat-free sour cream that taste as good as the full-fat versions , that 's an extremely subjective question and would probably be limited based on your locations . As such , it 's not a very good fit for this site .
There are several things in general that you can do to increase the speed at which food cools down , but two of the most effective are : Increase the surface area . Spread it in a wide , shallow pan , like a sheet pan , rather than a deep pot . This will allow more cooling . Use an ice water bath . Place the container with the food into an ice water bath , being careful not to spill the water into the food . Using a zip style bag to hold the food before putting it into the bath also can help . A variation of this , especially for hot stocks or stews , is to freeze water in clean water bottles or zip bags , and place those into the food in addition to the ice bath . For a pilaf , the first method should work very well . You can also bring physics to the party : Convection is far more powerful at heat transfer than conduction . A fan for air cooling will help , or running water for water for water cooling will also help , but these are not always practical in kitchen .
The standard espresso drink is the double espresso ( a double espresso shot ) . Although you can get single or triple espressos , if you are comparing quality , the double espresso is the standard . Regardless of which type of shot you order , if you are comparing quality across different cafes , you should always order the same thing ( ie do n't order a single at one cafe and a double at another ) . Once again for standardization , I would recommend ordering a double at each one . My explanation of good espresso will be about straight espresso ( no milk , no sugar ) in an espresso mug/cup . Here are some characteristics of a quality double shot : Temperature : The espresso should be quite hot when served . If it is only lukewarm or warm right after it is made , then the barista did not heat the cup that it was served in . It should be to the temperature where it is too hot to drink ( for most people ) . It should only take a minute or so to cool off . Perhaps two minutes . Crema : There should be a nice layer of crema on top of the espresso ( a few millimeters thick , completely covering the espresso ) . This comes from the release of carbon dioxide when the espresso is extracted under pressure . The color should be golden-brown to dark brown for a double shot . The color will not always be uniform , it will sometimes be slightly lighter where the shot actually poured in the spot on the crema . The crema should remain for at least three - five minutes if not longer . Taste : The espresso should be bitter , but not too bitter ( high levels of bitterness are more characteristic of espresso long shots ) . It should be rich , but not too rich ( again , high levels of richness are more characteristic of espresso ristretto shots ) . It should NOT be sour . If it is sour , it has been sitting for too long before being served or was over-extracted . It should not taste watery , this is usually a characteristic of under-extraction . Smell : Hard to describe for espresso and the aroma will vary a lot . One thing to avoid is a ' sour ' smell , which usually indicates a sour taste , as described above , or that the coffee being used is inherently too acidic . Consistency : Espresso is going to be thicker and more viscous than regular drip coffee , but it wo n't be syrupy . When you are done your espresso , the drop or two that remain at the bottom of the cup , when dried should leave a distinct brown residue on the bottom of the cup . Notes , and other things to keep in mind : You will have to remember that different cafes will use different varieties of beans for making espresso , so this is going to affect the flavor . Different cafes use different amounts of ground espresso and different amounts of water when preparing their espresso . The industry standard is 2 oz ( about 60 milliliters ) for a double shot , but in my cafe we do our double shots to 3 oz . Most importantly , learning to recognize good espresso is an experienced based endeavor , just like with wine , beer , or food . On a personal note , I love to do this with cafes as well ! I always judge the quality of a cafes espresso and ability by ordering my favorite drink : a double espresso long . In fact , I am going to a new cafe to do it today !! A Lovely Looking Cup of Espresso :
Thierry , Stainless steel French presses work fine . In fact , you can construct a French press out of any chemically inert material : stainless steel , class , ceramic , high-temperature plastic , enameled copper , even marble , and it will make perfectly good coffee . I myself have a collection of porcelain and stoneware presses . What material you choose is really a matter of aesthetics and how you use the press . All of that being said , my experience is that high-quality glass carafes do not break regularly unless you drop them ( which is , admittedly , an issue ) . I 'm wondering if you bought a cheaper carafe with inferior glass , like one from Ikea . I have a Bodum which is at least 8 years old . Also , for brand name presses , you can usually buy replacement carafes , since breakage ( due to dropping ) is a frequent issue . Sometimes the replacements cost as much as a whole new press , but you should at least check it out .
There is no single answer to this question . Instead , a number of factors ( not including the weather ) affect the perceived tenderness or moistness of a steak or other cut of meat . Overview There are two major factors that effect the perceived moistness of a steak or other cut of meat : The amount of connective tissue . The more connective tissue the meat has , the tougher and chewier it will be , at least until the collagen that composes the connective tissue is converted to gelatin The temperature to which the cut is cooked . The higher the temperature , up to about 165 F , the more different types of proteins are denatured and coagulated , squeezing out moisture , leading to a dryer , tougher mouth feel . Additionally , some minor factors contribute to or enhance perceived tenderness or moistness : Cutting the meat against the grain enhances the perception of tenderness . Marinating in an acid or enzymatically active marinade may enhance tenderness Mechanically processing , cutting , or pounding the meat ( as in a cube steak ) to disrupt its fibers can enhance tenderness . Connective Tissue The more an animal uses a muscle , the more connective tissue that muscle will contain . For example , the shoulder of the animal is usually worked very hard ( it has to keep the animal standing up ) for pigs and cows , so it has a low of connective tissue . Other muscles are used rarely , such as the tenderloin , and do n't develop very much connective tissue . The connective tissue is composed of a protein called collagen , which is tough and rubbery , and makes cuts high in it seem much tougher than those which are not . However , with certain types of cooking , collagen can be converted to gelatin , and convert from being tough to being unctuous and soft . Temperature As the temperature in the steak rises , more and more proteins tighten and denature , squeezing out moisture , resulting in a drier , tougher mouth feel . Various groups of proteins denature at different temperatures , so the higher the internal temperature , the more moistness will be squeezed out , and the drier and tougher the steak will seem . By the time the cut reaches about 165 F , all of the proteins are denatured , and it is fully well done , and as tough as it will be . According to <URL> : 122 ° F - Myosin protein in mammal meat begins to denature . 130-135 ° F - Target temp for medium rare lamb chops and beef steaks , the temperature at which they are at optimum tenderness , flavor , and juiciness . 130-140 ° F - Fats begin to melt and render ( liquefy ) . This is a slow process and can take hours . 140 ° F - Collagens begin to contract and squeeze juice from within muscle fibers into the spaces between the fibers and out to the surface . 140 ° F - Myoglobin denatures rapidly and red or pink juices begin to turn clear or tan and bead up on the surface . 150 ° F - Actin protein begins to denature making meat tougher and drier . 155 ° F - Well done for most meats . Most ( but not all ) bacteria killed in less than 30 seconds but spores can survive to much higher temps . High Connective Tissue Cuts When cuts are high in connective tissue , the same toughening and drying that occurs in low connective cuts happens as the internal temperature rises to about 165 F. However , starting at about 170-180 F , a new process begins to engage : the collagen ( the very protein that made these cuts tougher to start with ) begins to transform in the presense of water into gelatin , a different protein . The gelatin lubricates the meat , and gives it a newly unctuous and moist mouth-feel , despite being very well done . It takes time for gelatin conversion to occur : it is not enough to simply bring the internal temperature to 180 F . It has to stay there for several hours for the conversion to have enough time to take place . This gelatin conversion is what makes slow cooking methods like braising and barbecuing so effective for tough cuts of meat . They are cooked until quite well done ( when they would be extremely tough ) , but then the conversion of the collagen to gelatin makes them much softer , and unctuous , so that they are again perceived as moist and tender . Sadly , it will not work on cuts that were fairly tender to begin with , as there is little collagen to convert to gelatin . Slicing Against the Grain Additionally , while a minor factor , the way the meat is cut into bite sized portions also effects the perception of toughness . Muscles are bundles of cells that are aligned in the same direction , like a bundle of straws . They are very , very strong in the direction that the fibers align ( along the straws ) , but not as strong against that direction ( across the straws ) . If sliced against the direction of the grain of the meat , so that the straws are cut in half , the the impression is that the meat is more tender . For example , in fajitas , the traditional flank steak or skirt steak is cooked to no more than medium rare to medium ( to minimize the toughness
I 've never made Citrus Sugar , but I certainly have made vanilla sugar . Crystaline sugar soaks up the moisture , so if bacteria or mold were to invade the pot , it would be dehydrated quickly and would n't survive , let alone thrive . They need a good bit of moisture to reproduce . I 've never had a problem with my vanilla sugar and it does n't take long for the vanilla beans to turn into little vanilla toothpicks .
There is a lot of ambiguous and misused terminology in cooking ... added to that , different countries have specific legal definitions for foodstuffs that vary from one jurisdiction to another . Gammon vs. Ham Some sources call it gammon if it is <URL> , while <URL> claim gammon differs from ham because it is cured with the belly and then detached , whereas hams are detached from the rest of the animal and then cured ( a nearly useless distinction ) ; also the words gammon , ham and bacon are sometimes used interchangeably . In the US we call it ham when it is cured , whether it is cooked or raw ; and we call it fresh ham if it is uncured ( We pretty much call anything from the hind leg of a pig ham ) . Fresh vs. Raw vs. Cooked Raw does not mean that no processing has been performed , it just means that it has n't been cooked or the proteins have n't been denatured chemically . Curing , smoking , marinating , freezing , and drying , and milling can all be performed without cooking . Generally , " Fresh " means no processing has been performed . In the US and UK , the term " fresh frozen " has gained a foothold more as a marketing term than actually providing useful information . There are a number of cured hams that are eaten raw and are safe . For example prosciutto , jamón ibérico , jamón serrano , and some country hams in the US . Most of these are dry cured and may or may not be smoked . Types of smoking . The more commonly known type , and what most people call " smoking " , is actually hot smoking . Hot smoking is what happens when the item being smoked is kept in a smoker at a temperature high enough to cook the item , usually in the 225-250 ˚F / 105-120 ˚C range . The other type of smoking is cold smoking . During cold smoking the smoker or smoking chamber does not get hot enough to cook the item being smoked , usually 100 ˚F / 38 ˚C or lower . This type of smoking used to be much more common as an added protection and flavor for cured foods as well as food that are more delicate . These include gammon/hams , fish , cheeses , bacon , and seafood . Just as many foods that were previously dry cured are now wet cured , many of these products are now produced industrially using " wet smoking " or smoke flavor additives instead of cold smoking methods . As with cold-smoked meats , some " wet smoking " yields a product that is technically raw , because its proteins have not been denatured by heat . Instead , liquid smoke or smoke flavor is added to the brine or applied as a coating before cooking . Cold smoking has had a bit of a resurgence lately with the invention of <URL> , which allow you to add smoke without the need of a <URL> .
Yes . It 's much more fun to cook with gas , and the way I see it , any incentive I can provide for myself to cook good food at home is a major net positive in quality of life . The setup I have is three gas burners and one electric stove top element , and an electric oven . The electric stove top really comes in handy when reducing stocks or making long-cooking soups and stews , and it can significantly reduce the amount of gas you use in cooking . For oven I would definitely go electric . See the <URL> question . I have one 5 kg liquid gas bottle stashed under the sink , and it lasts 3-4 months of heavy daily cooking for two , maybe 6 months in the summer when I eat more salads etc. . In addition I have another 2kg bottle for backup if I run out of gas in the middle of cooking , and for the day or so it takes me to haul another bottle from the store . Having a smaller backup bottle does n't waste too much space . I 've been considering upgrading to a 11kg composite bottle , which I expect to last 10 months to a year , and it 's way more economical . So far though the convenience of having a smaller bottle I can carry to the store for changing without a sweat has been great .
It is absolutely untrue and very dangerous to think that " if it looks OK , and smells OK , it must be OK . " If that were the case , food poisoning would be very rare . Food that we can sense is spoiled rarely causes illness . For one thing what you do n't eat ca n't hurt you , and people generally wo n't eat food that looks or smells spoiled . But less obviously , much of what causes spoilage that we can taste , see or smell is actually fairly harmless to humans . Spoilage and rancidity are terms that are often used interchangeably , but rancidity is actually a specific kind of spoilage , caused by the relatively harmless oxidation of fats which is unrelated to any kind of bacteria or other microorganism . It 's just a function of time , temperature , oxygen , and light . Fancy dried cured meats get a fair amount of their special flavor from controlled rancidity . Molds and yeasts cause food to spoil , but are also used in controlled ways to create flavor . Dairy cultures are bacteria , and bacteria plays a major role in fermentation . What causes illness and death are often things that we ca n't taste , see , or smell . Salmonella , E. coli and C. botulinum are usually undetectable by our senses . Mishandled food that has been heated to temperatures far hotter than is necessary to kill any and all dangerous organisms can still kill if those organisms have produced chemical toxins or deadly spores . We usually ca n't sense those either . That 's why the " rules " exist . You need to take care to keep food out of the dreaded " danger zone " . Foods that are considered unsafe unless cooked to a specific temperature ARE unsafe unless cooked to that temperature ( although government recommendations in that matter are often overly conservative , there is room there for assessing your own risk ) . Preserved foods must have appropriate acid , salinity , sugar or other tested preservatives . Stored foods must be kept at the proper temperature . Dried foods must be dried correctly . Canning procedures rules seem overly strict . They are not . Learn the rules , disobey them at your peril . There is a lot of good information here under the <URL> tag . We are not making this stuff up . The <URL> " estimates that each year roughly 1 in 6 Americans ( or 48 million people ) get sick , 128,000 are hospitalized , and 3,000 die of foodborne diseases . " That 's just in the US where food handlers ( home and professional ) are mostly educated in basic food hygiene and just about everyone has access to a refrigerator . The worldwide figures are staggering .
Generally , slow-cooking means any food preparation method which relies on using low-heat for a long amount of time . Barbecues , smokers , luau pits , and low-heat ovens could all qualify . The benefit of slow-cooking , generally , is that food becomes incredibly tender , as all of its connective tissues break down . Also , flavor can infuse over time and provide deeper results than with virtually any other method . Lastly , long-cooking times create a celebratory atmosphere where food is the focal point of a social gathering . Specifically , slow-cooking refers to the ' slow-cooker ' a counter-top set-up which has a large , electronically heated ceramic bowl and a glass lid . It usually has only a few settings , such as ' low ' , ' medium ' , and ' high ' . The benefit of slow-cooking in a slow-cooker is mainly convenience . These units are safe enough to turn on before work and return to before dinner , with fully-cooked , piping hot food ready to go . The slow-cooker is geared towards ' one-pot ' recipes , which means they require minimal food preparation . You simply cut up the ingredients in fairly large chunks , add seasoning , and liquid , and that 's it . They are a favorite of working parents , but increasingly , also a device for more advanced experimentation .
There are several things that keep frozen desserts ( ice cream and sorbet , not just sherbet ) from freezing into a block of ice . They 're essentially all the ingredients besides water . If you have too little of these things , you 'll have very hard ice cream ; if you have too much , it might never get firm enough to scoop in your freezer . Fat - ice cream is the easiest to get soft , since it contains the most dairy , but this works on sherbet too . The more cream , the softer . But even butter freezes hard , so this is n't going to keep it from setting . Sugar - this is pretty easy to vary in all frozen desserts . It 'll have a noticeable effect on softness , but reasonable quantities wo n't make it too soft . Alcohol - obviously you wo n't always want to use this , but the right alcohol often goes very nicely with sorbets . Enough alcohol would of course keep it from setting , but it takes a lot . A sorbet made from wine , sugar , and strawberries still sets , though it 's quite soft . Air - this gives the dessert a softer , fluffier texture , but of course wo n't ever stop it from freezing . Make sure to churn things long enough , though you can only ever do as well as your ice cream machine lets you . Additives - gelatin is the main one that 's common in kitchens ; guar gum , and xantham gum are next up . There are also various stabilizers for keeping ice cream smooth . I do n't think I 've ever seen a recipe for a frozen dessert that would n't set at all . It takes an awful lot of fat , sugar , or alcohol just to get it too soft . My best guess in the case of what you saw on TV is that she either went overboard with some kind of additive , or did n't manage to properly freeze it . Note that with home ice cream makers , things will be at least a bit too soft coming straight out of the machine - but they 'll set much harder in the freezer . In practice , if you 're making your own , the problem you 'll reliably have ( especially with random recipes online ) is that it 's too hard . Storebought frozen desserts if anything tend to have more sugar and fat than you 'd use at home , and often have additives to soften and stabilize on top of that . So most things you make at home will tend to be harder than what you buy in the store . Credit where it 's due : I learned some of this from the introduction to <URL> by David Lebovitz ; a lot of similar information is available in <URL> .
Basically , a chutney is a kind of savoury jam . This is a very simplistic definition though . The main differences between jam and chutney are as follows : The preservation in jam is only by sugar . In chutney , vinegar and sugar are used together , so chutneys are not necessarily sweet . Jam is almost always made with fruit as the main ingredient . In chutney , fruit can be used , but so can vegetables . Also , chutneys tend to be a mix of more than one thing . For example , an apple chutney will have plenty of apples , but also swede and onion in it . Jams usually do not add other flavours to the fruit and sugar ( pectin is for texture ) . Chutneys are usually flavoured with several spices , as well as chili peppers , onions and garlic . In the Indian subcontinent , chutneys are served along with the meal in small amounts , as a condiment to add to the meal . They are usually eaten with the blander side/starter dishes like pakoras or samosas , rather than with the spicy and flavourful main dishes . In the rest of the former British Empire , and particularly in England , it is eaten on bread , with butter or cheese , in a similar way to jam or pickle . Note that what the English call pickle is also a sort of savoury jam , not pickled cucumbers like in America .
end question
start question
Any suggestions on caps for Bakers and Chefs plastic squeeze bottles ?
Here 's what I ended up using , which I picked up from Home Depot in the Hardware aisle . It fits quite snug , and cost about $ 0.60 for pack of 2 . WARNING : no guarantees this cap is safe for food . Use at your own risk ( even though it is molded plastic , the dyes and treatment process may make the plastic prone to leaking chemicals )
I love fresh ( also called green ) garlic . Some uses : For a quick , simple and delicious pasta sauce , chop a whole bulb of garlic ( with peel and all ) and sautee in some olive oil , rosmary and chili peppers . Add some white wine and reduce . Make a <URL> Clean whole bulbs from dirt , remove the external peel , wrap in tinfoil , sprinkle some salt , olive oil and thyme and bake for an hour . The garlic will turn into a paste which you can then squeeze and spread on fresh loaves of bread .
Yes you can use 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) of light/dark corn syrup : You can use any of the following substitutions : 1 cup of honey 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) maple syrup plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) light or dark corn syrup plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 3/4 cup ( 180 ml ) light molasses plus 1/2 cup ( 100 grams ) granulated white sugar 1 1/4 cups ( 250 grams - 265 grams ) granulated white or brown sugar plus 1/4 cup ( 60 ml ) additional liquid in recipe plus 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar Courtesy of <URL>
Use something that will help you measure the dough or mix uniformly . Some possible tools to co-opt for this task : Ice cream scoop , melon baller , measuring cups or spoons : all depending on size of course . You should be able to get to where you can eyeball the size in relation to the tool you are using .
Here 's a neat list of plastics &amp; whether they 're supposed to be microwave-safe or not : <URL>
I posted this question in a hurry ( because as you can imagine ) , there was a lot of anxiety concerning whether it was safe to have dinner or not . It turns out that this ham is not safe ; I will quote the USDA : The plastic bone guard covering the exposed bone is used to keep the bone from breaking the outer wrap . If left on the meat during cooking , a 325 or 350 ° F oven temperature may not melt the plastic but still give off an abnormal chemical odor or taste . Cutting away the meat around the exposed area will not necessarily solve this potential food safety problem because the penetration of the chemical into the meat will be unknown . If meat is cooked in a closed container , the chemicals may penetrate the entire piece of meat . USDA advises not to eat the ham ; discard it . Source : <URL> Quite a disappointment unfortunately .
I found a link that will provide the explanation you are looking for : <URL> Here is a direct quote from the site : Masa is dried corn that has been cooked in limewater ( cal ) , soaked overnight , and then ground up while still wet . Sold in this form , it 's called fresh masa , and it makes the lightest , fluffiest tamales . In Mexico , it can be purchased at tortilla factories in two ways : with smooth consistency for making tortillas and , upon request ( if you are lucky ) , with a coarser consistency for making tamales . ( Be careful to differentiate between masa para tamales and masa preparada para tamales ; the latter , available at some tortilla factories and large Mexican groceries , is the coarse-textured masa mixed with lard and flavorings .
Peanut butter cookies do n't spread as they cook , so you have to flatten them before hand . This ensures that the middle will cook through before the outside burns . As for the pattern created , it actually creates slightly more surface area , so you 'll get more browning at the extra edges that you create . Think of it like a meringue , or the top of a shepherd 's pie -- if it 's too smooth , you wo n't get the little bits of browned crispy bits that you 'd get if you rough up the surface .
Saltpeter is potassium nitrate , which does not directly cure meats . Bacteria convert nitrate into nitrite , which is the real preservative . Saltpeter can be replaced by a smaller amount of nitrite to get the same curing effect ( most commercial cured meats do this ) , though a prolonged cure that converts nitrate into nitrite can develop more flavor . Tender Quick is not a direct substitute because it contains mostly salt . I 've heard that you can replace the salt in your recipe with Tender Quick , and drop the saltpeter , and have a success . You would have better luck finding a recipe that was meant to use Tender Quick , though . It is definitely possible to buy ( food-grade ! ) saltpeter . I would check online , or at specialty stores . It 's a little more difficult than picking it up at your local grocery store , of course . ( Chemistry lesson , courtesy of McGee : nitrate ( NO3 ) is converted to nitrite ( NO2 ) , which then reacts to form nitric oxide ( NO ) , which bonds to myoglobin in the meat , which turns it pink and prevents oxidation . Nitric oxide is also present in smoke , which gives that " pink ring " around the outside of smoked meats . )
Agree with @Daniel that fillets can be done on the grill , but in my experience a tender fish like Tilapia will break up and fall through the grill . Unless you have a finely meshed grill and a lot of cooking experience I would avoid it . Tuna , swordfish , mahi-mahi and salmon steaks all work well on the grill . But this should not stop you from grilling Tilapia or any other tender fish , just put it on the grill whole ! For Tilapia I would do something like below . Make shallow slashes in the thickest parts of the flesh , coat with olive oil , season with your favorite spices , and then grill for 3 to 5 minutes max each side on a hot grill . You can mostly judge by sight . When it still looks like it needs another minute I always sacrifice my piece , take it off the grill , and pry off one of the thicker parts . If it 's still raw looking on the inside , let it and the others go for another 30 seconds on each side . Nothing better than perfectly cooked moist fish and nothing worse than dry overcooked fish and the difference between the two can be as little as 1 minute . Note : it might be obvious to many , but using a whole fish implies that you 've " cleaned " the fish first by removing it 's innards before any other preparation . If you really want to do fillets for a delicate fish on the grill then just coat them in oil , and wrap in tinfoil with a slice of lemon or whatever you prefer . Again , sacrifice a piece to check for doneness . Tinfoil will not magically keep the fish moist if you overcook it . Using foil you wo n't get the flavor of the grill , but then again picking all the broken pieces of each fillet off the hot coals is a bit too much grill flavor IMHO .
When you find cheap lemons , buy a lot . Squeeze half a lemon in each of the cavities of an ice tray . Freeze . Within a day , remove the frozen slivers from the tray to a ziploc bag in the freezer . You now have measured units of fresh lemon juice you may use for cooking and will keep for months . The frozen lemons are a bit less acid than fresh juice , but full of flavor . You can do the same with limes .
I make garlic paste quite often , using this technique I saw on Bobby Flay . Put the whole clove on the board . Lay knife flat , and smack it with your hand . Remove paper and root . Dice finely . Sprinkle with the quantity of salt your recipe calls for . With the knife relatively flat , grind the garlic into the salt with the knife . Typically , I 'll make a pass in one direction with the edge on the board , leading with the spine , and then come back with the spine on the board , leading with the edge . You need a wide knife ( at least a french chef 's knife , cleaver or santuko ) in order to keep your fingers out of danger . I apply the downward pressure with the top of my palm , with my fingers curled back . Check this for a similar technique - <URL> ( The mincing starts around 2:40 After 5 or 6 passes , you should have a nice fine paste .
Metal Advantages : durable , no risk of absorbing flavours Disadvantages : may scratch certain cookware Wood Advantages : does n't scratch , looks nice Disadvantages : can wear down over time , can sometimes absorb flavours Plastic Does n't find a place in my kitchen other than a rubber spatula for baking . Silicone You did n't mention this , but I like it , because it works like rubber but can withstand high temps ( brushes , spatulas ) I think the answer really depends on what you cook . If you have a basic set ( wooden spoon , spatula that can handle heat , good ladle , chopsticks ) , you can make do without the rest as you start . You 'll quickly learn what you wish you had to make it a little easier .
Why actually , I have just the link for you . <URL> Is exactly what you are looking for . And <URL> for supplies .
Note that for maximum benefit I am answering the question regarding chicken stock first and at the end have included information on other stocks such as fish and brown chicken and veal stock . Properly made stock is made from bones only . If you cut up your own chickens then save the backs and wing tips in the freezer and use for stock . You might ask at your grocery store or butcher and be able to purchase backs from them if you want to make stock but do n't have enough . Chicken feet are rich in gelatin and can be added to the pot to help add body to the stock . Place chicken backs/wing tips in a large stockpot ( about a 3-4 gal . stockpot ) . Cover with cold water and place on stove . Bring to a gentle simmer for about 10 minutes . This is known as " blanching " the bones and is done to help dissolve the blood and other loose proteins from the soft bones . These proteins will form a gray scum on the surface . Once the scum has formed , drain off the water disarding it in the sink . The more clear a stock is the longer the shelflife as it 's the additional proteins making a stock cloudy that also cause it to spoil much more quickly . Return bones to the pot and cover again with cold water . Add a sachet ( cheesecloth pouch containing a couple of bay leaves , about a teaspoon of whole peppercorns , a handful of parsley stems , and 8-10 thyme branches or a teaspoon of dried thyme ) that 's been tied up with some string . Bring the pot to a very gentle simmer once again and allow to simmer for about 3 hours . After 3 hours add the mirepoix ( carrots , onions , celery ) . Plan on 1-2 lbs . of mirepoix ( combined vegetables ) per 8 lbs . of bones . I also like to add leeks as they not only add flavor but are supposed to help in clarification of the stock . Continue to simmer the stock for 1-2 hours . ( If you 're not going to be around to add the vegetables at that time they can be added with the bones but need to be cut in large pieces to avoid cooking down and disintegrating . I would typically start chicken and veal stock at night before leaving the restaurant and allow it to simmer overnight until the next morning . ) Strain the stock through a fine mesh strainer or several layers of cheesecloth . Cool the stock in a metal container ( another pot ) in an ice bath until cool to the touch and then place in storage containers and refrigerate or freeze . Once the stock has chilled the fat will have formed a solid layer on top of the stock . Carefully remove and either discard or use for sauteeing ( such as duck or chicken fat ) . Additional Notes : The same process would be followed for white veal stock ( not frequently used ) If preparing a brown stock ( roasted chicken , veal , beef , lamb , duck ) : ** These stocks are made by first rinsing the bones and then roasting in the oven at about 400 F degrees until medium brown ( think iced tea color ) . Once bones are browned , smear them with a tablespoon or two of tomato paste and roast for another 5 minutes or so . Be careful as the concentrated sugars in the tomato paste can cause it to burn and create a bitter tasting stock . After bones and tomato paste have roasted , place them in the stock pot and add the mirepoix to the roasting pan , tossing to coat with the fat that has rendered out and roast the mirepoix until lightly browned . Add the mirepoix about 2 hours before finishing the stock . Be sure carrots are cut rather large to avoid having them disintegrate and adding a strange excessively sweet taste to the stock . Recommended cooking times for stocks : - Fish : 30-45 minutes . Use lean white fish bones and heads . Lobster/shrimp stock is made from the shells and will usually yield more flavor if first roasted . Remove gills and eyes from fish heads to prevent clouding the stock . Do not use carrots in mirepoix or it will color the stock an orange hue . Use onions , celery , leeks , mushrooms , and sliced lemon . - Chicken/Duck : 4-6 hours - Veal/Beef/Lamb : 8-12 hours ( knuckle bones of veal will have the greatest amount of gelatin since the bones have n't hardened as much as those of beef ) Stocks should not be seasoned with salt as one of the primary purposes is for them to be a " stock " item that can be used for a variety of needs : soups , sauces , rice , etc. . The salt is added to the final preparation not the stock . If stock is salted and then used for a reduction sauce the resulting sauce will be too salty .
No , not really exposure is sort of the key in any method of light , and/or heavy , and/or cold , and/or hot , and/or direct , and/or indirect smoking or smoking in general . This holds true for charcoal grilling as well .
I agree that you can get some good meat from the head and could use it to flavour Bouillabaisse , i would n't however use it for stock as oily fish can lead to a cloudy fatty stock rather than the clearer and more flavoursome fish stock that can be derived from the off cuts and bones from white fish .
The way restaurants do it is simple , straightforward , and also very easy to make organic by using organic ingredients . Standard 3-bowl breading 1 ) Bowl One : Seasoned flour -- flour , salt , pepper , and seasonings ( for me : thyme , paprika , cayenne , garlic powder , onion powder , and parsley flakes ) 2 ) Bowl Two : Egg wash -- Beaten egg with a 1-2 TBSP milk per egg yolk added 3 ) Bowl Three : Panko ( or other bread crumbs ) -- alternately , add some salt , pepper , and seasonings to them Procedure : Dredge the item to bread through the bowls in order , then repeat if desired to build up a thicker layer . You only need to change your seasonings to switch from breading chicken , fish , or even doing fried green tomatoes . If you make your own bread and breadcrumbs , the ingredient list will read : flour , water , milk , eggs , yeast , salt , and spices . Hard to get more straightforward than that ! It 's simple , fast , and works beautifully every time . Here 's why it 's the best way : the flour sticks to the wet surface of your item , leaving a dry , starchy surface for the egg wash to adhere to . The egg wash allows the panko to stick . For the next layer , the flour fills in the gaps between bread crumbs and absorbs residual moisture from the egg wash .
No , for most marinades , there should be no reason you can not make them in advance and refrigerate . It may even allow some improvements as flavors from any herbs or spices infuse into the liquid . You just want to practice good food safety , which means putting it in the refrigerator as soon as it is made .
The only thing that is even remotely possible in my mind is to use it akin to buttermilk or sour cream ( which are intentionally fermented products ) in baking . However , since the culture that fermented the milk was uncontrolled , I would not do so . I recommend discarding .
end question
start question
Flavour espresso with vanilla without adding sugar or other sweetener ?
You just add any vanilla-tasting product to your coffee . It does n't have to be a sugared " coffee flavor " . The best option should be plain vanilla extract . Then you have synthetic vanilin , which comes as a white powder or in tiny vials of propylene-glycol solution . As it is very concentrated , it ends up being much cheaper than the extract , but its smell is nowhere as rich as that of real vanilla extract . I suppose that you could also use real vanilla pods . I would cut off a piece , cut it open , and place it within the ground coffee during brewing ( if you think it will interfere too much , you can also just scratch out the seeds and use them , but you will be throwing out lots of vanilla that way ) . I have never done it , so I do n't know how big a piece you will need for the taste to be reasonably strong . I suspect that using vanilla extract will be more economical , as vanilla usually needs time to give off aroma , and the short espresso brewing time , even with the pressure , will need a fairly large chunk to make a difference in taste . Still , the pressure-brewed vanilla will have a different taste profile than the alcohol-dissolved vanilla extract , so if you are not happy with the taste the extract gives , this is one more method to try out .
All Recipies has an ' <URL> ' form , where you can specify ingredients that you want , and ones you do n't want . So searching for rhubarb without sugar got me 10 results ... thwith most using some other form of sweeteners . For the few that did n't : Rhubarb Wild Rice Pilaf ( 2 cups rhubarb , 2 TB honey ) Rhubarb Salsa ( 2c . rhubarb , 2 TB honey ) Rhubarb and Buckwheat ( not sure what this is ; 1/2 c. rhubarb , 1 tsp honey ) Rhubarb Rumble Pie ( not sure on sugar ratio ... comes from pudding &amp; jello mixes ) Rhubarb Smoothie ( not sure on sugar ration ... comes from fruit and vanilla yogurt )
For me it very much depends on what meat I am making jerky out of . With the grain is much more solid than against . Just as you might expect . If you are using relatively tender meat then cutting across the grain will result in a batch of jerky crumbs . Cutting with the grain will be good . If you are using very tough meat then cutting with the grain will be absolutely impossible to chew . I often make jerky out of brisket which is very tough . I compromise and cut at a 45deg angle . This results in very tough , jerky but it separates into smaller , more manageable chunks when it is chewed .
I do n't claim that this is a canonical answer , but it seems to be a bit like the situation with apples . You have cooking apples and eating apples , which have been bred for different traits . Similarly you have juicing oranges , eating oranges , and bitter oranges ( used for marmalade ) . The other citrus fruits which taste most like oranges ( mandarins , clementines , tangarines ) are more suited for division into segments , and you 're more likely to see them used for decoration . You could juice them if you do n't have a better option , but recipes will tend to use the most suitable commonly available option . Grapefruit has a very different flavour , so you have to take that into account when substituting . It 's also not necessarily sweet , and certainly I have never seen grapefruit sold as " sweet grapefruit " or " bitter grapefruit " .
In general lard can always be substituted for butter , but you will not get the same flavour , obviously . Lard is perhaps a bit more ' savoury ' than butter , so it may be worth trying a pie out just to see if it works with a sweet filling . You should be able to convert straight from butter to lard . Another alternative is vegetable shortening , which you can use in all kinds of baking .
Dupe , but a good question . See Satanicpuppies answer here : <URL> I know you asked re : cranberry sauce specifically , but this is a great article regarding the differences in sugars , generically , which might help in the future : " Sugar can be a single molecule made up of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen -- like glucose and fructose . Other sugars , like sucrose , or white table sugar , are made up of multiple molecules ( in this case , one glucose and one fructose ) , tied together with chemical bonds . Now , when sucrose is heated with an acid , it breaks back down into the two smaller sugars , glucose and fructose , resulting in something we call invert sugar . This small chemical change makes a big difference : While sucrose is hygroscopic , invert sugar is even more water-loving . And this can make a tremendous difference when , say , you want to bake a chewy , rather than crunchy , cookie . " <URL>
Sugar is a natural preservative and provided you store it in a dark , dry , cool place it should keep for a long time . You should store it in a sterilised glass jar or bottle . To sterilise , place the empty , open jar in a pan of cold water and bring to the boil , boiling for ten minutes . Remove , pour in the syrup , then place the lid on and return to the boiling water for another ten minutes . Dry with a clean towel and store .
<URL> says no , you can enjoy your shot for a little while : In reality , there are only a couple of things that happen to espresso over the course of a few minutes . First , the crema or foam that sits on top of the espresso reintegrates with the liquid . Crema , on its own , contains some of the best flavors and aromatic qualities of the espresso in high concentrations . Drinking it straight can be overwhelming but , it stands to reason , that having the crema reintegrate might actually be a good thing . Second , the espresso cools down . The temperature of espresso has a lot to do with how we taste the various flavors contained within it ... I am not an espresso fan myself -- I like regular coffee , but not after it has cooled down , and never reheated . Many folks are perfectly content to microwave a cold cup and drink it . I imagine that older , colder espresso is palatable to you to the extent that you are willing to tolerate it . A small shot of coffee -- and lets face it , that is all espresso is , even if it is brewed in a fancy manner -- is going to cool off much more rapidly than a full cup , or a full pot .
Put the regular ( refined white ) sugar and molasses ( about 2 tablespoons per cup of sugar ) in a food processor and give it a spin . Use more or less molasses as needed to get the color and consistency that you want .
It is basically the anethole ( a phenol ) of the star anise that react with the sulfur in the onion to create sulfur-phenolic aromatics . In Chinese cuisine the same family of reactions is used with duck and pork . The sulfur-phenols are also produced during the Maillard reaction , the reaction that gives grilled meat its characteristic flavor , so adding star anise to the onions will give your dishes more of that grilled , browned flavor . The reactions of the compounds in the star anise with those in the meat are not the relevant reactions for flavor or texture . From averaging a few recipes , I would say 1 star anise for every 250g of chopped onion . Too much star anise will highlight the other aromas in star anise , so one has to use it in moderation and allow enough time for the reactions to take place . Garam masala , a common Indian spice combination that is used in meat dishes , may have star anise . Star anise is sometimes used in French onion soup -- it intensifies the caramel flavor of the onions -- and in Vietnamese cuisine , which today incorporates French elements .
They 're good pretty much forever . There is not enough available water for things to grow in there . Mind you , the more aromatic and subtle parts of the flavor will dissipate over time . The sugar absorbs water , giving the combination a very low water activity , meaning there 's little water available for microorganisms to use in growth . As long as your flavoring pieces are small and well mixed with sugar they will not spoil .
You should n't have any problem . Bacteria need sufficient water to survive , a few drops wetting the sugar are not sufficient for them . As far as I 'm aware , even old-style jam ( 1 part fruit to 1 part sugar , boil some of the water out ) is shelf-stable . Even if you are close to the limit , it 's still not too concerning . The good news is that , when you preserve something with sugar , and get a bit too low on the sugar , it 's not bacteria that colonizes it first , it 's mold . The mold can be toxic on its own - but it 's nicely visible . So , as long as you do n't have a sticky mass and see mold growing on it , the sugar should be safe . It can be hard to work with though - we have an old question on getting lumped-together brown sugar out of the container , if you need it .
I had a friend that made Mussels using the piri piri sauce . I also think that it might be tasty if you use that sauce on a nice burger !
I 've been a fan of brining for a while and NO , adding flavouring to the brine wo n't make much if any difference in relation to the brining itself , which makes a lot of difference . I have employed my most wishful thinking many times with brine , on the basis of the fact that pretty much every reference to it in recipes , on cooking shows , etc. , always seems to promote the idea that the flavour will diffuse in the brine and be absorbed by the meat . This is some kind of " look at the Emperor 's New Clothes " tradition .1 I 've gone to ridiculous extremes to test this , sometimes adding many ounces of e.g. , paprika or thyme to < 1 gallon of very salty ( 4 tbls/quart ) brine with a chicken overnight -- which is actually too much time , a few hours is plenty with that much salt . In some cases I 've gone overboard with the salty part , but despite all the piles of herbs , powders , an entire bottle of hot sauce , etc. , you at best get maybe a hint of something on the surface . In short , my opinion now is that while brining is awesome for pork and poultry -- salty and moist meat being far superior to dry and bland meat -- adding something to the brine and expecting it makes a difference is a complete waste of time and materials . As per one of my comments on the question , I 'd guess the issue here is that brining exploits osmosis . From <URL> : Brining makes cooked meat moister by hydrating the cells of its muscle tissue before cooking , via the process of osmosis , and by allowing the cells to hold on to the water while they are cooked , via the process of denaturation . The brine surrounding the cells has a higher concentration of salt than the fluid within the cells , but the cell fluid has a higher concentration of other solutes . This leads salt ions to diffuse into the cell , whilst the solutes in the cells can not diffuse through the cell membranes into the brine . The increased salinity of the cell fluid causes the cell to absorb water from the brine via osmosis . The salt introduced into the cell also denatures its proteins . The proteins coagulate , forming a matrix that traps water molecules and holds them during cooking . This prevents the meat from dehydrating . So the idea is that the meat absorbs salt ions , which then causes it to absorb more water . This is through the cell walls , and I do not think large particles such as the stuff we might associate with " flavour " would be included . Of course , some of the brine may be drawn into the meat between the ( large congregations ) of cells , but this is probably not a significant volume . 1 . Some of these recipes call for really paltry amounts of flavoring too , an inadvertent testament to how nice the Emperor must look naked ( " Umm -- I can so taste the rosemary from the brine ! " . Hogwash . ) . They also often involve paltry amounts of time ( " brine for 20 minutes " ) , I suppose because if you can pretend to taste rosemary you can also pretend to taste salt and appreciate moistness . If you do n't have at least an hour , do not bother . At least quadruple that for a whole turkey .
Clingwrap works fine for me -- but I do n't use a meat tenderizer -- I just use a small but fairly heavy pan ( but not my cast iron , as it 's not smooth on the bottom ) . When I was in college , I tried a few things . I can get pretty decent results just hitting it with my cutting board . ( with it between saran wrap ) . Part of it might be technique -- if I 'm doing chicken breast I first slice is sort of following the taper of the breast , so it 's neither with or across the grain , but kinda of diagonal . You also do n't want to hit straight down -- you want to angle the blows , so you 're actually pushing the meat out , and not just trying to force it through the counter . And I should mention that I 've only ever pounded out poultry and pork -- I assume beef would be the same , but I have no experience to confirm or deny it .
Its possible that when you drink a hot liquid , you swish it around your mouth a lot less than when you drink a cold liquid , and thus fewer of the taste buds on your tongue are exposed to it . This would n't be surprising : it 's hot after all . Another possibility is that if you 're starting with hot coffee , and adding sugar to it , that the sugar is n't fully dissolved when you drink it hot ( it takes time , especially if you do n't stir it much ) , but has dissolved by the time the coffee cools . With more dissolved sugar , it is sweeter .
I 've had a good look and as far as I can see only cloves and allspice have this property . Most websites specify that it 's due to an oil present in cloves however according to Wikipedia the main chemical components in clove oil ( admittedly not cloves but fairly similar ) are : Bud oil is derived form the flower-buds of S. aromaticum . It consists of 60 -- 90 % eugenol , eugenyl acetate , caryophyllene and other minor constituents . Leaf oil is derived from the leaves of S. aromaticum . It consists of 82 -- 88 % eugenol with little or no eugenyl acetate , and minor constituents . Stem oil is derived from the twigs of S. aromaticum . It consists of 90 -- 95 % eugenol , with other minor constituents . As neither eugenol , eugenyl acetate nor caryophyllene have this property the oil that does cause ' plastic clouding ' must be fairly low . Likewise the main chemical components of allspice oil according to Essential-oils . co.za are : eugenol , menthyl eugenol , cineol , phellandrene and caryophyllene . None of these chemicals have chemicals with that property . However many of the chemicals in allspice and clove are also present in nutmeg , black pepper and cinnamon .
Some of the volatile flavors will be diminished , but I 've managed to make fairly good drinks with the help of mint that I kept frozen . In my experience , freezer burn starts to become visible after two or three months , and starts to harm flavor probably around 4-6 months . I 'm not sure preparing the drink will work really well , but if you just defrost the drink in the refrigerator , it probably wo n't be terrible . Active thawing with heat will probably cause some harm . Many infusions and teas become a bit cloudy and lose color after bottling or freezing , which is why most bottled teas use an enzyme ( not usually a listed ingredient ) designed to mitigate that .
You are asking a surprisingly lot of questions . First , to deal with this question , you need to understand " creaming " . So look <URL> and <URL> . Nothing " creams " as dramatically as granulated sugar with room temperature butter . Those particular ingredients are special for that . Brown sugar does n't accomplish nearly the creaming effect of granulated sugar , but combined with granulated sugar the combination is greater than the sum of its parts . In other words , a 50/50 mix of brown and granulated sugar can achieve nearly the leavening effect of granulated sugar only with room temperature butter . The sweetness of brown and regular sugar are pretty much equal . In the US and I think almost everywhere else , brown sugar is just granulated sugar with molasses added . Brown sugar adds the molasses flavor , and not surprisingly , some browning . To use non-sugar sweeteners , choose recipes that do n't call for <URL> , they simply wo n't work right . If you want to use a sweetener other than sugar , pick a recipe with a fat that is unsaturated ( liquid at room temperature ) , or melted butter . Also , be sure that your sweetener of choice will maintain its sweetness if baked .
For a brine , no it does n't really matter , except that granulated sugar will dissolve more nicely than raw sugar . The sugar is for flavor more than anything else , though it does help the brine some . It also promotes browning of the meat . If you change one kind of sugar for another , I 'd use a 1:1 swap by weight rather than volume so you do n't have to worry about crystal sizes . Though the sugar does help the brining action some , the salt is the important component . From <URL> : How does brining work ? Brining promotes a change in the structure of the proteins in the muscle . The salt causes protein strands to become denatured , or unwound . This is the same process that occurs when proteins are exposed to heat , acid , or alcohol . When protein strands unwind , they get tangled up with one another , forming a matrix that traps water . Salt is commonly used to give processed meats a better texture . For example , hot dogs made without salt would be limp . In most cases , we add sugar to the brine . Sugar has little if any effect on the texture of the meat , but it does add flavor and promotes better browning of the skin .
end question
start question
Why ca n't I use toaster oven instead of real oven ?
Possible reasons : Horrible temperature control - this is simply a problem of cheap construction . One could theoretically build an excellent toaster oven with precise temperature control , but why would you ? Low thermal mass - If you get an oven to 400F and open it for long enough to put in food , the result is an oven at very slightly less than 400F , and which will quickly return to 400F . Do that with a toaster oven , and who knows what temperature you 'll get , or how quickly it will get to your desired temperature ( if ever , see # 1 ) . This is not a slam at toaster ovens , this is just due to them being approximately 2 % of the volume of a standard oven . Closeness to elements . It 's easy for toaster ovens interiors to vary by nearly 50F from middle to edge , simply based on distance to elements Now do n't get me wrong , I once made some kickin ' Oysters Rockefeller in a toaster oven , when I thought that they would be the difference between serving an appetizer and being allowed to serve breakfast the next morning ( wink , wink ) . If you know what you 're doing , and watch carefully and continually , a toaster oven can be an excellent source of high ( ish ) direct heat . But they are extremely difficult to control , and extremely unforgiving of errors . I ca n't think of a circumstance where a toaster oven would be my first choice of cooking tool ( and that includes microwave , campfire , plumber 's blowtorch ) .
I ca n't say why you 'd want to do this in general for other types of sponge cakes . But in the linked recipe it 's very clear . The reason is because the milk/butter mixture is heated " to just under a boil " and according to the instructions should still be at least " hot ( about 150F ) " when added . In this case , you take out a small portion of the batter , then add this hot liquid mixture to it . If you do n't mix rapidly while doing so and if the temperature is a little off and too hot , you run the risk of coagulating the eggs in the batter ( which would obviously not result in a desirable texture to add back into the rest of the batter ) . Here , as the recipe notes , you 're using this portion of the batter as a liaison , which is a fancy word for a mixture the serves as an intermediary temperature between something hot and something cooler . By adding the hot milk/butter mixture to a small portion of the batter ( rather than the whole batter ) , you cool it enough so that it wo n't risk coagulating eggs in the whole batter . But in the process , you need to whisk rapidly to avoid small egg bits forming curds and becoming solid , so you 're sacrificing some of the bubbles in this portion of the batter to create an appropriate intermediary temperature mixture , which then is presumably supposed to be gently folded back into the rest of the batter . Now , the question is why you 're heating the milk in the first place . There is a whole genre of cakes called " hot milk cakes " or " hot milk sponge cakes , " which seem to have originated in the early 20th century . They use this rather unusual mixing method , where you beat the sugar and eggs for a long time first , then add flour and dry ingredients , and then add liquid and fat at the end . I 'd speculate that the hot milk serves two purposes : ( 1 ) it helps melt the butter , which both allows the liquid butter to combine easier with the existing mixture and causes it to coat the flour better which results in a tender crumb ( less gluten network formation ) , and ( 2 ) it raises the temperature of the batter above room temperature , thus shortening the time before the cake structure starts to solidify while baking . My guess is that this is helpful because the sugar/egg foam is less stable than , say , a sugar/butter " creamed " foam ( as in a pound cake ) , and if you do n't get the eggs to coagulate fast enough , the whole thing might collapse . ( Again , that last part is just a guess . ) The goal is to end up with a very light and tender cake .
Preheating is mainly needed for breads and anything that has a short cooking time ( < 15 mins or so ) . I do n't bother preheating when I 'm roasting something for a longer time . If you 're setting a timer , I assume this is something that will take a while to cook , so I would n't worry about preheating .
Bacon is often substituted for pancetta . While bacon is also traditionally made from pork , there are companies that produce bacon from turkey , beef , lamb , venison , elk , buffalo and even seitan . If you could find one of these bacons in your area , then you could substitute one of them for the pancetta .
If you cut it with a knife , you 'll tend to get a very smooth surface . If you tear it open , whether by hand or with the aid of a fork , it 'll tend to break on more natural places in the crumb , giving a bit rougher surface . When toasted , that tends to result in more contrast of texture - the bits sticking up will brown more and get crunchier .
You can , in theory , leave it out on the counter for longer to develop the same amount of fermentation . What you wo n't have is a very cold fermentation , which helps to develop the big holes in rustic breads that many people love . Temperature and fermentation are a tricky balance , and you should listen to an expert like the author . Also the overnight fermentation keeps you from needing to do something like a full 9 hours in one sitting . Bikeboy389 made an excellent point in the comments . BBA has absolutely everything you want to know to make its recipes successful in the first part of the book , which Reinhart strongly advises you not to skip . If you want to make excellent bread , you will want to know all that information . Plus , as a amateur or professional baker , you should find it fascinating .
For the US crowd , silverside is the part of the round closest to sirloin , so it 's a working cut and fairly lean . In order to keep this juicy you 'll need to bard it , in other words add fat . I 'd do this by wrapping the whole thing up in streaky ( US style ) bacon and then sear it at high temperature to give it that crust before turning it down and continue the roasting at a lower temperature . So turn your oven up full-whack and let it get good and hot , then rub your roast with some salt , then into the oven for 20 minutes , then turn it down to 160 and roast it until it reaches 120F/50c . Remove and cover with foil , then let it rest for at least 30 minutes . If you do n't let it rest it wo n't get tender at all . In all honesty silverside is n't a cut I would roast , and I 've tried . It just too lean and has too much connective tissue to be tender . It does make a good braise though , which is what I 'd do with it .
I 've had good luck baking naan on an indoor grill . I have an electric one , but you could use a stovetop one as well . Just apply a little butter , ghee , or spray oil , wipe it off , and bake . ( Click for larger images ) <URL> <URL> I used an alternative method to make lavash : an inverted wok over a stove burner . You 'll need a gas stove to do this one . I applied them dry , cooked about 1-2 minutes on one side only . You can brush with butter or ghee after they 're done . <URL> <URL> <URL>
You can definitely cook donuts in a deep fryer . Most , if not all , donuts shops cook them in that manner . Just make sure your temperature is good and use something like chopsticks to flip them .
Yes , it is just fine to bake a cake in a pan like the <URL> . A pan of that type may stick a bit more than a metal pan , so you might find <URL> to be of benefit . It 's unlikely that you will have any problems at all , but read Aaronut 's answer <URL> .
It 's possible that it 's designed to conduct less heat from the bottom . Many gas ovens have the flue in the bottom and the heating is only from below in the oven . To make things more even , most electric ovens have an element at the top and one on the bottom . Speaking of bottom , the bottom line is that you should be ok . If you find the bottom of you cake not being done very well , move the form to a lower rack next time .
Cast iron is ideal , but any pot that can take the heat and has a tight lid will work . Like @talon8 said in his comment , it does n't even have to be metal . This article from <URL> specifically uses terracotta for sourdough , not cast iron . Just as an FYI , this related question deals with preheating ( for no-knead bread , not sourdough ) , and the differing answers are interesting . To me it just goes to show that bread-making does n't always have to follow super-strict rules . <URL>
It can . There 's nothing wrong with braising or stewing with a stainless steel pot . Just know that if you brown your meat before stewing it , it will cook faster in a stainless steel pot than in a cast iron or enameled cast iron pot , because cast iron retains heat well and conducts it evenly . So be careful not to over-brown your meaty bits . Sometimes , braising on the stovetop is desirable , especially if you want to further reduce your liquid . When we cook in our commercial kitchen , half the time we braise in the oven with our enamel-ware , the other half we do in a stainless steel stockpot on the stove .
I agree that , in general , other squashes can be substituted for pumpkin . I have tried some different types of squashes but obviously there are many more that I have n't tried . There are definitely differences in flavor - these will obviously change a dish but not ruin it . The biggest differences I have run into are water content and texture . When roasting squash the cooking time might need to be adjusted to obtain a product with the needed consistency . Using pie as an example - I have had to adjust my cooking to avoid a runny pie filling . Obviously in some recipes , such as soup , this wo n't be as important . Some squash , such as spaghetti , have stringy textures that would be odd where smooth pumpkin is expected .
Yogurt curdles at high temperatures . If you curdle a big lump of yogurt , breaking it up well is hard , and it does n't taste too well . You want to end up with tiny particles evenly dispersed in the dish . So when you add it a spoon at a time , you can mix it really well before it has had time to curdle . An alternative method is to do it the other way round . You remove a spoonfull of the curry and dump it into the yogurt , then stir immediately . When it is completely absorbed , you add the next spoon . You continue until you have something like a 1:1 mix in the bowl , then dump it into the still cooking curry and stir . The second method requires less than 30 s between spoons , but is n't necessarily less work . ( You may have to prepare a separate bowl for the yogurt ) . However , it produces even smoother results . If you have a problematic yogurt ( low fat content , high clumping tendency ) , use the second method . Edit HenrikSöderlund 's comment makes me think that my explanation was n't clear enough , so here an addition . The yogurt will curdle a few seconds after it is dumped in the pot . The point is , you do n't lumps of curdled yogurt . A lump of curdled yogurt is grainy and sour and does n't mix well with liquid . Encountering a lump of curdled yogurt in your soup/curry unpleasant in a way similar to encountering a lump of undissolved baking powder in your cake . On the other hand , A tiny droplet of curdled yogurt is too small to feel as grainy , too small an amount of acid to give you an unpleasant sensation , and small enough to form a suspension with the " broth " . That 's why you have to break up the yogurt in droplets before it curdles , and this is only physically possible when you start out with a small amount like a single spoon . It is even more important to do that when adding to the dry-ish mixture described in the edit than when adding to a simmering broth . The broth is below 100 ° C , the curry base can be much hotter , causing the yogurt to curdle quicker . Also , a liquid will dissolve the yogurt easily and disperse it , but with the dry curry base , you have to rely on stirring only to reduce the yogurt to droplets .
I 'd say there are basically two material options . Plain ( seasoned ) cast iron or enameled cast iron . I prefer enameled , because you do n't have to worry about keeping them seasoned -- just wash as you would any other pot -- and the enamel surface is easy to get clean . But they 're also more expensive by a significant margin . A properly maintained plain cast iron one will be awesome too , and do everything enameled will do for less money , so do n't rule it out . What you should consider : The foremost thing you want to look for is a heavy pot . Heavy bottom AND heavy sides and lid . You want something that holds a lot of heat when you need it to , and heavier often means more even heating and better searing ( crucial for braises and pot roasts ) . Consider the lid . It should fit well , without gaps or sliding around . Some have loop handles on the side or on the top , some have a knob on the top . All are fine , but keep in mind that a metal lid handle will be more durable with all the oven time your dutch oven will likely see . They say the plastic ones are OK ( Le Creuset , a trusted brand , uses them so they ca n't be that bad ) but I 'm not 100 % convinced . Whatever handle you get , think about how easy it 'll be to grasp wearing an oven mitt . Handles on the pot itself are a potential issue . Some plain cast iron pots will have a bucket-style bail handle , which I do n't think is that great for the kitchen , especially the oven . These are really intended for campfires and camp stoves , so I 'd avoid them . Sturdy , compact but easy-to-grip handles of any type are good . It 'll be heavy , so make sure you feel secure holding on . Size is another consideration , and it 's a tough one because it 's so individual . I think between 5.5 and 6.5 quarts is pretty standard and works for most cooks . A dutch oven is n't like a stock pot , where big is always good . You want one big enough to cook the things you want , but you do n't want it to be too huge for what you have in there , or you 'll give up a lot of cooking liquid to evaporation too fast . This is less crucial for soups and stews ( I 'd do soup in a regular stock pot ) , but for a braise it 's kind of important . So I would resist going too small , but do n't go too far , especially if you 're always cooking for two people . Also , bigger = heavier , so do n't let your eyes get bigger than your muscles ! Another option is shape , as they generally come in round or oval . Oval sometimes helps people who ca n't decide how big to go . With roasts being generally oblong , an oval pan can fit a proportionally larger roast without getting really huge . With a round pot , your whole pot needs to be at least as big around as your roast is long . Ovals are a little less common , however , and generally do n't come as big as round ones . They 're often more expensive too . Finally , do n't compromise too much on size or cost . Any halfway decent dutch oven , properly looked after , will last much longer than you will . Make sure you 're getting what you want , because you 'll be living with your decision a long time .
Oven cleaner will take that right off . If you 're sensitive to nasty harmful fumes you can get the fume free kind . Make sure you follow the manufacturer 's instructions to the letter , and make sure no kids or pets are around .
Some pans have ' oven safe ' labels on the bottom . That may help . If not : DuPont studies show that at 446 ° F Teflon starts offgassing toxic gasses ( Multiple sources ) . Generally , I would n't put my non-stick pans in : use stainless .
I assume you are talking about the risk that the alcohol vapor from the wine mixes with the air and ignites . Let 's do some maths . I 'll do my calculations with some pretty round numbers , but in the end you 'll see that it does n't matter . Assume an average gas oven with a volume of 150l . According to Wikipedia , the absolute minimum mix of ethanol to air for ignition is 3 % , so that 's 4.5 l of pure ethanol vapor . Water expands at a rate of 1700 when it turns into steam . Assuming ethanol is in the same ballpark and add some entropy for higher temperatures , we 'll assume a factor of 2000 . That means we 'll need 4.5 l / 2000 = 2.25 ml of pure ethanol . In a typical bottle of red wine there is 12 % ethanol , so for a 750ml bottle , that is 90ml . As you can see , we have about 40 times the ethanol we need to make a nice boom . Now to answering your question : I would deem it probably safe to cook red wine in the gas oven . The burners are usually not in direct contact with the air inside the oven , and both the burners and oven is ventilated , so the ethanol would probably escape even before it could meet the required saturation . And even if the vapor was allowed to build up inside the oven and not get in contact with the gas flames , the self ignition temperature for ethanol is 363 ° C , far hotter than it 'll get in there . The most convincing argument that it 's safe is the millions of times chefs around the world have cooked with wine in a gas oven :)
What are the primary causes of this ? The steam and other hot gasses that were puffing the cookies up either escapes or condenses . Without heat to create more steam , the cookies deflate . You get exactly the same effect with bread , quiches , and other baked goods . You can hear bread start to make a crackling sound almost as soon as it comes out of the oven , and the sound continues for some minutes until the bread has cooled a bit . Quiches are always quite puffy looking when they 're in the oven , but they start to shrink a bit as they cool . If you want your cookies to shrink less , you might try cooking them at a slightly higher temperature , or cooking them a bit longer , or perhaps not chilling them so much prior to baking . Bumping up the amount of egg white in the cookie may help , too . The idea is to get the structure of the cookie to set a bit more by the time you remove the cookies from the oven . That will , of course , cause the cookies to be less chewy and more crunchy .
end question
start question
What is the easiest way to grind poppy seeds ?
You need to acquire a poppy seed grinder ( picture # 1 ) . It 's still not easy to grind a lot of poppy seed -- you will need to break out your supply of elbow grease -- but it 's much more efficient than a coffee grinder . It also does a better job , because it actually crushes the seeds to release all their oils and other goodness , rather than haphazardly cutting apart some of the seeds and not others . ( They do make electric grinders [ picture # 2 ] , but they 're aimed at bakeries and the like , not for home use . ) 1 . 2 . If you 're stuck using what you have , namely the coffee grinder , try adding sugar . It helps keep the poppy seed from sticking everywhere you do n't want it to . Naturally , you then need to take the sugar quantity into account when you 're actually using the poppy seed .
What 's wrong with letting the liquid escape ? The liquid is good ! When I freeze sweetcorn , I slice through just the outer part of the kernels , and then turn the knife sideways and scrape to release the rest of the delicious gooey liquid inside them ... I 'm not particularly fond of the flavor or texture of the cob-side anyway , and the creamy result can be packed and frozen with a minimal amount of air . I highly recommend using a chef 's knife instead of a paring knife though . A big cutting board and a <URL> also come in handy . If you 're doing a lot of corn at once , a baking sheet works well to catch the juice . Growing up , we 'd get a bunch of people together and do bushels of the stuff in an afternoon - cooking , icing , cutting , scraping , and packing simultaneously . With a bit of practice , you become quite fast at it . But , if you 're simply looking for a quick way to process the ears alone , there are specialized tools made for this job : search for <URL> or <URL> . You could probably use a mandoline as well , provided you 're able to adjust the depth of the blade . Frankly though , this seems cumbersome . Practice with the knife ...
Al dente cooking is a transitional state that lasts for a very short amount of time ( one minute longer in boiling water makes pasta too soft , one minute shorter and it 's still crunchy ) . For this reason , authentic Italian pasta packages state a precise cooking time , which is very reliable to make a good al dente pasta . A cooking time interval ( e.g. " 7 to 10 minutes " ) is usually given to accommodate to other countries taste , who may prefer a softer pasta , and therefore its presence could be a good indicator of an Italian look-alike pasta brand . In this case the lower figure indicates the al dente cooking . Lacking this information , a good cooking time can be figured by cross section size , length and shape of pasta : obviously , thicker and squat formats require more time . Complex shapes , such as farfalle , can be trickier because a thick core could reach the al dente cooking while the thinner edges are already too soft . As a rule of thumb , cooking times for common pasta formats are : Long and very thin ( spaghettini , bavette ) : 6 min Long and thin ( spaghetti , linguine , bucatini ) : 8 min Short and thick ( maccheroni , rigatoni , fusilli ) : 12 min Small and thick ( farfalle ) : 8 min Small and thin ( pasta usually boiled straight into broth ) : 6 min These cooking times apply only for dry durum-wheat pasta ; other types ( such as fresh egg pasta ) usually have a shorter cooking time . After straining the boiling water , pasta continues to cook by its own heat ; for this reason it has to be eaten as soon as possible . Only for some Italian regional recipes ( typically pasta boiled straight into a thick vegetable juice , e.g. pasta with beans , pasta with potatoes ) you may want to let it rest for up to 5 minutes after straining to let the juices coagulate . Also , for recipes where pasta has to undergo a second cooking after boiling ( e.g. stir frying in a pan with vegetables , shrimps , mushrooms , etc. ) a better result is obtained by boiling pasta just one minute less than the cooking time given on the package .
I have had always success with sprouting fenugreek seeds that were bought as a spice . And an Indian friend of mine regularly grows fenugreek for leaves from the seeds bought for cooking . The seeds sold for cooking are whole ( intact ) seeds - they are quite hard and therefore difficult to break and damage . But I can not really say what percentage of the seeds sprouted - it probably would have been higher if I had bought seeds that were labeled for sprouting - but for me it was satisfactory . With most plant species the germination success gets lower with time . The seeds meant for sprouting have therefore often a germination success rate estimation on the label . And the manufacturers might therefore put more care into supplying fresher seeds and seeds of the same " age " to be able to guarantee that success . I have never heard of anyone selling toasted fenugreek seeds ( accept maybe if it has been some spice mix that already underwent some kind of tempering ) . I think sprouts in general are not very traditional elements of North African or Middle Eastern cuisine , where fenugreek is used as seed or less commonly as leaves . Fenugreek sprouts might be found more in Indian cooking ( where sprouts , micro greens and fenugreek leaves are used ) , or in more " hippy " / healthy-bowls styles of cooking . And of course the seeds sold for sprouting can naturally be also used as a spice , but they might be sometimes a bit more expensive ( and I guess that differences in strength of the flavor could also be found - so that the sprouting ones could maybe sometimes be milder / less flavorful ) . Anyway ... you can use them definitely as a spice , as sprouts , micro greens , or grow them into bigger plants and use the leaves . I would be a bit suspicious of the quality of the seeds in the big package if they are sold for super cheap ... but they might be totally fine .
Instead of dousing the coals , in a primitive setup , you would be better served to manipulate distance from heat source as your form of temperature control . It can be as simple as adding or removing bricks to space your grill from your flame , or as complicated as a pulley-based system to raise or lower your grate . Using water will cause your coals to smolder , which can give off creosote ( less likely with charcoal than wood , but still a possibility ) . This can impart a rather nasty flavor into your food . If you are unable to or uncomfortable with changing your grate distance , then salt or some other dry smothering agent would be viable .
In my opinion , the best option is to have someone grind them for you . Ask your friends -- someone may have a grinder you can borrow , or would be happy to grind them for you in exchange for some cookies or part of the bag of coffee . If you have a local coffee shop , talk to the barista ( over the latte ' you just bought ) and ask if he/she will grind your beans for you . I 've heard even the mighty Starbucks will grind your beans for you if you ask nicely enough . If you want to do it yourself , you need to find a way to get the beans down to grinds . Some ideas : Mortar and pestle . Be careful not to make Turkish coffee powder instead of the more chunky grinds you want . Rolling pin . Put the beans in a heavy Ziploc bag or similar , and have a go at them . Roll , whack , smash . Have a nice , heavy frying pan ? Ziploc bag again , hammer away . And speaking of hammers ... No , not that Hammer . This hammer .
You need to acquire a poppy seed grinder ( picture # 1 ) . It 's still not easy to grind a lot of poppy seed -- you will need to break out your supply of elbow grease -- but it 's much more efficient than a coffee grinder . It also does a better job , because it actually crushes the seeds to release all their oils and other goodness , rather than haphazardly cutting apart some of the seeds and not others . ( They do make electric grinders [ picture # 2 ] , but they 're aimed at bakeries and the like , not for home use . ) 1 . 2 . If you 're stuck using what you have , namely the coffee grinder , try adding sugar . It helps keep the poppy seed from sticking everywhere you do n't want it to . Naturally , you then need to take the sugar quantity into account when you 're actually using the poppy seed .
The proper way : 1 ) Put the <URL> into the gourd . 2 ) Put the mate in the gourd . 3 ) Invert , shake vigorously , revert . If possibe , make a small " mountain top " on the oposite side where the bombilla enters the mate tea . 4 ) Add a small amount of cold water ( this is n't necessary -- as I understand , this step helps to keep from burning the mate , which can also be accomplished by using water under 180 ℉ ~ 82 ℃ ) , wait for a few minutes , until the mate absorbs the water . 5 ) Add hot water , drink . 6 ) Repeat step 5 . Do n't move the bombilla while drinking , as this will cause you to stir up little bits . Inverting and shaking is n't necessary if the mate is of high quality ( low dust ) . You can make mate to low dust by putting it in a metal sieve and shaking . Save the dust and small leaves that fall out -- they can be used to brew mate in a coffee pot . It is also worth noting that you can brew mate in a coffee pot or a french press and achieve similar results , although the resulting beverage is n't quite the same as drinking from the bombilla . Also , the second most common way to prepare it is like plain tea : put some mate tea in a paper bag and steep with hot water for several minutes . This is called mate cocido ( cooked mate ) and is not uncommon to offer it to children .
When cooking with fenugreek personally , I have found that processing them in a grinder is the best way to use them in a dish . If they are not ground fine enough they can remain a bit more textured . Longer cooking time in liquid can help with the breaking down of the texture as well . However , it is best to just start out with grinding them as fine as you can . In response to the mustard seeds , I leave them whole , or grind them . Depending on how I plan to use them . They can be prepared in dishes both ways . They too break down in liquid much easier than the fenugreek seeds . So the crunchy texture you mentioned , may have been from the fenugreek , not the mustard seeds . Cooking duration can play a role too , just to keep that in mind .
Fennel and caraway are relatives , but not the same plant . Fennel seeds have a flavor dominated by anise/licorice , where caraway is quite different , being dominated by other flavors . They also have subtle differences in appearance . Cumin , anise , and dill are other look-alike seeds with very different flavors . Anise and fennel have very similar flavors , and can be substituted for each other . Caraway and dill are likewise similar in flavor . Cumin has a flavor different from any of the above . I am including pictures of fennel , caraway , anise , cumin , and dill seeds so you can see how similar they are , but also how there are subtle differences in shape . Fennel Seed : Caraway Seeds : Anise Seed : It is hard to tell from the picture , but anise seeds are much smaller than fennel . Cumin Seeds : note , these vary considerably in color Dill Seeds : ( note how much flatter theses are )
Be sure not to crowd them on the pan when roasting .
Texture is the main reason , but if you 're going to be blending the sauce , there can be off-flavors from cracking open the seeds . Even if you do n't blend it , they can be these slippery little things that I never much liked growing up . To reduce the amount of waste , you can : cook the sauce , then put it through a food mill to strip out the seeds and skins , thus keeping you from wasting the gel around the seeds . freeze the peeled skins , to save for when you 're next going to be making vegetable stock . collect the seeds and gel , then put it into a muslin bag and hang to let drip to extract ' tomato water ' . ( you typically use crushed tomatoes for this ... I do n't know for sure if the gel will go through the muslin ) . Tomato water is strange as it gives good tomato flavor , without the red color .
Dilute heavily by using a very small portion of peppers per dish Allow cooking time for the pepper flavor to permeate the dish before adding more . It 's not like black pepper where the taste spreads instantly . Remove the seeds and membranes holding them , as this reduces spiciness considerably Cut peppers very finely or puree so there are n't any large pieces to deliver a shocker in the final dish Wear gloves when handling the peppers If you do n't use gloves , wash your hands well before touching your eyes , mouth , or other " sensitive regions . " AND FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS GOOD AND HOLY , DO NOT FRY OR SAUTE THE PEPPERS . No , seriously . The last one is a mistake you only make once , and should be on a warning label with all store-bought chilis . The capsaicin somehow becomes volatile when heated enough , and the result is like filling your entire domicile with pepper spray . I am ashamed to say that the last two cautions are drawn purely from personal experience . It 's not the kind of " hot date " you want to share with an ( un ) lucky person , believe me .
The discolored surface is a product of oxidation , the same thing that happens when you leave apple slices in the open air . Oxigen is a highly reactive molecule and it binds to anything it can find , in this case your steak . It is not rotten or unsafe to eat in any way , it just has an unpleasant color/texture when raw . Meat packaging is often filled with carbon dioxide , and since the oxygen is already binded to carbon it no longer reacts with the steak . The side effect of this is that your steak could have gone bad , but it still looks good . The pad just collects any fluid that might drip off the steak , again for aesthetic purposes . I 'd suggest to remove the wax paper and shrinkwrap it , this will prevent it from oxidizing .
My preferred method by far would be heating them in a pot along with some kind of sauce . Failing that , I think I might try putting them in a tightly covered pot in the oven along with just a little water ( just a tablespoon or so ) -- that would gently heat them and also keep them moist .
I would recommend staying away from a grater and either using a knife or a chocolate chipper ( http://www.amazon.com/Lee-43198-Chocolate-Chipper/dp/B00005NUVX ) . The less friction and the more you keep your hands off it ( because your hand will melt it as you have discovered ) the better .
Store them in the bag in your fridge . Also , if you take the greens off they will last longer . I keep mine in the drawer at the bottom .
The oil will always separate from the rest of the product . ( home made or natural/bio peanut butter will behave the same way ) When that happens , just spend some time and elbow grease to mix it back together again . if the tahini was stored in the fridge , it might take longer because everything will be harder . Just leave it on the counter for a while until it gets to room temperature before mixing it back together . ( after googling ) People suggest to keep the jar upside down and when you want to use it , just put it back straight and let it stand for a while , it will mix itself ( a little bit ) together again .
Mint likes oil . And it likes water . And it likes alcohol . Like most complex flavors , mint is complicated . The greener , vegetal notes are going to be from compounds like chlorophyll , and will be alcohol and very weakly water soluble . The astringent , sharper notes are going to from compounds like menthol , which are oil soluble . In general , the faster flavors , the ones that hit fast and fade faster , are water soluble , while the ones that linger are oil soluble . Mint flavor is sold both as an extract , in a base of water or alcohol , and as an essential oil , in a base of ... oil . As for cooking , I would skip the tomatoes entirely , and do a mint and parsley pesto with walnuts and olive oil . Why ? I like mint .
Place on non-stick sprayed foil ; broil for ~ 4 minutes in oven with some source of moisture or a glaze over top ( ie , you might take salmon and add a soy/mustard glaze ) to protect hydration levels .
end question
start question
Why add malt to bread ?
Malt syrups and powders come in two forms , Diastatic and Non-Diastatic . The Non-Diastatic kind is just sugar , and is only useful for adding a little sweetness and flavor . Diastatic Malt Syrups and Powders are made by taking grain ( usually barley , but others can be used , like rye ) , allowing it to sprout , then toasting it lightly to halt the sprouting process . The little roots and stuff are rubbed off , and the grain is ground into a powder , or soaked into a syrup . This is very similar to the process used to convert grains for beer-making . The syrup is rich in enzymes that are created by the sprouting grain , for the purpose of converting the seed 's starch reserves into sugar for the young plant . Non-Diastatic versions have these enzymes deactivated by heat , leaving the syrup " inert " . The enzymes and sugars do three important things Provide nutrients for yeast . Facilitate the conversion of starch into sugar , making bread more flavorful . The little shot of extra sugar also gives yeast an initial boost . Here is an article on malt syrups and powders and how to make them yourself : <URL> And King Arthur Flour sells a version of the powder , along with some recipe examples : <URL>
The salt adds flavor , but it also helps reduce the gelation of the starch in the pasta . The starch in food is the form of microscopic grains . When these grains come into contact with water , they will trap some of it ( think cornstarch in cold water ) , but when the water is hot they swell up like balloons and merge with each other , and you have starch gelation . Another thing you may want to add to the pasta water is some acid ( lemon or cream of tartar ) . Tap water in most cities is made alkaline , which increases the starch loss from the pasta to the water , making the pasta stickier .
Bread Improver is a mix of various acids and enzymes that serve to strengthen the gluten in the flour and feed the yeast , both of which yield a better loaf . The idea is to give bread a similar texture and taste to sourdough-based loaves , without having to go through the laborious feeding process usually involved with that method . For more information , look at this <URL> article .
Your experience with the curry is normal . Salt helps bring out and enhance existing flavors . This is true for everyone , as far as I know . Different people have different sensitivities , and want different amounts , but the effect is the same . Given that you thought the curry tasted better with it , I would n't be surprised if you should also be adding salt to other things - maybe just not as much as recipes typically call for .
You will get the roasty , caramelized flavors ; how much influence they will have on the overall flavor of your stew will depend on several factors including : How deeply you roast the them How much you add , proportionately , into the stew How strongly flavored the other items in the stew are Roasting the vegetables will also cook them , so you will want to add them to the stew much later , so they do n't overcook . If you google <URL> , you will find several recipes for inspiration . As to whether this is a superior , or heartier flavor , that would be a matter of opinion . You do n't mention roasting celery or onions ( partners with carrots in the classic mire poix ) , but these are also excellent candidates for roasting , as are all types of root vegetable .
Adding flavors to the water will not transfer to the vegetables . Steam is a poor medium for flavor as water carries almost nothing with it when it becomes gas . There are a few very good methods to add some flavor to steamed veggies , so you can just use one of those ! You can add herbs and other aromatics to the veggies This works best with fresh herbs , but a few sprigs of rosemary or a few leaves of basil in contact with your steamed veggies will get some good flavor action . Alternately , mixing them in right after you take the veggies off the steam will let the residual heat of the veg to bring out the flavors in the herbs . Other things that work well is cooking your veggies on a bed of orange peels or lemon peels to add some citrus flavor . Add oil , plus any flavors you want to infuse into the oil Once you have steamed your veggies , hit them with a light drizzle of oil . I make a chili-infused olive oil that I toss my steamed carrots in that is always a huge hit . There are wide array of lipid soluble flavors that you can infuse your oil with . Compound butters are great , but so is just butter Animal fats added after cooking almost always turn ho-hum into yum-yum . Butter has long been the french way to add a bunch of subtle flavor to a side dish . You do n't have to use a ton , normally a light toss is enough to make a difference . Compound butter is just butter with herbs chopped in and it gives you the double whammy when you use it . Any ground spice You can also just shake some ground spices on . Pepper , curry powder , cinnamon , pretty much anything that sprinkles and fits the profile you are looking for will work . If your spices are fresh ground , you will get even more taste for your buck . If you are boiling your veggies , your options open up . Most root veggies will take on the flavor of whatever you cook them in , so using stock or vegetable broth can add some flavor . Vegetables that you cook with each other in a pot of boiling water will also get some transference among themselves . That 's the basis for a large number folk dishes like New England Boil and the reason Cajuns always throw some taters and corn in with the crawfish .
It looks to me like you need umami . One easy , healthy thing you can add is powdered dried shiitake or porcini mushrooms . I just throw the dried mushrooms into a spice grinder , it 's a powerful punch . EDIT : ( SAJ14SAJ refers to the same concept , glutamates , in his answer )
Hot peppers wo n't work with brine , as brine is water-based and capsaicin ( the pepper hotness ) is not soluble in water . You would need an oil-based marinade to pass the ' heat ' .
It is because of the way starch retrogrades . It does so in stages . The first stage needs between 1 and 2 hours , the second one a few days . You have probably seen it more clearly in starch-thickened puddings : they thicken a bit on stovetop , but are only ready to unmold after a few hours , else they wuold n't keep their shape . In a bread , the starch granules are the same way : right after baking , they contain too much moisture . Sure , if you eat the bread right away , the aroma is very good . But the texture is problematic . It gets doughy and dense at the smallest amount of pressure . Tearing instead of cutting helps a bit . And if you are at home , eating with your family , go for it and eat the tasty still-hot bread . It is especially good with soft , low-gluten breads made with AP flour with the least amount of bran ( 50 % milling grade or even less ) , my grandma would say that they " melt in the mouth " when they are hot . But if you serve bread slices to guests , or want to spread something on the bread , wait for its starch to set . On a side note , the second stage of starch retrogradation is the reason why you should use day-old bread for crumbs for thickening , and the third stage is the one which makes bread inedible . But this goes too far away from the original question .
Was curious myself , so I did some more searching . I found a few sites that suggested honey as a alternative , but note that honey is sweeter , so you 'll need to cut back . The majority of resources I found agree that corn syrup is your best and <URL> Traditionally the Malt Syrup ( or Mul Yut ? Mulyeot ? ) was apparently made from barley , but these days apparently mostly made from corn , hence corn syrup being a good substitute . Some <URL> even translate and sell Mulyeot directly as " Corn Syrup " .
" Best " is subjective . The different choices of baking pans will effect texture and baking time . The more surface area the more crust and the faster the baking time . Recipes call for a bread pan simply because then it looks like bread and is easier to slice . As you noticed , it does require longer to bake . Muffin pans are also very popular because of the convenient shape and faster baking time . If you like the shape and texture of your bread in a baking dish then by all means keep using it . I wo n't criticize you for it .
I always go in this order : Garlic/ginger/chili / spring onion whites This is to infuse the cooking oil with these flavours . Cook for short amount of time ~ 30secs . onions/peppers/carrots / harder veg These need a little more cooking that the other bits , so I give them a bit longer . mushrooms/sugar snaps/soft veg These need less cooking , so bit less time . bean sprouts I like these to be a bit crunchy so add them right at then end and basically just warm through . If I 'm using bigger veg like broccoli/cauliflower then I do them separately to the other veg . I use a little of the chili/garlic/ginger and fry that for 30 secs , add the broccoli fry for another minute or so just to brown the florets , then add some water , turn down the heat and put on a lid , to steam the broccoli . Once its done I remove to a separate plate the add back in at the end . It basically depends on how much you like each veg cooked . If you prefer your peppers crunchy , put them in nearer the end .
If your pastry cream can handle being stirred ( most do and as you will be including whipped cream anyway ) , you should be fine . Stirring will soften your pastry cream a bit , but not make it completely liquid . You can even add the vanilla to your cream , whip it together and need not worry about stirring well enough or uneven distribution of liquid in your pastry cream .
When I make home made bread , I decide how much I 'm going to eat in the next day or two and leave that out on the breadboard , usually just covered with a tea towel . I usually put the cut side down on the board to help prevent it from drying out . The rest gets pre-sliced , put in a zip-top bag , and stashed in the freezer . A few minutes in the toaster oven , and the bread is good as new . Pre-slicing it allows you to just use what you need instead of thawing the whole loaf . It lasts pretty much indefinitely in the freezer .
I think you will get the ' best result ' out of ' par baking ' your rolls . I have done this myself , though not for shipping . It is simply easier to make a large batch and then store them for use as needed . IMHO rolls are best served hot and fresh , and while re-heating fully baked rolls can recapture some of the glory that is fresh baked bread , allowing your customers to finish bake a partially baked product will give them the convenience of truly fresh rolls on demand . The technique ( and recipe , for my part ) I picked up from Alton Brown , in the episode of Good Eats : <URL> . Alton 's recipe for <URL> includes a par baking option : For Brown and Serve option : Assemble rolls as above , but bake as follows . Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. Bake until the outside of the rolls just begin to set but have not browned and the internal temperature is 185 degrees , about 30 minutes . Remove and cool on the pan for 10 minutes . After 10 minutes , remove the rolls from the pan and place on a cooling rack until they are room temperature , 30 to 40 minutes . Place the rolls in bags and freeze for up to 3 months . To Finish : Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Thaw the rolls for 60 to 90 minutes . Spray a sheet pan with nonstick spray . Place the rolls on the prepared sheet pan and bake until the rolls reach an internal temperature of 200 degrees F. Rotate the pan halfway through baking , 10 to 12 minutes . Remove the pan to a cooling rack and cool for 2 to 3 minutes before serving . The key ' take-aways ' that you will want to apply are : Bake to internal temp of 185 ° F Cool to Room Temp Freeze for up to 3 months
Blowing out happens because the extra expansion of the bread in the oven , called oven spring , expands further than the skin of the bread can accommodate . The protein sheets that make up risen bread can toughen when they dry out . When the bread is introduced to the sudden high heat of the oven the water and alcohol vaporizes , filling the loaf with gas . If the outer gluten sheets were allowed to toughen or if the spring is just to great then the sheets have to tear to make room . The tear will happen wherever the sheets are weakest . This seems to be usually in the ugliest spot possible for a blowout . It would be possible to reduce the spring by baking at a lower temperature but the spring is desirable and results in a lighter texture . The solution must come , therefore , in softening the gluten or controlling the expansion . Fat softens bread so this problem happens mostly with lean doughs . One possible solution for some breads is to increase the amount of fat in the dough . Keeping the surface of the dough moist will also help . Keep the dough covered while it is proofing and spraying it with water when it goes in the oven , and , if possible , having a humid environment in the oven will keep the proteins from drying out . The traditional solution with lean doughs is to allow the blowout to occur but control the direction . In this way the loaf can be both light and attractive . Slashing the surface of the loaf releases some of the pressure and allows the baker to have some control over the direction of expansion .
The purpose of the beer ( and the vinegar ) in this case is to add some of the malty , fermenty flavors typical of longer-fermented or sourdough breads . You can either leave it out and replace it with an equal quantity of water or use a <URL> The carbonation from the beer might add a little extra lift at the start to establish some air cells and work the gluten a bit , but with an 18 hour room-temperature bulk rise , that benefit would be negligible . In most beers ( especially large US commercial bottlers ) there is n't enough active yeast left in the bottle by the time it is drunk to do anything either . The author of the original article ( Cook 's Illustrated # 90 , Jan 2008 ) added the beer and vinegar in order to add flavor to a bread recipe that already produced decent bread . My bread now had tang [ from the vinegar ] , but it lacked complexity . What I needed was a concentrated shot of yeasty flavor . As I racked my brain , I realized that beyond bread , there is another commonly available substance that relies on yeast for flavor : beer .
I 'm looking for the online reference , but I remember reading in Cook 's Illustrated that they were able to substitute a bit of gelatin to mimic the mouth-feel of homemade stock . I did find a <URL> recipe that used gelatin . Based on how you described your recipe , I would say that the long cooking of chicken bones is indeed what 's missing . You might get a better result if you roast your chicken breasts and vegetables before cooking them in the broth .
One piece at a time ? Into the bag , shake to coat , out of the bag , shake to remove excess flour , put aside for subsequent egg-washing and breading once all pieces are done . Also helps to have one hand only touching dry ingredients , the other only wet .
I wo n't offer any suggestions on what type of herbs you should use in your recipes - that is entirely up to you and what you like . Experiment with different flavors and combinations from a basic base , or there are plenty of recipes freely available on the <URL> for savory breads . The technical answer is , generally dried herbs are preferable when baking because they contribute no moisture to the recipe , and because they generally have lots of time to infuse their flavor into the dough . Fresh herbs are nice ( and it sounds like you have plenty of them available ) but you need to <URL> : Dried herbs have a more concentrated flavor , so you will need to need to use a larger quantity of fresh herbs when substituting them for dried in recipes . The most common rule of thumb seems to be about 3 times the amount of fresh herbs for dried , maybe a bit lower if you 've got really nice and fresh herbs with intense flavor . Certain leafy herbs ( basil , mint ) will retain and contribute some moisture . It 's doubtful that you 'll be using enough in any recipe to throw off its water balance , but beware of using large amounts . if you want a strong flavor for these herbs it 's best to use dried . Also , these items can get really bitter when bruised or otherwise mistreated , and that bitterness will wind up in your bread . Not so tasty . Particular herb flavors will stand up very well to baking , and others will not . I find that some savory flavors like thyme and oregano mellow out when baked but still retain their character . Rosemary will work well in baked goods but has a very intense flavor , so you 'll want to use a bit less than other herbs . Other delicate flavors like mint do n't do well when baked , both because of the bruising problem noted above and because they 're so delicate . Also note that it 's pretty easy , if a little time-intensive , to <URL> , which is a great idea for extended storage .
end question
start question
How to decide the baking temperature when recipe does n't mention it ?
Cooking temperature and time are determined by a number of factors . The idea is to get the inside of the product properly cooked before the outside dries out , becomes tough , or becomes unpleasantly dark or even burned . At the same time , you usually want the product to get nicely browned ( adds flavor and looks nice ) before the inside is overcooked . So it 's a balance . Factors which influence appropriate temperature and time include : ingredients : High protein ingredients ( like meat or eggs ) easily become tough when overcooked . High sugar or starch recipes will tend to brown or burn more easily . moisture level : For some products , such as popovers or many kinds of pastry , steam is an important leavening agent , and a high temperature is called for . In other products , like cookies , one of the goals of baking is to drive off excess moisture . And in still others , moisture is absorbed into the other ingredients . shape : A fat , round loaf will usually need a longer cooking time and lower temperature than a thin , flat pizza or a long , skinny baguette because it takes longer for the center of the loaf to heat up . pH : Changing the pH of the product will change how it browns . leavening : Some chemical leavening , like double-acting baking powder , activates at a certain temperature . personal preference : At the end of the day , the most important factor is whether you like the way the product turned out . If you like a crispier crust , change the temperature and/or cooking time to suit your taste . Any baking recipe should specify the temperature and cooking time , unless perhaps it 's from a book that specifies those things for a number of recipes at once . If not , find a similar recipe and use the temperature specified there , but keep a close eye on the product during the baking process . Learn how to tell when the product is done . For cakes , you usually go by color for the outside , and by temperature or using a toothpick or wooden skewer for the inside . ( Briefly : poke a wooden toothpick into the center of a cake ; if it comes out with wet batter , keep cooking ; if it comes out clean and dry , it 's probably overcooked ; if it comes out with a few crumbs stuck to it , it 's probably perfect . )
Add the baking soda to the cut meat and then wash it off . Measure about a teaspoon in your palm and then sprinkle it over the thinly sliced meat from high up . This way you get a thin layer over all the meat . Wash after some time ( you can do it overnight ) . There is an <URL> that you may follow The baking soda will work like other meat tenderizers , by denaturing the proteins on the surface of the meat , so it should work on pork or chicken as long as the baking soda is on the meat ( and not the skin or fat ) . The tenderizers penetrate the meat very slowly , millimeters per day at refrigerator temperatures , faster at cooking temperatures , so in practice it will only work on thin slices . If you use thicker pieces , you will still change the meat 's surface texture . If you use the baking soda straight into the dish in the same proportion ( some people like it this way ) , adjust your salt accordingly , as the baking soda will make the dish salty .
According to Cook 's Illustrated 's article <URL> ( possible paywall ) : Briefly soaking meat in a solution of baking soda and water raises the pH on the meat 's surface , making it more difficult for the proteins to bond excessively , which keeps the meat tender and moist when it 's cooked . This is almost certainly the effect of the baking powder : to help create a more tender product . This is probably especially necessary given the lack of bread products ( which provides starch that physically interferes with protein linking , and helps retain moisture in the , thus producing a more tender meatball ) . The tartaric acid is probably there because recipe authors are used to pairing it with baking soda which is necessary when it is used to create leavening in baked goods . In the meatballs , it will simply tend to help make them more acidic , although it will also neutralize some of the baking soda . I have surveyed several recipes on the web which include baking soda in meatball recipes ; they variously claim that it helps make the meatballs lighter or more tender .
Salt serves two primary purposes in baking : To regulate yeast Salt kills yeast . The addition of salt to a yeast leavened dough prevents the little beasties from growing completely out of control . To enhance and mask specific flavors Salt is almost a universal flavor enhancer . Virtually anything that tastes good , will taste better with salt . What typically comes as a surprise to people is that this holds true with sweet things too , particularly chocolate . The addition of even a tiny bit of salt can make a sweet dish significantly sweeter . It also serves to mask the taste of raw flour . Update Also according to <URL> salt affects the strength and shelf life of baked goods .
My guess - and this is just a ( somewhat educated ) guess - is that it 's just to promote more even cooking . Since you 're talking about a layered dish , some parts are definitely going to cook faster than others . If the entire dish starts from room temperature , as opposed to fridge temperature , then that means less time is required to cook it through . Less time and less heat required to cook means that all of the layers will be more likely to end up at similar internal temperatures - as opposed to having burned bread , liquefied cheese , or rubbery eggs ( I 'm not sure offhand which cooks the fastest ) . Even if it 's not an issue with the thermal capacities of your individual ingredients , you 're also layering these each several times over , creating a very dense product , so there would still be a significant risk of the middle layers being undercooked , or the outer layers being overcooked . You might be able to bake it straight out of the fridge ; however , you would definitely have to increase the cooking time to account for the temperature difference , and there are a lot of variables that come into play which would affect how evenly it cooks : the intensity and location of your oven 's heat source ( s ) , the density of the casserole , the kind of baking dish you use - I probably would n't chance it , at least not when preparing this for other people . You tend to see the same recommendation for anything particularly dense , such as a roast , or anything layered , such as a lasagna , and generally , you do want to follow those recommendations for the same reason . They cook rather poorly if you cook them from cold or frozen , leaving you with a charred surface and an only-mostly-cooked interior . It can still happen even if you start off at room temperature , but it 's less likely and the effect tends to be less pronounced .
It depends greatly on how hungry I am . :-) 350F for about an 60-90 minutes , depending on how many are in there . 425F for about 40-60 if I 'm hungry and impatient . Microwave on high for a few minutes ( few holes poked in it with a fork ) if I 'm really hungry and really impatient . They 're done when a fork goes in easily .
The exact reason depends on the particular ingredient and recipe . Some common ones include : General temperature . By having all of the ingredients at room temperature , the time it takes to bake the overall item ( s ) is easier to predict , leading to better , more consistent outcomes . Egg whites Egg whites form the protein network that creates the foam when whipped more easily at room temperature than they do cold , so will whip up more quickly and with more volume . Butter Butter is often desired slightly cooler than room temperature , for its plastic properties ; it incorporates air for the creaming method best slightly below most room temperatures . Otherwise , it is easier to spread or incorporate when warmer . Cream cheese Easier to mix with sugar or other ingredients at room temperature than when cold .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
I have frozen eggplant Parmesan before with good results . I breaded the eggplant , fried it , then put Parmesan on top while it was still hot enough to melt . I let them cool and then froze the fried eggplant slices separated by pieces of parchment paper . When I needed to use them , I put them on a sheet pan , still frozen , and threw them in the oven until the cheese was melted and slightly browned , then proceeded as I normally would .
The actual action of soaking is what does most of the work . Most legumes have complex oligosaccharides , a type of complex sugar . Digestion of this complex sugar is what causes flatulence . By soaking your beans will help remove some of this excess sugar . Be sure you discard the soaking water . Though it is often said that adding baking soda helps I 've yet to see any verifiable evidence that it would help . Also , do n't forget that baking soda is n't tasteless , it could easily add a salty or soapy flavor to your once pristine beans .
The purpose of the beer ( and the vinegar ) in this case is to add some of the malty , fermenty flavors typical of longer-fermented or sourdough breads . You can either leave it out and replace it with an equal quantity of water or use a <URL> The carbonation from the beer might add a little extra lift at the start to establish some air cells and work the gluten a bit , but with an 18 hour room-temperature bulk rise , that benefit would be negligible . In most beers ( especially large US commercial bottlers ) there is n't enough active yeast left in the bottle by the time it is drunk to do anything either . The author of the original article ( Cook 's Illustrated # 90 , Jan 2008 ) added the beer and vinegar in order to add flavor to a bread recipe that already produced decent bread . My bread now had tang [ from the vinegar ] , but it lacked complexity . What I needed was a concentrated shot of yeasty flavor . As I racked my brain , I realized that beyond bread , there is another commonly available substance that relies on yeast for flavor : beer .
Well , you 're definitely right . Onions cooked at a high temperature act differently than ones cooked at a low temperature , per " the bible " aka On Food and Cooking . However , it does n't go in to much of an explanation as to why . Probably the most relevant aspects of what is in there are : When onions and their relatives are heated , the various sulfur compounds react with each other and with other substances to produce a range of characteristic flavor molecules . The cooking method , temperature and medium strongly affect the flavor balance . Baking , drying , and microwaving tend to generate trisulfides , the characteristic notes of overcooked cabbage . Cooking at high temperatures in fat produces more volatiles and a stronger flavor than do other techniques . <URL> Since a low temperature produces less volatiles , I assume that the natural sugars of the onion shine through instead . It 's probably also important to understand where the oniony flavor comes from . The spice , as you describe it , is the onions natural defense mechanism . However , it does n't exist defacto in the onion , but is rather the result of a chemical reaction . The onion stores very reactive sulfur in the cell fluid , and a seperate trigger mechanism in a storage vacuole . When you cut / crush / cook / peel the onion , you break the vacuole and the enzyme and sulfur cause a chemical reaction giving off the spice . <URL> &amp; <URL> )
Here is a quote from the company that makes the registered trademark Baileys Irish Cream : Baileys ® is the only cream liqueur that guarantees its taste for 2 years from the day it was made , opened or unopened , stored in the in the fridge or not when stored away from direct sunlight at a temperature range of 0-25 degrees centigrade . One of the keys to achieving this 2 year shelf-life is in our patented process of blending of fresh Irish cream with the spirits and the whiskey without the use of preservatives . The alcohol acts as a natural preservative for the product . Under normal conditions of storage Baileys has a shelf-life of 30 months . If you are concerned about a bottle of Baileys ® please check the best consumed before date on the bottle - all bottles now carry a best before date . This number is located on the bottom left hand side of the back label . Example : Code 11 20XY would mean that we guarantee the product would taste perfect until that date ( XY is the year 2 years from the date of manufacture ) ( <URL> ) . The alcohol content is the sole preservative listed .
I 've heard a few different answers ( theories ) as to why you should use different temperature liquids to the roux , most of it 's related to starch gelatinization . I 'm also not a fan of scalding milk when I do n't have to , as it can bubble over if you do n't pay attention and/or taken on a bit of a scorched taste . I 've always <URL> in part because that 's the way I learned growing up , but if I 'm thickening a gravy I 'm generally using warmer liquid ( drippings , let to sit so you can separate out the fat ) . I rarely use a roux to thicken something near a boil ... for that , I 'll use a slurry . There are differences when dealing with adding cold liquid to a roux -- you need to add the liquid slowly , and stir it well before each addition , which also gives it a chance to come back up to temperature . Of course , I recommend always adding the liquid slowly , as I find it easier than trying to work out lumps afterwards .
This is what <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) has to say about it : Sometimes baked potatoes can use a flavor boost . And instead of light and fluffy , most often they are dense and crumbly . We found that baking the potatoes on a bed of salt remedied these problems . Moisture that escaped the potatoes during baking was trapped in the enclosed pan , absorbed by the salt , and eventually reabsorbed by the potatoes , making their skins tender and their flesh light and fluffy . All we needed to do was fine-tune the variables . Using a hot oven and uncovering the potatoes toward the end of cooking ensured dry , crisp skin . A 13 by 9-inch baking dish provided plenty of space so that we did n't have to crowd the potatoes , and 2 1/2 cups of salt allowed us to thoroughly cover the bottom of the pan . I have found that salt roasting potatoes makes the skin crispy , without it getting hard . Like the above says , the potato itself seems fluffier . The way the salt seasons the potato is particularly nice as well . Incidentally , you can reuse the salt over and over again , so it 's not as wasteful as it might seem when you first consider the method . You 'll want to keep separate salt for things like this , though , since it picks up potato flakes and discolors a bit . EDIT The ATK method calls for covering the 9X13 baking dish ( for 4 potatoes and 2 1/2 cups of salt ) tightly with aluminum foil and roasting at 450F ( 232C ) for 1 1/4 hours . Remove foil , brush potatoes with oil , raise oven temp to 500F ( 260C ) and continue roasting for 10-20 minutes , until potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife and the skins are glossy .
Providing you do n't leave anything unpleasant inside the cavity a good rinse under the tap is good enough . As you surmised , the process of cooking the chicken will kill all the bacteria . Just make sure it 's cooked correctly :)
You should n't heat a non stick pan without the oil , because it is too easy to overheat it and ruin the coating . So , I put oil inside first , and tell by the state of the oil . It smells , looks and flows different when it is hot enough . You can also learn to judge if there is sufficient heat when you hold your palm at a given distance above the pan , but in my experience , you learn to judge by the oil before you have gotten good enough to keep the same distance and to distinguish " enough " from " not enough " heat . If you do n't have enough experience to know when the oil is ready , you have to do it repeatedly until you learn it . It takes a few less-than-great meals if you do it purely by trial and error , and goes better if you use an infrared thermometer . You can also try floating cubes of stale white bread and watch their browning behavior , but I find this method too involved logistically - you have to have the bread , cut it , then deal with messy pieces of oily bread , and end up with slowly charring crumbles in your pan .
Margarine has less fat than butter , but it does n't give quite the same flavor as butter does . You also have to be careful what KIND of margarine you are using . Tub margarine has a higher water content and can ruin your baked goods and the stick margarine can have a lot of trans fats in it . If you really want to get detailed into the differences , check out this site : <URL> I agree with everything stated on that site in the fact that butter , in my opinion is far superior in flavor and texture than margarine . I have yet to meet a dish that butter did n't improve the taste over margarine . But there is the thing , it really is a lot about taste . A good quote from the site about margarine : " Not great for baking : does not allow foods to become flaky , rather more cakelike ; does not spread as well as lard or shortening ; adds a greasy taste . However , some bake with it all the time and have great success ; it 's a matter of taste . "
Especially regarding tomatoes , there can be some discrepancies on what coring means . In some cases , they mean to just scoop out the stem and the tough white bit under it , and in others they mean to remove the whole central bit with seeds . In my experience " cored " usually means just removing the stem and white bit , whereas " cored and seeded " means removing the stem along with the seeds and central part . This is just a rule of thumb , as recipe authors may vary on their usage .
I look for notes that give subsitutions . If the recipe creator ca n't be arsed to either provide subs or say " you really ca n't substitute , " then it seems to me they are n't so much interested in cooking as they are in must provide dogmatic formula . This does n't work for me . Notes along the way -- " you are looking for a texture like ... " " the colour should be ... but do n't worry if it looks like ... " -- are essential . A complete lack of " Oh by the way you should have done X an hour before you did Y " is non-negotiable . Anytime I cook through a recipe like that without reading first ( caveat emptor , I know ) I tend to end up swearing and throwing things . Timelines are key . ( By the way , I 'll be hanging onto this thread as it will definitely help me with the cookbook project I 'm working on . Thanks for asking ! )
end question
start question
How can I uniformly chop peanuts ?
I would imagine the commercial choppers used for McDonald 's nuts generate the same amount of dust . They probably sell that dust for some other purpose . The dust should be easy enough to remove : just shake them around in a strainer .
The tearing of the eyes is a result of enzymes that form a sulpherous gas when the onion is cut ( concentrated inside the inner core or bulb of the onion ) being released into the surrounding air . You have a few options to avoid this - one would be to not cut through the center of the onion but to extract the " core " . This is kind of a pain and means you are discarding a decent chunk of onion , so I do n't like it too much . Another option is to use a fan to blow the gases away from you . A small fan next to you blowing horizontally should do the trick . You could also wear goggles , although you 'd have to leave them on for a while until the gas dissipates from the area . Another technique is to cut a lemon in half and rub the fresh lemon against both sides of the blade . You 'll have to keep " refreshing " the juice coat and your onions will have some lemon juice on them , so this is somewhat limited by that factor .
Unshelled peanuts are salted simply by soaking in brine . Some of the salt ( and water ) gets through the shell , which is a bit porous . They 're then re-dried and roasted . I suppose the roasting is optional , but if you 're adding salt you clearly want flavor , and that 's what roasting 's for too . There 's a <URL> post with a bit more detail if you 're curious . You can do something similar at home - boiled peanuts . They wo n't be the hard crunchy roasted nuts you 're used to : they end up soft , kind of like firm beans . You can season the water and impart plenty of flavor . The traditional thing in the American South is just salt , but you can use spices and get some pretty fun results . For example , a bit of soy sauce and five spice ( or some of the components of five spice ) , or something Cajun-style ( even just using premade Cajun spice blends ) . ( And no , unsalted peanuts should n't taste salty . You can confirm this by searching for unsalted peanuts nutrition facts , and seeing the 0mg of sodium ! )
These products are called thickeners . Gum Arabic is often used for this as well as karageenan , xanthan gum , sometimes corn starch or potato starch . You have to experiment with the different thickeners so you get the consistency you want .
This is an art . Anyone who appreciates REAL tacos , can understand that this is not easy . God Bless anybody that can pull this off accurately ! I have it down to a science . I learned from my grandfather . His biggest secret was in the fork you use . We use cooking forks . 3 prong cooking forks ( most of the ones I see on google have two prongs ) . You can use regular forks too , but they arent made for cooking in high temp oil . First you must get the oil HOT . 350 atleast , preferably 400 degrees . Just before it starts smoking . You need really high oil heat . Once the oil is PLENTY hot , you hold a tortilla in one hand , and drop it in the oil halfway . It should be at 90 degrees , with your hand still holding the dry half of the tortilla . ( Note : keep your cooking fork ready for the next steps ) If your oil is hot enough , it will cook that half of the tortilla almost instantly . Let it cook until it hardens up , which should be less than a minute . Once the first half the bent tortilla is crisp , use the cooking fork to grab the tortilla half that is crisp and cooked . You will flip it here , putting the dry tortilla half ( that was in your hand ) into the oil , while the cooked half , sits above the oil with your fork . Now it should cook the other half of the taco shell . The art is using the fork well enough to create a gap at the base of the shell ( for meat or whatever you stuff with ) . And then flipping it and holding it with the fork while the other side crispens and finishes up . I would like to make a youtube video that shows this process , and it truly is an artform . Many people make great tacos but horrible tortilla shells . I grew up near Mexico , I was born 4 miles from Matamoros . I have seen my share of taco cooking , in the strangest of places . The best tacos Ive ever had use this method . And the best taco makers Ive ever seen wouldnt do this any other way ( by hand ) . It 's hard to do this without burning your hand ( s ) . Be careful . The dry tortilla absorbs the hot oil , even when your holding it over the grease in the first step . Youd be surprised how a corn tortilla will drink the oil right up to your hand . Give it practice . You will mess up a few tortillas . Dont worry about that , they make great quesadillas or nachos :)
The issue here is how long do you steep the tea , at what temperature , and under what conditions do you store the used tea bags ? The reason " sun tea " has been discouraged has been because of the likelihood that the tea leaves that are in the bags are contaminated with bacteria such that a long soak in luke-warm water such as that of the " sun tea " causes them to multiply to the extent that they become a serious health risk . Tea leaves are not typically pasteurized during their processing , and may carry viable bacteria and / or bacterial spores . If you were to soak the tea bad in warm water not hot enough to get a good bacterial kill initially , there may be enough viable bacteria in the tea leaves to grow during that 5 hour interval such that the next cup may be seriously dangerous ( some may divide every 15 minutes , for example ) . However , if you were to adequately kill the bacteria and spores off by a nice hot soak ( for this example , you would need to use a pressure cooker since some bacterial spores are not even killed by boiling water at atmospheric pressure ) , refrigerate the tea bag afterwards , and then reuse it 5 hours later it would likely be perfectly fine . I think the final answer to your question comes down to your own personal risk tolerance and the conditions above . If you brew in luke-warm water or for a very brief time and then leave the bags out at room temperature you are just asking for trouble and eventually you may hit the loaded chamber in your own personal Russian roulette game . For empiric answers , take your particular brewing temperature and time and compare it to the USDA tables for pasteurization . Then , look up the growth curves for the major pathogens at your storage temperature and figure out how many would likely be present after 5 hours ( 20 generations at 15 minutes per generation or 2 ^ 20 times more bacteria than viable after the brewing event at the end of the storage interval ) .
There really is n't another name for Dutch processed cocoa . You could perhaps look at the ingredients or label and search for some reference to alkalization . Cocoa powder , Dutched or natural , consists of a single ingredient : cocoa . The difference is that Dutched cocoa has an extra step in the manufacturing process . Normal cocoa powder is created from cocoa beans . These beans are fermented , roasted , shelled , and then ground into a paste known as chocolate liquor . This is roughly 50/50 cocoa butter ( fat ) and cocoa solids . At this step it is can be molded and sold as unsweetened baking chocolate . To make cocoa powder the liquor is hydraulically pressed to remove ~ 75 % of the fat , and then pulverized into cocoa powder . Dutched cocoa powder has an extra step before the shelled beans are ground into liquor . They are soaked in an alkaline solution of potassium carbonate . Dutched cocoa was created in the 19th century by a Dutchman named Coenraad J. van Houten . Van Houten had invented the method of using a hydraulic press to defat chocolate liquor . Hot chocolate in these times would have a fatty greasy scum floating on the top of the beverage . Removing much of the fat prevented this . However , it also made the drink much harsher , acidic , and gave it a much lighter color . Van Houten 's idea was to counteract the cocoa 's natural acidity ( pH ~ 5.4 ) by soaking it in an alkaline solution . This neutralized the acids in the cocoa raising the pH to neutral ( 7 ) or higher depending on the duration of the soak . The higher pH also has the added benefit of darkening the cocoa ; the higher it goes , the darker it gets . Now , you might think that mellowing out the cocoa would be undesirable for the flavor . However this has been shown to not be the case . It turns out that the very acidic nature of natural cocoa can actually mask many of the natural undertones of flavor in the chocolate . Chocolate is much like wine and has hundreds of flavors that make up its flavor profile . These include sour , bitter , astringent , fruity , figgy , nutty , floral , smoky , and may more . Dutching only targets the bitter , astringent , sour and fruity undertones allowing the remaining ones to really showcase the chocolate . There is a bit of misinformation that floats amongst bakers that the pH of the cocoa can affect the leavening of the baked good . Many recipes will actually sternly suggest using either Dutched or natural cocoa depending . This makes sense since leavening is a sort of balancing act that involves both acids and bases . However , it has been experimentally shown that this does not actually occur , and baked goods made with both Dutched and natural cocoa powder showed no differences in leavening . So to actually address your questions . Again , no there is n't another name for Dutched cocoa , but it ca n't hurt to check for alkalized verbage . There is ( should ) also no additional ingredient that would identify a cocoa powder as Dutched . The key property it provides is simply chocolate flavor . This answer is adapted from the Jan. 1 , 2005 Cook 's Illustrated review of <URL> . Their results showed that without fail Dutched cocoa was voted superior to natural cocoa in every single blind taste test including : pudding , shortbread , devil 's food cake , and hot chocolate ( which was masked by a sippy-top so reviewers could not see the tell-tale color ) . If the cost does n't make you do a double take ( it 's not really that expensive considering the quantity ) . I highly suggest you buy a 1 kg ( 2.2 lb ) bag of <URL> . This was the winner of the blind taste test performed by Cook 's Illustrated . I must agree that it will change your baked goods for the better like you would not believe .
Melting carob is a bit different from chocolate . The sugar crystal formation is not the same for tempering chocolate . One suggestion is to add paramount crystals ( which is a combination of palm kernel oil and soy lecithin ) to help start/control the process . I would also recommend not keeping the double boiler actually on the double boiler for the entire time . Heat it up until some of the carob melts . Remove from heat and stir . Add it back to the heat and continue removing to stir as each bit melts a little more . It takes longer but it allows you to control the heating and crystallization process . End the end , you should have a smoother and more even end result .
I would suggest making a Mornay sauce ( <URL> ) which you should find will hold together well and provide an unctuous , rich , spreadable texture . Simply melt butter in a saucepan over a medium-low heat , whisk in an equal quantity of flour , cook it out a little , then add cold milk , whisking all the while , until you get a smooth sauce like consistency . Then dump in a load of grated parmesan , stir it through , decant to a bowl and cool .
Opened wine spoils fast . Red wine lasts about 1 day , white wine lasts about 3 days . You can prolong this slightly by putting it in the refrigerator , but only by a few days at most , and it depends on the wine . It may be " safe " to consume for much longer , but the taste will be way off , even for cooking purposes . If you 've opened it - finish it . ASAP . There are exceptions : " Cooking wines " such as cooking sherry and rice cooking wine have an array of preservatives added and will keep for much longer . But do n't leave perfectly good Chardonnay just sitting around to oxidize .
The amount of tea you use wo n't affect the flavor of tea adversely ; the way you brew it will . This also depends on what kind of tea you 're making ( black , oolong , green , white , herbal ) . Greater quantities of tannins are <URL> , which makes the tea more bitter . TL ; DR : If you follow the instructions for brewing temperature and time , you should be able to more or less add as much tea as you want . Black teas are brewed with boiling water , typically for 2-3 minutes . Green , white and oolong teas are usually brewed at lower temp ( 180 F ) for 3-4 minutes , and herbal teas at just below boiling for anywhere from 4-8 minutes . I 've found that I can easily more than double the amount of tea leaves I use , brew it at the recommended temperature for the recommended time ( most tea packages should have instructions ) , and store the 2x concentrated tea in my refrigerator . Upton Tea has a <URL> for water temps and amounts . They also have <URL> for hot and cold brewing iced tea - they recommend double or tripling the leaf quantity when hot brewing , then diluting to taste . ( I buy a lot of my teas from here , and their instructions have never steered me wrong . ) If you 're looking for even more information about preparation of and descriptions / histories of different types of tea , I recommend the Harney &amp; Sons <URL> .
Use a pressure cooker . Try for example this recipe : <URL> where dried hominy is cooked in a pressure cooker .
Even if you just pull them out for about 30 minutes once you get home that will be better than not letting sit out at all . The main benefit is that it will cook easier and you 'll have a natural gradation from brown to pink on the inside rather than the gray color that often occurs . I myself do n't typically pull meat out an hour before cooking it . But As long as they have n't previously been sitting out for an extended period of time , most likely you 'll be ok for 1 1/2 hours since the steaks will be cold when set out . Make sure that they remain tightly wrapped/covered to minimize exposure to air .
It sounds like this is more like scrambled eggs instead of an omelet . It does sound tasty , but I can understand your issue with the coloration . If you 're using orange sweet potatoes , that is likely the biggest cause of the coloration issues . Eggs themselves usually stay yellow when cooked , though they may turn brown if cooked and then left to cool and wait around for a while . ( I do n't normally do that , so I ca n't really say . ) I have a couple possible solutions : 1 ) As Catija suggests , you can try using white sweet potatoes . They have a similar flavor , though a somewhat different nutritional profile . Still very good for you . 2 ) Try shredding the potatoes instead of blending them with the eggs . This is probably the solution I would try first . Shredding will avoid mixing the colors to the extent that blending does , and still allows the potato to spread throughout the omelet/scramble . If you do this , I would shred the potato first ( peel if you want , though the peel has a lot of nutrients in it ) , cook the shreds ( options : baking , sauteing in a little oil or butter , or microwaving - you can try boiling , but it would be more like parboiling as the shreds would only need a minute or two in the water to cook ) . Then you can just stir the shreds in with the eggs ( no blending ) and cook . 3 ) Slice the potatoes , cook ( can cook in the same manner as the shreds , though times will obviously differ ) , cook the eggs like you would a traditional omelet and layer the egg with the potatoes in your dish . Here are a couple resources discussing the different type of sweet potatoes available so you can figure out what would work best for your purpose : <URL> Paleo/Primal site ( I 'm not Paleo , but the site has good images of the different types of sweet potatoes ) : <URL>
Try peeling the asparagus . This would work better with <URL> . Since the outer skin of asparagus is so smooth , I can see how glaze would just slip off . Peeled asparagus will have a slightly stickier surface for the glaze to hold on to . An added bonus is that some of the glaze should penetrate if the asparagus is peeled . Be aware that peeled asparagus will cook faster than unpeeled . See also : <URL>
I certainly would n't want to be chewing through avocado skin . Unless you plan on throwing it in a blender and liquifying it , it 'd be pretty nasty .
I think it depends how fussy a presentation you are working on . If it has to be perfect , there really is n't going to be any fixing it . If some variation is acceptable , just wait til it is a bit softer and patch the rip back together like you would any other dough . You 'll get less nice separation of the layers in that area .
In recipes , buttermilk brings liquid , some milk solids , some acid , and if it is not made from skim milk ( it is a cultured product ) , some fat . In a pinch , you can substitute approximately 1 cup milk with 1 tbl lemon juice or vinegar . For information on making your own cultured buttermilk , <URL> . It is made from milk and an active culture starter from commercial or previous buttermilk batches , much akin to making yogurt . Edit : As hinted in Fisher 's answer , for some applications , particularly quick breads and muffins , buttermilk can also be substituted one to one with yogurt or sour cream .
The oil needs to be slowly added to the egg , vinegar , and lemon juice base while being vigorously whisked . Only add more when the previous amount has been fully incorporated . I generally add the oil 1/4 cup at a time , dripping it very slowly into the base . Once the initial 1/4 cup has been added and emulsified it becomes a lot easier to incorporate the rest , and you can add it slightly faster , but still 1/4 cup at a time . This is vastly simpler in a food processor . I have a <URL> which has a little white pusher piece with a drip-hole in it . You can simply add the oil into this 1/4 cup at a time , it will slowly drip into the mix . Use the metal blade attachment .
For a chewy pizza base , use bread flour . Do not use oil . Bread flour has a higher protein content that will help gluten form . Gluten makes the connections that keep dough together . Fat inhibits gluten formation . A recipe of just water , flour , salt , and yeast mixed , kneaded , allowed to rise until doubled , and then rolled out will get you what you want . Make sure to roll out quite thin . Preheat your oven absolutely as high as it goes with a stone inside . Put your toppings on maximum one minute before they go into the oven so that the sauce does not make your dough soft . Place pizza on preheated pizza stone - cooking time at high temperatures will be quite short ( max 10 minutes ) .
end question
start question
What is the difference between baking bread in a loaf pan made of stoneware vs metal vs iron cast ?
Sandwich or quick bread has different heat requirements than artisan breads . Artisan breads require a blast of high heat and humidity right from the beginning . They are usually baked on flat , preheated stones that store a lot of heat . With breads baked in loaf pans the bread is proofed in the pan which is obviously not preheated . The goal is not a blast of high heat but generally even heating . Stoneware and cast iron will hold a lot of heat but that is n't very useful for this type of bread . The big difference that a stoneware loaf pan will make is in the bread 's crust . Unglazed stoneware will let some moisture escape during baking . Stoneware loaf pans are often used for dishes other than bread such as meatloaf where the even heating and heat retention when serving is valuable . Bread baked in stoneware will be crustier in the area covered by the pan than bread baked in metal . This is a more compelling advantage with quickbreads . In my opinion sandwich bread does n't need to be crusty . Metal bread pans are cheaper , lighter , and less fragile . They wo n't even out any heat gradients in a sloppy oven . If you know your oven is unreliable consider getting a thermal mass ( such as a pizza stone ) to even out the temperature . I have n't used a cast iron loaf pan but my first inclination would be to use it for southern-style cornbread . This type of cornbread is normally cooked in a cast iron skillet . The pan would be preheated with hot fat and the cornbread batter would be poured in . The stored heat in the pan would fry the bread before it rose and set . I do n't know why a cast iron pan would be used for normal bread .
I see absolutely no reason not to do that . As you say , the very nature of diffusers is that they are n't smooth . Keep in mind that it 's not just extreme heat that you want to avoid , but also extreme changes in temperature . So you want to heat the tagine with the implement that you are using as a diffuser . Also , unglazed earthenware tagines are usually <URL> . Is your tagine glazed ? Apparently that process can also be called " healing " and involve garlic , although the term is from a different culture . <URL>
It mostly depends on the heat used . If you are cooking at a high enough heat that vegetables and thinly-sliced meats ( if using ) are cooked through in only a few minutes then it matches with the term generally used as " <URL> " . In this heat , if you stop stirring even for a moment , pretty much , the food at the hottest part of the pan ( at the base , near the flame ) will start to burn . It needs to be in motion constantly . That 's the stir part of the stir-fry -- constant motion up the curved sides where it is cooler and letting other parts of the food go to the bottom to the heat and around and around . A full dish of meat , veg , noodles , etc can be completely cooked start to finish in just about 5 minutes . <URL> demonstrates stir-frying baby bok choy in 2 1/2 minutes of cooking time for the veg , <URL> for 2 minutes , and <URL> at 3-5 minutes . <URL> should also be at a fairly high heat and generally with less oil ( although stir-frying does n't use a lot of oil either , usually ) . The heat is lower than what is implied by stir-fry . With sautéing you are still generally keeping things moving , but it does n't need to be quite as frantic . You can let things stop a moment , and it can help to let them start to brown and caramelize . To demonstrate , <URL> for sautéed baby bok choy cooks them for 7 minutes , <URL> for 9-11 minutes , <URL> cooking it for 4 minutes . The fastest of these is twice as slow as most of the the stir-fry or about the same as the slowest stir-fry . The slowest of these sauté recipes is nearly 3-5 times as slow as the stir-fry with fairly similar ingredients , especially similar to the slowest of the stir-fry recipes . But to be fair , <URL> I was , strictly speaking , abusing the term sautéing by conflating it with even more moderate temperatures ( which are more properly simply called " pan frying " ) . A kadai is a good implement to use for stir-frying , but a kadai can also be used for cooking at a slightly lower temperature . Simply using a kadai does not 100 % determine the end result will be either a stir-fry or a sauté or a gentle fry , or even deep-frying . It 's a versatile vessel . :-)
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
There are a number of sites that provide diagrams and information on the different cuts , one fairly extensive resource is <URL> Edit : Made a change due to comment .
You are spot-on : Whole-grain recipes often use more water and tend to " flow " , so using a loaf pan is typically the way to go . Loaf pans alow for a " wetter " dough . It is absolutely possible to bake a free-form whole-wheat loaf , but it needs experience with kneading , resting time and shaping to balance the water content and comparatively low gluten . Also , for the final rise you had better not rest it on the counter , but in a floured basket ( in a pinch , a bowl will do ) to avoid the " flattening " effect you noticed . Bake in a very hot , well-preheated oven on a hot pizza stone or in a hot dutch oven to encourage proper crust formation and a good oven spring in a humid environment . ( Unless you are going for the solid " Pumpernickel " type , but that would be in a loaf pan anyway . ) So find another recipe ( or experiment yourself if you have the experience ) and you are good to go . I have successfully worked with high water content ( up to 80 % ) , but always with a poolish/pre-fermentation with a long slow rise to " soften " the whole-wheat and get the enzymes going . Doing a few rounds of stretch-and-fold during the first rise helps to align and strengthen the gluten structures ( and a tablespoon or two of additional gluten ( " vital wheat gluten " ) is a good trick up your baker 's sleeve as well ... ) . Sourdough is optional if you are baking wheat-only , but if you use rye , you should definitively look into that subject as well . If your main goal is n't a whole-grain loaf , use a classic " Artisan bread " - type recipe , and start exchanging some of the white bread flour with equal parts of whole wheat flour ( and - optionally - add some gluten ) . Find your personal ratio where the result satisfies you . For 20-30 % whole-wheat you wo n't notice much of a difference , with 50 % your loaf will get denser and possibly need some " tweaking " , e.g. a splash of extra water . The " long-cold-rise-with-very-little-yeast " - types are the most flexible in my experience . ( The oil is n't a problem . )
They 're rather different . Gyros are Greek in origin . They are simply meat , tomatoes , onion , and tzatziki sauce on pita . In Greece the meat is typically pork ( never had one ) . In America , specifically here in Chicago ( their local origin ) , the meat is a combination of beef &amp; lamb . Shwawarma is Middle Eastern in origin . The possible toppings are much more diverse , and can include : tahini , tabouli , fattoush , cucumber , and hummus . Tzatziki is n't typically used , at least not in America . The meat is also never pork , it can be lamb , beef or chicken . They owe their similarities to their common Turkish ancestor the <URL> . See also : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There are many styles of burger , so there is no single answer . Steamed sliders are going to have different constraints than a smashed burger compared to a pub style burger . For burgers that are griddled ( for the purposes of this post , cooked on a hot , flat surface ) , the main issue is how much heat can get into the burger , and how fast ; secondarily , there are issues of sticking and general maintainability . Some hamburger cooking methods rely on sustainable , very high heat to sear the outside of the burger , and give a good crust , even while maintaining a less cooked intererior . This is dependent mostly on the total thermal mass of the pan . Stone - Lots of mass , but low thermal mass . Does n't transmit heat very fast . Also requires considerable care and maintenance to prevent sticking . Pan - There are so many types , it is hard to give a single characterization . Thicker , heavier metal tends to be better . See <URL> for some general advice . Cast Iron - Generally has high weight , and very good thermal conductivity ( compared to any non-metal ) , so often ideal for high temperature searing of hamburgers . Requires seasoning and maintenance . Charcoal ( or propane ) grill -- can develop extremely hot radiant heat , which is ideal for some forms of burger cookery , but can not be done inside . However , there are so many different types of tools and styles of burger , the quality of outcome is going to depend on your skill , what you are trying to achieve , and how you use the equipment you have as much as the specific pan that you use . Similarly , the flavor is going to depend , not only on how you cook ( which can develop the seared , brown , meaty flavors ) , but how you season the meat , and the quality of meat you start with . This is again as important as the particularly pan that you might use .
The purpose of all kneading techniques is the same : as @rumtscho wrote , to stretch and align strands of gluten . The traditional kneading method is to fold the mass of dough on itself , press it together with the palm of the hand , turn , and repeat . With very high hydration doughs this is impossible because the dough will hopelessly adhere to the hands . The technique is , therefore , modified to reduce hand contact with the dough as much as possible . A dough scraper is used to gather and fold the dough which is laid over on itself instead of being pressed . The result is the same as normal kneading but only the fingertips come in contact with the dough . After just a few turns the gluten sheets will align and the dough will still be tender but much less sticky . As for why it seems more effective I can only conjecture . Gluten forms in the presence of water . Higher hydration doughs allow for faster gluten development . It is not that the folding is more effective but that kneading very wet doughs progresses faster .
There is no difference in food taste when cooking using gas or electric . Gas burns pretty cleanly so is not going to leave a flavor residue you could detect . Cooking over flame as in a barbecue or a pot over a campfire does change the flavor because of the smoke , that 's the only case I can think of where the heat source can change the flavor of the food .
The previously accepted answer contains a good link , but not any information here on Seasoned Advice , so I thought I would write out a few things from my understanding after having developed an abiding interest in Cajun foods over the past decade . Basically , <URL> is a much broader term with a longer history . While it is perhaps inaccurate to say <URL> is a ' subset ' area and culinary style , it is more geographically - and flavor-specific than just saying Creole . The history of people and region identified as Creole ( on the American continents ) goes back a long ways , and Cajun is a more recent phenomenon . Creole can also refer to other peoples and regions other than just in the South/Central parts of North America , though such use in the United States is a distant memory . In the past century , the " Cajun " term has certainly attained an independent status as a self-identified people , region , and flavor -- the last no doubt owing to the flavor potency of their offerings . Which offerings , in my opinion , when consumed , are nearly always exquisitely enjoyable examples of perfection in the experience of food .
It 's probably OK but there are a lot of variables here so from where I sit , it 's difficult to be certain . Cooking will kill most bacteria . If the soup went from the pot , hot , to the container and capped immediately , the risk of airborne bacteria getting in is reduced . It takes more than a couple bacteria to get you sick but when conditions are right , bacteria multiply exponentially in a short period of time . If the container was at 72F , that 's better than if it was at 90F ... as if it was outside in the sun . You can give it a sniff to check if it smells OK . Reheating to a boil will kill most bacteria , but depending on the specific bacteria , not all . What 's more , certain bacteria leave behind toxins that are not easily destroyed . If you have a pressure cooker , that 's the best way to kill whatever bacteria might be in there . You would need to keep it in the cooker for a period of time ... 30 minutes perhaps . Seems like a lot of trouble to go to . Dry bouillon cubes should not have any bacteria ... assuming a clean manufacturing plant . Same goes if you used dehydrated chicken . It 's more likely bacteria got in if fresh uncooked chicken was used . Unwashed hands , contaminated utensils , used hand towels , unclean work area ... all that stuff comes into play . You probably already know about cross contamination . But here 's the thing ? Why risk it ? Salmonella will not likely kill you but your stomach will be churning and you 'll be spending some time in the bathroom . There are other bad actors out there and they are worse than Mr. Sal Minella ... Staphlococcus , E. Coli , Botulinum . My answer is , to be safe , toss it .
Mincing produces smaller , more irregularly-shaped items than dicing . Dicing is generally uniform , usually 1/8 to 1/4 inch on all sides , kind of like a tiny cube . The best way to explain the size difference is visually , check out <URL> for a great picture near the top .
A mother culture is sometimes known as a starter dough and is a fermenting dough that is used to ' start ' the fermentation process in the bread you are going to make by adding a bit of the starter dough to the dough you are making . Mainly sourdough I think , but I believe you can use different mothers for different breads . The starter dough is ' fed ' flour and water to keep it alive and going , and then used everyday to make the days bread . The mother can then be kept going for many years and gives the bread made using it a distinctive flavour . At least that 's my understanding , I 'm hoping to get a more detailed picture from this and the answer to my question ... Some information <URL> and also on <URL>
First , there is no difference between seasoning and reseasoning , unless you need to do some extra work to remove rust ( see instructions below ) . In fact , for new cast iron , scouring is also usually a good idea since you need to get off whatever wax or protective oil the manufacturer or seller may have put onto the cookware . ( They do n't use cooking oil for that sort of thing , believe me . ) If you need to remove rust : use a mixture of salt and oil and scrub that hard into the rust , then rinse thoroughly in hot water . Use steel wool if necessary . Next , scour the pan completely under hot water . Do this for several minutes or until the water runs clean . I 've heard varying things about whether soap or an SOS pad is OK at this step . My personal opinion is that it 's OK , but you must wash the soap completely off before continuing with the seasoning so that your seasoning does n't taste like soap ! Coat the cookware with grease or oil . ( I do this with the whole pan , not just the cooking surface , to reduce the possibility of external rust . ) Crisco , vegetable oil , and lard all work well . Do n't pick something with a low smoking point , or too strong a flavor . Make sure it 's a light coating ... you should n't have pools of oil anywhere on your cookware . Bake your skillet in a 250-350 ° F oven for an hour . If you used liquid oil , you may want to put the cookware in upside down so excess oil drips off . But it 's good to put a cookie sheet or something underneath the cookware to catch the drips if you do ! Let the cookware cool , and wipe off any excess oil . For best results , do this two or three times , though a skillet can be satisfactory after a single treatment . To keep the seasoning happy : Do n't let the cast iron sit too long without using it ( you may notice a rancid smell or flavor if the seasoning turns bad ; I 'm not sure at what point this happens , but it 's happened to me before ) . Do n't cook anything acidic ( e.g. tomatoes ) during the first or second use of your pan . Do n't use dishwashing liquid or soap on the pan ( hot water and scrubbing only ) . After cleaning the pan after each use , wipe it lightly with another bit of oil , using simple vegetable oil . Another trick sometimes used to season Chinese woks : rub Chinese chives over the surface of the cookware when the oil is being heated ( this works best on a stovetop , not in the oven ) . The juice of the chive has sulfur compounds that help remove remaining flavor from the previous coating of the cookware . Be aware that this technique really kicks up a lot of steam and smoke . I 've never tried it on cast iron skillets , but I 'd be curious if anyone out there has .
<URL> is a style / kind of a sauce that originated in Napoli usually made with tomatoes , garlic , herbs , and onions . A spaghetti sauce only says where to sauce is used ( obviously on <URL> ) but does n't say anything about what the sauce is exactly like . There are <URL> which are basically spaghetti + sauce : <URL> -- which literally translates to " spaghetti mariner 's style " <URL> -- " spaghetti with garlic and oil " , originated in Napoli <URL> -- " spaghetti whore-style " <URL> -- " spaghetti coal worker 's style " and , uhmmm ... <URL> -- an Italian-American invention
I 've never really considered there to be a real difference between sautéing and frying . They both mean to cook in a hot pan with a little bit of fat . However there is n't a lot of consistency online . It does n't look like there 's any sort of definitive answer here . Some points of view : <URL> , although frying might involve slightly more oil . The terms are essentially interchangeable . This is the top hit on a google search " sauteing frying " ( although this question is on the first page ! ) . <URL> , sautéing involves jumping the food while frying involves a little more oil and less flipping or stiring of the food . Here 's <URL> for this definition . This definition makes a delineation between pan frying and shallow frying . <URL> and involves partially submerging the food in oil . Food is normally breaded first . There 's no distinction between frying and shallow frying . This is Martha Stewart 's definition . As you can see , it 's really all over the map , and that was just from the first page of the google results . I think we 're getting in to issues with language changing beneath us . However , I think the safest bet is probably that sautéing involves a lot of stirring , frying does n't , and I should consider refining my own definitions . Caramelizing ( which fortunately does n't have any of the same confusion ) is a process that happens during cooking when sugar oxidizes . There are many different ways that you can achieve this effect . One of the ways is to sauté or fry ( depending on your definition ) something until the water sweats out and the remaining sugar heats up . So the answer is that you are caramelizing the onions by sautéing ( or maybe frying ) them .
A cooling rack serves two primary purposes . First , it allows the cookies ( or other baked good ) to cool faster by letting air circulate completely around the cookie . Second , it prevents the steam escaping from the cookies from soaking the bottoms , and other cookies placed on top .
I 've never heard of milk being used to season a pan and so I am a little skeptical of it . Pan seasoning is always done with fat that is heated until it polymerizes . This creates a very hard non-stick surface that makes cooking easier and protects the pan from rust . See this question for more about how to season your pan : <URL> See the article linked in one of the answers : <URL> This process , while slightly more labor intensive , produces the best seasonings I 've ever seen .
Just as with kneading , stirring develops the gluten in the flour . over-mixing batter is a culinary no-no ( fr . non-non ) . Batters are frequently rested in the refrigerator so the gluten can relax . Foods fried in batter that has been overworked and deprived of adequate rest is like a chef exposed to the same conditions -- tough and tired . Whole wheat flour has considerable difficulty developing its gluten potential because when the outer coat ( bran ) is ground up and combined with the starchy endosperm , sharp particles of bran chop up the strands of gluten as they attempt to form . So the very quality that makes whole wheat flour such a ' pain ' in the ass for bread making makes it highly useful for batters . Whole wheat has practically become my default flour . It 's fine for dusting food articles on their way to the sauté pan , and for making roux . But bear in mind that you may need to use a little more roux than before to achieve a given degree of thickening . That 's because the bran coat displaces a small portion of the starchy endosperm .
end question
start question
Replace the potatoes in a corned beef hash with something that is n't starchy ?
I have used diced turnips in dishes as a replacement for potatoes . That may work if you enjoy eating turnips . Of course the taste will be much different than potatoes . According to Wikipedia ( eep , I know ... but just for a rough idea ) : 100 grams of . . Turnips 7g carbs Potatoes 17g carbs
Yes . It 's much more fun to cook with gas , and the way I see it , any incentive I can provide for myself to cook good food at home is a major net positive in quality of life . The setup I have is three gas burners and one electric stove top element , and an electric oven . The electric stove top really comes in handy when reducing stocks or making long-cooking soups and stews , and it can significantly reduce the amount of gas you use in cooking . For oven I would definitely go electric . See the <URL> question . I have one 5 kg liquid gas bottle stashed under the sink , and it lasts 3-4 months of heavy daily cooking for two , maybe 6 months in the summer when I eat more salads etc. . In addition I have another 2kg bottle for backup if I run out of gas in the middle of cooking , and for the day or so it takes me to haul another bottle from the store . Having a smaller backup bottle does n't waste too much space . I 've been considering upgrading to a 11kg composite bottle , which I expect to last 10 months to a year , and it 's way more economical . So far though the convenience of having a smaller bottle I can carry to the store for changing without a sweat has been great .
Soy sauce is pretty salty . It sounds like a great deal of water diffused out of your chicken and into the marinade , which significantly changed the texture of the meat . It 's not uncommon to do something like this on purpose . When you make gravlax , for example , you cover a piece of salmon with quite a bit of salt and refrigerate it for a day or two . The salt draws out a lot of moisture , causing the fish to firm up considerably . Even though your soy sauce marinade was liquid , it still had a much higher salt concentration ( or to think of it another way , a much lower water concentration ) than the chicken , and would have had the same effect .
( Disregard previous version : I did not notice this recipe had no wheat flour . ) This recipe gets all of its structure from oats . Instant oats are pre-hydrolized , so that they cook faster . Regular oats are just the natural oat , perhaps cut , and rolled flat . They need more moisture and time to hydrolize . The recipe will probably work , perhaps with a slightly different texture . They may bake faster due to the fact that the oats are already hydrolyzed . If you choose recipe where the structure comes from wheat flour , the type of oats will matter less .
I think the toffee potatoes in the article must be Brune kartofler ; the literal translation is " brown potatoes " . They are simply small potatoes covered in caramelized sugar . The photo Ocaasi links to are potatoes gone terribly wrong . I think the photo caption is ironic . They are a traditional side dish for any christmas meal with pork roast or duck . Here is a video that shows how they are made : <URL> . The recipe is as follows : Boil small potatoes . Peel them . Distribute sugar evenly in the pan . Warm until the sugar caramelizes . Add butter in small pieces ( amount of butter and sugar are equal ) . When the butter is incorporated add the potatoes . Distribute the caramel over the potates . After 10 minutes the potatoes are done . They should now have a nice layer of caramel around them .
You 're basing this question on an incorrect answer . Like you said , the boiling temperature of water is lower at higher altitudes , which means it takes longer to cook things in boiling water , due to the lower temperature . There 's no benefit that I 'm aware of in intentionally lowering the boiling point of water ( which a pinch of salt does not do , anyway ) . If you wanted to cook something in water at a lower temperature , you can always just use less heat to keep it below the boiling point . Put another way , water that is boiling at 190 & deg ; F does not cook food at the same rate that water boiling at 212 & deg ; F does , even though they are both boiling .
It depends on how moist you like your jerky . A typical jerky loses half of its starting weight in moisture , so 2:1 is the proper ratio . " Low moisture " jerky can actually be 1/3 the starting weight , a 3:1 ratio . So 2-3 pounds of beef will make 1 pound of jerky .
Your clarification means a lot -- " baked " potato in the U.S. tends to be a whole potato cooked on its own , where the insides become fluffy and creamy , and is done with larger starchy white potatoes , or sweet potatoes work well , too . Roasted potatoes , on the other hand , tends to be ( in the U.S. ) be smaller " new " potatoes , waxy potatoes , or even larger starchy potatoes cut up ( eg , ' oven fries ' ) . The starchy potatoes only really hold up well when roasting if it 's very high heat or a short amount of time -- if you 're going to be cooking them with the roast as there 's going to be moisture in there , I 'd go for a waxy potato ( eg , Red Bliss ) . As for the browning -- probably coat them well with oil , and if they 're not brown enough for your liking when you pull the roast , as you 're going to have to rest it anyway , drain the meat juices , crank the oven up to somewhere around 450F ( 230C ) and leave the potatoes in for a few extra minutes . ps . yes , I know a sweet potato is n't a potato . And I also tend to use Yukon Gold for just about everything , as it makes great baked potatoes , and roasted potatoes ( although , not sure how well with a roast at the same time ) and they 're good in pot roast and stews if you do n't add them too early .
Assuming you bought a rice cooker designed by a Japanese company ( and apparently even other brands tend to meet that market 's expectations ) , the measurement is 1-gou , slightly more than 180ml , which , by no coincidence , is also the typical measure of a wooden sake , cup , and is closely associated with a historical sake bottle size ( approximately 1.8 l ) <URL> It turns out that this amount , 1 gou of dried rice , neatly corresponded to a typical serving of rice . In practice , most contemporary Japanese eat about 1.5-2 gou per day ; 1 gou of dried rice cooks up enough for 2 Japanese adults for one meal if you have several side dishes . There are other measurements that derive from the gou ( or perhaps the other way around ) , such as the koku , which was considered the amount of rice that a single person would consume over the course of a year . This is one of the human-centric forms of measurement that has survived the metric push ; you can find various examples of this in many otherwise metric-converted countries . It turns out some studies show that those metrics often make certain categories of estimation easier for people . Edited to cover the concern about matching the right amount of water : It 's worth noting that you do n't need perfect precision for the amount of water , as long as you cook with the full cycle and not one of the express cooking modes . I ca n't remember the exact scientific principle behind it , but perhaps something to do with osmotic pressure . Some people use the remarkably effective method of measuring a certain amount of space between the dried rice and the water based on the size of their forefinger segment or thumbnail . It apparently works well for almost any imaginable size of pan ( though you can have other problems with a pan too wide to have the rice cover the bottom ) . ( Some types of rice do prefer more water than others , but within a single type , you have a fairly flexible range for the water ratio )
This is what <URL> ( sorry , paywalled ) has to say about it : Sometimes baked potatoes can use a flavor boost . And instead of light and fluffy , most often they are dense and crumbly . We found that baking the potatoes on a bed of salt remedied these problems . Moisture that escaped the potatoes during baking was trapped in the enclosed pan , absorbed by the salt , and eventually reabsorbed by the potatoes , making their skins tender and their flesh light and fluffy . All we needed to do was fine-tune the variables . Using a hot oven and uncovering the potatoes toward the end of cooking ensured dry , crisp skin . A 13 by 9-inch baking dish provided plenty of space so that we did n't have to crowd the potatoes , and 2 1/2 cups of salt allowed us to thoroughly cover the bottom of the pan . I have found that salt roasting potatoes makes the skin crispy , without it getting hard . Like the above says , the potato itself seems fluffier . The way the salt seasons the potato is particularly nice as well . Incidentally , you can reuse the salt over and over again , so it 's not as wasteful as it might seem when you first consider the method . You 'll want to keep separate salt for things like this , though , since it picks up potato flakes and discolors a bit . EDIT The ATK method calls for covering the 9X13 baking dish ( for 4 potatoes and 2 1/2 cups of salt ) tightly with aluminum foil and roasting at 450F ( 232C ) for 1 1/4 hours . Remove foil , brush potatoes with oil , raise oven temp to 500F ( 260C ) and continue roasting for 10-20 minutes , until potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife and the skins are glossy .
First , I 'm assuming by " pesto " you mean " Pesto alla Genovese " , given your question about pine nuts . Basil , pine nuts , garlic , olive oil , and cheese is a delicious combination , but it 's only one of many " pestos " ( peste , actually ) , since pesto refers in general to any sauce which is made from crushed or pureed ingredients . Mix and match to your heart 's content . Walnuts are actually a traditional alternative to pine nuts for Pesto alla Genovese ; pine nuts have always been scarce , even in early-20th-century Italy . As a caution , though , you need to get good , fresh walnuts and make sure to get all of the skin off the nuts , or the pesto will taste bitter and rancid . Almonds could also work , although I 'd think they 'd be rather bland . The herb pastes which traditionally have crushed almonds -- such as Romanesco sauce -- include some hot pepper . Again , freshness and getting the skin off is important . I 'd think sunflower seeds would be kind of odd and oily , but you do n't know until you try . If you do , post a comment to let us know !
" Proteiny " usually indicates " umami " , the so-called " fifth flavor " after sweet , sour , bitter , and salty . It 's triggered by glutamates . Common sources of umami include beef , mushrooms , some seaweeds ( most especially nori ) , rinds of some hard cheeses ( most especially pecorino romano ) and tomato paste . I would n't be at all surprised if the store-bought jerkies you are comparing it to include monosodium glutamate , a common food additive that is essentially concentrated umami flavor .
Sounds like the technique for <URL> , from <URL> , only with hot sauce added . I do n't think it has a name other than " pan fry/sear in caramelized sugar "
In my experiment , blue potatoes were substitutable for Yukon Golds . However : Blue potatoes are smaller than Yukon Golds . Therefore , cooking time should be lessened by a between half to a third , particularly when parboiling . Rather than having the subtle creamy flavor of Yukons , Blue potatoes have a distinctly nutty flavor . This flavor may drown out more subtle flavors that are common to recipes calling for Yukon Golds .
If you can not find these ingredients , it will be hard to get this type of icing made . The first thing is the liquid glucose . If you used any old thing labelled " syrup " , chances are that it contained water , and this is what made your mix a sugar . Liquid glucose is mostly sugar , with almost no wetness to it . Substituting something very wet will not work . Things which will work instead of glucose syrup are agave syrup , treacles , corn syrup , mollasses , golden syrup and honey . You should be aware that most of those will give you a more or less strong coloring and will have a bit of taste on its own . It depends on the type of your cupcakes whether the taste fits them . Corn syrup and golden syrup will be the best alternatives , but they are also less popular around the world . The other thing is the sugar . It absolutely must be in a powdered form . Crystals wo n't work . If you have a food processor , just put the crystalized sugar in there and process it . Use it immediately , or it will fuse together due to air moisture . But you may still be able to find icing sugar . It is just another word for powdered sugar , and it is used in Middle Eastern cuisine ( your profile says Lebanon ) , for example for dusting lokum , but also in some halva recipes . If you can find a confectioner who does these things , you can ask them for a source of powdered sugar . If you can not find ingredients which produce an acceptable quality of icing , you can also try other types of icing recipes for decoration . Most do use powdered sugar for easier incorporation , but some are made with sugar dissolved in a liquid .
The <URL> has several diagrams - a current one in the main section apparently originally derived from the German wikipedia , and two others from older Russian sources . I was also able to find <URL> with another diagram , and translations of some of the cuts into English , which is helpful because the names are difficult to translate to similar English cuts via Google Translate , which simply gives anatomical terms for many of them . <URL> discussing the subject , largely from the perspective of someone who only knows the American name for the cut they are looking for .
You should refer to the discussion here : <URL> Some relevant points : MSG is found naturally in seaweed and other things . It is used to enhance the flavors it is combined with . It is completely harmless unless you are limiting your sodium intake . Check out the wikipedia article on the subject as a starting point : <URL> In short there has been no linkage to any adverse effects found in many controlled studies . As far as replacing it - You can leave it out altogether or add a little salt .
For baking potatoes Do n't just wash them , scrub them . Otherwise you 're eating dirt . No , that 's not a joke . Potatoes grow in dirt , and are usually sold coated with dirt . Yes , really . Either salt them and wrap them in tin-foil , or simply bake them on a bed of salt . Dessication of the skin is important . You 'll probably want to bake them longer and higher than most recipes say . I find 425F for 1 1/2 hours is optimal ( and 2 hours is fine ) . That results in skin which is dry , crispy , and slightly caramelized , while this inside still is fluffy ( albeit , according to some , overcooked ) .
Yes , it 's oxidation , so yes , oil will stop it happening . However , broiling the potatoes straight from the oil will not yield very good results . You are much better off par-boiling them for 3 or 4 minutes , draining them , leaving them to steam and dry out for a few minutes , then coating them in oil and seasoning , and baking them for 30-45 mins . This will yield a nice , crispy-on-the-outside-fluffy-on-the-inside result . So , if you 're boiling them you might as well put them straight in the water you 're going to use to do that .
The coating you are talking about is potato starch that is browning on the bottom of the pan , similar to what happens to roux when it is prepared . If you deglaze the pan using alcohol , it will come right off without any effort ( water works too , though more is needed ) . As for how to get the potatoes not to stick , it 's important that the pan and the oil are quite hot when the potatoes are added to the pan . As described at <URL> , the hot oil encourages a steam barrier to appear between the potatoes and the pan , temporarily protecting the potatoes from sticking and encouraging the formation of a crust that will permanently keep them from sticking . Depending on the amount of potato being cooked , the amount of oil added to the pan will have to be adjusted for thermal mass , since the addition of uncooked potatoes will cause the oil to cool down very quickly .
end question
start question
Do I add salt to my sunny side up eggs before , during , or after cooking ?
( 1 ) Taste . When you salt your eggs DOES affect taste because it affects the way your tongue comes into contact with the salt . If you salt your eggs before or during cooking , some of all of the salt dissolves in the water that is in the eggs ( raw eggs , overall , are roughly 75 % water ) and is dispersed over the surface of your eggs while they cook . When you salt your eggs after cooking , crystals of salt remain on the egg and , when these crystals come into contact with your tongue directly , they produce a brighter salty taste . So basically , the way your tongue registers saltiness depends on concentration , not just amount . Think about how differently a pinch of salt tastes directly on the tongue as opposed to the way that same pinch would taste if dissolved in a drop of water . So ... the tongue registers a brighter salt taste when it comes in contact with salt directly . That does n't mean that salting eggs after cooking is better - it means that it affects perception of salt differently . Go with whichever you prefer personally . ( 2 ) Texture . Whenever I have a question about food science , I consult Harold McGee 's book " On Food and Cooking , The Science and Lore of the Kitchen . " He states unequivocally that salt DOES NOT toughen eggs . According to McGee , the only egg preparation that is harmed by the addition of salt is and egg white foam ( whipped egg whites ) . So from the standpoint of texture , salt whenever you feel called to do so . Controlling the heat when you fry an egg is the single more important factor in determining the texture of your cooked eggs .
Please see the full answer to <URL> , excerpt below : When you break the eggs into the pan , you will notice that the yolks are surrounded by a higher rounded portion of whites . The secret is to take your fingers and pinch this pile of whites gently until it breaks and the whites in this membrane will redistribute evenly in the pan . From your description , the chef most likely cracked the eggs into a bowl rather than directly into the pan , but that should n't make any difference .
Drain them first . Your concerns are spot-on , and if you measured and then drained them , you would end up with less than 1 cup of yams . Generally , you can tell be cause the recipe called for 1 cup of drained yams , not 1 cup of yams in their sauce . Drain them , but double check that you wo n't need the liquid for anything later on in the recipe ... That 's a mistake I 've made too many times with canned foods .
The same logic applies . The smaller the temperature difference between uncooked and cooked , the easier it will be to get an even amount of cooking all the way through . Especially with a fast method of cooking like broiling .
In making bread or pizza dough , there is no step called " leavening . " While there is some variation in method , depending on whether a preferment is used , in general , the active culture ( whether it is sourdough starter , commercial yeast , or a combination ) is added very early in the development of the dough . The dough is then kneaded to develop gluten structure , and proofed to allow flavor to develop . This is normally described as allowing it to rest until it is doubled in bulk . Then , it is " punched down " , deflating most of the rise that happened during the proofing stage , and shaped into its final shape , and possibly placed into a mold or form . It then rises again to a greater or lesser extent before baking begins . There is no before or after the leavening .
Salt is not necessary , it 's just a flavour thing , a common personal preference I suspect you 'll get a saltier taste by putting it in the water , than putting it in the sauce for the same volume of salt Hot water is not necessary too , you can prepare dried pasta with cold water . But it does n't taste right to me , so does salt less pasta :-)
Cooks Illustrated apparently <URL> to a lab for analysis : We were also interested in finding out how much sodium penetrates during the process . To answer the question , we brined natural pork chops and boneless , skinless chicken breasts in standard quick-brine solutions of 1/2 cup table salt dissolved in 2 quarts of cold water . After 30 minutes , we removed the pork and chicken , patted them dry , and cooked them in different skillets . We also cooked an " enhanced " pork chop ( injected with a saltwater solution ) and a kosher chicken breast that had been salted during processing . We sent the samples to a food lab to measure sodium content . The brined pork chops had a sodium content of 245 milligrams per 100 grams of meat ( just under 1/8 teaspoon per serving ) ; the enhanced pork had a bit more , with 268 milligrams . The kosher chicken breast weighed in at 252 milligrams of sodium . The brined chicken came in with the most sodium of all , at 353 milligrams ( just over 1/8 teaspoon per serving ) . The USDA recommends limiting your daily sodium intake to 2,300 milligrams , about 1 teaspoon . Why did the chicken absorb more salt during brining than the pork ? The loose white muscle fibers in chicken absorb salt water more quickly than the tighter muscle fibers in pork .
The easiest way is just like this . <URL> but with broken yolks and more time . This pan would would be perfect if it had a lid that fits , but this lid will be do the trick . Your pan should be non-stick with sloping sides , 8 " is perfect for 2 eggs , but larger is fine too . I set the heat to one click below medium [ YMMV * ] , and give the burner and pan a good 2 minutes to heat up . Add the butter and let it reach the point that it stops sizzling . When the butter stops sizzling , add the eggs . To keep track for this answer , I set my timer at this point . Let them cook uncovered until the bottom is opaque , about 1 minute . Add about 1 tablespoon of water and cover . So far everything is just like the prior answer for sunny side up eggs . Let the eggs steam until they start to get a bit of white on top , about 1 more minute . Now poke the yolks and use a spoon to baste the top of the eggs with hot butter , replace the lid . Let them cook until they are as hard as you like them . Mine looked just about done at 3.5 minutes . Had I just let them cook one more minute , covered , they would have been fine and ready to plate . You do n't need to flip . If you do choose to flip , do n't do it until they eggs are very close to being done . You can use a spatula if you like , but I much prefer the pan-flip . He demonstrates it here at 3:05 . <URL> Just be sure that your eggs are easily sliding around before you flip . The guy in the video makes it seem harder than it is . Since your yolks are already broken , it 's really super easy if you have a non-stick pan with sloping sides and plenty of butter . So I flipped at 3.5 minutes , then covered and let them go for 30 more seconds . Pro trick : before you plate the eggs , use a paper towel to wipe any extra butter out of the pan , then just tilt the eggs out of the pan onto the plate , that makes for a tidy presentation . I never touched a spatula to these eggs . * YMMV Your Mileage May Vary
This is the nature of meringue : they will start to fall apart as soon as you stop whipping . There are a few tricks to help it hold longer , but in general you want to have EVERYTHING ready to go as soon as the meringue is whipped . To help stabilize the meringue you can : Use a copper or SILVER-plated bowl to whip , or add a tiny amount of powdered copper supplement from a health food store Acidify it slightly : add 1/8 tsp cream of tartar or 1/2 tsp lemon juice per white , before beating Let the bowl warm to room temperature , which increases the ability of the whites to take in air Ensure there is absolutely no yolk in with the whites . The fat greatly destabilizes the foam . Now for WHY these tricks work : I 'm going to quote heavily from Harold McGee 's " On Food and Cooking " , as it does a wonderful job explaining meringues and other whipped egg whites : Like the head on a beer or a cappucino , an egg foam is a liquid -- the white -- filled with a gas -- air -- in such a way that the mixuture of liquid and gas keeps its shape , like a solid . It 's a mass of bubbles , with air inside each bubble , and the white spread out into a thin film to form the bubble walls . And the makeup of these liquid walls determines how long a foam can stand up . Pure water has such a strong surface tension -- such strong attractive forces among its molecules -- that it immediately starts to pull itself together into a compact puddle ; and it 's so runny that it puddles almost immediately . The many nonwater molecules in egg white both reduce the surface tension of the water they float in , and make it less runny , and thus allow the bubbles to survive long enough to accumulate in a sizeable mass . What gives the mass of foam a useful kitchen lifetime is the white 's team of proteins . Whisking unfolds these proteins , primarily globulins and ovotranferrin , which bond to each other and stabilize the bubble walls . Cooking will evaporate the water and unfold ovoalbumin , creating a rigid and permanent protein network . However , the same proteins can ALSO destabilize the foam if they bond too tightly . " The protein network begins to collapse when too many of these bonds accumulate and the proteins cluster together too tightly " ( page 102 ) . In the case of egg proteins , one of the strongest bonds is a disulfide bond between the sulfur-containing amino acids , cysteine and methionine . Eggs contain copious quantities of these amino acids , which are why they produce such a potent stench when they spoil ; the sulfur is converted to malodorous sulfur compounds , particularly hydrogen sulfide . Copper , silver , and acids stabilize the egg foam by preventing the formation of these disulfide bonds . To quote Harold McGee ( page 103 ) : It turns out that along with a few other metals , copper has the useful tendency to form extremely tight bonds with reactive sulfur groups : so tight that the sulfur is essentially preventing from reacting with anything else . So the presence of copper in foaming eggs whites essentially eliminates the strongest kind of protein bond that can form , and makes it harder for the proteins to embrace each other too tightly . McGee also notes that silver has the same property of inhibiting disulfide bonding . Acid achieves the same goal of reducing disulfide bonding , but works slightly differently : The sulfur bonds form when the sulfur-hydrogen ( S-H ) groups on two different protein molecules shed their hydrogens and form a sulfur-sulfur ( S-S ) connection with each other . The addition of an acid boosts the number of free-floating hydrogen ( H ) ions in the egg white , which makes it much harder for the S-H groups to shed their own H , and so slows the sulfur bonding down to a crawl .
I 've been told that the shiny side should go on the inside for cooking , and the outside for freezing . In other words , do you want to reflect the heat into the food , or away from the food ? However , common sense ( which fails very often ) tells me that with the temperature ranges involved , any benefit is marginal , if it exists at all . The only time it might matter , is if you were trying to warm something up in the sun . Then it might make a difference . EDIT : From The Straight Dope : The truth is that the shiny side is not treated with a dangerous chemical . Mineral oil is used as a lubricant during the rolling process , some trace of which may remain on the finished foil -- but it 's not dangerous . The shiny side is shiny because of the way foil is made . During the last pass through the rolling mill , a double thickness of foil is run between the rollers . The side of each sheet that comes in contact with the polished steel rollers comes out shiny . The other side has a matte finish . <URL> ALSO The official word from the Reynolds aluminum people is as follows : " It makes little difference which side of the Reynolds Wrap aluminum foil you use -- both sides do the same fine job of cooking , freezing , and storing food . There is a slight difference in the reflectivity of the two sides , but it is so slight that laboratory instruments are required to measure it . "
In general you need to consider the purpose of the ingredient , and what would happen to it during the cooking that it 's missed . For example , there 's no point stirring a spoonful of flour into a sauce after cooking , since the flour needs heat in order to thicken the sauce . In the case of the tomato paste , not much will happen to that particular ingredient during cooking . It may have caramelised a little , depending on the cooking method . It would have infused more deeply into some of the other ingredients . But these are subtle things . Taste your finished product . If you feel it would benefit from an extra boost of tomato flavour , by all means stir in some tomato paste .
What happens is not so different than when you do add at boil . You just have less control over the perfectly cooked point . At sea level , water boils at 100 & deg ; C and 212 & deg ; F. However , when you add your room temperature ( or from the fridge at 4 & deg ; C temperature ) , the water temperature drops . How much you say ? well it depends mostly on the weight of water and the weight of your vegetables . If you add 1lb of vegetable from the fridge to 4 quart of boiling water , you 'll end up with a mix that is maybe around 85 & deg ; C ( 185 & deg ; F ) . At this point the stove tries to take the new mix back up to boiling point and your vegetables continue to cook . By adding the vegetables before boiling point , you 'll reduced the mixed temperature even further . At any given temperature , different vegetables will take a certain amount of time to cook . Since the temperature here is going up and down , knowing exactly when they 're prefect gets much harder , that 's why the recipes try to standardize on the boiling water at x minutes thing . That said , some food when taken through a range of temperature ( say cold to hot ) will have different components in them denature at different times and some things dissolving into the water before cooking begins . This sequence might end up with unpleasant and unsightly things released into the water and the food not holding together well . the bottom line : If you were close to boiling when you added food , do n't worry about it . If you put the food in cold water then brought to boil , you 're looking at a different recipe :)
I 've heard the same recommendation before - the idea is that if asparagus is very thick ( say , 1/2 inch or more in diameter ) , and if the bottom is much thicker than the top of the spear , then peeling it will help it to cook more evenly . If you have particularly thick asparagus that seem tough , you may want to peel the bottom section . First , chop or snap off the bottom inch or so , as it will most likely be inedibly tough . Then peel the next 2-3 inches up . You 'll want to lay the asparagus down on a flat surface to do so , so as not to snap it while peeling . I 've never had asparagus from a grocery store that was tough enough to warrant this , but it can happen with homegrown , for whatever reason .
Per Harold McGee , in On Food and Cooking ( page 86 of the 2004 edition ) , there is no truth to this common assertion . Acids and salt do pretty much the same thing to egg proteins . They get the proteins together sooner , but they do n't let them get as close together . That is , acids and salt make eggs thicken and coagulate at a lower temperature , but actually produce a more tender texture . McGee explains that the salt separates into ions , which cluster around the charged regions of the egg proteins , allowing them to get closer before being denatured because they do n't repel each other . This causes them to bond together earlier , before they become unfurled and could form tighter ( and thus tougher networks ) . McGee concludes : So eggs end up more tender when salted , and especially when acidified . So salt them when you beat them , or in the pan , in practice it will make little difference compared to many other factors , such as the temperature and technique with which you cook them .
The easiest and best solution for the problem is to not dissolve it into water in the first place . Powdered sweetener keeps indefinitely . Dissolved sweetener falls smack in the middle of <URL> , so you have converted a shelf stable food into an unstable one . Assuming that you want to keep it at room temperature , there is not that much you can do . You can reduce the water , but I do n't know enough about the solubility of sucralose , it is possible that it is still susceptible to mold at the saturation point , just like sugar . You could try acidifying it sufficiently to stop the mold from growing . But then it will taste much less sweet , so you will have to add a much larger amount to your drink , several time the amount you normally use . Alternatively , you can acidify it less and use sodium benzoate as a preservative . It is normally used for industrially produced food , so I can not suggest the correct ratios of acid to sucralose to sodium benzoate . But note that simply mixing them in any old way wo n't give you a safe product , you may need industrial recipes for correct usage .
The absolute time a stock will take depends on the quantity of stock you are making and also on the ratio of solids to liquid with which you started ( along with the strength of your burner , the starting temperature of the water , the geometry of your pot , ... ) . Intentional variation is also possible depending on your intended use . The best advice I 've heard comes from Judy Rodgers in the Zuni Cafe Cookbook : taste the stock often as it cooks , more and more freqently as it starts to taste good . When it does n't taste better than the last time you checked , it 's done .
The quote in your question is clearly aimed at eggs that are mixed ( ie omelettes , scrambled eggs etc ) before cooking , not for whole eggs sunny side up . The benefits of adding more water is to slow down the cooking of those mixed eggs . If you add a liquid , water or milk , you 'll be poaching the eggs rather than frying them in fat or oil as most sunny side up eggs are cooked . If poaching is what you want to do , there 's plenty of instructions on how to do this out on the web . Poached eggs are equally as good if not nicer than fried ' sunny side up ' ones in my opinion .
It rather depends on the temperature of the room . Where I live , in the summer it gets hot and humid , and they should n't be out on the counter during the day , or they ferment . In winter ( like spring in the northern US , 45-70 farenheit ) they can be out for two days with no problem . My recommendation would be to soak overnight for morning use , or to soak during the day for evening use . It also helps to change the water every few hours , though this is n't critical . If you refrigerate them with the water , you get an extra half-day . Refrigerating drained gets another day or so . Either way , they should always be shaded , never in direct sunlight . If they do spoil , you 'll know , as they 'll have a sour/yeasty smell to them .
Certainly , no chorizo skin is going to poison you . On that basis , if you 're happy with your results , then carry on . I have used chorizo where the papery skin peels off quite easily -- but I have never seen a need to remove it .
To prevent this from happening , apart from what <URL> , check the temperature with a thermometer . Eggs start coagulating around 60ºC . If you keep the temperature around 55ºC you are pasteurizing the eggs at the same time .
end question
start question
How can I prevent a thick layer of tikka marinade on my chicken ?
Use a higher chicken-to-marinade ratio , so a small amount of chicken is n't sitting in masses of marinade . If you see chicken tikka marinading in a restaurant , you 'll note that is only lightly coated . Failing 1. , simply wipe off the excess marinade before cooking .
Apply heat . It 's not quite what you were looking for , but it 's probably the only solution that wo n't involve adding chemicals . Basically , a set amount of milk can hold a specific amount of chocolate in suspension . The hotter it is ( below boiling ) , the more it can hold . That 's why as the milk cools , the chocolate it can no longer hold falls to the bottom of the cup . The three options are : Keep it warm , by using a mug warmer ( like Catija suggested ) . If it does n't cool , it wo n't lose the ability to hold the chocolate . Start with less chocolate , that way , it wo n't be too much for the milk when it 's cooling . Obviously , this will affect the flavour . Add chemical additives , like emulsifiers , which will allow the milk to hold more chocolate . As I said at the beginning , I think the best option is the first one . Apply heat .
Cook on a lower heat , in a pan with a thicker base , to distribute the heat . Check every now and again , and add water if the soup has become too thick . Also , the occasional stir can only help . Consider buying a slow cooker -- there are very cheap models that do the job well .
The most common reason for leakage with Cordon Bleu Chicken is that the packets are too thick , which makes it impossible to get a perfect fold ; you need to pound the breasts very thin - less than 1/2 " , maybe a little more than 1/4 " . The other " trick " is to make a small cut along the folded edge of the breast after you fold and seal the packets , which essentially makes it almost like a sandwich ; the top and bottom parts can move independently and you do n't have tension trying to pull the top piece away . Just do n't cut so deep that you cause an immediate leak ; if you 've pounded the breast to 1/3 " thickness , then your cut should be no more than about 1/8 " . If you do it this way , you should n't even need to use toothpicks ; I never do , and I have n't sprung a single leak in my last 20 or so preparations .
As SAJ14SAJ said , the best solution is to simply not live in a place like that - it can be a bit dangerous . But since you 're there , about the only thing you can do is get a decent fan and use it to direct air out of the kitchen toward rooms with open windows . Depending on the layout ( and the fans ) you may need multiple fans , and might want one of them to be a box fan in the window helping push air out . For things you think may be smoky , you might also consider cooking outside if possible , on a hot plate , a camping stove , or a small grill . ( Or you could just not do them at all . )
Use the pasta cooking techniques in this answer : <URL> Bring just enough water to cover the pasta to a boil , put the lid on and let it sit . Use less water , less energy , and it ca n't boil over if it 's not boiling .
The recipes that I have seen did n't have much sugar and it is universally in the dressing . The dressings are mayonnaise based and a small amount of sugar gives them another facet to their flavor . This dressing reminds me of a simple coleslaw dressing which will include the mayo and sugar as well as buttermilk and lemon . Because the sugar is in the dressing it will apply to all the layers equally so there is no particular layer that should be sweetened more than the others . Keep in mind that this salad is southern cuisine which tends to value flavor over nutrition . Sometimes to a fault , of course . The sugar serves no mechanical purpose . It will eventually pull some the liquid out of the vegetables but , as there is so little and the dressing is not mixed in , the effect would be negligible . If you prefer the salad to be less sweet and are not worried about authenticity feel free to leave the sugar out . Alternatively if you would like to throw authenticity to the wind altogether you could leave in the sugar and add buttermilk and lemon juice to the dressing and give the salad more of a coleslaw-like zing .
There is some slight confusion but there are two methods for this . You either cook the egg separately , which is how they make BiBimBop or you poach or bake the eggs if you cook the egg on top of your food . With the latter method , the eggs generally cook very quickly so it does n't take a lot of time but you are still cooking the egg using a heat source , you are not relying on the food to cook the egg for you . When you make BiBimBop using a whole egg , you fry the egg in a pan before you place it on top of the food . This is why the egg often has a bit of browning around the edges of the white . Here 's an image of a BiBimBop with a whole egg : <URL> There is a " how to make BiBimBop " video <URL> that shows ( around 8:50 in ) that you cook the egg separately and place it on top of the finished bowl . The other option is to bake or poach the egg by placing them on top of the food ( which is still on the stove ) and then covering the pan ( or putting it in the oven ) to essentially steam the egg , which is often used for hash . This gives a different final product than frying the egg and placing it on top , as the steam will cook the top of the egg while the still-cooking food heats the bottom . Here 's a <URL> of Venison Hash where they use this method at around 5:05 . And here 's a <URL> that uses the oven version of this method . <URL>
Despite the myths ( and some here will disagree with me ) , the large flavor molecules in brines do not penetrate into meats more than a milimeter or two at the surface . This is not the same with the salt , which will slowly migrate throughout the body of the cut . Marinades can add flavor , but it is again a surface treatment , mostly from the marinade literally sticking to the surface of the meat . Mops are the same idea . As you have mentioned , you can inject a liquid into the meat , and then it is inside , but it will not penetrate past where it is injected . Therefore , your best plan , depending on what the star ingredient you must use is , is to find a way to get it more intensely applied to the surface of the meat . Depending on what you have , this may be to : Incorporate it into your dry rub Incorporate it into your mop ; for liquids , possibly reducing it first ( for example , an ale ) to intensify the flavor without the bulk from the liquid Reduce it and inject it , knowing that the flavor will pretty much stay where it is injected Rules permitting , incorporate it into your sauce ( again , possibly reducing it for intensity ) The more bulk of the substance you can get to adhere to the meat , or inject into the meat , through these methods , the more powerful the affect will be . Since taste is closely related to aroma , I would suggest sticking to exterior treatments such as rubs and mops , where the aroma will trigger the taste perception more directly .
The yellow color could be just a sign of what it was fed . According to the USDA : THE COLOR OF POULTRY What is the usual color of raw poultry ? Raw poultry can vary from a bluish-white to yellow . All of these colors are normal and are a direct result of breed , exercise , age , and/or diet . Younger poultry has less fat under the skin , which can cause the bluish cast , and the yellow skin could be a result of marigolds in the feed . You could have an older chicken that had marigolds in what it was fed . On the flip side , I was always taught that if any meat smells bad , it is n't good to eat . If it was my chicken in the kitchen , I would take it back to the store or just throw it out . If you are still debating on if it is good to eat , you could always take it back to the store where you purchased it , or contact the <URL> .
You are n't actually trying to cook anything . When you heat a solution , it makes dissolving a solid in to that solution much easier . So you can dissolve more sugar in to hot water than cold water . With a 1:1 ratio , you would n't be able to get all the sugar in to solution with cold water . So , you heat the water to allow more sugar to become part of the solution . So the answer is , as soon as there is no visible sugar in the water , you are done . If you were to cook it for longer , you would reduce the syrup , increasing the concentration of sugar in the solution . You 'd have to reduce it an awful lot before you burnt this . However , if you reduce it too much , then the liquid will become solid when it is cooled . Both of those would probably qualify as " over cooked " . Here 's a nice <URL> . Interestingly , they say that sugar has such high solubility in water that you can get 1800g in to 1L . Using <URL> , that 's approximately 7.5 cups of sugar in 1L of water . 1L = 4.2 cups , so you can get ~ 1.8 Cups of sugar in to 1 cup of water ( under ideal circumstances ) . So , if you are actually interested in cooking your water off to get a more sugary syrup , you ca n't reduce the water to less than 1 / 1.8 = or 55 % of the original volume . However , if you do want a ratio higher that 1:1 , then I would suggest introducing the appropriate amount of sugar in the first place and stopping when the sugar is dissolved rather than using less sugar and cooking the liquid down , as the first approach is much more precise . ( for purposes of this answer , I have ignored the possibility of super saturating the syrup , as that would be essentially useless for cooking ... although it would be funny )
The answer is almost certainly yes . The almost is because I have n't made pita bread this way - but I have seen chapati made on a skillet , and under the right conditions it will puff up , even into one big pocket - so pan cooking does n't specifically preclude that kind of development . Beyond the need for it to puff up into the pocket , I do n't imagine pan-cooking pita bread is that much different form other kinds of pan-cooked flat-breads . it looks like <URL> is preferred , since it can be heated very hot and has the thermal mass to hold the heat steady while the pitas are cooking - but I honestly expect you can make them with any skillet you have on hand . Stove-top pitas may be a touch drier , slightly <URL> ( and toasty-flavor ) than oven-baked pitas , because they 're in direct contact with the heat , instead of being cooked by radiant heat . You can press the surface gently with a clean towel to <URL> if it is n't forming quickly or fully enough for your tastes .
The oil needs to be slowly added to the egg , vinegar , and lemon juice base while being vigorously whisked . Only add more when the previous amount has been fully incorporated . I generally add the oil 1/4 cup at a time , dripping it very slowly into the base . Once the initial 1/4 cup has been added and emulsified it becomes a lot easier to incorporate the rest , and you can add it slightly faster , but still 1/4 cup at a time . This is vastly simpler in a food processor . I have a <URL> which has a little white pusher piece with a drip-hole in it . You can simply add the oil into this 1/4 cup at a time , it will slowly drip into the mix . Use the metal blade attachment .
When you buy it , the fenugreek is almost certainly still alive , even if the roots have been cut off . It continues to respire and metabolize , or tries to . The leaves almost certainly wilted because the plant had no water . Treat it like flowers if you are going to hold it for a more than a day or two , by giving it water at the roots or root end of the stems ( if you have no roots , again like flowers , trim off the bottom of the stem , to allow a fresh surface to absorb the water ) . This technique also works with celery ( very well , in fact ) , parsley , cilantro ( eeew !!! ) and so on .
There has been a belief , at times wildly popular , the using a half full can of beer ( or soda , or other beverage ) as a base when barbqecuing or roasting chicken helps keep it moist , and imparts flavor . This is <URL> . As Meathead says in the linked article : No way the beer adds moisture . The method is supposed to add moisture to the meat . But the can is inserted half way up the cavity and blocks the meat from contact with moisture . It acts like a condom . so any vapor that escapes the top of the can , and there is n't much , will only come in contact with the upper half of the cavity . The surface area of the exterior of the bird is vastly greater than the surface area of the cavity , and after blocking off half the cavity with the can , there is very little surface area for flavor to penetrate . He also explains in detail why beer can not add much flavor , if any -- there are very few flavorful ingredients in beer as a proportion of the whole which is mostly water . While I am not familiar with Irn Bru , I imagine that most or all of the logic still applies .
Most bakers refer to this as a starter and it is extremely easy to keep up . You will need a plastic bag or a jar to keep it in , a cup of warm water , and some flour . You can either grow some wild yeast or add a particular strain to the growth solution depending what you are trying to do with the yeast . Once you do that , just leave it someplace warm but not over 100 degree F . Then once a day , you feed the yeast by removing half and adding back a half cup of flour and a half cup of water . Once it starts foaming remove to the fridge and remember to feed once a week . It will be with you for the rest of the your time on earth . Also , that half you take out when you feed it ? Makes a great gift to other baking or cooking friends . Also , if you devolop a dark smelly liquid , just stir it back in , it is normal and nothing to worry about .
Do n't cook the chicken pieces for so long . Add them ten or twenty minutes before serving . For that matter , I would n't simmer the aromatics for that long either . Do the long simmer and cooking to make the chicken stock , then strain the now-tasteless and mushy expended bits from the flavorful stock . Heat the stock and add the sweated veggies , diced chicken , and any pasta/rice/dumplings desired but only cook briefly before serving .
I have been in this situation before and I did try freezing it . When I used it later on , it did taste and feel OK , but as you would expect , not the real fresh taste . I do not think the ingredients in the marinade will have any effect while it is frozen . While thawing , the yogurt might split , leaving more than usual water , but that shouldnt alter much of the outcome . It will be still good after defrosting ; I would normally defrost by leaving the item in the refrigerator overnight , rather than quick methods like microwaving or even leaving at room temperature on the kitchen counter .
What I would suggest is rather than adding a syrup , to take some of your cooked beans , cook them a bit more , then liquify them in a blender . This should give you a thick sauce that tastes like the beans , therefore compliments them perfectly . You can then thicken them very slightly if the consistency is still too runny , be sparing with the flour though . In fact , you could probably make something satisfactory by simply using less thickener . If you have a pasty , sticky sauce it 's a classic symptom of too much thickener . Try making a roux with some butter and flour , cook it awhile for a dark roux which gives deeper color and more flavor . You can then add the roux in small amounts to your cooking liquid until you get the right consistency . If you are pressed for time and have some available a couple big spoons of refried beans may just do the trick too .
You may wish to try a dark colored baking sheet , such as <URL> ( not an endorsement , I have n't tried it . ) The dark finish will help absorb radiant heat , which is a major mode in baking , and better brown the bottoms . In fact , such a tray probably would bake too fast for the bottoms of cookies . Buttering it will also help conduct heat from the pan to the bottom crust , although you will also get a touch of that almost-fried texture ( I like it , but it might not be what you have in mind ) .
end question
start question
What is the difference between crepes and Swedish pancakes ?
Looking at individual recipes , there is a great deal of overlap between Crêpes and Swedish pancakes . If , however , you compare hundreds of recipes , some clear differences emerge . There are also differences between the English interpretations of these recipes and those written in French or Swedish . In the chart above , each cohort consists of at least 100 distinct recipe ratios , except for <URL> Crêpes ratio which is provided for comparison . A taste test of the Swedish recipe Pannkakor with French recipe Crêpes revealed the following differences : Batter : The increased liquid content of the Swedish pancakes made the batter much thinner than the Crêpes batter . Swedish pancakes are made in a pan with a raised lip around the edge . This allows the thin batter to be sloshed around , evenly coating the pan surface without running over the edge . Crêpes , on the other hand , are made on a <URL> . The batter must be thick enough that it will not run over the edge . A T-shaped spreader is used to evenly coat the crêpe maker surface in a perfect disk shape . Frying : Crêpes fried up extremely easily , unsticking themselves from the skillet ( I had neither a pancake pan , nor a crêpe maker available at the time ) making it possible to toss the Crêpes instead of flipping with a spatula . Swedish pancakes , on the other hand , require a bit of fiddling with a spatula to flip them . Crêpes had a slight tendency to curl up at the sides after flipping so they cooked less evenly than the pancakes which stayed perfectly flat after flipping . Flip side of a Crêpe ( French recipe ) Flip side of a Swedish pancake ( Swedish recipe ) I also tested Michael Ruhlman 's Crêpes ratio . These curled up to a much greater extent than French recipe Crêpes after flipping and were , consequently , quite unevenly browned on one side . Flip side of a Ruhlman 's Crêpe Taste and consistency : Both French recipe Crêpes and Swedish recipe pancakes hit caramel and butterscotch notes . In short , they both tasted great . The Crêpe consistency was a little tough together with traditional Swedish accompaniments ( Whipped cream and Strawberry jam ) whereas the Swedish pancakes were light and fluffy ; this worked perfectly with the filling . I tested again with lemon juice and sugar and this time the Crêpes won through , holding up well to the additional liquid while the Swedish pancakes became a bit soggy . Ruhlman 's Crêpe recipe did n't perform nearly as well . The caramel flavour was much less pronounced , they had a dry mouth-feel and they were tougher than French recipe Crêpes . For anyone who wants to form their own opinion , here are the ratios and ingredients I used in the tests : Swedish Pancakes ( based on 200 Swedish recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:3.5:1:0.16 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 79g or 150ml all purpose flour 278g or 278ml milk 80g , 68ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 13g or 13ml butter 1/4 tsp salt Crêpes ( based on 119 French recipes with distinct ingredient proportions ) Ingredient weight ratios : 1:1.97:0.75:0.17 ( all purpose flour : milk : medium egg : butter ) 116g or 219ml all purpose flour 228g or 228ml milk 86g , 73ml or 2 medium egg ( s ) where each medium egg is 53g 20g or 20ml unsalted butter 1/4 tsp salt Update : Joe 's comment prompted me to chart the ingredient proportions as a <URL> .
I had to consult my copy of Bread Baker 's Apprentice by Peter Reinhart to be sure , but here is a quote : There are two types of firm , or dry , pre-ferments and two types of wet pre-ferments . The firm pre-ferments are known as pâte fermentée and biga . The wet pre-ferments are called poolish and levain levure . ... Biga , an italian style of firm pre-ferment , differs from pâte fermentée in that it does n't have any salt in it . Also , rather than cutting off a piece of finished bread dough to hold back as an improver , a biga is made specifically to be used as a pre-ferment . So , it seems the main difference lies in the hydration of the dough , where a poolish is made with a ratio of equal water and flour . There also seems to be a few other differences . A biga apparently uses .5 percent yeast to flour , while a poolish uses .25 percent . Mr Reinhart does not say anything about a concrete difference in final result between these methods - just that a ' wet ' pre-ferment is faster . Faster in the sense that in the same time-frame a poolish will develop more flavor and character than a dry pre-ferment . Sadly I 've personally only used a wet pre-ferment , since it is easier to handle . Just whisk it prior to bed time with a wire whisk and mix in the rest of the ingredients the next day . Having a full blown dough makes it more difficult to incorporate the rest of the ingredients .
The <URL> page has an entry on this very topic . Basically , the color of the egg does not affect the egg 's flavor , nutritional value , etc. . It simply depends on the particular breed of chicken that lays the egg -- white eggs from white hens , brown eggs from brown hens . It 's also worth noting , as the ENC points out : Generally , brown hens are larger and require more feed and therefore their eggs may be slightly higher priced .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
In their various parts of the world , all of these words mean sauce , at least some of the time . They come from different cultures , though , and carry different connotations at least in US usage . Short answer , though : there are no absolute differences that you can count on . Salsa This is a generic term in Spanish , and in South American cuisines . It can cover everything from a thick , dark mole , an adobo , a light and piquant salsa verde , or the typical tomato , onion and pepper sauce often served with chips in the US . Some salsas are smooth ; others are chunky . They can be cooked or raw . Many people use the word to indicate the red , fresh or lightly cooked tomato salsa with onions , garlic , peppers and usually cilantro often served in Mexican restaurants in the US , but this is only the beginning of what salsas can be . Sauce The generic term . Almost any flavorful liquid put on another food to enhance it . These range from elegently smooth ( such as hollandaise ) to quite chunky such as putanesca sauce . Gravy Gravy tends to be a sauce made from meat drippings , and thickened to serve with the meat or its accompaniments . In Italian-American usage , it often covers " Sunday Gravy " or a ragu made from tomatoes and one or more ( or many meats ) that in some communities was traditionally made on Sunday ; and more generally , any sauce with meat in it . I am told that in Italian in the context of pasta sauces , the actual word is ( forgive my spelling ) accompanimento , an accent for the pasta which is the star . Chutney The word chutney derives from the India/Pakistan region , where again there are a myriad different sauces that carry the title . In the US , it tends to be used for a chunky , acidic sauce made from fruit and/or vegetables . This overlaps considerably with jam or preserves , in this sense , although chutneys tend to be much more strongly spiced , and may contain complex combinations of complimentary ingredients . Still , this does n't cover the full range such as a chutney of pureed cilantro and/or mint , which is much more thin and sauce-like than the above more typical US usage . Conclusion You can not really draw strict distinctions among these categories . You have to know what the specific sauce or item is that is being discussed to strongly draw inferences about it .
Iodine is commonly added to table salt , hence the term " Iodized " . This is purely a public health issue , much like fluoridation of water . The human body needs small quantities of Iodine for good health , and salt was the method chosen to give it to us . Just as fluoride is added to water , and Vitamin D is added to milk . It actually has nothing to do with the product , it 's just a convenient carrier . See : <URL> for more information .
I have just looked in the book " Thai Food " ( by David Thompson ) . Both are very similar . The main difference I can see is that there are souring agents in the red curry ( fish sauce and shrimp paste ) . These are absent in the panaeng which has peanuts as a major ingredient in the paste ( and nutmeg ) . The panaeng is also usually made with beef which is simmered in count milk until tender .
There is no real difference between types of granulated , white sugar . The options you are likely to see are cane sugar and beet sugar . Granulated sugar from sugarcane is often considered " superior " to beet sugar by Americans , but the idea that cane sugar is in any way superior to beet sugar has no basis . Granulated beet sugar and granulated cane sugar are completely interchangeable and indistinguishable . Swapping them will cause no issue . By the way - this is sugarcane : <URL> These are sugar beets : <URL> I 'd post a picture of the granulated sugar made from each , but it seems kind of pointless as they look the same . <URL> On this question ( almost an exact duplicate ) , some posters see a small difference . I never have . <URL>
I can say , as a salt snob , that sea salt is a far more flavorful product . I ca n't even use regular table salt anymore . Sea salt is salt formed from evaporated sea water , is not iodized , and because it does n't come from salt mines requires very little processing . Some people will say that because it 's " natural " , sea salt must be better for you . The mayo clinic seems to disagree : <URL>
I ran across a good resource while looking into duck eggs . I 'll let it speak for itself : The higher protein in Duck Eggs means they must n't be overcooked , or the whites will go tough and rubbery . Some people say they will be too tough if you completely fry them : they advise to rather partially fry them then add a few tablespoons of water to the pan , cover and let the steam moderate the heat and finish cooking them . Most people , though , seem to say they do n't notice a difference between fried chicken and Duck Eggs . Swapping Duck Eggs interchangeably in recipes for chicken eggs : some people say you ca n't ; others who substitute all the time say nonsense , it 's fine . When the Duck Egg whites are beaten they will come up a bit higher owing to the protein . They take a minute or so longer to start frothing up , but then make up for lost time . There 's a great deal more information on the page as well : <URL>
Emulsifier will make two or more element blend together , for example the egg in the mayonnaise recipe will act as an emulsifier . A thickener will simply make something thick , as you wrote , cornstarch is a thickener . Personally , I would use neither cornstarch or xanthan gum in a chill sauce ; seems to me that it is a shortcut instead of letting it cook down properly ( but I might be wrong ) .
Some people say it 's just preparation and the base is the same ground corn / corn meal , some people say for grits you need ( more coarsely ) ground hominy ( which is corn that has been soaked in lye or lime ) . Polenta can be found loose and really solid : grits are generally loose . Corn type may also differ , as may the dish 's ' typical cultural trappings ' ( fat cheddar and bacon vs. leaner stuff )
I have not found that there is a definitive answer , the most common I know is that it depends on what you like for a pizza dough . I know many people who use a common bread dough for pizza . I personally find that too " bready " , but they like it that way . When I first learned , I was taught use a basic french bread recipe and add a couple Table Spoons of oil then allow to rise in cool environment rather than warm . Many use a higher gluten flour , but if you prefer a more cracker like thin crust then whole grain and a extra pinch a salt and immediately cook after rolling out with only one rise . If you like a thicker , chewy crust , then I suggest letting the dough do a second 10-15 minute rise after you have it ready for toppings but before you put them on . Most times what many of us consider a better pizza crust , regardless of if we like thin , thick , crispy , chewy , or some odd combo is one with smaller fermentation bubbles which calls for slower rising than bread . Higher gluten , a more elastic knead , a bit extra oil and a pinch of salt can all help get this . Starting with a regular break dough would restrict you down to only being able to go with a slower rise in my mind .
First off , the terminology issue . So , can someone please clear up this fog ? What 's the difference between Microwave and Oven and Microwave Oven ? <URL> Both terms mean the same thing : an appliance that uses microwave radiation to heat food . Cooking food in this way is called " microwaving " . An oven , on the other hand , has a heating element which heats the air inside , which then heats the food . Cooking food in this way is generally called " baking " , though there are a lot of other things ( e.g. roasting ) you can also reasonably do in an oven . So if all you have is a microwave , then all you can do is microwave ( not bake ) . And if you have an oven , then you can bake ( but of course you ca n't microwave ) . There also exist combinations , which are capable of both microwaving and baking , i.e. they have a microwave emitter and a heating element . However , remember that in the US - and thus on much of the internet - something talking about a " microwave oven " likely does not mean this combination , but simply microwave heating . Names like " convection microwave oven with grill " , " combination microwave/oven " do refer to these combinations , though . I 've also seen " speed oven " . You may sometimes have seen people referring to these combination microwave/ovens as a " microwave oven " ( I think this may be common in Indian English ) , but that 's really just imprecise language . Some sites say that a " microwave " is only for heating or re-heating cooked food . Whereas , in " microwave ovens " , you can microwave and bake . Is that true ? It sounds like in this statement , " microwave oven " is careless language , referring to a combination microwave and oven . ( It does n't make any sense at all otherwise ; the two things are the same thing , so of course you can do the same things in them . ) So the question is really , what can you do in a microwave vs an oven , or a combination microwave/oven ? It 's true that microwaves are mainly used for reheating cooked food , and it 's true that they ca n't actually bake . However , they can do a lot more than reheat food ; there are a lot of kinds of cooking besides baking . For example , microwaves are great at simmering/boiling and steaming , and it does n't matter if the food was cooked already or not . The recipes you 're talking about are probably mostly in those kinds of categories , but if you 're interested , <URL> discusses in a bit more detail what works in microwaves . The big things that you can do with ovens but not microwaves are the things that actually need the steady dry heat of baking . You ca n't bake bread or cookies or roast a chicken in a microwave . Microwaves hold in a lot of steam and do n't get terribly hot , so you ca n't generally get things to brown or crisp up . They also do n't really hold a temperature like you need for baking , they just pump more and more heat into the food .
Pan frying means letting the food sit in the pan and occasionally stirring or flipping . It tends to be done with larger pieces of food , and at a medium to medium-high heat . Sautéing means shaking the pan back and forth - making the food " jump " , if you 're translating directly . It 's done at a high heat , for a short time , usually with thinly-sliced or finely-chopped ingredients . Shallow frying , according to some references , refers to the food being partially ( halfway ) submerged in hot oil and flipped once , as opposed to deep-frying where the food is fully-submerged the whole time .
Red pizza sauce is often ( but not always ) two things : Thicker . Thinner sauce will tend to run in the oven and also steam the pizza crust as it cooks - if loaded with toppings , otherwise thin is fine . Depending on the crust , the heat of the oven , the toppings above sauce , and how watery it is , this may not be needed . If you 've just got some crushed tomatoes and a few bits of cheese in a super hot oven - the sauce should be fine without reducing beforehand . If you 've loaded up a bucket of sauce and a pound of cheese , precook and reduce the sauce . It 's often simpler . Many pasta dishes like spaghetti highlight the sauce and hours of simmering happen for the sauce to bring it to perfection . They 're all about the sauce . Pizza is really about the crust and what highlights it . Many of the best pizzas are simply topped . Crushed san marzano tomatoes ( sometimes ) reduced with a hint of salt is often all I do , and franky , it 's enough . I 'm not talking about the jarred varieties here , but what you might cook at home . Jars in the store , the main difference is just how thick it is .
Old fashioned oats are rolled whole-grain oat kernels . In quick oats , on the other hand , the oat kernel is first cut into smaller pieces before being rolled . This makes it much easier for quick oats to absorb water than an old fashioned oat . You can visibly see the size difference . For baking quick oats can be used in place of old fashioned oats . However , if a recipe calls for quick oats , you may not get expected results using old fashioned oats . Typically , a recipe that calls explicitly for quick oats generally has too short a cooking time for regular oats to fully cook ( e.g. pancakes ) . Another thing altogether is instant oats . Do not substitute these in any recipe . Instant oats are parboiled , dried , and often has sugar and salt added . Nutritionally , quick and old-fashioned oats are identical .
' Paella rice ' is not actually a variety of rice , but a category suitable , as the its name suggests , for making paella . Some common varieties are : Bahia , Balilla , Bomba , Senia , and Calasparra ; the particular variety should be indicated on the packet that you choose . These varieties differ from risotto rices , such as arborio and carnaroli , in not creating a creamy ' sauce ' around the rice . Paella rice should stick together , but be distinct and not in a creamy ' sauce ' . Arborio rice has a creamy , chewy texture due to its higher amylopectin ( one of two components in its starch ) content . Paella rice absorbs more liquid than risotto rices , however it too would become ' creamy ' if you stirred it like a risotto , since it also has a high starch content .
The difference for green onions will be most noticable if you do n't cook them . Instead , slice them up and use them for a garnish over the dish . The white portion of the green onion will still be oniony , but not quite as strong as a raw red onion . Slice them thinly and use for garnish if you really want to bring out the onion qualities of them . If you do n't want it too strong , then add them when you 're cooking . ( and you might not want to slice them as thin ) . The green portion gives a more mild onion taste but also some of the grassy quality that you might get from chives . I treat them like a fresh herb , chop them up , and add in them in the last minute of cooking or I do n't cook them at all . As for substitution ... I 'd only plan to do it if you were cooking for someone who did n't like onions , as they 're milder and come in smaller portions than bulb onions , so it 's easier to control amounts without any waste . ... and I 'd do it if I had them on hand but did n't have bulb onions around . If you 're just looking for a good way to feature the green onions -- grill them . Trim the ends off , clean off any dirt , give them a coat of oil , then toss them on a hot pan or grill . They make a great side dish . Other good uses are to add them into scrambled eggs , green onion pancakes , or press them into naan before cooking it . ... For the white onions , the opposite is true -- they 're generally stronger than red onions . Most people do n't serve it as a raw garnish unless it 's very thinly sliced and used in small amounts . It 's still used raw , but it tends to be blended into other things such as pico de gallo , or guacamole , where the pungency of the onion helps to balance out the sweetness of the tomatoes or richness of the avocado . I 'm having difficulty thinking of a dish where the qualities of the white onion would stand out , though . My only idea is french onion soup , because it just comes out lacking if you make it with sweeter red or yellow onions ... but unless you made them side by side and compared them , I do n't know that you 'd see the difference . You might try cooking them slowly over medium heat until they caramelize ... it 'd let you feature the onions without them being overwhelming , and it brings out some of their more interesting qualities .
There are three major properties an edible fat ( I am assuming you are not asking about inedible oils like petroleum based products ) has that affect how it is best used : Flavor Saturation Smoke point Properties Flavor The flavor of the fat is very important . So called <URL> ( like canola oil or refined grapeseed oil , or refined peanut oil , among many others ) have very little flavor and so are suitable for almost any cooking task , as they will not interfere with or compete with the other flavors in the dish . Other oils such as sesame oil are primarily used for the delicious flavor that they provide , and are almost more of a condiment than an oil for culinary purposes . In between are oils like olive oil and coconut oil which have a distinctive flavor , but also have good qualities for cooking . Many non-oil fats used in cooking ( like butter , or bacon fat , lard , or suet ) also have distinctive flavors . Saturation The level of <URL> in the fat controls how hard the fat is at room temperature . Most oils are fairly low in saturation , and are so quite liquid even at room temperature . The major exceptions among the vegetable based lipids are coconut oil and cocoa butter . Coconut oil is solid at room temperature , and cocoa butter is actually quite hard at room temperature . Note that while you only asked about " oils " , many common cooking fats not usually called an oil are much more saturated , including butter , lard , and hydrogenated vegetable oil such as the US brand Crisco . The level of saturation can affect texture of baked goods made with a given oil , and whether the fat is suitable for the creaming method or in making laminated pastry in baking . Saturated fats also resist rancidity better over time better than non-saturated fats ( although they are still subject to rancidity ) . Smoke Point The smoke point of a fat or oil is temperature to which it can be heated before it begins smokng . Oils which have a high smoke point ( such as grapeseed oil or peanut oil among others ) are more suitable for high temperature searing , or deep frying . Applications The oil for a given application is based on the properties it has . Cooking For general cooking uses ( by which I am inferring general sauteeing , shallow frying , greasing of casserole dishes , and so on is meant ) , normally you want a fat which is either : Neutral in flavor so as not to interfere with the dish . The neutral oils are all useful for this . Complimentary in flavor , to enhance the dish . Many cuisines have traditional fats which are flavorful , but are integrated into their cuisine , such as olive oil or butter . Saturation matters less ( as the fat can be melted before greasing a pan , for example ) , and smoke point is not terribly relevant unless the application is searing , in which case you want a very high smoke point . Depending on the application and the cuisine from which a dish derives , almost any oil or fat may be used for general cooking purposes . The major exception is sesame oil , which is so flavorful that it is used as a condiment , not a fat , for culinary purposes . Deep Frying The most important aspect for deep frying is smoke point . A low smoke point oil would break down and add off flavors to the dish ( not to mention making the kitchen smoky and setting off smoke alarms ) . Secondarily , for oils that are going to be reused over time , saturated fats such as hydrogenated vegetable shortenings break down more slowly , and may be considered advantageous . Generally , flavorful oils are not indicated , as the same factors that give them good flavor often give them low smoke points . Some good oils for deep frying include peanut oil , canola oil , or hydrogenated vegetable shortening . Dressing For most dressings ( by which I infer you mean salad dressings as used in many Western style cuisines ) , the most important factors are flavor and saturation . You want an oil with good flavor ( such as olive oil ) or neutral flavor ( such as the many neutral oils like canola , refined peanut , corn oil , and so on ) . Most dressings also need an oil which is liquid at room temperature , and thus low in saturation . The major exception is the class of hot dressings made with bacon fat . Many dressings are made from olive oil , or one of the neutral oils . Baking While you did not ask about baking applications , there are two types of baking which require a fat with specific properties : cakes made by the creaming method , and laminated pastries like croissants or puff pastry . These applications require a fat which is solid at room temperature , but still plastic enough to be manipulated . Generally , only butter and hydrogenated vegetable oil are suitable . Bottom Line The oil or fat you choose for any particular purpose will be based on what is best for that application -- but a good neutral oil with a high smoke point such as refined peanut oil or canola oil can serve the vast majority of culinary purposes most of the time . See also : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How to reduce the taste of horseradish in hummus ?
Yes . Make it again and do n't add horseradish . I 'm totally serious - no traditional hummus recipe in the known universe has horseradish in it . There is nothing you are going to be able to do to your existing batch to remove that flavor , other than diluting it , but I do n't think you 'd be able to dilute it enough to be worth the effort .
A lot of the defining ingredients of energy drinks have very strong flavors . Caffeine is quite bitter , B vitamins can be very sour , and Vitamin C is tart . A strong sweet-tart flavor is one of the most palatable ways of masking all of these flavors . There 's also a certain amount of brand copying going on . Red Bull was probably one of the first big brands on the market . Since their flavor is cloyingly sweet &amp; tart , a lot of their competitors went for a similar flavor profile .
No , it 's not true . It will not change the way they cook . Noodle cooking times vary by what they 're made out of and by thickness , not by the length of the noodles . The kids and I seem to prefer eating shorter noodles and dodging the hassle of spinning the noodles , but when there 's company over we tend to do it the classic " right " way . No difference in taste .
You should use both . Knives have a very thin ragged edge ( the burr ) that is too small to see , which gets pushed over from use , and which makes the knife seem dull . A honing steel straightens this burr out . I use a honing steel before I cook every day . Over time , the burr wears down , or can no longer be straightened . At this point , you will need to use the sharpener , which actually removes metal from the blade . One metaphor would be that if your knife was carpet , honing is like vacuuming , and sharpening is like steam cleaning .
The answer to the question is " Chap Zai " . The name for Chinese Crispy Roast Pork is " sio bak " by the way talon8 - I bought a tenderizer from Amazon exactly like the one you posted but the pins were not sharp enough to make the required number of tiny holes - and therefore the skin on the pork belly did not get that crystalised look where the fat has flowed out through the skin . My best result was by using a sharp knife but this took a long time . Anyway - long story short , I got this by emailing a number of Chinese supermarkets ( was never listed on their website shops ) and they told me the name . Would be good if anyone can verify this name ...
TFD 's answer is true : the most likely change is the reduction in some astringent flavors . I would just add that people have been brewing black tea for iced tea for many years at or near room temperature ( e.g. , the traditional " sun tea " method ) , or even in the refrigerator ( " cold-brewed " tea ) . The flavor notes which come out are different , but a lot of people still find the tea produced to be acceptable or even preferable to " hot-brewed " tea . Granted , these processes are used mostly for tea meant to be consumed at cooler temperatures . But my point is that those who insist that black tea must be brewed as close to 100C as possible are just brewing one possible " version " of tea from those leaves . In my own experiments , I 've found that certain black teas taste good when brewed at lower temperatures for a long time , though others end up " unbalanced " in some way . ( Sometimes , they simply taste " weaker " for some reason , even when still brewed longer to take into account the lower temperature . Sometimes this can be fixed by adding more tea leaves per cup ; other times this still creates an imbalance . ) I could cite a number of studies which show the various amounts of certain chemical components in tea and how fast they dissolve at various temperatures . But those really wo n't take into account the balance of individual flavor components in a particular black tea . In this case , I think it 's really a matter of personal judgment to see whether your particular tea tastes fine to you brewed at a lower temperature .
I can not tell you how they do it at that specific location , how your method differs , or what you 're doing wrong . I do n't really even know exactly how you 're brewing your coffee . However , I can tell you how to brew a consistent cup using the best possible practices . Here 's a list of things to consider Grind your coffee immediately ( not the night before ) before brewing Use a Burr Grinder , not a blade grinder . This will ensure that the grounds are of a consistent size , and provides even extraction . There is no reputable coffee shop that uses a blade grinder , and with good reason . Get a Burr grinder . If you do n't want to drop the cash you can get a hand mill for about ~ $ 20-30 . Weight your beans , do not measure them by Volume . Beans from different regions and varieties vary in density , and size . This can really throw off volume measurements . Use filtered water . Most coffee shops will have a filtration system for the entire store to prevent mineral build up in their coffee and espresso machines , as well as providing a better cup of coffee . Learn how coffee hits your palate , and learn how to adjust your brewing variables ( grind size , water/coffee ratio , brew time , temperature ) . Ditch the auto-drip . Learn how to do a manual pourover or press pot . You 'll have much more control over your brewing variables , and be able to pin point the extraction method that fits your palate best . I deeply urge you to try coffee that is n't Starbucks . Starbucks might be a notch above grocery store coffee , but is n't at all interesting ( to put it lightly ) . Try Stumptown , Blue Bottle , Intellegensia , Ruby 's Colorful Coffees . You 'll likely forget about Starbucks soon after trying coffee 's from any of the roasters I listed . Like I said . Starbucks is n't really interesting coffee . Its pretty bland , brewed with a standard auto-drip . If it tastes different it could be for many reasons , such as sitting in a thermos for a long period of time , or the grounds may sit too long after being ground . Typically larger auto-drip machines use a coarser grind because the hopper is larger . This can affect taste . There 's too many variables to nail down how to brew exactly like that starbucks store . In the mean time , I urge you to try more interesting bean varieties . You 're really missing out . For the record , Starbucks main competition ... McDonalds . Give it a read <URL>
I have noticed that basil changes its taste as it ages , but not as to get bitter . On the other side , I like a bitter taste , so I often overlook ( overtaste ? ) bitter notes to which other people show a strong reaction . Try getting some fresh basil and comparing the taste/aroma of the fresh and the old one , maybe it is really just the aging difference you perceive as unpleasant . I regularly use the stems when I have fresh basil . Generally speaking , you can not deceive your brain to not perceive bitterness ( unlike sourness , which is counteracted by sweetness - the pH value of Coca Cola ( 2.6 ) is lower than that of tomato juice ( 4.1 ) , but the soft drink is perceived as sweet , not sour ) . But if you mix it with another basic taste , the combination might feel much better than the pure bitter taste . The other strategy would be to just dilute with something bland , in order to reduce the bitterness intensity . Most adults actually like some bitterness if it is not too intense . The third option would be to use something with a very strong flavour to mask everything , e.g. add lots of raw onions and/or garlic , or just make it so hot you do n't actually pick up much of a taste . I am not a fan of this solution , but your mileage may vary . As for a taste combination , which taste should you pick ? Strangely , people tend to think that a sweet taste is well suited to somehow " mask " bitterness , which I can not confirm . For me , both tastes , bitter and sweet , stay there , and one does n't mask the other , they just create a specifically unharmonious combination . In my experience , bitter + sour is a much better combination ( think grapefruit , cranberries , or tonic water ) which can even allow for a small amount of sweetness , without making it clash . But it is also good to make a combination of bitter + salty taste . While umami can be combined with bitter too , it does n't diminish the unpleasant sensation of the too bitter . As for your specific problem , I often eat basil dips , only I tend to base them on feta cheese . I sometimes add sour cream or other dairy products , but usually less sour cream than cheese . I think that it will be a good solution for your problem , as it will both complement the bitterness with a strong salty taste , and dilute the bitterness concentration as you will be using lots of it . I also almost always add lemon juice ( should help for the bitterness too ) and a dash of olive oil ( which should n't affect the taste , only the aroma ) . Another ingredient which does well in a basil dip are green or blonde olives , if their salt level is not too high . For a basil dip , I usually throw everything in a bowl and smooth it with the immersion blender . If you are n't sure that you 'll like the taste , try tasting a spoon of your current dip with a small piece of feta and/or an olive before committing more ingredients to something you 'll ultimately throw out .
I noticed you did n't mention beans , which are fairly common in minestrone . Cannellini beans are most typical , but you could experiment with others ( garbanzo , fava beans , etc. )
This has to do with esters , which are flavor compounds created during fermentation . Each grape variety has a unique physiological make up with aromatic compounds found in trace amounts within the grape skin cells . The concentration of each of these aromatic sensations is dependent on the grape type and is mostly undetectable until the juice is fermented . Fermentation magnifies and makes these aromas more easily perceived by the nose , so think of wine as a caricature of the grape . From <URL> . <URL> <URL> , although in Shiraz I imagine it 's the same or similar to that in Zinfandel : Australian chemists have identified the compound responsible for the peppery aroma of the country 's iconic Shiraz wines - and discovered the same molecule is by far the strongest aroma in peppercorns themselves .
Using the refrigerator for the first rise is absolutely easy , but that is not what you are asking about . For a second rise , tweaking your current approach a bit , I suggest : Place yout bread ( s ) on a baking tray or similar or use a well-floured banneton ( basket ) . Find a plastic bag large enough to fit the entire tray or the banneton plus a bit extra room inside . Lightly " blow up " the filled bag and close with a clip , rubber band or similar . You are not creating a " ballon " , just enough to have the bag " float " a bit over the loaf . Another option would be placing a glass , can or similar object next to your loaves to support the foil tent from below . You need not create an air-tight seal , but you want to limit the loss of moisture to keep the surface of the bread from drying out . For a single boule , an inverted bowl can protect the loaf enough , or if you use an appropriately sized Tupperware or similar bowl in lieu of a banneton , just close the lid . A few additional thoughts : For round loaves ( boules ) a banneton or in a pinch , a bowl , helps to keep the loaf in shape . Especially for long proofing times the tension created by shaping the loaf might not be enough to hold over hours , causing the loaf to " flow " sideways . Flour the basket well and do n't worry about excess flour at the bottom ( or top , depending in technique ) of the loaf , simply brush it off after baking . You do n't need to put parchment under the loaf if you transfer them to a pizza stone or pre-heated tray . Do n't try to lift a baguette by hand , use a sword-shaped <URL> or , in a pinch , a cutting board and roll the baguette onto the peel and back onto the pizza stone or second tray . That said , damp paper is n't much of a problem unless it is so wet that it will simply tear . Rolls or other small items are easier to pack into a plastic container - plus they bake quickly in the morning , which may add a bit of convenience ( or allows for a few extra minutes of sleep ) .
The simple answer is : You reduce a cream sauce the same way you reduce any other sauce , by simmering it until a certain amount of liquid is gone , just like the instructions said . You have to be careful about temperature though , because milk ( or cream ) can burn at high temperatures , and then your sauce is ruined . You should keep it to a low or at most medium simmer . Cream sauces normally tend to thicken extremely fast , so the long cooking time is almost certainly due to watering it down . I do n't think the water was necessary at all ; the chicken broth was probably for flavouring , and although " broth " is a somewhat nebulous term , one would normally expect a broth to contain at least some amount of gelatin , which will cause the sauce to thicken substantially when it cools if you reduce it a lot . Water does n't , so you 've added no flavour and thinned out the sauce . Basically , you ( or your wife ) added water for no other purpose than to try to evaporate it later . Water generally does n't go in a cream sauce . If you do n't have chicken broth or ca n't use it , I would either substitute more wine or just leave it out completely . Usually the only time you substitute water for broth is if it 's actually the base of your sauce .
In the classic recipe the onions are chopped , personally , I like mine very thinly sliced . The cheese typically used is the French Comté but a good substitute is Swiss gruyère or even Swiss Emmenthal .
Eggs will last two to four days in the refrigerator . Source : StillTasty ( <URL> &amp; <URL> )
You really ca n't automate this . As you noted , each nut is cracked with a different technique and requires an individually independent amount of force . Soaking the nuts wo n't accomplish anything desirable .
You could serve it with a lemon curd tart , making sure to keep down the amount of sugar in the curd . Or just some lemon sorbet , that would also go well I think .
If you use the same Dr. Oetker colouring that I have used in the past , which is advertised as a ' gel ' colouring , then you have to use a lot to get a good intense colour . You may have better results ( colour and taste-wise ) getting proper concentrated gel food colourings , like those made by <URL> . You need to use much less than cheaper brands so you do n't run the risk of flavouring the food , and you can even use them in meringues without ruining the structure .
Use an artificial sweetener . There 's no single best one , just pick whatever suits your tastes . The packaging will hopefully have conversion factors ( or you can look them up online ) . They probably wo n't be perfect , but they 'll give you a starting point for how much to use to replace the sugar in the recipe .
When you 're determining the doneness by time , you 're doing it wrong :) There are too many differences between individual fish to go just by weight , thickness , oven temperature , and time . The best way is to measure the internal temperature ( stick a thermometer into the thickest part of the fillet ) ; I like about 120 F ( 50 C ) for salmon ( carryover cooking raises the temperature a little higher after taking it out of the pan ) , but then it has to be good quality fish . You need to check early and often , because it can go from undercooked to overcooked fairly quickly . Now , like zanlok says , my experience is mostly with pan frying , and I 'd expect using the oven would be a bit slower than using a pan because of slower heat transfer ; so you should be a bit safer . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , an easy way to test fish for doneness is to look for translucency . Salmon can still be just a little translucent in the middle . Also , properly done fish flakes along the natural " seams " . Another nice trick ( which does n't work for boneless fillets - sorry ) is to find a bone in the thickest part of the fish : if it comes out fairly easily , then the connective tissues have mostly dissolved and it 's done . That leaves the temperature for your oven . I would go with very high - that way the fish gets the least possible time to dry out ( which is going to be a big risk with this cooking method , I would think - unless you wrap your salmon in bacon or something like that ) . At a guess , I 'd try 450 F ( 230 C ) .
Yes . Make it again and do n't add horseradish . I 'm totally serious - no traditional hummus recipe in the known universe has horseradish in it . There is nothing you are going to be able to do to your existing batch to remove that flavor , other than diluting it , but I do n't think you 'd be able to dilute it enough to be worth the effort .
end question
start question
What are the triangular shaped markings on asparagus called ?
They 're something leaf-like . If you look closely , you 'll find that they are n't just markings , they can be pulled away from the stem . There does n't seem to be a lot of agreement about the best name ; you 'll see " scales " and " leaves " in plenty of informal contexts , and " bracts " in some ( but not all ) more formal contexts . On Food and Cooking says they 're bracts , and actually mentions why they might be there : The stalk does n't support ordinary leaves ; the small projections from the stems are leaf-like bracts that shield immature clusters of feathery photosynthetic branches . That cluster inside them is what makes them <URL> : In botany , a bract is a modified or specialized leaf , especially one associated with a reproductive structure such as a flower , inflorescence axis , or cone scale . <URL> . That 's a bit vague about where it actually is on the plant , but there 's an image later in the article making it clear what they 're referring to : <URL> Oddly , <URL> goes into a bit more detail : In asparagus ( Asparagus officinalis ; Asparagaceae ) , the scales found on the asparagus spears are the true leaves . If the thick , fleshy asparagus spears continue to grow , flat , green , leaflike structures called cladodes develop in the axils of the scale leaves . That does match the definition of bract . Asparagus is only tender enough to eat when pretty young , though , so perhaps when you eat it those cladodes have n't developed yet . That 's still the purpose of the scales , though . In any case , it sounds like " scale " vs " bract " may just be a difference in precision and perspective .
From <URL> : Rotisserie is a style of roasting where meat is skewered on a spit -- a long solid rod used to hold food while it is being cooked over a fire in a fireplace or over a campfire , or roasted in an oven . A spit is a long solid rod :) ( as confirmed by <URL> )
The current most common term in English appears to be " century egg " , but it 's also been known as a thousand-year egg or hundred-year egg . It 's typically produced by aging in a solution of table salt , calcium hydroxide , and sodium carbonate , but traditional methods involved less refined versions of those chemicals wrapped in clay ( and some quantity of rice bran ) . More details in this <URL> . <URL> Image : Wikipedia/Wiki commons
Typically that would be whatever was used for dusting the loaves or the bannetons , either flour , starch or sometimes <URL> . It is done to prevent sticking and for decorative purposes - often both : <URL> ( <URL> )
I do n't remember the exact science behind the potatoes not turning to mush ... I know it was discussed on an episode of America 's Test Kitchen , and they even discussed the amount of vinegar and how it affected the window for cooking times . ( I want to say it was on an episode where they were making an Austrian potato salad ) ... and it 's not specifically vinegar , and not solely potatoes . Acids will stop quite a few items from softening when cooking . I know the list inclues onions ( pre-cook onions before adding acids if you want them to disolve into a sauce ) , potatoes , apples ... I 'm guessing there 's others . For potatoes and apples , most recipes claim it 's to slow down browning . You see it in potato salad , but not mashed potatoes . You 'll see it in apple pies , but not in applesauce ... because they 'll come out lumpy . Matt already mentioned three uses for vingear : as half of a chemical leavener tenderizing / marinades preservation / picking coagulation ( eg , when poaching eggs ) But also : stabalizing eggwhite foams ( might just be a variation of coagulation ? ) denaturing / " cooking " ( eg . in the case of ceviche ; a variation of marinating ? ) flavor ( might not be a ' science case ' ... but sour is one of the primary tastes ; especially helps to balance out fatty dishes ) cleaning / disinfection ( might not be a ' cooking ' use )
Bamboo is n't a tree , it 's a grass ;) A bamboo shoot is just the budding new bamboo that 's harvested before it grows and becomes hard and stringy . Bamboo shoots are generally available in 2 forms , fresh and canned . Fresh ones are sold whole and generally used in stir fries . Canned bamboo shoots are precooked and packed in water . You can find canned bamboo shoots sold whole , shredded , or sliced . For hot and sour soup ( which I assume you 're making ) you 'll probably want the shredded ones . There are also jarred bamboo shoots . You probably do n't want these as they are often fermented and add different seasonings to the shoots . I 'm not sure where you are so I do n't know how available they would be , but you can generally find canned ones in the asian section of major supermarkets . Fresh ones are a little harder to come by and I believe only seasonal
What you are looking at here is an old , almost forgotten method of proofing yeast dough for cold conditions . I have an old cook book1 from ca. 1930 , when rooms could be cold in winter . I 'd say it 's " granny 's version of proofing in the fridge " . My book says to leave out about 1/4 of the flour , all sugar and , if used , the spices . It does not , however , say to use cheese cloth . The firm ball of dough is simply placed in a sink or bowl full of cold water , where it sticks to the bottom in the beginning . It should peel off , turn upside down &amp; rise to the surface within an hour ( or longer , if little yeast was used ) . Then , it 's taken out , first the sugar , then the flour are kneaded in , and finished according to the original recipe . I have tried it once out of curiosity , but that was probably 20 years ago &amp; I was way less experienced than today . I do not recall any major differences with the finished product ( sweet bread , in my case ) . ( 1 ) It 's in German , " <URL> ; Kochen und Backen nach Grundrezepten " .
The great benefit of brining is that it opens the fibers of the meat and allows the water , and what is dissolved in the water , into the meat . I suggest you convince yourself of this by adding a fragrant herb such as rosemary to a chicken breast brine , and comparing it side-by-side with an unbrined breast . The difference , deep into the meat , will be noticeable . It is not large chunks of the herbs that find their way into the meat , but the oils and dissolved parts . That is why you heat and steep the water before cooling it for brining .
Use a carbon-steel wok ! The shape works very well to keep the unpopped kernels in the hot oil , while the popped kernels end up on the cooler sides . I usually use about 2 T of oil and 1/3 c of popcorn to make enough for two people . If you want to keep with the Chinese theme , Szechuan peppercorn-salt goes extremely well on popcorn ! To make it , grind Szechuan peppercorns and kosher salt in a spice grinder .
It is coagulated albumin leaked from the flesh of the fish . Not terribly inviting , but not harmful either .
Let 's start with the assumption that Safety is never in the balance . Safety has to be taken into account for any method that we use and that means that we want to keep any food that is time and temperature sensitive out of the danger zone . The danger zone is the temperature range from 40 degrees F to 140 degrees F . If you have plenty of time , letting the turkey defrost in the refrigerator is safest and easiest , since there is little that you have to do . The turkey is always out of the danger zone and all you have to do is put it in the refrigerator . However , it can take a very long time , 24 hours for each 5 pounds of turkey weight ... 4 days for a 20 pound turkey . Assuming you have n't planned that far ahead , the other safe method is to defrost in the sink with cold running water . The water does n't need to be pouring out , just a steady stream so the water turns over regularly . Water is a better conductor of heat than air , so the turkey will defrost more rapidly than in the refrigerator . The danger zone is why you do n't want to defrost the turkey using warm water , or just sitting on the counter . In either of those cases , the outside meat is warmed into the danger zone before the inside defrosts , so you have some of the meat ( the part that is most likely to have come into contact with contaminants ) in a temperature range that promotes bacterial growth .
I use two types of cutting boards : wood and [ soft ] plastic . The plastic is for meat , or anything that could ruin a wood cutting board . Wood is for everything else . If you can afford it , try to get an end-grain wood cutting board . Bamboo is a popular choice right now ( it 's affordable and sustainable ) , but I do n't have any personal experience with it . Most other materials , especially glass , will ruin your knives .
Aha ! Found the answer myself ! <URL> includes the step " Garnish with toasted sesame seeds or fried salty mung beans . " -- I googled " fried salty mung beans " and found the picture below , which is exactly what I was looking for :
In Rome I was informed that I was eating a croissant with honey on top ( after informing my host that I had a honey allergy ) . It had the sweetness that I suspect you 're experiencing . To help you determine if we were trying the same thing : the croissant I had was shiny and slightly sticky on top , and it seemed more like it was brushed on top rather than drizzled . That would support @Carmi 's answer that it was brushed on with the egg . It was definitely honey , though , not sugar syrup .
I found this recipe on <URL> . The name of the dish is " Carcasses de canards grillées " which translates to roasted duck carcasses . It states below the name that " These carcasses of roasted ducks are a specialty of the Southwest ! " If you use Google , you can translate the page and get the recipe and instructions . This particular recipe uses ingredients in addition to the salt but , as with most recipes , I would expect that there are many variations .
Unfortunately , the function depends on the manufacturer . While turning off a set of elements may be common , another option is that the setting may just increase the cook time . Bagels are thicker and have more mass than sliced bread , so a longer toast time is necessary to have a similar level of toasting . In particular there are Cuisinart toasters where the bagel button only lengthens the time of the toasting and does not change the pattern . From <URL> Bagel button The bagel feature adds extra time to the toasting cycle to allow for thicker breads . You may also use the bagel button for English muffins and other thick breads .
In most contexts , I would assume that simply means the leaves from the herb parsley . Depending on where your recipe originates -- especially central Europe , or some Asian cultures -- parsley root may also be used , so the recipe might be trying to make that clear . I suspect , however , it really is the recipe author 's idiosyncratic style . Now , as to chopping them , that would depend on how it is used and what the rest of the recipe says .
Oh yes . Different people use different categories , no one system is canon , but this bit from <URL> is helpful ; I would n't hesitate to substitute within these categories . Dark and oil rich : anchovies , bluefin tuna , grey mullet , herring , mackerel ( Atlantic , Boston , or King ) , Salmon , farmed or King ( Chinook ) , sardines , skipjack tuna White , lean , and firm : Alaska pollock , catfish , grouper , haddock , Pacific cod , Pacific halibut , Pacific rockfish , Pacific sand dab &amp; sole , striped bass ( wild and hybrid ) , swordfish Medium color and oil rich : amberjack , Arctic char , Coho salmon , Hawaiian kampachi , mahimahi , paddlefish , pompano , Sockeye Salmon , wahoo , yellowfin tuna White , lean , and flaky : Atlantic croaker , black sea bass , branzino , flounder , rainbow smelt , red snapper , tilapia , rainbow trout , weakfish ( sea trout ) , whiting White , firm , and oil rich : Atlantic shad , albacore tuna , California white sea bass , Chilean sea bass , cobia , lake trout , lake whitefish , Pacific escolar , Pacific sablefish , white sturgeon You mention that you have successfully substituted halibut or tilapia for cod . This list puts tilapia in a different category than the other two . That illustrates that fish species substitution is a fuzzy thing , and a cook should n't feel bound by any list . Even within categories , any change in the choice of fish is going to change the final taste of the dish , either slightly or dramatically . That is n't necessarily a bad thing , in fact it can be a very good thing . Just as an aside , sustainability is a very good reason to substitute one species within a category for another . In the US these are to good sites to help choose a species : <URL> ; <URL> If anyone knows of good sites that provide good information about other parts of the world , please leave a comment . From leon , 2 good sites to help make sustainable choices in Australia : <URL> or <URL>
The collagen in the ribs needs to get to a temperature of about 160 F to start breaking down into water and gelatin . If your oven can be set as low as 175 or 180 F on a normal bake or convection bake setting that is probably a better alternative unless you have access to an oven thermometer and can measure what temperature the warm setting on your oven attains .
Yes , believe it or not ... called a tomato slicer but they are also some times referred to as a tomato saber which is a product name originally from the commercial company <URL> . Although I agree with <URL> and <URL> just include the additional keyword ' commercial ' with your search . Another option is that you can try the keyword ' tomato saber ' , this should also aid to a successful search .
end question
start question
What does " de-bearding " mussels mean ?
The beard is also known as byssus threads . They are the filaments that the mussel uses to secure itself to hard surfaces . They are usually brownish and may appear somewhat like seaweed . Most mussels commercially available have been farm-raised so often the beards have already been removed during processing . If you have beards , grasp them firmly and pull towards the shell hinge until it comes out . You may need to use a dry paper towel to increase your grip as they can be slippery .
The key factor in syrup 's shelf life is the water activity in the syrup , rather than the ingredients used to make it . Generally , the water is all ' bound up ' with dissolved sugar so microorganisms ca n't use it to grow , but the lighter the syrup , the more available water it will have . In my experience , simple syrup is usually kept refrigerated except for small portions that will be used within a day or two . For a chart of water activity ( aW ) of related foods , check here : <URL>
First off , there 's not a lot in the ingredients you list that is likely to pose a hazard anyway . ( It is possible for flour to be contaminated with bacteria , and if the bacterial count is high enough , it could pose a risk in raw dough . ) However , pasteurization to safe levels at 160F does n't take more than a few seconds in most foods , and it 's likely the interior of your loaf was above 130F ( where bacteria will gradually start dying off ) for quite some time . I 'd definitely consider it safe to eat right after baking , though it may not be particularly pleasant . However , underdone bread sometimes is prone to earlier spoilage , since it generally has a higher moisture content that might promote some mold , bacterial , and yeast growth after baking . The chances of it becoming actually hazardous without noticeably spoiling are probably rather low , but it 's possible , particularly if the moisture content is high enough . It 's much more likely that the bread would just spoil normally through the appearance of surface molds , etc. , though . If you wanted to be extra cautious , you could store leftover bread in the freezer or fridge .
Usually it is removed from the fat , and warmed in an oven . The exact instructions will probably be on the tin , but from memory I think it was about 15 mins @ 180c , as you only really need to warm them through and remove the excess fat . We have always served it with potatoes roast in some of the fat from the tin . Usually par-boiled , minced garlic added , then shaken in the boiling pan ( with a lid on ) to mix the garlic in and to rough up the edges so you get some nice crispy bits , then put into a hot tray of duck fat ( go on be generous with the fat , it 's delicious ) and into a hot oven till crispy . You could also serve it with dauphinoise potatoes , which would also be great . Accompanied by french beans or broccoli or some other green veg , and some crusty French bread to mop up the fat with . mmmm . Makes me want to go and get my tin out of the cupboard for tonight .
The preserving effect of canning is based on removing all bacteria and fungi ( normally present at least to some extent even in perfectly safe food ) by a combination of heat and pressure over a certain time preventing new bacteria or fungi from reaching the food by sealing the containers avoiding oxidation by sealing the cans sometimes supporting this by ingredients that are very inhospital for bacteria and fungi like acids ( pickles , anyone ? ) or sugar ( less available water ) . For your tuna , this means the heat/pressure of the canning process is sufficient to prevent spoilage for a long time . Special preservatives are typically not necessary . Checking the label should confirm this . If one brand should have choosen to add them nonetheless , you can pick another manufacturer .
In the US , " extra virgin " is n't a legally protected term - some of the stuff sold as EVOO here would never , ever pass as it elsewhere . From <URL> : Extra-virgin olive oil comes from virgin oil production only , contains no more than 0.8 % acidity , and is judged to have a superior taste . Extra Virgin olive oil accounts for less than 10 % of oil in many producing countries . It is used on salads , added at the table to soups and stews and for dipping . Virgin olive oil comes from virgin oil production only , has an acidity less than 2 % , and is judged to have a good taste . Pure olive oil . Oils labeled as Pure olive oil or Olive oil are usually a blend of refined and virgin production oil . Cooking-wise , the extra virgin stuff is best used in situations where it wo n't be highly heated . Salad dressings , dipping oils , finishing a dish , etc. are where it shines .
I think what 's really happening here is mostly physics , rather than any magical reaction between the meat and the " velvet " ( i.e. egg and cornstarch ; I 'm going to use this term for brevity ) . The largest effect is that the velvet adds a thin , clingy coating to the outside of the meat . When introduced to heat , that 's providing a barrier to the movement of thermal energy into the meat proteins . The proteins in the egg are denaturing , the starches are gelatinizing , and that absorbs some of the energy that would otherwise have gone into your meat . The presence of sheer additional mass from the velvet also means that it simply takes more energy to raise the overall temperature . This means that the temperature increases more slowly , and can be better controlled ( sort of like sous vide cooking ) . As the starch gelatinizes , it 's also forming a moisture-resistant barrier around the outside of the meat . That could very possibly prevent moisture from leaking out of the meat as it 's squeezed out of cells with denaturing proteins . Ordinarily it would leak out into your poaching liquid ( or wok if you 're stir-frying , where it would rapidly boil off ) but now it 's trapped in the pieces of meat . This is also somewhat analogous to sous vide cooking , or maybe to poaching in oil - the food being cooked stays moist , because the water is trapped inside ( by a bag in sous vide , by hydrophobic oil in oil-poaching ) and has nowhere to go . Another factor is the very gentle cooking being done , in a barely-simmering water bath for a short period of time . This is cooking the meat just up to the point of doneness , by doing so at a rather low temperature ( say 210 F or so , compared to 500 F or higher for a properly hot wok ) and only very briefly , with the velvet coating for additional thermal protection . After that , the meat does n't really need to be cooked much at all - it can be tossed into a nearly finished stir-fry just to the point of being re-heated . That seems to be why <URL> tosses out this interesting comment : The meat remains soft and tender . ( You 've probably noticed in Cantonese restaurants that stir-fried meat is almost never browned or seared . ) I had n't given it much thought before now , but that seems to match my experience in good Chinese restaurants , at least with certain dishes . Contrasting this with stir-frying sans-velvet , think about a browned piece of meat : the surface is covered with a delicious Maillard-browned crust , but those proteins have also been cooked to the point of losing their moisture . Even if the interior of the meat is moist , the outside 's been dried , literally to a crisp . With velveted meat , that 's not the case - each entire piece remains moist , and there 's no browned , crunchy layer . I 'll be the first to admit that much of this is conjecture , but I think it provides a reasonable explanation for some of the processes that keep velveted meat moist . Might be interesting to dig up some scientific references on the thermal gradients of proteins vs. starches - I 'll see what I can find .
With regards to the grit , if they are n't farmed mussels ( which generally are fairly clean ) you may want to give them a soak for a while . This will give them the chance to expel any further sand/grid they may contain . There are varying theories of whether to use tap water , salt water , sea water or various other concoctions . And admittedly there are those who say any form of soaking will do all sorts of harm to the flavour . But if the alternative is disappointing gritty mussels , why not give it a try . And as always , ask your fishmonger for advice . They will know the origin of the product , and whether or not you need to take extra steps in preparing them . As for discarding opened mussels , do n't just discard them when they seem open on arrival . If the shell is not cracked , give them a light tap ( on the counter or with a knife ) and see whether or not they will close in response . If they close in response , they are fine . If they do n't close or tell you to stop it , then discard them . And if two thirds of the batch really are dead ... I personally would not necessarily trust the other third to be in great shape .
Calcium hydroxide is pretty much insoluble , so it 's hard to get every last bit of it out after nixtamalizing . A trace always remains . If the maker were selling lime flavored tortilla chips , <URL> the ingredient list would say something like " lime extract " or " natural lime flavor " .
Generally with baking you mix all the wet ingredients , then all the dry , then incorporate the latter into the former . This prevents clumping and helps make sure everything is mixed uniformly . In some recipes , adding the eggs ( often un par un , or one by one ) also contributes ( via the yolk 's supply of lecithin ) to emulsifying e.g. butter and milk together . The best way to find out , of course , is to experiment . Next time you 're making these cookies , make a double batch . Do one according to the recipe , and the other your way . Honestly with cookies I doubt you 'll see much difference ; they 're basically foolproof ( I have , when in a hurry , made chocolate chip cookies by dumping everything in the mixer , whacking it about with the paddle attachment , and then folding in the actual chips . Worked fine , basically ) . When it comes to baking things that are more finicky -- cakes etc -- I would follow the recipe directions .
I 'm pretty sure the word " live " means that it 's raw and uncooked . I found a recipe for <URL> that 's very similar to the menu item you describe . It uses zucchini " noodles " , cashew " ricotta " , along with marinated mushrooms , and tomato sauce to make a raw and meatless " lasagna " . The only apparent difference is that the recipe calls for spinach pesto instead of pine nut pesto .
The US Code of Federal Regulations ( 21 CFR 101.4 ) states that ingredients must be listed in descending order of predominance based on weight . The following exception is made in 21 CFR 101.4 ( 2 ) : The descending order of predominance requirements of paragraph ( a ) ( 1 ) of this section do not apply to ingredients present in amounts of 2 percent or less by weight when a listing of these ingredients is placed at the end of the ingredient statement following an appropriate quantifying statement , e.g. , " Contains __ percent or less of _ " or " Less than _ percent of __ . " The blank percentage within the quantifying statement shall be filled in with a threshold level of 2 percent , or , if desired , 1.5 percent , 1.0 percent , or 0.5 percent , as appropriate . No ingredient to which the quantifying phrase applies may be present in an amount greater than the stated threshold . Thus , each ingredient is 2 % or less of the total weight . They are also exempt from the order by weight requirement . The manufacturer is free to order the subset of < 2 % ingredients however they please . Source : <URL>
For steaks I really prefer cooking butter instead of oils , I find that the flavor fits the meat better .
Unfortunately , the function depends on the manufacturer . While turning off a set of elements may be common , another option is that the setting may just increase the cook time . Bagels are thicker and have more mass than sliced bread , so a longer toast time is necessary to have a similar level of toasting . In particular there are Cuisinart toasters where the bagel button only lengthens the time of the toasting and does not change the pattern . From <URL> Bagel button The bagel feature adds extra time to the toasting cycle to allow for thicker breads . You may also use the bagel button for English muffins and other thick breads .
This phenomenon affects fruits much worse than vegetables actually . The FDA published a report that cut or peeled fruits will lose half their vitamin C content in 1-2 weeks . Over 10-25 % of this loss will occur in fruits in only 5 days . For vegetables there exists a similar , albeit less pronounced effect . When cut the flesh inside of the vegetable is exposed to oxygen and the protection provided by the peel or covering is lost . That being said , the process of these vegetables losing nutrients is not an immediate one . Realistically the loss that occurs between you cutting the vegetables and placing them in a salad is probably distinctly minimal . I would n't worry too much about the nutrient loss as long as you are n't cutting the vegetables and then storing them for a long period of time . See : <URL>
The texture is controlled simply by time ; 2 hours is n't enough . Try 3 to 4 hours . Or use a pressure cooker , it goes much faster in there - about 45 minutes should do it .
If you mean cleaning in terms of getting rid of the ' beard ' , use clean pliers and a lot of elbow grease . It 's hard to pull that out . If you mean just cleaning the shells , use a stiff bristled brush and scrub . If you mean cleaning the sand from the inside of the mussels , put the live mussels in a large container full of water and cornmeal and leave overnight in the refrigerator . The mussels should flush the sand out and replace it with cornmeal ( never tried this method , but I 've heard it works well . )
Since temperature control is so vital to sous vide cooking , the circulation serves to make sure that all of the water is moving and of an even temperature . If you just had a heating element submerged without a circulator , you would get some convection currents , but there would be hot and cold spots in your water bath . If these differences were even just a few degrees , you could end up with proteins not hitting their coagulation temperatures , connective tissues not softening , pectin not broken down , etc. . All in all , it would defeat the purpose of this cooking method ! As for the differentiation between " circulators " and " water ovens " , there may not be one . Frequently the actual thermal unit and pump is referred to as the " circulator " and the whole assembly with a vessel and water is referred to as the " oven " , but I 'd check the specs of each model to see whether it has all the parts you 're looking for .
Cheese sauces will curdle more easily if they are not acid enough . I struggled with homemade mac-n-cheese until someone pointed this out to me . The <URL> is one solution to adding acid without undesirable taste .
The main purpose of beating an egg is to " denature " the protein within the egg . Proteins are long chains of amino acids and they have lots of internal chemical bonds , which hold them together into tightly contained units . When a protein is denatured , those internal bonds break and the amino acid chains unravel and become elongated . At the same time , atoms that were previously bonded ( as part of the internal bonds I mentioned ) become available to bond with other molecules . When an egg is heated to 40 degrees celsius , its protein chains become denatured and elongate , which allows chemical reactions to occur . The egg changes from a liquid solution of protein into a solid mass . A similar thing happens with you beat an egg . The physical act of beating causes the protein strands to stretch , thereby causing the protein to denature ( the internal bonds are broken as a result of the application of physical force ) . So , rather than the protein chains being bound up into tight balls , they become long strands . This is similar to gluten when it is developed . These strands form structures that allow the trapping of air , which results in a lighter texture . Beating eggs is not just about mixing . It 's about changing the structure of the eggs to produce a physical effect . To read more about this , see " The Science of Cooking " by Peter Barham .
end question
start question
What is used in the production of dubu ( Korean tofu ) ?
As far as I know , Korean and Japanese tofu are effectively identical in taste and preparation : my Japanese wife , who is generally quite particular about her ingredients , happily buys Korean brands from a Korean grocery for her Japanese cooking . If you 're dead set on making your own , in both countries the key ingredient for curdling is nigari ( Japanese ) aka 간수 gansu ( Korean ) , basically <URL> . Epsom salts are magnesium sulfate , so close but not the same thing ; lemon juice is out of the question ( for one thing , neither countries had lemons until recently ! ) . When experimenting , bear in mind that both countries use several different styles of tofu . " Standard " tofu/dubu is momen-dofu in Japan , but Korean soft tofu ( sundubu ) is even softer than Japanese kinugoshi-tofu and more akin to a rare Japanese type called oboro-tofu .
As far as I know , Korean and Japanese tofu are effectively identical in taste and preparation : my Japanese wife , who is generally quite particular about her ingredients , happily buys Korean brands from a Korean grocery for her Japanese cooking . If you 're dead set on making your own , in both countries the key ingredient for curdling is nigari ( Japanese ) aka 간수 gansu ( Korean ) , basically <URL> . Epsom salts are magnesium sulfate , so close but not the same thing ; lemon juice is out of the question ( for one thing , neither countries had lemons until recently ! ) . When experimenting , bear in mind that both countries use several different styles of tofu . " Standard " tofu/dubu is momen-dofu in Japan , but Korean soft tofu ( sundubu ) is even softer than Japanese kinugoshi-tofu and more akin to a rare Japanese type called oboro-tofu .
It was called <URL> , and indeed the ancient Romans used it , as did the ancient Greeks : Garum was prepared from the intestines of small fishes through the process of bacterial fermentation . Fishermen would lay out their catch according to the type and part of the fish , allowing makers to pick the exact ingredients they wanted . The fish parts were then macerated in salt , and cured in the sun for one to three months . The mixture fermented and liquified in the dry warmth , with the salt inhibiting the common agents of decay . Garum was the clear liquid that formed on the top , drawn off by means of a fine strainer inserted into the fermenting vessel . The sediment or sludge that remained was allec . Concentrated decoctions of aromatic herbs might be added . Flavors would vary according to the locale , with ingredients sometimes from in-house gardens . Like the fish sauce of today , it was extremely high in glutamic acid , AKA umami . In <URL> the author says : There appears to be no historical mention of fish sauce being used in Asia before the Early Middle Ages in Europe , which oddly enough is around the same time its use was dwindling in the remnants of the Roman Empire . That begs a question , right ? Did the concept travel , or did Asians develop it independently ? Greater minds than mine are working to definitively answer that question : ... flowed from west to east and was eagerly adopted by Asians on the Silk Road . The recipes for garum changed and adapted as they moved east and became nuoc mam and nam pla according to cultural preferences and what gifts the Asian seas had to offer . Archaeologists and food scientists are working to confirm these flows and linkages ... The production of garum and Asian fish sauce is virtually the same as well . Fresh fish and salt in some proportion ( recipes vary widely from 5:1 to 2:1 ) are layered in barrels , clay pits or earthenware crocks . Because of their large size , tuna were cut up before fermenting to prevent putrefaction , but most fish -- especially the small species are processed whole and intact . In Rome , oregano and other herbs were added at the production phase for both flavor and to suppress bacterial overgrowth , but this step is largely omitted in the production of Asian sauces . The vats are then left to ferment -- sometimes covered or sometimes uncovered ( Carthaginian and Roman ) in the heat and stirred every few days to a week to ensure even enzymatic digestion of the fish . From <URL>
I grew up with a Vietnamese mother that used to put fish sauce in nearly everything . While I ca n't exactly recommend all of her uses ( she once used it in a texas beef chili -- was not good ) , there are a few techniques that are good to know . A common method to create a savory sauce is to use fish sauce with sugar at a 2:1 ratio . For example , you can make <URL> by sauteeing fried tofu with diced tomatoes and adding 2tbsp of fish sauce to 1tbsp of sugar . This ratio can also be used in stir-fries . I would make sure to turn on your air vents when doing this -- the smell of fish sauce hitting a hot pan is ... different than what most people are used to . It works as a savory salt alternative in a lot of dishes . I use it to season fried rice instead of using salt or soy sauce . It generally is a good idea to add this during the cooking process , so the liquid can reduce and meld with the food . It can also be used to quick brine ground pork for savory asian dishes . I 'd add somewhere in the vicinity of a tbsp per pound of ground pork . I use this technique when making Thai <URL> . There are probably other marinating/brining applications , but I do n't have much personal experience with that . You can also use fish sauce to create a wide variety of dipping sauces -- in general it is paired with something sweet ( sugar or rice vinegar ) to help balance out the saltiness . It is also commonly watered down ( <URL> ) in vietnamese dipping sauces to keep it from being too overpowering . On a personal note , my favorite use is straight up on crispy fried eggs ( slightly runny yolk ) over white rice . It is n't for everyone , but it 's something I 've been making and enjoying for years .
Kenji over at Serious Eats gives some of the best " pizza science " lessons on the Internet . Here 's a good article on the role of yeast and fermentation in pizza dough : <URL> In short , time and kneading cause proteins in dough to form an elastic network of fibers called gluten . Yeast consumes starch and emits carbon dioxide . Gluten traps the carbon dioxide which causes the dough to expand or " rise " . The amount of yeast and time may vary based on the intent of the cook . More time allows the cook to use less yeast ( the yeast organisms will multiply ) and allows for a greater development of the proteins in the wheat flour . A longer , slower rise will allow for the greatest flavor to be developed . In his tests , Kenji found the optimum rise time to be 2-3 days in a refrigerator . However , this must be balanced against the cook 's desire for an expedient dinner :-) In my personal pizza cooking , I usually use 1 packet of yeast ( 2.25 tsp ) for approximately 13 cups of flour . I will typically allow this to rise for around 24 hours on my kitchen counter-top ( my house says cold at around 55-60degF ) . If the dough will not be used right away , I will put it in the fridge but will allow it to warm to room temperature for several hours before cooking it . Good luck with your pies !
When I go to the Korean supermarkets in LA , I usually see half an aisle just dedicated to 고추가루 in all kinds of forms ( mild to spicy , fine to coarse grind ) and colors . I do n't know that there 's any specific pepper than it is all about how sweet and mildly spicy 고추가루 is supposed to be . You could start from there to make your own by sun drying and crushing whatever peppers are available to you . If you are looking for a substitute that you can buy at a western store , try crushed red pepper flakes ( the kind you see in the shakers at pizza places ) . You 're going to be adjusting for taste/spiciness anyway , so not much of a dealbreaker .
The USDA NAL <URL> : Refuse : 20 % Refuse Description : Bone In addition , you can compare the serving size weight of the breast with skin ( 145 g ) to the weight of the <URL> ( 118 g ) , each derived from 1/2 chicken breast , so the skin accounts for about 18.6 % of the deboned breast and 14.9 % of the bone-in breast ( accounting for the earlier 20 % ) . All in , it looks like a bone-in breast with skin is slightly more than 65 % meat . Breast meat is generally the most expensive part of the chicken to buy , even bone-in ; if economy is really a factor here than you really should consider using the whole chicken .
I usually do n't buy crumbled tofu , but since you have that , I would suggest making tofu burgers . Add another hearty ingredient , like lightly roasted finely chopped walnuts , or baked eggplant cubes . Combine with chopped onions , garlic , grated carrots , and breadcrumbs . Bind with beaten egg . Season with your choice of herbs or spices , such as thyme , oregano , basil . Form into patties , fry lightly in olive oil and sprinkle with tamari ( or soy sauce ) until both sides are browned . Bake until fully cooked in the oven at 375 degrees . Serve on a bun just like a beef patty .
Whilst you 'll probably be fine using the same knife and chopping board to prepare everything that 's going in an " all in one " meal such as a stew , here 's the reasons I have for never doing so : It 's a bad habit to get into . It 's very easy to slip-up and forget that you 're not making an " all in one " meal and thus chop some lettuce on a board you 've already used for slicing raw bacon when making a salad , if most of the meals you make are " all in one " and you usually do n't have to " worry " about cross-contamination It does n't take that long . Washing your chopping board down with hot soapy water and a clean sponge/scourer takes literally a few minutes , the same can be said for a knife . If you 're pressed for time you could turn the board over and use a fresh knife . That assumes that the work surface was clean beforehand and the food being prepared on the " first " side was dry and thus wo n't have liquid run-off that 's contaminated the underside of the board It 's not worth getting wrong . If you make a mistake and get food poisoning , or worse - give someone else food poisoning , you 'll really wish you 'd done your utmost to prevent cross-contamination .
The baking powder undergoes a chemical reaction which produces small gas bubbles in the batter . The bubbles break up the batter coating ( sort of like the geometry inside a sponge ) so you wind up with a mass of little holes each surrounded by a thin layer of bready material , and it all fries up airy , light and crispy ; instead of one thick , dense , hard shell of cooked paste around your cauliflower bits .
Baking soda also raises the PH of the product resulting in better browning . Soda can be left out . Many recipes - especially for chewier cookies - do n't call for any leavening besides the eggs . <URL> Cookie recipes often call for the dough to be chilled so that it spreads less in the oven before it sets . This creates a taller , less crispy cookie . Cookie recipes do n't typically have very much water in them for the soda to dissolve into . Much of the water is tied up in the butter and wo n't be available until the dough melts in the oven .
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
There are many reasons for having a blender with selectable speeds : 1 ) Not every time you want to liquify or make a mush of your food ; quite the opposite , usually you want to keep a bit of texture into what you are blending . Thus , lower speed is better . 2 ) Blending heat up your ingredients , either by the friction of the blades and by the heating of the blender engine itself . Now , while it 's pretty difficult to ruin oils or many other things with the blender temperature , vegetables and fruits on the other hand are really sensible . So , as a generic rule of thumb , you always want to start with the lowest speed and then raise it up step by step ( my blender used to have 5 speed settings , for examples ) just as necessary . No point in running the blender at max speed by default . 3 ) The blender 's engine is built to blend things , and as obvious as it may sounds is maybe less obvious that the engine is not expected to runs free blending the air , because it can quickly burn and ruin itself : it actually needs ( and expect ) some kind of resistance from the food it 's blending . So , when you blend big and/or hard things , it 's advisable to do some on/first ( this is the reason for the pulse mode ) , then raise the speed , to not overheat the blender and to not give the blades too much energy . For example , if you are blending chickpeas , as they are pretty heavy and big if you go immediately at the highest speed all you will get will be chickpeas being hitten by the blades and just bouncing all around . If you lower the speed , the impact between the blades and the chickpeas will be less energic and the blades will have a chance to at least begin to scratch them ;-)
I generally put garlic , rosemary , and thyme in the pan for a roast . As the meat juices and butter flow into the pan , they make a wonderful infusion of flavour that is well worth bathing the roast in . I 'm all for it - I feel the roasts I 've made and basted are better than the ones I did n't baste . That said , I have n't done any double-blind studies .
Sugar has a few effects in bread : It helps make it soft and tender by absorbing some of the water and slowing down the formation of gluten strands . It feeds the yeast , resulting in a faster rise . Via caramelisation , it aids in the browning of the crust . It acts as a preservative , keeping the bread fresher for longer ( though 1tbsp probably does n't make a lot of difference ) . It does have some effect on the flavour .
It is simply to add tartness to add some balance against the sugar . The water from the vinegar will evaporate and leave behind acetic acid . There is an old fashioned type of hard candy known as <URL> . Your lollipop is essentially just that candy on a stick .
Was curious myself , so I did some more searching . I found a few sites that suggested honey as a alternative , but note that honey is sweeter , so you 'll need to cut back . The majority of resources I found agree that corn syrup is your best and <URL> Traditionally the Malt Syrup ( or Mul Yut ? Mulyeot ? ) was apparently made from barley , but these days apparently mostly made from corn , hence corn syrup being a good substitute . Some <URL> even translate and sell Mulyeot directly as " Corn Syrup " .
You ca n't add too much chocolate into a cake , as you 'll end up adding too much fat , which will change how the cake sets up . They likely wanted more chocolate flavor than what they felt they could get from chocolate alone , and so opted to add cocoa powder as well .
Yes , believe it or not ... called a tomato slicer but they are also some times referred to as a tomato saber which is a product name originally from the commercial company <URL> . Although I agree with <URL> and <URL> just include the additional keyword ' commercial ' with your search . Another option is that you can try the keyword ' tomato saber ' , this should also aid to a successful search .
Also known as a " bird 's beak " , it 's used for <URL> root vegetables ( turning them into little footballs ) and making fancy , delicate cuts when carving garnishes from fruit or vegetables . More practically , the curved blade is great for peeling round vegetables and fruit . It 's a complete pain in the butt to sharpen without a belt grinder ( or pro sharpening service with same ) , but gosh , it looks neat . Congrats on the fun present !
end question
start question
Is it possible to mature shop-bought hard cheese ?
Yes you can mature cheeses , most hard cheeses can be matured either in the refridgerator or elsewhere . Remove from the plastic packaging , the cheese will need to breathe , but not dry out - a cardboard box , paper towels , parchment paper would work . Just be careful on the amount of moisture &amp; bacteria/mold growth . You 'll find a lot more helpful information if you search on " maturing cheeses " or " maturing cheeses at home " .
You probably do n't even need to freeze them . Chocolate has a very long shelf life in your pantry , from 1-2 years depending on fat/milk content . You can freeze it , but it may affect the texture or appearance .
I think it would depend on the cheese . For a reasonably hard cheese , like cheddar , I have done it , and never gotten sick ( your results may vary ) . If it 's pre-grated , then I would not touch it anymore . For a softer cheese , like a brie , I would not risk it .
Storing brown sugar in a tightly sealed container ( such as tupperware , rubbermaid , etc. ) is the best method . Once it dries out however it can be re-moisturized by placing a piece of apple or bread with it inside a tightly sealed container . After a day or two the brown sugar will soften and the bread will dry up or the apple will shrivel . This is due to the hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture from the surrounding atmosphere ) of brown sugar . You 'll see " brown sugar keepers " in gourmet and cookware shops that are round decorative unglazed ceramic or terra cotta disks . The concept is to soak them in water for an hour or two and then dry and place in the brown sugar . Save your money and use a piece of bread or apple when the brown sugar is drying up . You can also soften it for immediate use by microwaving for a little bit . This should only be used for immediate use because after the sugar cools it will have lost more moisture ( due to the fact that microwaves are heating the moisture in food ) .
If we 're going to define " cheese dip " as " some substance made from cheese for the purpose of dipping other food in " - which seems like the only rational definition given no other context - then I 'd have to pinpoint its origin as being fondue . <URL> , the earliest known recipe for fondue comes from the Swiss cookbook , <URL> , first published in 1699 . That predates the Arkansas claim of 1935 by at least a few centuries , if we assume that Wikipedia does indeed list the earliest source . There 's also <URL> which was supposedly brought to Mexico by the Mennonites , which would place its origin in Mexico sometime in the 1920s - assuming that the Mennonites themselves did not simply adapt the recipe from something known even earlier . I 'd have to say that the Arkansas tourism board seems to be trying to pull a fast one on us , laying claim to this " invention " . Maybe they 're defining cheese dip as the specific kind of cheese dip they came up with , which would of course be a tautology .
Usually a cheese tasting would have more variety in terms of texture and flavour and you 'd progress from the mild to the stronger . However , if your goal is to compare a lot of similar cheeses to contrast with each other , you 'll need to have more palate cleansing and balancing in between each cheese . A lot of the cheeses that you 're considering are aged ones , which tend to be quite sharp and salty . For the harder/saltier cheeses , acidic accompaniments will be important . Things like granny smith apples and tomatoes would be ideal . Something juicy and thirst quenching like melon ( or the tomato ) would also be important to include . Proscuitto , while yummy , would probably just add more sharp saltiness to an already overwhelmed palate . As for dried fruits , another classic for cheese courses is dates since the sweetness makes a nice contrast . You might want to consider including something like a raisin bread as well as crackers for serving the cheeses . Chutney is delicious on crackers with cheese and could help balance the fact that most hard cheeses are eaten as a garnish more than on their own ( e.g. on a salad , on pasta , etc ) . However , this might interfere with the " tasting " atmosphere you 're aiming for . If you want to pair with something non-alcoholic , a sparkling water is probably a good place to start since the fizz will be refreshing and the water wo n't introduce any other flavours to the palate .
If you have a recipe that already produces a dense fudgy brownie and you 're looking to do it without oil , you 're just out of luck . If you 're looking to produce a dense fudgy brownie and wondered if , while you were at it , you might cut back on the oil ... NO , but here are some suggestions for making a cakey brownie more dense and " fudgey " : Follow Tim 's advice above on using butter instead of oil . It 's not doing anything as far as calories but it will produce better flavor vs. a neutral oil . However , particularly if you 're planning to put nuts in them , you could replace a portion of the vegetable oil with walnut or hazelnut oil for enhanced nutty flavor . Replace half of the whole eggs with egg yolks . Cakiness in brownies is partly due to the use of whole eggs . Egg whites have a drying effect on baked goods . In converting a brownie recipe I did , I used 2 egg yolks for each whole egg . Replace part of the granulated sugar with corn syrup . They hygroscopic nature ( ability to absorb moisture and retain it ) of the corn syrup will create a more dense moist result . I think I replaced about half the sugar with corn syrup . The added moisture of the corn syrup will help to off-set the loss of moisture from removing the egg whites . Method/Technique : Heat chocolate , butter , cocoa powder over a hot water bath until chocolate is melted . Stir to blend to a smooth consistency . Set aside to cool slightly . Beat egg yolks/whole egg with sugar and corn syrup until thick , light in color , and mixture forms a " ribbon " . Combine dry ingredients and make a well in the center . Temper chocolate into egg/sugar mixture . Mix to blend well . Add to dry ingredients and fold together just until moistened . Pour into greased pan and bake until set .
Buy almost-late eggs . The worst-case scenario of egg-shelling is a farm-fresh egg . That annoying film that sticks to both the shell and to the egg will detach , the older the egg gets . The bubble at the fat end , too , will get bigger as the egg ages , which also makes the bottom cap pop off more easily . Obviously , we do n't want rotten eggs . We want the almost expired but not expired ones . Roll the egg against the countertop , cracking it along the " equator " . This will give you lots of starting points , and it will weaken the shell in enough directions that the rest of the peeling becomes easier . Usually , the top and bottom caps come off in large and clean pieces , so do n't bother cracking that part unless it sticks . Start from the fat end of the egg . After much experimenting , I 've determined that starting from the bottom of the egg ( the fat end ) is the best way to do it . Give the egg one good whack on the countertop , and the bottom caves in quite easily . This gives you a really nice starting point . Now peel out from there in a spiraling pattern down the rest of the egg . The top cap still comes off quite easily in one big chunk , if the egg is old enough .
Propane and butane are pure alkanes . They do n't produce anything nasty when burned . The worst you could possibly get should be carbon monoxide ( and I am not even sure it can be produced in a torch , the dioxide ifs much more likely ) , but it being a gas , it wo n't stick to your food . The complex molecules you get from heating the food itself have more potential for being harmful than the combustion products of a propane butane torch . Ago yes , it is food safe . Another matter of safety is that it is easier to cause a fire with a hardware store torch , because it has more power than the kitchen ones . But a sensible adult should be able to handle the thing safely .
Cooking in a dishwasher is related to some other non-orthodox places to cook , like on the manifold of a car on a road trip . Basically , you 're aiming to put food in an environment that 's somewhere between 160F ( 71C ) and 300F ( 150C ) already , for non-cooking reasons . That 's strange , but not entirely nuts . The dishwasher is going to stay south of 212F ( 100C ) , but , a decent dishwasher does n't stay very far below that threshold . It 's going to go through several variations of how that heat 's applied , from the actual washing cycle to the drying cycle . And , if you run a regular cycle of dishes , there 's going to be a bunch of foreign substances ( soap , food bits from the dishes ( and in the car manifold situation , things like oil ) ) all around it . So , your goal is to wrap the food in something that can both handle the heat and seal out the foreign stuff . To me , the most obvious solution to this is the vacuum sealed pouches used for sous vide . You 're not going to get anything remotely close to the consistent temps for sous vide , but for the dishwasher , you 're still talking about mostly cooking in " hot water " and hot , moist air , so that 's close enough to give a shot . So , I 'd fill the pouch with seasonings/marinades and let it ride and see what comes out . I would n't expect it to be great , but it might be worth a shot for the shock value alone .
The term " bad " , when applied to cheese , can actually refer to a <URL> ( p. 14 ) , several of which are caused by improper or over-aging and only some of which are dangerous . The issues that you most likely need to worry about are : Moisture loss applies primarily to soft cheese and is probably the first negative effect you 'll see . In a sealed package , it will " sweat " as Ivo points out , caused by water evaporating and then condensing again on the packaging , forming little droplets . Unsealed , it will simply dry out and become hard . This is not spoilage , and the cheese is still perfectly good to eat , it just might not have as pleasant a texture and might have a slightly flat flavour . You can just cut off any hardened edges . Oxidation gives a slightly metallic taste but more importantly leads to rancidity - discoloration and a sour smell/taste . This is caused by light and is why you should store cheese in a dark place . If you left it in the car during the afternoon , it may have been exposed to a good deal of light . However , <URL> and wax paper in particular is an oxidation inhibitor ( that 's why cheese is often wrapped in it ! ) . Light exposure also would have been minimal at night . You 're probably fine in this respect , but use your nose . If it smells sour , do n't eat it . The chemical process itself results in peroxides and free radicals , which are obviously not good to eat , although there seems to be some debate about just how dangerous they are ( some say it raises the risk of cancer , although I 'm unable to find an authoritative source , and this might just be an urban myth ) . Mold is the most obvious form of spoilage and usually also the last . Although most mold is technically aerobic , many strains are capable of growing with very little oxygen , and I personally have seen mold growing on an unopened package of cheddar that I 'd forgotten about for several months . I 'm sure I do n't need to tell you that mold is n't safe to eat ; however , by the time there 's enough mold to be dangerous , you 'll be able to see it . Contrary to what Ivo 's post suggests , the mold you 'll see growing on spoiled cheese is not the same as the mold that the cheese was made with - some cheeses , like parmesan , are n't made with any mold at all , although they can certainly grow mold later on . The molds used in cheese-making are typically some variety of <URL> , which is safe to eat . The mold that grows weeks later could be anything , and is not safe to eat . Ivo is also partially correct in saying that the packaging does not prevent mold growth ; however , it does slow it down by restricting the available oxygen . On the whole , I tend to agree with the other answers that your cheese will almost certainly still be good after only 1 day . Keep in mind that cheese is thought to have been popularized as a <URL> before refrigeration existed - the whole idea is that it lasts a long while , usually well over 24 hours before food safety becomes an issue .
Butter and egg yolks have very different profiles in terms of their uses in recipes and constituent parts . Butter usually has 80-85 % fat by weight , while egg yolks are only about 25-30 % fat . Butter has only a trace amount of milk proteins , while egg yolks typically have 15 % or more protein by weight . Butter has only a small amount ( about 15 % ) of water , while egg yolks are about 50 % water . And then there are all sorts of differences in trace chemicals , which also have big effects when cooked ( e.g. , eggs coagulate , while butter melts ) . I 've never tried such a strict substitution myself . But extra egg yolks are common in many baked goods , and I 've seen people substitute a single egg yolk for a small amount of fat or the reverse . As for the effect of additional egg yolks in cookies , Serious Eats <URL> : Egg yolks also provide some moisture and protein , but more importantly they provide a well-emulsified source of fat . When cooked , egg yolk forms a tender protein coagulum that can keep cookies tender and fudge-like . A high proportion of egg yolk leads to a more brownie-like texture in a finished cookie . Meanwhile , if you lose butter , you 'll be eliminating significant amounts of fat and flavor . The texture will also be altered significantly : since butter melts during baking , it contributes significantly to cookie " spread " rate . ( The extra moisture from egg yolks may help the cookie dough to spread , but it may make it harder to work with . ) If your recipe involves creaming butter and sugar together , the texture may also be affected , because creaming introduces air bubbles that can lighten the cookies . Eggs too contribute to leavening , but that effect is mostly from whites . In general , egg yolks are going to provide much more moisture than butter but lower ( though still important ) amounts of fat . You may need to play with the other liquid proportions to get a useful batter . And the protein and tendency to coagulate will alter the structure of the cookies considerably . My guess is that most cookies with such a substitution will come out fairly dense with an odd fudge-like texture and " eggy " flavor . If you 're substituting a single egg yolk for a small amount of butter , it might work with a little tweaking . But if your recipe has large amounts of butter , the final cookies will be very different and perhaps unpalatable . In that case , you 'll probably have to substitute a few different things for the butter to produce acceptable results ( specifically something else to add sufficient fat and to balance the flavor of the cookies ) . Or , an easier solution would be to find a recipe or type of cookie that does n't require butter . Producing good results when removing one of the major components of a recipe will often require significant amounts of experimentation .
In the star trek world you have plenty of beings with body temperatures higher or lower than humans , so if you had a being with a body temp of 79C then ethanol would work out perfectly ! However , with humans the liquid which would fit the bill of vaporizing just below body temperature would be Pentane , which not only smells bad but is also toxic . The science behind it is wrong anyway , you 'd want a liquid with a much lower vaporization point than body temperature so it would boil off quickly . If you pick a liquid that boils just below body temperature it would take some time to vaporize and you would n't have the same effect . All is not completely lost , you can still have some cool effects with liquids that are safe for consumption . What you have to remember is that the closer a liquid gets to its boiling point the more it evaporates , and any volatiles in it will tend to remained suspended in the vapor and be detectable by the nose . This is the effect you get when you sniff brandy or cognac that has been brought up to body temperature . You can savor it by holding it on the tongue for a few seconds and letting the vapors fill your nasal cavity . So all you need is some strong ( at least 80 proof ) and flavored ( or more accurately scented ) alcohol , and the right glasses . Brandy snifters would work best as they are designed to capture the vapors so they can be inhaled . You could then heat the liquid to just above human body temperature and then serve . Keep the quantities served down unless you want some very drunk guests !
I 've heard of adding sugar to stir-fries , to make a caramel flavoured sauce/glaze in Vietnamese cooking , as in <URL> . Although I 've usually seen sugar used , I see no reason why a similar effect could not be obtained by using honey .
If you 're getting your eggs from a supermarket , they wo n't hatch . This is the case with eggs you get for eating from almost any source . Hens lay eggs even if they have n't been , umm , mating with a male . Any egg laid in those circumstances will never hatch because it 's unfertilized , and that 's the standard practice for any commercial egg operation . Now if you have a free ranging hen and a rooster too , and they 're not kept apart , then yeah , you could get a fertilized egg . And that egg needs to be kept properly warm to hatch .
After dumping out a couple of jars of failed not-quite-fermented fennel I wondered , " Could fennel have antimicrobial properties ? " < < facepalm >> Why , yes . Yes it could : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Granted , these are about the essential oil and not the whole plant . So I ca n't be sure this is the problem , but it seems very likely . Maybe a little fennel mixed in with something else wo n't muck up the fermentation process , whereas a whole jar of fennel can . And though it 's hard to know , I suppose there could be a safety concern . Lacto fermentation protects us through ( 1 ) salt , ( 2 ) oxygen depletion , and ( 3 ) acid production . Based on what I saw with the failed batches , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) may have been below normal . If salt-tolerant critters were to survive ... that could be bad .
Cheap cheese is , as others have explained , cheap for a reason . You should be able to find old/extra old ( AKA " sharp " / " extra sharp " ) cheddar cheese in the cheap section , which makes a reasonably good starting point - this cheese does have some flavour . Daniel says he simmers the milk ; I generally start with evaporated milk , which is even more economical than regular milk and keeps in the pantry forever . Although I would not use evaporated milk in just any recipe calling for milk , it happens to work quite well for Mac 'n Cheese . Other common additions to help offset the lack of flavour in poorly-aged cheeses are : Salt . Remember , salt is essentially a flavour enhancer and will bring out the natural taste of any other ingredient . Mustard . Prepared mustard is OK , but concentrated mustard made from dry mustard and a small amount of water is even better , so you can avoid having to add too much liquid . This does n't enhance the flavour of the cheese , but it does share some of the " sharpness " associated with cheddar and makes a good complement . As a bonus , it also acts as a natural emulsifier for the sauce , helping to minimize separation and curdling . Ground cayenne or red pepper . Although most people probably do n't associate Mac 'n Cheese with piquant , a small amount of this wo n't make the sauce noticeably spicy , but it will add a bit of the same " kick " you get with very old cheese . If all else fails , my " secret weapon " for Mac 'n Cheese is - not kidding - the sauce base from Kraft Dinner ( AKA Kraft Macaroni and Cheese Dinner for you Yankees ) , especially if you can get the " extra sharp " version . This stuff is dirt cheap ( often just 99 cents for a package ) and before you dismiss this as heresy , keep in mind that the idea is not to use the whole thing . Just a teaspoon or two to enhance your homemade sauce . If you do n't approve of such shortcuts then you should n't be buying cheap cheese in the first place , right ? So there you have it . Try some or all of the above ; I 'm sure you 'll end up with something that 's at least acceptable , if not great .
Yes , you can do it without a press . Place a ball of dough between two layers of plastic wrap . Use at least twice the area of wrap that you think the final tortilla will be . Squish the ball flat with a pan , book , or your hand . Now use a rolling pin to roll the dough between the sheets of plastic . Make sure the thickness is even , and do n't get it too thin or it will break when you cook it . Bonus : you can store the uncooked tortillas in the plastic until using and they wo n't dry out .
Typically , vegetables will lose their colour if they are over-cooked , so it 's probably worthwhile cooking them for a shorter period of time . Usually steaming is a great way to preserve the nutrients and colour of vegetables , as is stir-frying rapidly . Different kinds of vegetables contain various pigments in their skins . Green vegetables contain chlorophyll ; red and white vegetables contain flavonoids ; orange vegetables contain keratin . Each of these pigments requires a different approach when cooking to preserve colour . When cooking green vegetables , never add an acid , such as lemon juice or vinegar , as this will cause the vegetables to discolour quickly . Always cook green vegetables rapidly and preferably without a lid . With red and white vegetables , which contain flavonoids , the converse to green vegetables is true . Adding an acid during the cooking process will retain and even restore the colour . For red vegetables use a red or white wind vinegar . For white vegetables use a slice of lemon . Orange vegetables , which contain keratin and are generally fairly robust , for the most part can be cooked with or without the addition of an acid , and they will usually retain their colour . Another way to preserve the colour is to blanch the vegetable in boiling water for a minute or so , then plunge them into ice water . Doing this stops the cooking process instantly . Using the method is useful if you intend to freeze vegetables .
The only way I know is by adding some more liquid and warming the mixture , It may or may not improve things ... For what its worth , the consistency of the jam after cooking , tends to be related to the amount of sugar added for a given fruit , with hard skinned fruit typically requiring a slightly different process to soft skinned fruit . It 's also controlled by the amount of pectin added to the brew as well as the overall cooking time and temperature .
end question
start question
Can bad honing technique spoil a knife ?
Poor honing on a blade that was already in true can reduce the sharpness , as you have discovered . This happens if your angle is off , and you knock the edge of the microscopic burrs or teeth over , presenting a duller cutting surface . It is likely that proper honing will correct this , although it may never be quite as perfect as the blade fresh from the whetstone or factory . In any case , you will not do any permanent harm to your blade with a honing steel ( short of using it as a bludgeon ) , because absolute worst case , you can always have your knife resharpened , or do it yourself . This may be somewhat inconvenient or costly , but is much less expensive than replacing a blade .
all knives should be as sharp as you can get them , really . A dull knife is much more likely to cause an accident and cut you . The duller the knife the more pressure you need to apply in order to cut your food , leading to a higher chance of slipping and hurting yourself
I usually notice when cutting onions and tomatoes . With a very sharp knife cutting an onion does n't cause much tears at all . As it dulls though it does more crushing than slicing which releases more gas into the air , which makes you cry more . Ripe tomatoes help because they are so tender . If it becomes difficult to slice a tomato without crushing it , your knife is too dull . A well used , properly cared for knife should require sharpening every 6-18 months , depending on usage . Mine get sharpened yearly . You may find it beneficial to read these related questions , and their answers : <URL> <URL> <URL>
At a microscopic level metal is malleable , and so the edge tends to bend rather than spall or break off . Still , it is probably technically true to a certain extent , and based on many many years of metal knife usage by millions or billions of people through history , completely irrelevant . Whatever effect it may have is vanishingly small .
A great resource for how long foods can be kept is <URL> . <URL> , commercially bottled pickles ( and kimchee would fall into this category ) can be kept after opening for one year in the refrigerator .
You will need a standard curved 10 " butcher knife . You can not cut a proper steak with a straight-bladed chef 's knife , as the blade will not contact the cutting board at the proper angle . The knife needs to be sharp . A sharp knife is less likely to cut you than a dull one because the handler will not have to fight with it . Also , please observe all safety regulations and common sense when using a dangerous instrument like a butcher knife . Here is an image of standard curved 10 " butcher knife : <URL> <URL>
For vegetable knives , the main advantage of the front-side single bevel is that it 's easier to make super-thin cuts . For example , a test of knife skill involves paring daikon radish to remove the peel , then continuing to cut to make a long continuous paper-thin strip , longer than you would be able to make if you just sliced it . See , for example , <URL> People who have mastered this skill can also make remarkably fast matchstick cuts after making the long piece , and the lack of back bevel may reduce the amount of food that sticks to the knife . Some of these single-bevel knives that features a slightly concave backside ( urasuki ) , which may also reduce the amount of adherence of food to the knife . For crab knives , the honing is on the opposite side to the hand ( the back of the knife ) , which may reduce the amount of shell fragments that could embed themselves into the meat , and probably allows the meat to cut more cleanly . In practice , though , most Japanese households use dual-beveled knives . Single-bevel is more common in professional kitchens , especially in the Kansai area where fancy cutting techniques are used in presentation to a greater extent than in Tokyo or north Japan . Although I have a nice nakiri knife and a cheap santoku , both are dual-beveled . Knives meant for cutting regular fish or meat are usually , but not always , dual-beveled , the exception again mostly being for professionals . ( I think yanagiba and sushi knives are usually single-bevel , but are again mostly used in professional kitchens and almost never at home ) . I thought sobakiri and udonkiri were typically single-bevel to help push the cut noodles away , but more recently I am less sure that the single-bevel is as common as I had previously thought for soba or udon knives . The Japanese wikipedia entry for usuba knives suggests that the single-bevel edge is more durable , so , if true , that would be an advantage in high volume restaurant use . In my experience a thin , well sharpened Japanese blade may chip more easily than a thicker blade , so that resonates with me , even though I 'm not 100 % sure the notion that a single bevel is more durable is more than received wisdom . With practice , I think you can get slightly more precision cuts with a single bevel than with dual-bevel knives , however , I do n't think they are as easy to use for cooks with average knife skills .
The key to any Soufflé is the egg whites . The air bubbles trapped inside of them is what causes the mixture to rise . ( As daniel mentions McGee puts it at somewhere like 25 % due to the air expanding from the heat and 75 % from the steam interacting with the bubbles . ) Problems occur because the Soufflé is so reliant on steam and the egg whites setting . If the base dilutes the egg whites then they ca n't set properly and the bubbles trapped inside of them ca n't do their job of making it rise . If the whites are just mixed into the base thoughtlessly most of the foam will be destroyed . Most recipes agree that stiff but moist and glossy peaks are how the egg whites should be beaten .
Sounds like the technique for <URL> , from <URL> , only with hot sauce added . I do n't think it has a name other than " pan fry/sear in caramelized sugar "
This is a basic fact of food safety . It does n't matter how long each of the ingredients take to go bad separately . Prepared food will go bad soon unless you do something special to preserve it . In your case , you had hazelnuts , which do n't go bad because 1 ) they have too little water , and 2 ) bacteria can not enter their tissue , which is made of intact cell walls . You also had chocolate , which does n't go bad because it does n't have enough water for bacteria to survive in it . Ditto for sugar . Then you mixed everything together and added water , the one thing which was missing in order to keep bacteria out . And you also pureed it , which destroyed the protective cell walls . Bacteria found your food and started multiplying in it . To address your comment too : water by itself does n't usually go bad , because it has all the water a bacteria needs , but not nearly enough food content . So , bacteria can not survive in it , at least for a short time . Were you to leave out a mix of water and carbohydrates out , you 'd notice vigorous bacterial activity - this is what fermentation is . But there are some classes of bacteria which can survive on the minimal amount of debris caught by a water reservoire sitting around for weeks , and one of them is indeed pathogenic , causing a dangerous form of pneumonia . So , water does deteriorate , just not as quickly as the usual types of wet food , which are hospitable to many more pathogens . In general , all human food is great food for bacteria , often including pathogenic bacteria . You have to take something away to make it inedible for bacteria . Any mixture of two shelf stable foods can turn out to add exactly what the foods separately lacked , and make it a bacterial breeding ground again . So , never assume anything about food shelf life based on the shelf life of its ingredients !
A rainbowy layer is almost certainly oil . ( This is called <URL> . ) Earl Grey uses oil of bergamot for flavoring , and likely cheap teas you 've used have oil-based flavorings as well . It 's not surprising that the oil eventually separates , and there 's not really any way to avoid that without significantly modifying the tea , or using tea that does n't have quite so much oil . I would definitely expect the flavor to be stale after it 's left for a while - aromatic compounds are by nature volatile , and they 'll slowly escape . You might be able to prevent some loss of flavor by putting the tea in something airtight ( preferably a completely full container , so there 's not even air on the surface ) and chilling it , but it 's going to be a losing battle . You said the color was stale as well ; I do n't know exactly what processes would cause that , but in general , the only way you 're going to be able to slow down any chemical processes is by chilling the tea . In the end , the real answer is simply that it 's best to drink fresh tea . Your time would probably be better spent getting to where you can make it quickly - for example , get an electric kettle that can rapidly boil a single cup worth of water .
Depending on the type of honing rod and the technique you use for honing , you will remove more or less metal from the blade . You can confirm whether your rod removes metal by wiping the blade on a white tea cloth after honing . If you see a grey residue on the cloth then metal has been removed and you can decide yourself whether you want that in your food . Types of Honing Rod Steel rods , of the type that are perfectly smooth will not remove noticeable amounts of steel from a blade . Polished honing rods are used for straightening a curled blade edge . Other types have shallow grooves cut down the length of the rod that bite into the blade and shave off metal particles . Ceramic rods are slightly abrasive and will remove small amounts of metal . Diamond coated rods are used for sharpening in place of a whetstone and will remove relatively large amounts of metal . What technique you use for honing depends on what you are trying to achieve . If you only need to realign the edge of a well maintained knife , then two or three swipes on both sides of the blade , maintaining light pressure should be sufficient . If you do this with a polished steel , then I would be surprised if you need to wipe the blade afterwards . If you use one of the other types of rod , then you are also removing metal from your knife and you may want to strop the knife and give it a quick wipe after .
I write it as a seasoned carbon steel knife user and a hobbyist knifemaker . Use edible oil or nothing Safety first . You can use any oil as long as you are really , really sure you would n't mind it added to your food . Patina is good . There are two kinds of iron oxide . Let 's call them red ( rust ) and black ( patina ) . Black one is good . It mitigates red rust It 's less sticky It 's mostly tasteless It 's main drawback - it 's ugly . <URL> This is my everyday carbon steel knife . It 's scrached and developed patina . It does not mind being used for cooking . It no longer requires wiping every minute , it can well be washed and dried after few hours . How to develop good patina ? First , the less patina you already have , the slower you need to go . Do n't keep virgin steel wet too long . Only after it begins to darken you can allow it to stay wet longer . Remove red rust when you see it . But do n't just use scrubber . If you want to develop patina fast , you should boil your knfe 's blade for ten or twenty minutes when you see it getting red . This will convert some red to black . Then gently scrub the rest of red from your blade . If you do n't want to boil , just gently remove rust , carefully not destroying patina . If you want to artificially develop patina , dijon mustard is especially good for that . Few hours in warm place should do the job . Lemon juice is not half bad , either .
Your question : is it good to use . My answer : yes . You say it smells and looks normal . That 's an important clue . We are talking about a dry product . No moist means no growth , no toxins ... Best before date . <URL> : Most shelf life dates are used as guidelines based on normal and expected handling and exposure to temperature . Use prior to the expiration date does not necessarily guarantee the safety of a food or drug , while a product is not always dangerous nor ineffective after the expiration date
If you cut it with a knife , you 'll tend to get a very smooth surface . If you tear it open , whether by hand or with the aid of a fork , it 'll tend to break on more natural places in the crumb , giving a bit rougher surface . When toasted , that tends to result in more contrast of texture - the bits sticking up will brown more and get crunchier .
I typically use potato , flour and egg . Make . Freeze . Then , go directly from freezer to boiling water . Do not defrost first .
The standard test for eggs is to slowly lower your egg ( s ) in cold water . If it floats , throw it out . The smell test will only identify severely rotten eggs , while the float test will hint at how well the egg will perform as a binder in baking recipes . If it helps , the FDA standard best-by dates are normally 1 week prior to the use-by ( which is the date the food is considered no longer fit to use ) . The standard use-by date for eggs in the US is 28 days after being laid . After 28 days the chances of bacterial growth within the egg are significant enough that they 're not worth using .
If it grows a grey or pink mold around the edges , or a black mold , throw it out . That 's an undesirable mold . Those molds are n't usually dangerous , but they can make the cheese taste bad . With gorgonzola cheese specifically , the mold is injected in to the cheese via needle-like things , and then it grows veins from there . If a mold is a different color and it 's coming from somewhere other than the veins , that is probably not a good mold . See also <URL> . .
Hard to tell for sure , but it sounds like a good sour to me . It has been my experience that sours do not always smell like yeast . Did you add a pinch of yeast in the first place when making the sour ? If not , you would be relying on nature to have any natural yeast spores within your sour , and that does not always work out that way . Either way , if you are only using the sour to impart flavour in your bread , it does n't really matter if it has yeast in it anyways , as you will add yeast for leavening purposes when you mix the bread . It has also been my experience that often a ' strange ' smelling sour has excellent flavour . Ultimately , it ca n't hurt to bake a loaf .
It 's not going to be nice to drink a day later , no matter what . I 'd use it in baking a chocolate cake or something like that instead , if you ca n't bear to throw it out . The problem is not just the reheating , which will further cook the coffee and affect flavour , but that it 's been losing aroma and oxidizing for a day first . If you 're serving it to anyone you like even a little bit , serve them fresh coffee !!
end question
start question
What sauce could I use for haddock ?
Compound butter is a very nice accompaniment for fish . " Compound butter is a mixture of softened butter and at least one other ingredient . Some ideas for compound butter are : herbs , spices , citrus zest/juice , honey , fresh mint , soft cheeses ( like goat ) , fresh or dried peppers , and nuts ... you get the idea -- this list could be endless ! " You can cook the fish on its own and then put the compound butter on top to melt over it . While soft the butter can be put into a piping bag and piped as rosettes and refrigerated until ready to use . Makes for a nice presentation . Another common accompaniment to fish is mango salso or a combination of tropical fruits ( mango pineapple for example ) . This seemed like a good link for ideas for sauces for Haddock : <URL>
So I have a method that I just worked out but it is insanely labor intensive and only suited to small batches . With that said , here you go . Also , steps will be slightly out of order so make sure you read completely through . To create filled french fries : First , you need to cut your potatoes into slightly larger fries than normal . You are looking for about 1/2 to 2/3 of an inch on each side . You need to preheat your grease to 275 . Once your grease has preheated , parcook the french fries . They should be cooked but not crisped or browned . Lay fries in a layer on a pan and place into fridge . Prepare your injection . I used sour cream but you can add whatever you want . ( I thinned the sour cream down with a little milk till it got to the consistency that I wanted ) Load your injection into a syringe and inject into the now cooled but not cold fries . Do n't over-inject or you will ruin fries left and right . Inject by running the needle fully in , then slowly removing while slowly deploying the filling . As you inject , lay on a pan in the freezer . This is important because you need to get the fries frozen as quick as possible . While you wait , prepare your seasoned flour . I tried some with out the flour and the fries tended to lose the filling . Your are going to be working the fries in small batches . It is imperative that the fries be frozen through , if they are n't you will lose your filling . Toss a handful of fries into the flour and coat thoroughly . Alternately , you can coat fries in an egg wash then flour , but the results were a little too far from traditional fries for me . Toss the fries into 375 degree oil until fries brown and are crisp on outside . You need to watch carefully and as soon as they start floating count to ten then remove . You ca n't over cook them or you will not have any filling remaining . A couple of extras : I do n't know how a filling that is predominately water will work in these , but I would conjecture very poorly given how fries cook . Your hole in the potato is only going to be sealed with flour so you might see some leakage . I could n't figure out a way around that . You benefit from the freezing with a much improved bite texture over my normal fry prep . The final result has a high wow factor , and was pretty tasty . I am not sure the results are worth the effort , but I think if you try a high flavor filling it will go a long way to making it worth while .
00 is extra-fine flour , the most refined grade . <URL> a useful page for more about the old flour grading system . Other than pasta I use it for thickening sauces , and I sometimes make pizza dough with it , although I ca n't tell the difference between using 00 and good quality bread flour . I 'd use 00 for Gnocci certainly as the chefs do , but most home cooks just use plain flour and seem to get good results . Basically , if you have it or can get it use it , if not plain flour is fine .
The major difference between butter and oil is that butter is only 80 % oil , with the rest being milk solids and water ( <URL> ) . This means that using oil you will lose some of the water content that your cake should have , possibly resulting in a dryer cake . On the plus side , cakes made with oil tend to dry out slower than those made with butter . The other possible different , but one that is unlikely with a mix I 'd think , is that it depends on the method of mixing in your fat . If the butter is to be whipped or creamed while softened this creates a different texture than one you could get with oil or melted butter . Whipped butter or especially butter creamed with sugar provides a network of air bubbles that act as a raising agent during cooking , and the result is a pound cake like crumb . If your recipe calls for melted butter , though , this is not a concern - the result is more like a traditional muffin or quick bread crumb . Finally , a vegetable oil has a fairly neutral taste . Usually when a vegetable oil is called for , this is desirable . Butter on the other hand has a more interesting flavor . Your cake may be a bit bland without it .
It depends how you like your rice . Personally I like my fried rice to have a few sticky lumps through it to add texture . Others may like it completely ' separated ' . It 's really up to you . I usually use a combination of long grain and Basmati . Another point is to make sure your rice is safe - it needs to be cooled relatively quickly , and kept cool , to prevent the growth of Bacillus cereus , which can cause serious ( no pun intended ) food poisoning . As it happens , fried rice is much better when cooked with cold rice and very hot oil anyway , so it 's a good idea to keep it cool in any case .
The real , original Wiener Schnitzel is veal . Definitely . I ca n't link to a web source now , but I have some German cook books at home , including one solely about different kinds of schnitzel . From the veal , you use parts 6 , 7 and 11 for any kind of schnitzel , 7 being the best and highest-prized choice . I do n't know the English names , maybe somebody can supply them . Also , try using leaner meat . I think that in the US , the fat marbled beef is considered higher quality . But in Europe , lean beef is preferred . A good beef schnitzel has maybe 3 % fat . This said , there are lots of places which cook pork schnitzels in the Wiener style and call them Wiener Schnitzel . It is n't traditional , but if you like the taste , there is nothing against doing it that way at home . They come from the same parts of the pig as the veal schnitzel : the ham and the lower back . Again , they should be very lean . And in both cases , unlike a steak , a schnitzel is always boneless .
In general , unless the book or recipe specifically states something different , " salt " is assumed to mean " table salt " . If a recipe were to call for kosher salt or pretzel salt ( like as a topping for the loaves ) it would specifically call that out especially .
Fats adhere to broad or flat areas nicely ( fettucini , linguine ) and press the creamier sauces against more tongue surface to enhance/emphasize their smoothness Pooling sauces needs nested , medium pasta ( round or flat ) that help to punctuate the sharper and more diverse flavors of a smooth , acidic by alternating between pasta and sauce Angel hair and other fine pasta do well with a chunky sauce as it is effective with pick up but does n't obstruct the sauce 's texture once you get it in your mouth My basis for this is ( 1 ) ease and volume of transport , plate to mouth of sauce ; as well as ( 2 ) how the pasta interacts with the sauce to create mouth feel and churn of sauce against tongue . As for gnocchi and other variously shaped pasta ; if it has a cavity , it should have fats , if it has a textured surface acidic sauces will cling nicely . Obviously , I would shy away from pretending any of these were definitive answers , they are reasoned and seasoned , based on sauce/pasta dynamics and experience preparing them . This book has a listing of <URL> . This book , upon which Geometry was based , also has a <URL> . I do n't seem to be able to find any good , objective maxims for when to use what ; but , considering the variety of pastas and the prolific diversity of sauces ( i.e. a different ragu for every house ) , it seems only appropriate that every person should have an opinion on why a particular sauce works with a particular pasta .
The bowl is n't absolutely essential ; it 's part of the aesthetic . The shape does serve a purpose , as most of them have nicely curved bottoms that will minimize the chance of the powder from clumping near the edge of the bowl . I 've used a normal whisk when preparing " matcha latte " drinks for a client of mine back in the day . There 's an advantage to having the 80-120 " tate " ( bristle ? ) because they make it easier to break up beads that form as moisture contacts the tea . But a normal culinary whisk will do the trick , perhaps with a bit more work . I do n't see how the silicone brush would help whisking ; they tend to be pretty floppy ( and mine has occasionally had some of the silicone strands break off when I 've used it for brushing food ) .
Here , in Turkey , cabbage dolma is also very popular . I have no clue about cooking , but probably you may need to cook it differently .
<URL> suggests Pancetta which is another form of cured Italian bacon , usually without smoking . I think the primary thing you are looking for is cured but not smoked , as smoke will add a strong flavor that is completely missing in Guanciale .
Citric acid and sodium hexametaphosphate are often used in processed cheese as emulsifier . These <URL> improve the protein 's swelling capacity and emulsification and thus inhibits the leakage of water or fat from the product ( forms <URL> ) . Some salts are also acid buffers . 1 In this <URL> ( in German , but chemical names are quite similiar to the Engish ones ) is a list of possible substitutes of citric acid and sodium hexametaphosphate . Or just look <URL> ( in English ) for E 325 , E 326 , E 327 , E 331 , E 332 , E 333 , E 339 , E 340 , E 341 , E 450 , E 451 , E 452 . The receipe of the cheese sauce has the <URL> 2 . 1 Source : <URL> My bad attempt to translate this article :-\ 2 " Processed cheese [ ... ] is a food product made from cheese ( and sometimes other , unfermented , dairy by-product ingredients ) ; plus emulsifiers [ note from me : the mentioned salts ] , saturated vegetable oils , extra salt , food colorings , and/or whey [ note from me : or watery liquids like water or milk ] or sugar . "
The flavor is described as being very mild and unless the recipe calls for a ton of the stuff it is probably being used mostly for color . The color it gives is a yellow-orange . Substitutions used are turmeric , paprika , or a mixture of the two . It was often used itself as a substitution for saffron but of course saffron would be too expensive to make the substitution back . If your recipe does use a lot of annatto ( or you are serving it to people who claim to be able to detect the difference ) then your best bet would probably be to just buy it online . It is a seed so it is n't fragile and ships well . <URL>
I do n't think it is close to either cous-cous or rice . It is less starchy than both . Also , it has a unique mouthfeel when you chew on it , because the tiny grains ( 1 mm or less ) pop under your teeth . I would try getting the real thing in a whole food store or an organic store , or also online . If you ca n't find it , in these stores , but can get other exotic grains , you can try quinoa or millet . If you really ca n't get anything uncommon , I would use durum semolina . Wash it before cooking and cook it with fat to reduce the starch . Also , I would maybe cook it in more water than needed and remove excess water after it has been cooked and cooled , so your semolina grains do n't form a creamy pudding . Maybe tapioca pearls of the extra-small variety can work too , I am not sure because I have n't tried using them and do n't know what their final texture is . You will notice that , when suggesting replacements , I am most worried about texture . The reason is that the flavor of amaranth is very faint and bland . It is best used as a base for other , strong flavors . So you can use anything with the right texture , the flavor in the dish should come from spices and other components .
Are there different qualities in prepared Hoisin sauces ? Think of it like barbecue sauce or chili powder : every company has their own recipe , and it 's always hard to know the precise justification for a specific price . The high price on one may be part of their premium brand image , and have nothing to do with the quality of the ingredients . Ultimately , you just have to try a few brands and decide which flavor appeals to you , and whether you find the price reasonable . If so , would I be better served by making my own ? As far as I can tell , hoisin sauce does not need to be fermented , so it 's going to be much easier to make authentic hoisin sauce at home than something like soy sauce or Worcestershire sauce . It 's more like making your own barbecue sauce . A few different websites have minor variations on this recipe : <URL> Is it worth the effort ? That 's a matter of personal opinion . It 's probably hard to justify on purely economic terms ; do you really use more than a few cents worth of hoisin sauce in any given meal , and are the ingredients that much cheaper than the product itself ? But of course , there are other reasons to cook than just to save money . I think you 've just inspired me to try making my own hoisin sauce :) If I make my own , how long will it keep for ? Each of those ingredients can last months on its own , often without any refrigeration , and together would create a highly acidic and antimicrobial environment . The worst that might happen to homemade hoisin sauce in several months of refrigerated storage is it might separate a bit and have to be remixed .
Short and sweet ... Use cake / pastry flour . At 5-7 % protein vs. 11 % for AP vs. 13 % + for bread flour , that means a lot less gluten formation . This protein , when mixed with water and subjected to mechanical working is what produces gluten . The higher the protein percentage , the ' tougher ' ( due to the gluten ) the final product . Always use cake or pastry flour when making any type of cake , even brownies . And a little extra egg wo n't hurt , either .
My wife makes ( made up ? ) a super-quick tasty dish : Sautee spinach , mushrooms &amp; garlic ( 2 cloves if you like it garlicky ) layer polenta on the bottom of a baking dish Add spinach/mushroom/garlic mix Add black beans ( 1 can ) Mix in a little salsa Cover with cheese Bake at 350 for 20-25 minutes until the cheese is melted .
you might try forcing whatever it is into the cherries . This can be done under pressure , which you might be <URL> using a <URL> or maybe <URL> , or simply by vacuum packing the cherries with the soaking liquid . once vacuum packed you might be able to put in a pressure cooker to increase the pressure , but I 'm not sure what the heat would do to the cherries . EDIT : having read the recipe , I 'm not sure any of this would work .
Traditional cornichons are pickled with tarragon , not dill . I love that flavor !
In a cooking instruction , " low heat " does n't refer to the temperature the sauce reaches , but the speed at which you heat it up . Many stove rings ( hobs ) are marked min-2-3-4-med-6-7-8-max . On that scale , a low heat would be 2 or 3 . Very low heat would be min or 2 . Left on the stove long enough , even at min , your sauce will boil . The key about using low heat is that it probably wo n't boil in the amount of time you need to melt the cheese , and that 's good . I make cheese sauce regularly ( did so tonight ) and I start at med to melt the butter , turn it down while the roux cooks , add milk , once it 's pretty thick I turn it down even further , or just turn it off since an electric element will hold heat for a while , then stir in the cheese . If it ever happened that my cheese was n't melting I guess I would turn the heat back up a bit , but that has n't happened to me .
end question
start question
What 's the difference between a souffle and a mousse ?
There is no strict delineation between these two terms . Either can be savory or sweet . Some common differences are : Mousses may get their foaminess from from plain whipped egg whites , a meringue , whole eggs , whipped cream , or something else ; a souffle is always leavened by whipped egg whites . Mousses ( except for some seafood mousses , which are gently poached ) are rarely cooked as a whole dish ; souffles are always baked to get additional rise . Mousses are almost always served cold ; souffles are usually served hot , immediately out of the oven to retain the additional rise they get in the heat of the oven . One might consider souffles a type of baked mousse , much as quiches are a specific type of tart , but that terminology is rarely used . See also : <URL>
Greek yogurt has more fat than a " normal " yogurt , about 10 % . Further an original Greek yogurt is made from sheep 's milk since there are n't many cows in Greece . This might taste a bit odd for people used to cow 's milk though ... When buying Greek yogurt made from cow 's milk I recommend you look out for the native brand <URL> .
There certainly are differences . Specifically regarding lemon there are differences not only in taste , because the lemon olive oil is flavored using the zest of a lemon , but also in acidity . Lemon juice is very acidic , olive oil is not . There are plenty of times where it is completely inappropriate to add an acid . A better comparison would instead be lemon infused olive oil compared to olive oil and lemon zest . There would still be a difference , but it would be less noticeable . The infused olive oil has had more opportunity to capture the fat soluble flavor compounds in the lemon zest , however the flavor compounds that are n't fat soluble will be forever lost . That is generally the trade-off when it comes to any infused oil . You will get lots of the fat soluble flavor compounds , but you will lose the non-fat soluble flavor compounds . As for difference of use in the olive oil and lemon juice case , yes , definitely . You ca n't always add acids to foods . In the lemon zest case , apart from the slight flavor difference , there 's also a texture difference . Of course , if you want something very smooth , pieces of zest would n't be a good thing . Apart from those though , not really . All of these differences still apply both in uncooked as well as cooked preparations .
There is no default temperature . The recipe is telling you the temperature : 350F . You preheat the oven to 350F so that it 's already fully hot when you put the cake in , and then you leave it at 350F to bake the cake . The whole point of preheating is to have the oven already at the temperature you want to bake at . If you preheated then changed the temperature , then you would n't have preheated properly : the oven would be at the wrong temperature . If a recipe actually wanted you to change the temperature , it would explicitly say so , something along the lines of " preheat the oven to 550F , put the bread in , then reduce the temperature to 500F " . That 'd cause it to be baked at closer to 550F at first , then closer to 500F later once the oven cools down . But that 's not something that comes up much ; most things just get baked at a constant temperature . Bottom line , just do what the recipe actually says to ! If it does n't say to change the temperature , do n't .
Skillets are not designed to hold much liquid ; as you point out , the curved sides are optimized for easy flipping and turning ( i.e. with a spatula ) . They also normally do not come with lids ; I 'm sure there are some out there , but even my All-Clad skillets did n't . You can really only use a skillet for high-heat searing or frying due to their low profile . Do n't bother trying to poach or even shallow-fry in one . Sauté pans , on the other hand , have more height , and usually do come with lids . They 're a little heavier , and do n't make it as easy to turn , but they can also be used for shallow-frying and moist-heat cooking methods like braising or poaching . I 've seen people make sauce or chili in sauté pans as well ; sometimes they 're more convenient if you 're only going to make a small quantity , since the large exposed surface area ( relative to a saucepan ) makes it easier to reduce sauces . It 's a no-brainer if your recipe starts out with sautéing garlic , onions , vegetables , etc. , and then has you adding the liquid ingredients ; if you have a large enough sauté pan then you do n't need to bother transferring to a saucepan afterward . I think you 've got it backwards ; of the two options , a sauté pan is definitely the more versatile option . I use both , but if I only had the space or budget for one , I 'd choose the sauté pan , because it can do everything a skillet can do ( just not quite as well ) and many more things a skillet is useless for . A skillet is really only necessary for people who do a lot of pan-searing . Note that as commenter Owen suggests , there are " French skillets " sold which have higher bases ; these are not really skillets , and are not normally sold with lids , but assuming you can find or improvise one , they would make semi-decent multi-taskers . I maintain that cast-iron skillets , while taller , are not nearly as versatile due to their reactive material and weight - I only ever use mine for searing/grilling .
" Filter " coffee in general , is coffee beans that have been roasted and ground and is for use in coffee making machines . This makes ' fresh ' coffee that may have a variety of qualities not found in instant - such as sweeter or more distinct flavours , etc. . " Instant " coffee is normally a coffee that has already been made ( they had the fun already ! ) and is dried ( usually through freezing ) into a dehydrated state , hence we just add water and get coffee . I would think that most people who have drunk proper ( freshly made ) coffee would prefer the flavour , quality and effects from caffeine , over that of instant . For me , instant is a back up , in case the real stuff runs out , but I feel always tastes a little woody and not as satisfying in terms of a caffeine hit . There are several coffees available now - Kenco Millicano is one - that offer both instant and some kind of coffee bean , but all I see is coffee grinds in the bottom of the cup , and not much difference in flavour .
Hibachi are technically a traditional Japanese device used for heating one 's house . They are a basic , heat-proof container that holds charcoal . The cooking devices that many people refer to as " hibachi " are what the Japanese would call " <URL> " : I 'm guessing that the term " hibachi " was popularized in North America because <URL> . Somewhere along the way , primarily in North America , the term " hibachi " also started to be used to refer to <URL> : I 'm not sure when or why this started ; perhaps it has something to do with the fact that <URL> confusingly refers to their teppanyaki restaurants as " hibachi-style " . Among these , teppanyaki is most similar to <URL> , in which meat is cooked on large , round , cast iron griddles : ( Images taken from Wikipedia . ) If you were to actually go to a Japanese restaurant and cook your own food over a shichirin , it would likely be referred to as " <URL> " , which is believed to have some origins in <URL> . Whereas teppanyaki has been a traditional Japanese cooking method for a long time , " Mongolian barbecue " was developed in the 1970s in Taipei , Taiwan . During that time , Japanese Teppanyaki was very popular in Taiwan , so many people speculate that was actually the inspiration for Mongolian barbecue . There are also some similarities between the Japanese dish " <URL> " and Mongolian barbecue , however , jingisukan predates Mongolian barbecue .
The problem is , both Sarge 's and Carmi 's answers are right depending on who is using the word . Some people use the word seasoning to just mean salt , some mean salt and pepper , and some mean " anything you want to use to bring the flavor to the desired point , including salt , pepper , lemon juice , spices , herbs , etc. " If you are dealing with someone in person , it is best to ask . With a cookbook , sometimes you can figure it out from context or from other recipes . Otherwise , you 'll have to make your own best call . In my own recipes , I will generally write " taste and adjust seasoning , adding salt and/or more lemon juice as needed " .
This question has become blown out of proportion . I was just curious - then I started getting answers that quickbreads and cake are the same thing - which they " obviously " are n't . So I started doing my own research . <URL> says that the term quickbread was probably invented in the US after the discovery of chemical leavening . The Wikipedia references and some dictionaries corroborate this definition . Basically anything leavened with soda is quickbread . This does n't work . There are a great many things leavened with soda that ca n't be called quickbread . A good example is plain old <URL> . Obviously this is a semantic issue but one that needed solving . Two American cookbooks that I consider canonical recipe resources , The Joy of Cooking , and the Better Homes and Gardens cookbook , both have a separate quickbread section . In it are a variety of fruit breads as well as some biscuits and scones . On Food and Cooking muddied the water a bit by differentiating between quick breads such as biscuits and batter breads such as banana bread . These were grouped together , however , and contrasted against cakes . This book says that cakes are higher in fat and sugar and have a more delicate texture . Ratio , as linked <URL> , confused the terms a bit more also including a term " quick cake " but it differentiated between the different products with distinct ratios for the flour , fat , and sugar . With several competing definitions I decided to take an unscientific poll . I called 6 friends in Washington , Utah , Georgia , and Texas . I tried to find a variety of American cultures . Obviously it is biased by the fact that I know all of them . When asked " What is quickbread to you ? " without exception all of them replied " banana bread " When I followed up with : " What is the difference between that and cake " I received the following answers : " It is eaten at breakfast " " It has less sugar " " It is loaf shaped " " It is more dense " " It has a more open texture " My conclusion is that the historical definition of " anything with soda " is no longer useful . In cookbooks it seems to now be applied to chemically risen baked goods that : have as a rule of thumb a particular ratio of flour , fat , and sugar have less sugar than cake refers in particular to fruit breads , biscuits , and scones generally has an irregular vs uniform texture The popular definition ( among my extremely limited , unrandom sampling ) adds : tends to be loaf shaped And now I can sleep easily again .
According to my local friendly butcher , Gammon is a type of bacon that is specifically from the hind quarters . Bacon is defined as any pork that has been cured through a process of salting , either as a dry-cure or a wet-cure where the meat is either packed in salts or brine respectively . With wet curing , other ingredients can be added to impart other flavours , such as beer or sugars . Typically , rashers are made from the body of the pig with streaky bacon coming from the belly , and back bacon coming from , well , the back ( so the same cut as a pork loin chop ) . Bacon joints are typically made by combining cuts of bacon from the shoulder and collar , whilst the hind quarters are sold as gammon with a premium on price . Traditionally ham referred to cooked gammon , although in modern uses , it is often extended to include other cooked bacon joints , which include moulded meats made from combining cuts together with other additives to help bind them .
The difference in their name is - not surprisingly - because of their form . Cherry tomatoes are round , while grape tomatoes are more oblong . <URL> mentions that grape tomatoes are ' sweet as cherry tomatoes ' , so not much difference in flavour according to this . Perhaps grape tomatoes are more similar to small plum tomatoes . <URL> claims grape tomatoes to be sweeter , having a thicker skin and a lower water content than cherry tomatoes . Interestingly , it also says that grape tomatoes are a cross between cherry tomatoes and other tomatoes . The claims of the second site are in agreement with <URL> site ( " grape tomatoes have thicker skin , lower water content and intense sweetness " ) . It also states " a grape tomato is half the size of a cherry tomato " , so perhaps they are smaller . Due to the lower water content , grape tomatoes have less chance of ' squirting ' when being bitten into .
If I recall correctly the differences are slight , but significant . Both have a subtle , delicate flavour with an exceptionally light texture . The Victorian is usually regarded as the healthier , lighter of the two , but I believe this is mostly due to the Génoise usually being rendered as a layer cake with a lavish buttercream filling , though if I remember right it can also be used as a base for madeleines and ladyfingers . The Victorian can be baked thin and carefully rolled with cream for Swiss rolls . The main difference is the Victorian slices disorderly and ' crumby ' while the Génoise retains its form neatly . Both are accompanied well by , and are traditionally served with hot beverages namely tea and coffee . The Italian creation is undecidedly the more complex one to prepare . You 're right about separating the egg whites and beating them separately aerating the mixture further , but I 'm not certain if it would make a noticeable difference in case of sponge cakes but I 'd love it if someone could comment on this .
There does n't appear to be any difference . Wikipedia says " In English-speaking countries , Berliners are usually called doughnuts and are usually filled with jam , jelly , custard or whipped cream " , and <URL> says " The English translation of krapfen is cruller or doughnut " . There are so many variations of filling , topping , shape and so forth that it is hard to establish a single identity anyhow .
Traditionally <URL> used radiant heat to cook meat . This would have taken place over an open flame , typically on a rotating <URL> . In modern times this method is now called <URL> . Modern roasting refers to dry heat cooking that takes place in an oven , the food is cooked by <URL> . Until the late 19th century this method was referred to as baking . <URL> is essentially the same as roasting in modern times . Baking most often refers specifically to the cooking of " baked goods " ( breads , pastries , etc. ) . However , the terms baking and roasting are often used interchangeably ( baked chicken , roast chicken ) . There does n't seem to be a hard and fast rule here as to which term is used . For example , you roast asparagus , turkey , chicken , but bake lasagna , casseroles , and also chicken . <URL> uses a combination of moist and dry heat to cook the food . This is what occurs in a crock pot , or in dutch oven/stock pot in the oven . Your meat will be cooked in an ample amount of seasoned liquid such as wine and/or stock . <URL> I had never heard of before . According to Wikipedia it 's a trademarked method of pressurized deep frying . I doubt this is what you were referring to .
As you know , focaccia and pizza are Italian dishes , and coca is Catalonian ( a region at Spain 's northeast ) . They all have toppings , and similar doughs ( with wheat flour and yeast ) . Classical focaccias : Are thicker than [ Italian ] pizzas ( about 3 ˜4 cm ( 1.2 ˜1 .6 in ) thick ) Have rectangular shape Have herbs , salt and olive oil as topping Are baked for about 20 minutes . Italian pizzas : Are thin ( less than 5 mm ( 0.2 in ) ) except their outer part Are round ( see notes below ) Have many different toppings , almost always including cheese , and most of the times tomato sauce or whole tomato Are baked for about 90 seconds ( this is very important for italian pizzas ) Cocas : Can be as thick as focaccias or as pizzas , usually depending on the topping . Are either rectangular like focaccias , or really long shaped like <URL> . Can be either sweet or salty . Sweet ones are usually thin as pizzas , always having sugar as topping and maybe pinnions , candied/confited fruit and/or anis ( it might remind you to a Spanish Roscón de Reyes ) . Salty are just a bit thicker than pizzas , and may have many ingrediets , but never cheese or any sauce : usually <URL> . Are baked for 30 to 45 minutes ( aprox ) ( which is , in my opinion , their biggest distinction with pizzas ) Notes : I know there are some pizzas in America that do not fit in the description I gave . But I understand your question is focusing on Italian pizzas . Also , sure there are pizza al taglio in italy , but despite having different shapes and cooking time than pizza pizza , they share the same Italian spirit , and can be noticed different different to cocas . You can make the three of them with natural yeasts , like sourdough/lievito naturale/massa mare , but certainly not with chemical rising agents .
White , green , oolong , and black tea are all products of Camellia sinensis leaves and buds , the only difference is how they are processed . You can turn the plant matter into any of the varieties . Different sources will give different accounts of the processing steps , but in rough order of least-to-most processed : White tea is minimally processed and not oxidized , meaning it retains the natural antioxidants , but does not develop as much flavor , color , or caffeine . Sweet or flowery flavors are characteristic . ( Chinese Silver needle white tea ) Green tea has a minimal amount of oxidation , halted by additional pan-frying ( Chinese teas ) or steaming ( Japanese ) steps . The additional processing brings out more flavor , and allows for caffeine to develop , at the cost of a reduction in antioxidants . Characteristic flavors are grassy , vegetal , and earthy , with sweet notes . ( Japanese Sencha ) Oolong tea gets partial fermentation , and often an additional shaking/bruising step that release additional flavors . Oolong can range in color from dark green to black . The combination of bruising and partial fermentation give many oolongs distinct flowery &amp; earthy flavors . Darker oolongs may have buttery or smoky tastes to them . It has somewhat more caffeine and less antioxidants than green tea . Tieguanyin or Iron Goddess : ( light oolong ) Black Oolong : ( Wu Yi ) Black tea is fully fermented , which blackens the leaves and causes the formation of caffeine and tannins . It generally possesses the most robust flavor and highest level of caffeine , but the least antioxidants . ( Chinese keemun ) Pu-erh is tea that is pressed into cakes and post-fermented , meaning that after processing and drying it undergoes an additional ripening/fermentation . Microorganisms work on the tea , changing it chemically in a similar fashion to aging cheeses . Traditionally this is accomplished over years in controlled climate conditions ( 10-15 years being ideal ) , but in recent decades a several-month fast ripening process is sometimes used . Pu-erh develops a richer , more complex flavor , and has the widest range of flavors of any of the varieties . Before post-fermentation , it may resemble a white , green , or oolong tea , but the ripening process can impart darker black-tea flavors , giving a unique character . Pu-er Cake Rooibos , sometimes called red tea , is made from another plant entirely , Aspalathus linearis . It is a traditional South African infusion , prepared like a black tea but without caffeine . There are two varieties , green and red . Green is un-oxidized , where red is oxidized . Rooibos is characterized by a sweet , woody/malty flavor . Health-wise , it is a source of anti-oxidants , may aid in digestion , and some say it may aid with nervous tension and allergies . Yerba mate is from the South American plant Ilex paraguariensis , whose leaves are steeped like tea . It is generally toasted in processing , and produces a brew with caffeine similar to coffee . Despite its caffeine , mate is actually relaxing to smooth muscles , so you do n't get jitters , and it also helps control appetite . The flavor is vegetal and herbal , and can be bitter if brewed hot . Although it contains antioxidants , this is balanced by traces of carcinogens from the toasting , and the jury is still out on whether mate overall increases or decreases cancer rates . Tisanes or herbal infusions these are various blends of dried herbs , fruits , spices , and flowers which are steeped like teas , but do not contain tea leaves . Generally , the ingredients are dried , although fresh ingredients can be used too . To confuse matters further , black and green teas may also have flavorings added to them , giving a similar result .
No , spices are commonly sold as " X powder " or " ground X " . As far as I can tell , they are likely the same thing . The only thing I might imagine would be different would be the size of the grind . I would imagine yes , you can substitute one for the other . eg : <URL>
It becomes quite confusing when talking about the difference between chow mein and lo mein mainly due to the error in translation . In Chinese chow mein literally translate as " fried noodles . " However when buying chow mein at a chinese restaurant , you get vegetables with a side of deep fried noodles . Somehow the title of a dish is referring the to side rather than the main dish which leads to much confusion . When talking about chow mein at a grocery store , it also gets confusing because you can get two types of noodles . The first kind is a fried noodle that looks something like this : This is definitely not what your recipe is referring to . The second type of chow mein you will find is very much similar to lo mein . It should be a raw noodles that is still semi-soft . It should look like this : If the chow mein you have at your grocery store resembles the second type of noodle , then you may use that as a substitute . If it resembles the first type , do n't . The first type is used as a topping sort of like chinese croutons .
I 've only heard of massaging kale . If you rub the greens together they get softer , darker and more tender and useable in a salad . Never done it with anything else . Wilted is steamed or blanched greens . Wilting definitely changes the texture and can make the greens more palatable and less bitter . I wo n't eat raw collards . I also always salt and squeeze my cooked spinach before using as it knocks out the bitterness .
Actually they recently came up with <URL> for civet coffee . Apparently a great deal of supposedly authentic stuff never actually traveled through the bowels of a cat . According to the <URL> , the levels of citric acid , malic acid , and the inositol/pyroglutamic acid are so much higher in kopi luwak that their ratios can be used to validate mixes with other beans where the proportion of kopi luwak is 50 % or greater .
end question
start question
What all fruits/crops can be stored in natural temperature for a long time ?
Nature has designed some food-stuff to last a long time . Grains ( wheat , rice , corn , oats , ... ) , which are the seeds of grasses , will last the longest , often more than one year . Seeds need a long shelf-life if the plant is going to make it to the next growing season . Next come roots ( onions , potatoes , ... ) , which need to last from one year to the next . Nuts , in the cooking sense , are seeds surrounded by a shell , will also last several years if they are dry . So almonds , peanuts , pine nuts will keep , but not coconuts or chestnuts . Other food types are going to need some help , which basically means getting rid of the water in the food-stuff ( lentils , beans , peas , chick peas , soybean , ... ) or slowing down bacterial growth ( through dehydration , freezing , irradiation , canning , cooling , ... ) I have cooked grains and dried beans and lentils from my pantry that were over a year old . They all made good meals .
Anything that outgasses ethylene should be kept away from other items ( both fruits and vegetables ) , in a well-ventelated area , if possible . Apples and bananas are the two most common culprits , but the list is much longer . Subzero has a <URL> , which I 'm reproducing below in case of link rot : Ethylene producing foods apples apricots avocados ripening bananas cantaloupe cherimoyas figs honeydew kiwifruit mamey sapote mangoes mangosteen nectarines papayas passion fruit peaches pears persimmons plantains plums prunes quince tomatoes Ethylene sensitive foods unripe bananas green beans Belgian endive broccoli Brussels sprouts cabbage carrots cauliflower chard cucumbers eggplant leafy greens lettuce okra parsley peas peppers spinach squash sweet potatoes watercress watermelon
This is going to depend on how long you want to keep it for . If you 're serving it soon ( say , same day , maybe next ) , then do n't refrigerate it at all , though some people seem to think it gives better flavor to refrigerate overnight . If you 've used e.g. , buttercream frosting , you 'll need to refrigerate or freeze it , unless you 're serving immediately after frosting . Some fillings may also require refrigeration . If you 're storing short term , up to maybe a week , refrigerate it . If you 're going to be storing it long-term ( more than a few days , up to three months ) , you 'll need to tightly wrap it once its cooled , and freeze it . After more than 3 -- 4 months , flavor will be lost , but it 'll still be safe to eat , as long as its stayed at 0 ° F / -17 ° C or below .
In this recipe , the nibs are being used as an accent ingredient , adding some crunchiness and a burst of chocolate flavor , as well as some bitterness . They are not essential to chemistry or overall outcome of the recipe . You may : Simply omit them Chopped or coarsely ground roasted coffee would have a similar profile , although not as fatty , and of course , coffee flavored Try another crunchy , possibly somewhat bitter ingredient like chopped nuts ; almonds , hazelnuts , and ( in some people 's opinions , although I dislike them ) walnuts have a particular affinity for chocolate .
Beer bottles should be stored upright . This is to minimize contact ( and hence oxidization ) between the beer and bottle cap , and ( for unfiltered beers ) to keep any sludge on the bottom of the bottles . ( <URL> ) Wine should be stored ( mostly ) on its side . This keeps the cork moist ; and a dry cork can shrink and allow too much air into the wine bottle . ( <URL> ) But note that : Champagne and other sparkling wines tend to age better if they are kept upright . The rules for liquor are n't as defined , but it should generally be stored upright . ( <URL> ) . It 's stored that way at the factory , and it 's shipped and displayed that way . Also for many " fancy " bottle types , the bottle wo n't even sit properly on its side . Also , alcohol in liquor can leak through - or even break down - whatever material is used for the cap . But it 's generally safe to store liquor bottles horizontally in the freezer for a time . It depends a lot on the specific bottle and cap in use .
If it is something like the eggs for baking a cake then you take out the number of eggs you need for the recipe and let them sit on the counter for about an hour before you start putting your ingredients together . I 've been baking for a great many years and even if the eggs are still a little chilly it wo n't do any harm to a cake or cookie recipe . It might make a difference for bread recipes but the warm water used to activate the yeast will usually bring up the temp of other ingredients to where you need it .
Do n't let the tail wag the dog . When smoking , you want to figure out time and temperature first and worry about smoke second . This can obviously vary widely . That said , there are things you can do to get more smoke going : If you can smell it , you 'll get some smoke flavor . If you can see it , you 'll get more . If you 're not getting ( much ) visible smoke then you need some combination of 1 ) wetter wood 2 ) lower temperature 3 ) larger wood . You get less smoke when the wood just goes up in flames . Chips are particularly prone to do this . Larger chunks smolder better . Things also smolder better when they 're very wet or the fire is n't so hot . But again , you want to figure out your temperature and then get smoke , not make large temp changes just to get smoke . If you 're doing very low and slow ( 225F ) , sometimes that 's not enough heat to get your wood smoking well . Smaller chips or higher temperature are the only things I 've found that really solve this problem .
Half and half or heavy cream is a pretty good substitute . It has similar fat/water suspension , reduces and thickens similarly , and emulsifies similarly . You lose the coconut flavor , but it cooks similarly and you keep the texture . You can not substitute coconut cream , because it is too rich , which changes the texture of the sauce greatly , and does n't do as good a job of getting flavors out of spices . Incidentally , I highly suggest you pick up a box of instant coconut milk powder . It 's not as good as the canned stuff ( needs whisking ) , but because it 's nonperishable you do n't have to use the whole container at a time . This helps avoid the " oh crap , used the last can ! " moments you get with canned coconut milk .
When you want to freeze things so that they do n't stick together , you need to freeze them separately and then combine later . So , for example , if you 're freezing blueberries , you can freeze them on a cookie sheet and then combine them in one bag or container . For chicken , I would n't advise freezing the pieces uncovered ( as you do for blueberries ) . Instead , I would package the pieces in containers that only hold one meal 's worth . You can always defrost more than one package if necessary . This could be a plastic container or wrapped individually in plastic wrap or aluminum foil , or even a zippered plastic bag . Any of these would allow you to unwrap individually and defrost .
Nature has designed some food-stuff to last a long time . Grains ( wheat , rice , corn , oats , ... ) , which are the seeds of grasses , will last the longest , often more than one year . Seeds need a long shelf-life if the plant is going to make it to the next growing season . Next come roots ( onions , potatoes , ... ) , which need to last from one year to the next . Nuts , in the cooking sense , are seeds surrounded by a shell , will also last several years if they are dry . So almonds , peanuts , pine nuts will keep , but not coconuts or chestnuts . Other food types are going to need some help , which basically means getting rid of the water in the food-stuff ( lentils , beans , peas , chick peas , soybean , ... ) or slowing down bacterial growth ( through dehydration , freezing , irradiation , canning , cooling , ... ) I have cooked grains and dried beans and lentils from my pantry that were over a year old . They all made good meals .
If cooled and stored properly ( minimize air space in the container ) , most soups will should last in the refrigerator up to 5 days . Do you really want to be eating the same soup that long ? I would suggest dividing your soups into smaller sized containers and freezing it so you have a wide selection available at any given time . Depending on the ingredients most soups can be succesfully frozen for long term storage . Dairy based items are more likely to curdle/separate after thawing so you 'd be better to add the cream/milk when you 're reheating it . Chunks of potato or pasta are likely to break up a bit and have a more mealy consistency so it would also be better to leave the potato out and add to it and cook when reheating .
Applesauce has little flavor and almost no nutritional value . It is added to baked goods for the one thing it does have - pectin . Pectin interferes with gluten in a similar manner to fat although by a different mechanism . For this reason applesauce is often used to replace some of the fat in recipes for health-conscious bakers . <URL> . Or if you are <URL> . Other banana bread recipes are very similar to cakes and rely on a huge amount of fat - often creamed with a large amount of sugar . Your options are then to : Replace the applesauce with some other oil substitute . Another puree of high-pectin fruit would work . Switch to a recipe that just uses the fat and enjoy a richer banana bread .
A mixture of flour and water at room temperature is a very hospitable growth medium for many bacteria , yeasts , and molds ; and indefinitely is a long time ... Even if you are extremely vigilant when it comes to kitchen hygiene , the mixture will eventually start to grow some form of microbes . This process could take a week or more to become obvious . If you use the batch up within a week or so it is unlikely to cause any problems . For longer storage you should refrigerate the dough and/or add salt ( in the proportional amount you would use for bread ) . If it develops an off smell or visible mold you are better off throwing it away . Keep in mind that hydrating flour , especially whole grain flours , activates amylase enzymes that break down starches into simple sugars . This process , called autolysis , improves browning and flavor , but if allowed to go on too long it leads to a gummy crumb or poor overall structure .
White fish are , as a rule , more delicately flavored than darker fleshed fish . Add farm-raised to that equation and you have the makings for a very bland meal , which is why you almost always see farm-raised white-fleshed fish served with heavy herb treatments and powerful sauces , or ( in cod 's case ) fry batter . Tilapia and cod are two of the most common farm-raised fish on the market , so I 'm leaning heavily on my suspicion that you 're trying to make sushi out of the farm-raised varieties and not wild game . If it 's white fish you desire for sushi , talk to your fishmonger . Tell him what you 're doing and ask for his recommendation . He 'll direct you toward game fish that that are either very new and very fresh or that of the flash-frozen variety .
Kneading does two things . First it mixes all the ingredients uniformly . You have to do this no matter what , but you only really have to do it enough to mix the ingredients . If you keep kneading beyond the mixing stage , you are applying energy ( which equals heat ) to the yeast which makes it ferment , generating the tiny bubbles which make bread fluffy . The yeast will ferment on its own , but kneading just accelerates that process . Historically , dough was proved ( left in a hot humid place ) for about 18 hours allowing it to rise slowly in order to make bread . In 1961 a process was developed in England called the <URL> . Essentially you work the heck out of the dough with high-speed mixers . The extra few minutes of high energy mixing applies heat to the yeast , which dramatically reduces the fermentation period required , allowing you to make bread much more quickly ... at factory-type speeds . Factories can make bread in a couple of hours instead of having to prepare dough one day and bake it the next .
The historical purpose of jam is to preserve fruit from a time of bounty to a time when it is less plentiful . Therefore , to be a candidate for jam making , the fruit must be reasonably plentiful in the region where it would be preserved . Technically , in order to form a jam or a jelly , there must be sufficient pectin and sufficient acid in the fruit to thicken it . In some regions , there are traditional combinations of high and low pectin fruits , in order to get a viable jam from the low pectin fruit . Some fruits need acid , in the form of vinegar or lemon juice usually , added in order to help them gel ; others need additional pectin . <URL> has lists of high , medium , and low pectin fruits . Other than this , it is down to the cultural preferences in a given region .
When you 're determining the doneness by time , you 're doing it wrong :) There are too many differences between individual fish to go just by weight , thickness , oven temperature , and time . The best way is to measure the internal temperature ( stick a thermometer into the thickest part of the fillet ) ; I like about 120 F ( 50 C ) for salmon ( carryover cooking raises the temperature a little higher after taking it out of the pan ) , but then it has to be good quality fish . You need to check early and often , because it can go from undercooked to overcooked fairly quickly . Now , like zanlok says , my experience is mostly with pan frying , and I 'd expect using the oven would be a bit slower than using a pan because of slower heat transfer ; so you should be a bit safer . If you do n't have a meat thermometer , an easy way to test fish for doneness is to look for translucency . Salmon can still be just a little translucent in the middle . Also , properly done fish flakes along the natural " seams " . Another nice trick ( which does n't work for boneless fillets - sorry ) is to find a bone in the thickest part of the fish : if it comes out fairly easily , then the connective tissues have mostly dissolved and it 's done . That leaves the temperature for your oven . I would go with very high - that way the fish gets the least possible time to dry out ( which is going to be a big risk with this cooking method , I would think - unless you wrap your salmon in bacon or something like that ) . At a guess , I 'd try 450 F ( 230 C ) .
The USDA recommendation for a safe internal temperature is 165 degrees for chicken . The breast , being leaner , should n't be cooked to any higher than that or it will dry out and be tough . The thigh can be cooked to a slightly higher temperature ( 165-175 ) . That is the Kitchen Network 's preference for taste and texture ( <URL> ) . Getting the thigh to a slightly higher temperature ( and keeping it there for longer ) helps the collagen break down , which will make it more tender and taste more moist .
Hard cheeses ( e.g. parmesan ) will typically last several months in the refrigerator once removed from the packaging . The larger the chunk , the longer it will last . If mold forms on the outside , simply cut it off and continue using . There is no reason to throw-away good parmesan .
The technique that many restaurants will use is to prepare the pasta ahead of time and store it in or on ice water . The chilled pasta may be then submerged briefly in boiling water and served .
end question
start question
What is this grilling utensil with two wire mesh panels ?
A <URL> perhaps ? I 've no luck finding the term for your specific description , but that seems to be an umbrella term for utensils that basically hold something so you can more easily grill it .
The answer to the question is " Chap Zai " . The name for Chinese Crispy Roast Pork is " sio bak " by the way talon8 - I bought a tenderizer from Amazon exactly like the one you posted but the pins were not sharp enough to make the required number of tiny holes - and therefore the skin on the pork belly did not get that crystalised look where the fat has flowed out through the skin . My best result was by using a sharp knife but this took a long time . Anyway - long story short , I got this by emailing a number of Chinese supermarkets ( was never listed on their website shops ) and they told me the name . Would be good if anyone can verify this name ...
Instant flour has the advantage of speed and ease . You can pretty much always do without - but for home cooks in a hurry , it can be an easy solution . Its used for sauces , but sometimes recommended for pastry work because of the ultra low protein content . Normally , when adding flour to a sauce you 'll need to make it into a slurry or roux and mix in correctly to avoid lumps . Then you 'll need to cook it for a bit to get rid of the ' flour taste ' . With instant flour , its just pour and stir - no clumps , no waiting . My understanding is that this is ultra low protein flour that as been flash hydrated , cooked ( possibly with steam ) , dehydrated , and then finely ground . This means its pretty much ' ready ' to use - it wo n't taste ' floury ' since its already been cooked and the superfine particles are supposed to not clump . ( It may also contain some malted barley flour as a dough conditioner ) . You could try ( this is just an idea ) making it at home by basically repeating the above process - steam cake flour , dehydrate , grind ... but I do n't know why you would . If you going to do all that , just make a slurry or roux or use cake flour . This <URL> lays out a few interesting uses . Using it for crepes because it will hydrate quicker . Using it for pastry work when you can get pastry flour and you do n't want the bleachness of cake flour .
You might consider citrus or other tart fruit with citrus -- mandarin oranges segments are fairly common to pair with spinich ; even if you did n't use whole fruit , consider making a vinagrette using orange juice . I 've also seen recipes for spinich salads with strawberries or cranberries ; I 've also had a pineappe and avocado salad before that might work well with spinish instead of romaine .
Gnocchi shaped ? I am pretty sure they are Turdilli ! . It 's a <URL> : They are deep-fried : And hot-soaked in honey too : Same biscotti , slightly different shapes : Bear in mind that fried cookies soaked in honey are a traditional treat for carnival and Christmas seasons all over Italy , so you may find many , many similar recipes . From <URL> : Evviva i Dolci di Carnevale rigorosamente fritti , che ricevono nomi diversi secondo i luoghi . In Toscana chiacchiere o trecce , e poi frappe laziali , castagnole romane , frittelle di riso molisane , fritole triestine , nigelan altoatesini , sfincitelle siciliane , tortelli romagnoli , bomboloni fiorentini , cicerchiata umbra e chi più ne ha più ne metta ! At left with figs syrup , at right with honey : A full blown italian fritti feast : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( hold your envy )
I agree with yossarian , if I question it , I chuck it . Although in this case , the salmon probably will not harm you , it might just taste bad . Loss of moisture ( freezer burn ) , taking on of flavours , etc. . I would n't eat it because it would n't taste great . My father-in-law would eat it , because you do n't throw out food ( his rule ) . Bottom line , if it has been in the freezer for those two years straight , it wo n't give you food poisoning or harm you . It 's just a matter of palate . But rest assured , it wo n't taste great .
I think grilling is probably a bad plan for duck legs ; the fat content is a real danger like you said , and duck legs are tough enough you probably want to confit them or braise them . If you absolutely have to grill them , I would suggest confiting them at 200 degrees for three or four hours first ( you could use veggie oil in a pinch ) and then resting them in the fridge for a day or so in oil . As for finishing them on the grill , rinse them off gently , re-season if needed , cook flesh side down on a medium heat portion of the grill for a while until mostly heated through , then flip them over on a high heat portion of the grill to crisp up the skin , watching out for flares .
You could use them , together with the core , to make apple-glaze ( for your pie ) . Cover everything with water , simmer about 30 min , strain , simmer until you reach the desired density .
I 'll elaborate on Joe 's answer some . It 's a little known fact that button mushrooms ( also called common , white , or table mushrooms ) , cremini ( crimini , baby portobello , baby bella , brown mushroom ) , and portbello ( portabella ) are all the same species . Specifically , <URL> . The difference in appearance and taste is based solely on maturity . The youngest are white button mushrooms , and the oldest are the big portobello mushrooms . There can be slight differences in skin color for the portobello 's , though it tends to be darker than the stark white of the button . The mushrooms in that video are most certainly fully mature agaricus bisporus , a portobello . It 's a safe bet that anytime you see a mushroom being substituted for a " steak " , that it will be a portobello . They have a rich meaty flavor and texture that is perfectly suited for this .
Again assuming you 're using the same recipe ... I do n't think you need to leap to different kinds of flours as in <URL> . You could be using the same type ( probably all-purpose ) and even the same brand , but purchased and stored somewhere else ; it 'll end up with a different moisture content , and perhaps fluffed differently , so your volume measurements might not actually end up getting you the same amount of flour . If you 're trying to follow her recipe exactly , there 's really no harm in simply reducing the flour a bit to get the texture you remember .
I would suggest from the information you 've provided so far , that the most likely cause is that you 've overcooked it . There are a couple reasons that might have happened . Pan What pan you choose matters here . If you do n't have a powerful stove ( ideally gas for stir frying ; or induction with the right sort of wok adapter ) , then a flat stainless skillet is your best bet . If you have the right stove , then a thinner wok is ideal as it 'll recover heat more quickly . Heat How high is " really high " ? Do you have gas ? induction ? crappy old electric ? Not all stoves are made equal . If you 're stir frying something ( especially something like flank steak ) . You want to cook it very very , hot . You also want to cook it quickly . Do n't crowd the pan . Assuming your average electric home setup : I 'd use a flat bottomed stainless steel skillet . Let it heat up dry until it 's super hot . Drop a droplet of water onto it , if it beads up and dances around you 're good . Add some oil . Add a single layer of meat until it 's cooked . If you 're stove is n't hot enough , you 're not going to recover heat as quickly as a pro range . Let it cook a bit before flipping it over . If you happen to have a powerful enough stove , then a wok is your best bet . Same deal heating it up and adding oil . This time , you can keep it moving till it 's browned . I 'd take it out as soon as I did n't see any red . With both cooking methods , I would n't add it back to the heat except to mix it with everything else . ( Cook meat and remove . Cook vegetables and remove . Stir fry noodles if desired . Throw everything in , add sauce and combine and then remove ) . Cut You 've said you cut it across the grain , so I 'll assume this is n't your problem . It 's worth reiterating for anyone else 's benefit , as this is the most common problem . Depending on how sharp your knife is , you could try going even thinner than 1/4 " . If there 's any chance your 1/4 " is more than a 1/4 " that would be a negative , as it 's going to toughen up as it 'll take too long to cook . If you have trouble cutting it thin enough , you could freeze it for about 30 min to an hour before cutting . It 's a lot easier to get thin cuts that way . If it came frozen , just cut before fully defrosted .
The percentage of milk-fat determines the name . It is different from region to region . In the US , heavy whipping Cream is above % 36 fat . You can see <URL> for the naming convention and fat content . For a chocolate mousse you 're generally looking for cream with fat contents between % 30 and % 40 . Otherwise you can get a phase-inversion in your mousse emulsion ( it break or collapses ) . There are Chocolate mousse recipes using butter instead of cream . It makes for a slightly different tasting chocolate mousse , but hey , it 's chocolate mousse . You may be able to cheat using an emulsifier such as soy lecithin to keep the emulsion stable . Gelatin does thicken things , but you 're likely to lose the air bubbles in the mousse and get a denser mix .
Well , if it comes directly from Southern Italy you could use it to make some Southern Italy specialty like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> , all of which require candied fruits . Traditionally pastiera is done with a mix of candied citron and orange peel plus candied pumpkin ( cucuzzata ) which however is not the easiest ingredient to find . Citrus is definitely a must for sfogliatelle . There are two types of sfogliatelle ricce and frolle . Sfogliatelel ricce are better tasting in my opinion , but can be challenging to do at home . <URL> Sfogliatella riccia Sfogliatella frolla Cannoli traditionally only have candied orange peels , but I guess citron would do well in them anyway . Cannolo siciliano Note : the pastry in the Wikipedia photo for pastiera seems way too thick and crumbly . The pastry should be very thin , there just to keep everything together , and should not be the dominant taste .
The quickest way to get rid of leftover wine is to think of it as flavoured water . In many if not most recipes that call for water - especially stovetop recipes like sauces and stews - you can simply substitute wine for the water or stock that the recipe normally calls for . We actually had a similar question recently : <URL> and I 'd recommend you take a look at that , as many of the points there apply equally well to wine . Probably the best summation was in <URL> : I 'd consider stock to be just another flavorful liquid ( thanks Alton Brown ) , to be usable in exchange for others like wine , etc. . You need to be conscious of the gelatin aspect and mindful that some substitutions will be more successful than others , flavor-wise , but it 's always worth considering if stock might be a good substitute for any other flavorful liquid . Just swap the terms " stock " and " wine " and you 're good to go . Even though wine does n't contain any gelatin , you actually do need to be mindful of the gelatin aspect when substituting wine for stock , because you might have the opposite problem if the liquid is supposed to thicken . Similarly to stock , I also would n't recommend using wine in anything that you plan to refrigerate or freeze for a long period , for a different reason obviously - because it can go sour over time . So try to only use it in recipes that will be consumed in the near future . Other than that , just experiment ; whenever you 're making a savoury recipe that calls for water or stock , try using some wine instead . You 'd be surprised at how much character it can add to otherwise simple dishes . Some examples of places where you can replace some other liquid with wine : Rice or risotto Soups and sauces Deglazing a pan ( for a pan sauce ) Salad dressings ( this is an especially good use for sour/fermented wine ) Marinades Poaching liquids ( for eggs , chicken , etc. ) There really are no rules , and any time you find yourself tossing plain water into a pot or bowl , you should keep in mind that you are potentially missing an opportunity to add flavour ( which a good wine will add plenty of ) .
The best I can offer you comes from <URL> : The gelation of egg yolk can be partially reversed by heating after thawing . This treatment improves the functional properties of proteins . The stiffness of the gels obtained after frozen storage can be reduced by more than 50 % and become pourable at 21 ° C by heating up to 45 ° C for 1 h. Eggs do n't actually start to set until you hit 63 ° C , so if I had previously-frozen eggs , I would heat them as the above paragraph suggests . Just be very careful not to use too much heat . You wo n't get perfect eggs , but they 'll be edible .
Whether or not it 's a good idea is subjective , but the Chinese seem to break that rule a lot ! For example , Northeastern Chinese sweet and sour pork ( guō bāo ròu ) is <URL> . The Sichuan classic twice cooked pork ( huí guō ròu ) calls for boiling the pork with ginger . A <URL> condiment for beef dishes/sauces is <URL> . Perhaps this saying is associated with a specific Chinese regional cuisine ?
I suspect that your cheese curdled . This happens to me if I overheat the mixture - especially in the presence of acid . ( I do n't have any experience with using beer . ) The cornstarch is there as a safety net to prevent this but obviously it is not infallible . Turn down the heat and try adding a little more corn starch - it may not get back to perfect fondue but you may be able to pull it back to edible .
I 'm solidly in the flip as often as you want camp . As long as it 's not over ( or under ) cooked I find that you get better results flipping often . Plus you can rearrange things to make more room as you flip . To tell how cooked a burger is poke it with a finger or something else that 's not too sharp ; just like a steak the more cooked it is the more firm it will be . You just need to learn how " squishy " you like them . Also , as fun as it is , do n't press the whole burger into the grill ! All that happens is that the delicious juices are forced out .
Food processors are wonderful kitchen tools , but they have only existed for a relatively short while . The techniques used prior to their invention still work , but are much more labor intensive . Use a <URL> . Use a mortar and pestle . The results can then be forced through a sieve of <URL> if desired to get a smoother result . You have not mentioned in your recipe whether the beans are cooked . I am guessing that they are from the other ingredients they were to be processed with . If so , the food mill should work very well . If they are not , and you are essentially making a bean flour , the mortar and pestle would be more appropriate , although a lot of work .
I have not made Marron Glaces . However I have been researching how to make them and found someone , who had used a washed onion bag to put the chestnuts in to stop them breaking up . Apparently this works . So even though I have not made them I saw your question while researching and thought I would pass on this tip to you . Hope it works for you . Deborah
end question
start question
What happens if I brine my turkey for 2 days ?
It is possible to over brine meat . If you leave it in too long it will get too salty . If you use a more dilute brine it wo n't get as salty but you will wash out more of the natural flavor into the water as well . You could submerge your turkey in its packaging in ice water in a cooler for a day before brining . You could even thaw the turkey in this manner if you made sure to keep it in ice water so it did n't get to 40F .
If you boiled the eggs but left them in the pot of water , you may be in luck . The shell should keep the rotten egg safe from cracking and exposing the apartment to the truly rancid smell of spoilt eggs , assuming they have n't cracked during boiling . You will know a spoiled egg when you crack open the shell . Whether raw or cooked , a spoiled egg will have an unpleasant odor . No question about it : throw it out . - <URL> What you will probably find when you get home are unmolested eggs in a stagnant pot of water . Throw the eggs out if they have n't cracked . They WILL be spoilt . <URL> describes why . <URL> ( similar information can be found from other food agencies ) : Why do hard-cooked eggs spoil faster than fresh eggs ? When shell eggs are hard cooked , the protective coating is washed away , leaving bare the pores in the shell for bacteria to enter and contaminate it . Hard-cooked eggs should be refrigerated within 2 hours of cooking and used within a week . Simply put , you 're damaging the shell , and that expedites spoilage . If you 're unlucky and the eggs did crack ... well , the water might absorb some of the scent , but after four weeks , you 're still likely going to have some odor . Throw the eggs out , pour the water out , throughly clean the pot , and try to air your apartment out as best you can .
First , as a gardener who 's grown these , I can tell you that acorn squash -- like all winter squash -- need to be left on the vine to ripen . After picking , they will get a little sweeter as they sit for a couple weeks , but if picked too early , they wo n't actually continue to ripen . That said , there 's no great trick to picking a good one . If you see some some orange color in the skin , it 's almost certainly ripe , though they can still be mature when all green , too . Ideally , you should be able to trust that the farmer harvested these properly , but if you 're getting unripened winter squash , someone probably screwed up out in the field . If you think the store gives a damn , it 's probably worth mentioning that you 're getting some bad ones .
There are a number of factors that will contribute to how well the salt penetrates the interior of the piece of fish including thickness of the fish , types of tissue that have to be penetrated , and length of brine . The skin creates a significant barrier to salt penetration and the solution will penetrate the meat from its face and from its leaner side . After brining there will be more salt near the lean face than near the skin area . In order to get the most even salt penetration remove the skin , cut the pieces thin like sushi or ceviche , and brine in a 15 % salt solution for 2-3 hours . For even penetration you need even contact on both sides of the meat so you either need to suspend the pieces in the solution , or flip them at regular intervals . The surface will always be saltier than the core , but with thinner pieces and sufficient time the difference will be negligible . If you want to use larger pieces you will need to extend the time . Consider combining a soaking brine with injections of the brine solution into the meat itself . You could brine any kind of fish that you would find in a sushi restaurant , just make sure it is as fresh as possible . EDIT : After reading <URL> comment I was able to find <URL> which states that salted herring typically has a salt concentration of 7-13 % , however <URL> leads me to believe that a dry cure then brine combination may be responsible for the higher salt concentration . According an <URL> about hams and sausages , wet curing methods can reach salt concentrations up to 26 % , but maximum weight gain is reached with a salt concentration around 5 % . The first site also notes that salt concentrations above 7 % are considered unpalatable by most people .
Kneading dough has a few functions . First , it distributes the ingredients together evenly and allows the flour to become hydrated . As the flour starts to absorb water , enzymatic reactions occur and some proteins begin to mesh together . The two most important in this process are glutenin and gliadin . When these proteins start to get tangled up together , they form gluten , which is the protein that allows bread dough to stretch and trap gas bubbles produced by yeast . These reactions will occur on their own to an extent , as in no-knead recipes , but kneading accelerates the process . Kneading also allows you to control the texture of the bread . A vigorous knead can help to produce a bread with a fine crumb as the kneading an tighten the gluten , keeping the air bubbles more uniform . Doing short kneading periods ( or folds ) spaced by time for the dough to relax and rise can give you more extensible dough which can help give you a more open crumb structure . Finally , kneading is sometimes used to add inclusions to the dough that would disrupt it 's activity if added to early . This can be things like seeds , which would cut gluten strands if included too early in the process , or things like butter in a brioche , which would shorten the dough if included before the gluten had already developed .
No , you ca n't . Or at least , you wo n't get the result you 're really looking for . Water needs to be able to move through the meat for the salt and flavorings to be transported to the inner cells of the meat . When the meat 's frozen , you 're dealing with ice crystals . ... that being said , you can <URL> if you 're desperate , but you have less control to know exactly how much salt will be absorbed . ( and I vaguely remember another question on here about temperature &amp; brining , and I seem to recall someone reported on experimental results that really cold brines did n't transfer flavors deeply into the meat . ) .
A few things are n't quite right here . 1 - a cooler full of water for 3 days . A turkey will take 3-4 days to thaw in the fridge - between 35-40F . Quicker methods call for submerging in running water for some hours . Submerging the turkey in stagnant water - even if it started as ice water - will allow the turkey to rise well above 40F over the course of 3 days . You would have to add ice or have the turkey somewhere colder than 40F for this to be safe . 2 - brining too long turning a turkey to mush . The salt in a brine denatures some proteins and supercharges the bird with water . These will make the meat more tender and seem more tender respectively . That said - the risk is n't that the meat will get mushy . Unless you are adding some other ingredient to the brine that is actually a proteinase like papain the risk is not mushiness but being too salty . 3 - 1-2 days of brining . I have never seen a recipe that called for brining this long . The brine recipes I have seen are on the order of 4-10 hours . If your brine recipe calls for this length of time then it is probably more dilute than the ones I use . In such a case it would probably be fine to thaw it in the brine if you address the safety concern . The turkey being frozen will prevent the brine from penetrating but as the bird thaws from the outside in the outside of the bird will have more alone time with the brine than the deeper meat . I ca n't say whether this would be a problem - especially as Harold McGee says that the salt from brining is n't able to penetrate very far into the meat anyway . Unless it is cold enough outside ( or you have enough fridge space ) that you could brine the turkey at < 40F for 2 days while it thawed I would recommend at least mostly thawing it before introducing it to your brine .
Dijon has a strong taste from the liquid they use in it ( it 's not quite vinegar , not quite wine ) . I 'd probably try a blend of some other mustard + a little white wine vinegar ( not white vinegar ; white wine vinegar ) or champaigne vinegar or apple cider vinegar . ( Maybe even a dry white wine , if you have that on hand ) . If you have dry mustard powder , and some time to let it sit , you could also try making your own ; most of the recipes online seem to use a dry white wine as their base , a few use white wine vinegar .
I am not a chemist , but my grandma always used to make bread ( and similar stuff ) with sparkling water instead of still water . She always mentioned that the result will be more fluffy and airy . This only addresses the question about the ( important ) consistency though , but I guess you should just try it out yourself . Edit : Some benefits of using sparkling water in the kitchen As this answer got downvoted to zero I guess my grandma was not convincing enough . So I asked a befriended chef who works at a luxury hotel chain in Germany . Here 's what he explained : Desserts can be made more creamy without actually adding cream . Here he gave examples of pudding/mousse-ish desserts Vegetables steamed with sparkling water results in less loss of color ( i.e. brighter colors ) , more crispyness , and stronger taste . He particularly recommended to try it with carrots , broccoli or cauliflower . You can add sparkling water to thick soups shortly before serving to get them more foamy . Similar with Salad dressings Last but not least he confirmed precisely what my grandma said . For doughs and similar stuff ( for salty or sweet dishes ) you would get a nice fluffy texture . Kudos to my grandma at this point .
According to Handbook of Food Science , Technology , and Engineering , Volume 3 , edited by Yiu H. Hui , the freezing of any meats , ( particularly red meats ) , causes cell walls to rupture the rate of rupture is inversely proportionate to the rate freezing Since household-grade freezers are of the slower sort , owing to an effort toward energy efficiency , when we at home freeze meats we are doing about as much damage as possible to the structural integrity of the meat at its most fundamental level , to wit , its cell walls . The reason this is relevant to the question [ of brining before or after freezing ] is as follows . To brine meat is to infuse it with water or , as the wiki on Brining states <URL> , ... makes cooked meat moister by hydrating the cells of its muscle tissue before cooking , via the process of osmosis , ... Since water , unique among all molecules , is the only substance which actually expands when frozen rather than contracts , the absorption of additional water into the individual cells of the meat is now guaranteed to facilitate further rupturing of the cell walls , that is , if brining is performed prior to freezing . Certainly therefore it is counterproductive to attempt to brine meat before freezing it , at least in the home setting . The greater quantity of ruptured cell walls , caused by the introduction into the cells of more water prior to freezing , ensures that the meat once thawed and undergoing preparation will have that many fewer cell walls in tact , that is , cell walls by which to keep the moisture in the cell . The result will be a product less moist than one would have obtained had brining not been performed . <URL> we find a perfectly thorough blog entry on the brining of turkey where , it must be said , we find that the author does not present a brine-to-freeze option . The author does however confirm that " 11 % sodium " on the label represents a turkey brined by the manufacturer , ( which we 'll hope to find refrigerated by our grocer , not frozen ) . The above graphic , which applies only tangentially to the question at hand , was obtained from that blog entry . Its relevance however speaks for itself .
The other answers touch on the fact that its the release of water from the turkey that interacts with the oil , causes the oil to overflow , and then ignite the burner . Generally , this happens pretty shortly after you put the turkey in ( due do any moisture on the outside of the bird ) . To do it safely do n't bank on the fact that you 've removed all the water - do two additional things : Do it outside . In the event something bad happens , better to lose some grass on the lawn than your house . If you do n't have space outside , you can always go to a public park or such . It may seem like a pain but turkey frying should not be done inside . There 's one absolutely surefire way to ensure than you do n't catch the burner on fire by accident . Do n't have it on ! Prep your turkey . Have it dry on the outside and completely thawed . Heat your oil outside . Turn the burner off Lower the turkey into the hot oil Wait 1-2 minutes or so , most of the initial contact between water and oil should over by now . Turn the burner back on and cook the turkey . Also make sure the burner is off while taking the turkey out , just to prevent any spills from becoming terrible . @ChrisWalker , below in the comments , also provides a method for making sure you do n't put too much oil in the pot and thus cause a spill over .
The main difference is the degradation of cell walls . The human digestive system does indeed struggle to break down the cellulose in cell walls , meaning that we are far more efficient in getting nutrients from vegetables when they are cooked . That does n't mean however that cooked veggies are always more nutritious than raw ones . There is actually quite a bit of debate on that and some people even eat raw foods exclusively . Your question is actually very similar to <URL> . You might find some useful insights there .
The <URL> suggestions : To ripen a California Avocado , place the fruit in a plain brown paper bag and store at room temperature 65-75 ° until ready to eat ( usually two to five days ) . Including an apple or banana in the bag accelerates the process because these fruits give off ethylene gas , a ripening reagent . Soft ripe fruit can be refrigerated until it is eaten , but not for more than two or three days . The California Avocado Commission does not recommend using a microwave to accelerate the ripening process .
You want to use a gentle heating method . For this sort of thing , I prefer steaming . It will gently bring up the heat of your food without wringing the moisture out of it . This is especially helpful if it 's already cut into relatively small portions , such as slices of breast meat . Spread everything out on a single layer on the steamer basket before hand . Warming drawer would be my second choice . Slice , add a few teaspoons of water , and cover and add to your warming drawer , set to your target temperature .
The main difference between a food processor and a blender is its shape and how the food is mixed while it is being " cut up " . In a blender , it relies on the funneling action of liquid to mix the food around . Otherwise only the bottom gets blended while the top stays solid . Food processors usually have a flat bottom and have a mechanism to turn the food as it cuts it up . This results in evenly chopped food . If you want the gazpacho to end up completely smooth , then the blender will definitely work in this application as it will be liquid enough to get the funnel action going to mix the food around . Keep it mind it would be a good idea to start blending the vegetables with high water content such as tomato and onion first to create a liquid " base " for the other vegetables . IF you want coarse chunks for the vegetables , it is slightly trickier but still possible to use a blender . You need to work in smaller " batches " and use the pulse functionality instead of just blending . If the batch is too big , you end up with overblended mush on the bottom and unblended chunks on top .
No . The fat content of goose , like most waterfowl , is very high . This makes it unsuitable for brining . Brining is intended to bring moisture to meats that tend to dry out , such as chicken and turkey . See <URL> to " <URL> " for more details .
Do n't take anything that costs much : You may have it taken away from you by border controls . In some parts of the world being able to confiscate nice things is a perk of the job . You want to enter ( or leave ) the country , you part with the knife . It could also be illegal to bring in knives over a certain size Hostels are famous for being rife with theft . Having some nice folding knife just begs for someone to take it Traveling is hard on equipment It does n't really matter anyway : who cares about the knife , anything will do . Ingredients and technique are what matters If I were you I 'd get a cheap , short cooking knife from some hardware store . Also make sure it looks like a cooking knife , you do n't want anything that could be mistaken for a weapon ! If you lose it , or it gets stolen , or broken , or you give it to someone who needs it more than you do then you just buy another cheap knife at a market somewhere . If you have an expensive piece of equipment it 's just another worry .
Freezing is bad for things which have a special structure and lots of water . Everything else should be OK with freezing . The prime example of a thing which behaves badly when frozen is a fruit . It consists mostly of water , but is firm instead of liquid because the water is contained within a cellulose structure created by the cell walls of the fruit . When you freeze it , the water turns to sharp ice crystals , which also expand in volume ( water is one of the few liquids which does that upon freezing ) , and they hurt the cell walls . When you defrost the fruit , it turns terribly soft , and all the juice runs out . It is practically like maceration without the sugar . You can use the fruit for cooking , e.g. for a jelly , but it is not the same thing as a fresh fruit . Another example which is very structure dependent is whipped egg white . It is a fragile foam , and the formation of ice crystals is also very damaging for it . Whipped cream is similar - you can freeze it ( and get ice cream ) , but it melts to a liquid , not a foam . On the other hand , foods which have a specific structure but not much water are OK with freezing . Butter is not pure fat , it is an emulsion of 17 % water in 83 % fat . Emulsions tend to have very fragile structures ( do n't freeze mayonnaise ) , but butter is OK , because there is n't much water so the formation of crystals does n't disrupt the structure . Another exception which is OK to freeze is dough . A dough being practically a mesh of gluten , it does n't get really hurt by the crystals . There are a few ingredients which develop an off taste when frozen . For example , do n't freeze anything carbonated , it tastes terrible afterwards . You should also consider the problem of freezer burn . It happens when the moisture of the frozen product sublimates in the dry freezer air . To prevent it , you have to seal the food airtight . You are therefore limited by the kind of food you can seal . If you have a food which would make a mess in a home vacuum sealer , like a wet stew , you could try freezing it for a night , so it is hard but does not have freezer burn yet , and then sealing the frozen chunk and returning it to the freezer . Some ingredients will prevent the food from freezing into a solid block . Notable examples are salt , alcohol and propylene glycol ( which is used as a solvent in food coloring and baking aromas ) . This should n't be a food safety problem , because first , bacteria growth is inhibited by low temperatures , and second , if you have these things in concentration high enough to completely prevent freezing at -18 ° C , then they will kill the bacteria by themselves . But it can cause some logistic problems if the food stays too soft . As you see , these general guidelines have exceptions , or at least require some knowledge of what food is built like ( but frankly , I would have predicted that yeast dough freezes badly if I did n't know from experience that it works well ) . So you should definitely try to remember it on a per-case basis for the most common things you intend to freeze . A very convenient guideline is to think if you can buy a premade equivalent frozen at the supermarket . If they sell it , it will probably turn out OK when frozen at home ( sometimes with differences , like frozen fruit ) . If they do n't have the food ( or its major ingredients ) , there is probably a reason for that .
When it comes to pairing specific ingredients , the general thinking seems to be that ingredients that share " flavour notes " in significant quantity will go well together . In practice it goes much deeper than that , because in addition to taste , foods have very specific and recognizable aromas which affect the perception of flavour ; wine is mostly sweet and sour , but you would n't substitute ordinary grape juice for it ; the aroma of the alcohol is unmistakable , and even between different wines you will have varying levels of " fruitiness " or " woodiness " . But let 's start with tastes : Chocolate and coffee go well together because they share characteristic bitter notes . The roasting of the beans also makes a difference ; the pairing works best when the roasting is enough to thermally degrade the bitterness without losing too much sweetness due to caramelization . This emphasizes the sweetness and de-emphasizes the bitterness and acidity of the coffee , making it closer to the flavour profile of chocolate . A traditional stock combines a mirepoix ( onions , carrots , celery ) with meat ( well , bones ) , both very high in umami . The end product may have varying notes of bitterness or saltiness from the vegetables but is basically one huge kick of umami . A lot of people also enjoy peanut butter and bacon together , which combines the significant umami and saltiness in both foods . Beets and sour cream are a traditional ( or so I 'm told ) Polish dish , both obviously sharing strong sour notes . Often chives are added , which are mildly pungent in nature and pungency tends to go with sour or bitter ( since it is created by sulfur which is perceived as sour , bitter , and also " metallic " ) . This tends to work reasonably well for basic pairings , but another very strong element of this is balancing all of the different flavours in a dish . Peanut butter and jam do n't seem to have much in common , flavour-wise . But when you combine them together in a sandwich you have the high umami and saltiness of the peanut butter , the sweet and slightly sour notes of the jam , and the hints of bitterness and/or sourness in the bread . Together you have strong notes of all five tastes and the result is appealing to most people . Five Spice is usually a mixture of cinnamon ( sweet ) , star anise ( mildly sweet and bitter ) , fennel ( mildly sweet and fairly savoury ) , ground cloves ( pungent and somewhat bitter ) , and Szechuan peppercorns ( salty and pungent with a sour aftertaste ) . The quantities are generally adjusted to balance out the tastes ; for example , fennel is the only really savoury ingredient so Five Spice tends to have more of that than other ingredients . Anyway , this is used all over Chinese cuisine as a sort of " wonder spice " . A really good roast chicken starts off high in umami and is then brined ( salty ) , buttered ( sweet ) , and roasted which involves the Maillard reaction ( bitter ) . This is missing sour , which is why a lot of cooks will throw a few lemon slices in there . But truthfully , even though this all sounds plausible , it 's really so much more complicated than that . Even though there 's some science at work here , the five tastes are a little like the four elements or humours ; it 's an almost archaic way of thinking about food chemistry , because our mouths and noses can detect so much more than that . If you want to see just how little we actually really know about flavour today , check out <URL> on Khymos , linked to from one of the related questions . There you 'll see totally nonsensical combinations like chocolate and garlic or mint and mustard that actually - with the right preparation of course - produce pretty pleasant flavours/aromas . The truth is people are still gathering data on this and we do n't really know , exactly , what makes some flavours work together . At least we 're starting to approach this scientifically and actually experiment and document this stuff , but there 's not enough data to form a coherent theory yet . Check the answers to my <URL> and the other question on <URL> if you want detailed data on which flavour pairings can " work " , although you might not get much of an explanation for why .
Yes , you absolutely can eat turkey eggs . They are somewhat like duck eggs in that they are richer and creamier in taste . However , turkeys do n't lay nearly as many eggs as chickens - perhaps 100 a year as opposed to a hen 's 300 , so do n't expect to enjoy them too often .
end question
