start question
How much control over the Federal Reserve does the U.S. Government have ?
The Fed board members are appointed by the US President and approved by the Senate . That is the only control the US government has over the Fed . Otherwise it is a private , unaudited bank that has the unique ability to print money . The Fed was created in <URL> ( or for a shorter <URL> ) on Jekyll Island by a bunch of bankers who disguised their identities so no one would know what they were meeting about . That seems like a great way to start a central bank . The Fed was created by bankers for bankers . The citizens of the US were not clamoring for a central bank . The bankers were the ones who desired a central bank since all fractional reserve banks are always teetering on the verge of bankruptcy . List of participants at the meeting on Jekyll Island : Senator Nelson W. Aldrich , Rockefeller in-law Henry P.Davison , Morgan partner ( banker ) Paul M.Warburg , Kuhn , Loeb &amp; Co. partner ( banker ) Frank A. Vanderlip , vice-president of Rockefeller 's National City Bank ( banker ) Charles D. Norton , president of Morgan 's First National Bank of New York ( banker ) A. Piatt Andrew , Harvard economist and staff assistant to Aldrich on the Monetary Commission .
Your question is intriguing as statistics are a funny thing . There 's average which is just that , total all income and divide by population . Then there 's median , which is where 50 % are higher , 50 % lower . I 'm ignorant of Australia , forgive me , if there is a large concentration of wealth , the average becomes less and less meaningful as a measure of the general welfare of the population . Simple example , one in 100 people earn $ 1M . That means the other 99 make $ 10K less to get to the same average , right ? So to educate myself I took a glance at <URL> . In fact , your GINI coefficient is more favorable , as is your R/P 10 % . I do n't know if this was tangential to your question , but it was a lesson for me , thanks .
From an investor 's standpoint , if the value of crude oil increases , economies that are oil dependent become more favourable ( oil companies will be more profitable ) . Therefore , investors will find that country 's currency more attractive in the foreign exchange market .
The average of a dozen good answers is close to what would be right , the wisdom of crowds . But any one answer will be skewed by one 's own opinions . The question is missing too much detail . I look at $ 400K as $ 16K/yr of ongoing withdrawals . How much do you make now ? When the kids are all in school full time , can your wife work ? $ 400K seems on the low side to me , especially with 3 kids . How much have you saved for college ? The $ 150K for your wife is also a bit low . Without a long tangent on the monetary value of the stay at home spouse , what will you spent on childcare if she passes ? Term life also has a expiration date . When my daughter was born , my wife and I got 20 year term . She is now 16 , her college account fully funded , and we are semi-retired . The need for insurance is over . If one of us dies , the survivor does n't need this big of a house , and will have more than they need to be comfortable in a downsized one . My belief is that the term value should bridge the gap to the kids getting through college and the spouse getting resettled . Too much less , I 'd have left my wife at risk . Too much more , she 'd be better off if I were dead . ( I say that half joking , the insurance company will often limit the size policy to something reasonable . )
Not the US government , the US Congress , but yes - an attempt to slightly improve the horrible law . You may notice that <URL> . When you take that into account , the current level of $ 5500 is more or less <URL> . The original amounts were not automatically adjusted , and the Congress adjusted them " manually " through a separate legislation process each time . The last time ( in 2009 ) added the provision to automatically update the values , so from now on there 's no need in legislation to change the values , <URL> , in $ 500 increments , based on the CPI rates .
I 'll answer your question , but first a comment about your intended strategy . Buying government bonds in a retirement account is probably not a good idea . Government bonds ( generally ) are tax advantaged themselves , so they offer a lower interest rate than other types of bonds . At no tax or reduced tax , many people will accept the lower interest rate because their effective return may be similar or better depending , for example , on their own marginal tax rate . In a tax-advantaged retirement account , however , you 'll be getting the lower interest without any additional benefit because that account itself is already tax-advantaged . ( Buying bonds generally may be a good idea or not - I wo n't comment on that - but choose a different category of bonds . ) For the general question about the relationship between the Fed rate and the bond rate , they are positively correlated . There 's not direct causal relationship in the sense that the Fed is not setting the bond rate directly , but other interest bearing investment options are tied to the Fed rate and many of those interest-bearing options compete for the same investor dollars as the bonds that you 're reviewing . That 's at a whole market level . Individual bonds , however , may not be so tightly coupled since the creditworthiness of the issuing entity matters a lot too , so it could be that " bond rates " generally are going up but some specific bonds are going down based on something happening with the issuer , just like the stock market might be generally going up even as specific stocks are dropping . Also keep in mind that many bonds trade as securities on a secondary market much like stocks . So I 've talked about the bond rate . The price of the bonds themselves on the secondary market generally move opposite to the rate . The reason is that , for example , if you buy a bond at less than face value , you 're getting an effective interest rate that 's higher because you get the same sized incremental payments of interest but put less money into the investment . And vice versa .
Gold 's value starts with the fact that its supply is steady and by nature it 's durable . In other words , the amount of gold traded each year ( The <URL> ) is small relative to the existing total stock . This acting as a bit of a throttle on its value , as does the high cost of mining . Mines will have yields that control whether it 's profitable to run them . A mine may have a $ 600/oz production cost , in which case it 's clear they should run full speed now with gold at $ 1200 , but if it were below $ 650 or so , it may not be worth it . It also has a history that goes back millennia , it 's valued because it always was . John Maynard Keynes referred to gold as an archaic relic and I tend to agree . You are right , the topic is controversial . For short periods , gold will provide a decent hedge , but no better than other financial instruments . We are now in an odd time , where the stock market is generally flat to where it was 10 years ago , and both cash or most commodities were a better choice . Look at sufficiently long periods of time , and gold fails . In my history , I graduated college in 1984 , and in the summer of 82 played in the commodities market . Gold peaked at $ 850 or so . Now it 's $ 1200 . 50 % over 30 years is hardly a storehouse of value now , is it ? Yet , I recall Aug 25 , 1987 when the Dow peaked at 2750 . No , I did n't call the top . But I did talk to a friend advising that I ignore the short term , at 25 with little invested , I only concerned myself with long term plans . The Dow crashed from there , but even today just over 18,000 the return has averaged 7.07 % plus dividends . A lengthy tangent , but important to understand . A gold fan will be able to produce his own observation , citing that some percent of one 's holding in gold , adjusted to maintain a balanced allocation would create more positive returns than I claim . For a large enough portfolio that 's otherwise well diversified , this may be true , just not something I choose to invest in . Last - if you wish to buy gold , avoid the hard metal . GLD trades as 1/10 oz of gold and has a tiny commission as it trades like a stock . The buy/sell on a 1oz gold piece will cost you 4-6 % . That 's no way to invest . Update - 29 years after that lunch in 1987 , the Dow was at 18448 , a return of 6.78 % CAGR plus dividends . Another 6 years since this question was asked and Gold has n't moved , $ 1175 , and 6 years ' worth of fees , 2.4 % if you buy the GLD ETF . From the '82 high of $ 850 to now ( 34 years ) , the return has a CAGR of .96 % / yr or .56 % after fees . To be fair , I picked a relative high , that $ 850 . But I did the same choosing the pre-crash 2750 high on the Dow .
The FICA creates two different taxes : taxes on the employees and taxes on the employers . Taxes on the employees are codified under <URL> . For the employers - <URL> . Accidentally ( or not ) the tax rate is the same : 6.2 % of the wages paid ( up to the <URL> ) . The limits are the same , however there 's a subtle difference : Subchapter A ( <URL> ) places the limits on the wages received by the employee , whereas Subchapter B ( <URL> ) places the limits on the wages paid by the employer . Excerpt from Sec . 3101 : In addition to other taxes , there is hereby imposed on the income of every individual a tax equal to the following percentages of the wages ( as defined in section 3121 ( a ) ) received by him with respect to employment ( as defined in section 3121 ( b ) ) -- Excerpt from Sec . 3111 : In addition to other taxes , there is hereby imposed on every employer an excise tax , with respect to having individuals in his employ , equal to the following percentages of the wages ( as defined in section 3121 ( a ) ) paid by him with respect to employment ( as defined in section 3121 ( b ) ) -- So the bottom line is that when an individual exceeds the FICA limits on his wages because of multiple employers , each of the employers separately - does n't . Because these are different taxes and different limits , even if they look very similar .
There are several ways that the issuers profit from CFDs . If the broker has trades on both sides ( buy and sell ) they can net the volumes off against each other and profit off the spread whilst using the posted margins to cover p &amp; l from both sides . Because settlement for most securities is not on the same day that the order is placed they can also buy the security with no intention of taking delivery and simply sell it off at the end of day to pass delivery on to someone else . Here again they profit from the spread and that their volumes give them really low commissions so their costs are much lower than the value of the spread . If they have to do this rather than netting the position out the spreads will be wider . Sometimes that may be forced to buy the security outright but that is rare and the spreads will be even wider so that they can make a decent profit .
Go to Portfolio > Gains &amp; Losses and click on " start Gain &amp; Loss Tool " . This will pop up a new window with detailed information . Not sure if it takes fees into account though ...
Kiplinger 's has an article about <URL> , but the catch is you need to have 100,000 approx ( or more ) to invest in the bonds . ( hence the ' wealthy ' adjective before the investors in the NYTimes story ) . Everbank also apparently lets you do it with <URL> but their selection seems to be small . It appears you can also buy them directly from the <URL> even as a non-resident . An easier , close approximation would be to buy currencyshares ETFs . Here 's the Australian one : <URL> . And finally , here 's a <URL> .
Significantly less effort to buy into any of several international bond index funds . Off the top of my head , VTIBX .
When accounts are completely closed , they may still appear on the credit report 10 years later . Note - I 'm not supposing this , I pulled a report a couple months ago , and it shows a mortgage paid in full in July , 2003 . I 'll see if it actually falls off when I pull the report later this year . There 's no law that good details must be removed after that time . It 's not the lack of use , but the closing of accounts that would impact credit history . In my opinion , avoiding ongoing debt is fine , but it 's ' fringe ' to do it so extremely that you find you have no credit history . Trying to rent a car or hotel room on a debit card is n't so simple . When I rent a $ 200 hotel room , a bit more than that is frozen to account for mini-bar , room service , etc. . You might have $ 2000 in your account , and between room , car , and gas purchases , see it all frozen when you only intend to spend $ 1500 . Last , try to get a mortgage with no credit history at all . It wo n't be easy . All the above issues can be avoided by finding one or two good credit cards with no fee and using them to fill the gas tank every few months . Doing this on purpose seems an unnecessary way of complicating one 's life . ( Admittedly , there are people who go to the other extreme , trying to get the most in rewards , and treating it like a game . No need for that , either . I enjoy the game but am not an advocate of it for those who wish to keep things as simple as possible . )
A 2.5 % fee is standard , and you 're not likely to avoid a transaction fee when withdrawing cash from an ATM . You 'd do better to get foreign currency before leaving the US , or to use a credit card abroad . Capital One has a credit card with no fee on foreign-currency purchases , for example . Another option is to open a bank account in the foreign currency , if you go to a particular country often enough to make it worthwhile .
The IRS publishes an exhaustive set of explicit lookup tables in <URL> Determine the payroll period-weekly , biweekly , monthly , etc. . For bonuses and exceptional payments there several options available . Determine your exemption , a function of the allowances you reported on W-4 and payroll period ( and technically , citizenship status ) . Take the gross amount in the check . Subtract the exemption . Cross reference the net amount in the lookup table for the payroll period . That 's the amount withheld .
IRS refunds are not taxable . State/local refunds are taxable , if you itemized your deductions for that year , to the extent that the overpayment provided tax benefit . IRS <URL> to calculate that . Just to clarify : this is taxable in the year received . You do not need to amend the prior years . So if you received a $ 100 refund for State taxes you paid in 2010 in the year 2012 - it will appear on your 1040 for the year 2012 , no need to amend 2010 .
Summary : The corporation pays 33.3 % tax on dividends it receives and gets a tax refund at the same rate when it pays dividends out . Details According to <URL> the corporate tax rates for 2015 are : According to page 3 : The federal and provincial tax rates shown in the tables apply to investment income earned by a CCPC , other than capital gains and dividends received from Canadian corporations . The rates that apply to capital gains are one-half of the rates shown in the tables . Dividends received from Canadian corporations are deductible in computing regular Part I tax , but may be subject to Part IV tax , calculated at a rate of 33 1/3 % . If I understand that correctly , this means that a Corporation in Quebec pays 46.6 % on investment income other than capital gains and dividends , 23.3 % on capital gains and 33.33 % on dividends . I 'm marking this answer as community wiki so anyone can correct these numbers if they are incorrect . UPDATE : According to <URL> page 22 the tax rate on taxable dividends received from certain Canadian corporations is 33 1/3 % . Further , this is refunded to the corporation through the " refundable dividend tax on hand " ( RDTOH ) mechanism at a rate of $ 1 for every $ 3 of taxable dividends paid . My interpretation is as follows : if the corporation receives $ 100 of dividends from another company , it pays $ 33.33 tax . If that corporation then pays out $ 100 of dividends at a later time , it receives a tax refund of $ 33.33 . Meaning , the original tax gets refunded . Note the first line is for the 2015 tax year while the second link is for the 2014 tax year . The numbers might be a little different but the tax/refund process remains the same .
how is the money the FDIC has collected Fees collected from the banks : The FDIC receives no Congressional appropriations -- it is funded by premiums that banks and thrift institutions pay for deposit insurance coverage and from earnings on investments in U.S. Treasury securities . <URL> They also use the proceeds from liquidating the assets of failed banks to make payouts . Are there country specific agencies with a similar mission ? <URL> <URL> ( Mexico ) <URL> ( UK ) not quite like the FDIC You 'll have to search for others yourself . :) Most importantly , are there any examples of a similar system that has failed ? As the Mythbusters say , " failure is always an option . " There is a statement on FDIC 's website to the effect that they are backed by the " full faith and credit " of the U.S. government . That said , the FDIC maintains its own fund to make insurance payouts . Granted , in the shakiness of the 2008-2009 financial crisis they did start waving a red flag about their realistic ability to cover their obligation . Practically speaking , the government will likely step in if necessary . <URL> regarding a propsed revamp of the UK 's FSCS should be of general interest to you on this topic , though it does not answer the question of failed systems . ( Well , as far as I know . I have only skimmed the article . )
Lowering of the US credit rating would affect all US bonds . Some institutional investments are required to invest in securities with a certain credit rating ( i.e. money markets and some low risk mutual funds ) . If the credit rating is lowered these institutions would be required to dump their US bond holdings . This could have a serious affect on bond prices . The lower bond prices would drive up yields . If the US credit rating was lowered after you purchased TIPS then the price you could sell your TIPS for would most probably be lower then what you bought them . You would lose money . All US bonds , including TIPS , would be affected by a lower credit rating since the credit rating is suppose to indicate the borrower 's ability to repay the debt . This is independent of inflation . TIPS provide no additional benefit over regular bonds in regard to credit rating .
I wrote a <URL> ( < < it may not be obvious - this is a link to pull down the spreadsheet ) a while back that might help you . You can start by putting your current salary next to your age , adjust the percent of income saved ( 14 % for you ) and put in the current total . The sheet basically shows that if one saves 15 % from day one of working and averages an 8 % return , they are on track to save over 20X their final income , and at the 4 % withdrawal rate , will replace 80 % of their income . ( Remember , if they save 15 % and at retirement the 7.65 % FICA / medicare goes away , so it 's 100 % of what they had anyway . ) For what it 's worth , a 10 % average return drops what you need to save down to 9 % . I say to a young person - try to start at 15 % . Better that when you 're 40 , you realize you 're well ahead of schedule and can relax a bit , than to assume that 8-9 % is enough to save and find you need a large increase to catch up . To answer specifically here - there are those who concluded that 4 % is a safe withdrawal rate , so by targeting 20X your final income as retirement savings , you 'll be able to retire well . Retirement spending needs are not the same for everyone . When I cite an 80 % replacement rate , it 's a guess , a rule of thumb that many point out is flawed . The ' real ' number is your true spending need , which of course can be far higher or lower . The younger investor is going to have a far tougher time guessing this number than someone a decade away from retiring . The 80 % is just a target to get started , it should shift to the real number in your 40s or 50s as that number becomes clear . Next , I see my original answer did n't address Social Security benefits . The benefit is n't linear , a lower wage earner can see a benefit of as much as 50 % of what they earned each year while a very high earner would see far less as the benefit has a maximum . A $ 90k earner will see 30 % or less . The social security site does a great job of giving you your projected benefit , and you can adjust target savings accordingly . 2016 update - the prior 20 years returned 8.18 % CAGR . Considering there were 2 crashes one of which was called a mini-depression , 8.18 % is pretty remarkable . For what it 's worth , my adult investing life started in 1984 , and I 've seen a CAGR of 10.90 % . For forecasting purposes , I think 8 % long term is a conservative number . To answer member " doobop " comment - the 10 years from 2006-2015 had a CAGR of 7.29 % . Time has a way of averaging that lost decade , the 00 's , to a more reasonable number .
end question
start question
Is it worth working at home to earn money ? Can I earn more money working at home ?
I think the right question you should ask yourself about is : Can i work at home ? is it possible ? do i have a calm , private place at home to work from ? what will be the motivation while working from ? If you got answers to these questions , you will find if you can get money from home or not , because any place you can do work from will give you money , just work !
In the 24 years I have been a homeowner , only the period of 1999 to 2006 saw big increases in home prices . For most of the rest of the time there were either small increases , no increases , or big drops as bubbles burst . Yet overall the direction of the value of the houses has been positive . There can be 5 year periods where every house goes up in value regardless of your location . There can be 5 year periods where every house loses value regardless of your location . The past is no guarantee of what will happen in the future . In fact the past can be vastly different from the future . A history of growth may mean that it will continue or it may mean nothing . You need to pick a house that meets your needs ( size , style , price , location to import things ) and hope for the best . Halfway though the last bubble people made good decisions , and saw the value continue to rise for several more years . When the bubble burst they were still in good shape for several more years . Until they need to sell . Then they realized they could n't sell when they wanted . They were still going to make money but it would take months to sell , not days . That is the biggest risk . That you ca n't sell when you want .
For your girlfriend ( congrats to you both on the coming new baby ! ) , full-time mothers often become work-at-home moms using skills that they may have utilized in the outside-the-home workforce before they made the decision to stay home . <URL> can be a place where some do this , but there are many articles out there pointing out that it also does n't work for many people . I tried to earn some side money there and did n't make a dime . For those with a niche product , though , it can really work . A book on working at home as a mother ( from a Christian perspective with specifically religious overtones , so not the right book for someone who would not appreciate that aspect ) is <URL> . There are secular resources , such as the website <URL> . From everything I 've ever heard in researching the topic of becoming a WAHM ( work at home mother ) , it 's a challenging but rewarding lifestyle . Note that according to one WAHM I know , only contract work is reliable enough to be depended on for family obligations ( this is true of any part time work ) . Freelancing will have so many ups and downs that you ca n't bank on it to , say , pay the mortgage unless you really get going . Ramit Sethi of I Will Teach You To Be Rich focuses a lot on <URL> with ideas that might benefit both of you . His angle is that of working on top of an existing job , so it may specifically help you think of how to take your programming skills ( or a hobby you have besides programming ) and translate them into a career .
Yeah , it 's kindof assumed that if you have to go to the client , you 're not staying there forever . You deduct your mileage for the whole trip , including the part where you actually have to leave there and go back .
As AskAboutGadgets notes , there 's no lower age limit . You current age ( 24 ) is a pretty good one ; you 'll have four decades or so for your money to grow and compound , allowing it to become a veritable fortune when you 're ready to retire if you invest it fairly aggressively .
If you are married , your wife is not your dependant . You said you file jointly , that wo n't change . In effect , the income gets stacked on top of yours , whatever bracket you were at with no income from your wife , all of her income starts at that bracket . You should understand the W4 process and try to get your combined withholdings to be close to what 's due .
In general , it is not the time since you refinanced that you should look at , but how long you need to stay in the house to recoup any costs associated with the loan . If I refinanced yesterday , but today I can refi at a lower rate with no costs , it will make sense to do it . If it will take 10 years to break even , it might not make sense . Also , pay attention to what JoeTaxpayer said . Regularly refinancing into new 30 years loans is a sure way to never pay off your mortgage . Another be wary of is doing cash-out refis . You are basically taking out any equity . This can be fine , if you are using the money wisely ( home remodeling , education , etc ) . If you are just using it to payoff credit-cards which will just be charged up to the limit again , it is a sure way to get in trouble .
The fact that the option is deep in the money will be reflected in the market price of the option so you can just sell it at a profit . If there 's a ( n almost ) guaranteed profit to be had , however , you can always find someone who will lend you the money to cover the exercise ... they 'll charge you interest , however !
There are several areas that need to be considered . Taxes : If you settle late in the year you might not have enough deductions for interest and taxes to itemize this year . If you do n't normally itemize then delaying charitable contributions until early the next year will allow you to maximize the benefits . Moving . If the new house is in other state you can avoid having to file in two states if the switch takes place after mid-December and before mid-January . They ignore these small windows of time when doing partial year returns . General Advice Frequently the government has programs that change based on the date . Many times it takes place at the end of the year , but not always . The recent federal first time buyer programs had mid-year dates . In some states their first time buyer programs might have dates in sync with their fiscal year . Do n't forget to look at it from the view of the seller . If they are trying a short sale , completing it before the end of the year will be very important to them .
If you received a distribution to buy , build , or rebuild a first home and the purchase or construction was canceled or delayed , you generally can contribute the amount of the distribution to an IRA within 120 days of the distribution . This contribution is treated as a rollover contribution to the IRA . This is from my friend , <URL> . See Page 51 , next to ' TIP ' in second col.
Usually services like Western Union or MoneyGram only give the recipient the money , not the information about who and when sent it . But you can verify with them directly . However , for legal/tax reasons , your friend might have to declare that it was a gift , and where it came from . So depending on the country of the destination you might not be able to completely " hide " from the recipient , even if the transfer service technically allows that . In any case , when you transfer the money out from the US you 'll have to provide your personal identification and information . Since the <URL> , it is impossible to transact " anonymously " ( not sure if it ever was possible in the US , actually ) .
Some very general advice . Lifestyle borrowing is almost always a bad idea . You should limit your borrowing to where it is an investment decision or where it is necessary and avoid it when it is a lifestyle choice . For example , many people need to borrow to have a car/house/education or go without . Also , if you are unemployed for a long period of time and ca n't find work , charging up the credit cards seems very reasonable . However , for things like entertainment , travel , and other nice-to-haves can easily become a road to crushing debt . If you do n't have the cash for these types of things , my suggestion is to put off the purchase until you do . Note : I am not including credit cards that you pay off in full at the end of the month or credit used as a convenience as " borrowing "
Sounds like you 've got a good approach on the cost/benefit calculation and just lack one of the variables . My own findings are confirming that information on specific insurance company defensive driving discounts are n't generally disclosed , and discounts are n't consistent across companies . Some insurance company pages I found do confirm many offer a discount , but not exactly what percentage that discount would be . Further browsing revealed : an <URL> : " they offer a 10 % discount if I take a defensive driving class " a mention from <URL> & sup1 ; that " Some insurance companies give a reduction in rates to course participants " -- meaning , other insurance companies might not ! <URL> : " Courses may also qualify the student for a discount on car insurance . " [ my emphasis ] An <URL> stating " varies [ ... ] but discounts of 5-15 % are common . " So if we told you " between zilch and 15 % " , does that satisfy or would you still be wondering ? ;-) I think you need to seek out information specific to your case . IIWY , I would call my car insurance company and ask : " If I qualified for your defensive driving discount , how much would I be paying for my policy , all else being equal ? What specific or kinds of courses would qualify me ? Online , or in-car only ? " It 's in their interest to inform you on this , since better trained policy-holders are less likely to claim . & sup1 ; Note : I do n't endorse any particular company ; this was just an example from my search results .
You can contribute to Roth IRA regardless of the foreign income exclusion . You can contribute to Roth IRA only for amounts in excess to FEIE . However , the <URL> for Roth IRA contributions ignores the FEIE . So in your case , if you exclude your income , you would not be able to contribute to the IRA . You can not partially exclude the income . You either take the full exclusion , or none . So instead of exclusion , what you can do is chose to take a Foreign Tax Credit to reduce your US tax liability , and then you 'll be able to contribute to the IRA as you wish .
You can find a lot of information at the HRMC website at <URL> . If you do n't want to work as an employee , you can register as self-employed ( basically a one-man band ) , which is quite simple , you can start your own company , which is more work but can have tax advantages , or you can find umbrella companies which will officially employ you while in reality you are a freelancer and only do your billing through them . Umbrella companies can be anywhere from totally legal to extremely dodgy . If they promise you that you pay only five percent tax on your income through ingenious tricks , that 's only until the tax office finds out and they will make you pay . Between self-employed and your own company , the big difference is whether you are actually working independently or not . If you work like an employee ( take someone else 's orders ) and claim you are a company , the tax office does n't like that . And if you pay very little taxes , they do n't like that either . So self-employed is the safer choice but you will pay more taxes , close to what a normal employee would pay . Obviously you will have to pay tax on your income and NHS insurance . Obviously you are required to tell the government ( actually HMRC ) about your income . Not doing so would be tax evasion and get you into deep trouble when you are caught . I do n't think you have to tell them the source of your income , but not telling them might look very suspicious and might get your accounts checked carefully . And unless you design a website for the mafia , why would n't you tell them ? The bill payer will try to deduct your bill from their profits anyway , so it 's no secret . Most important to remember : When you send out a bill and receive payment , you 'll have to pay tax on it . When self employed , as a rule of thumb put one third away into a savings account for your tax bill . Do n't spend it all or you will find yourself in deep trouble when your taxes need paying . Plus put some more away for times when you ca n't find work .
Assuming that you qualify for Social Security and it is still around when you are age 67 , the biggest problem you will have is that for decades you will have 0 in your annual earnings . <URL> will let you enter zero income for future years , you will see what impact that has on your benefits . Using the default values for a DOB of 6/15/1984 and retiring in July 2051 : Your estimated monthly benefit amount , beginning at age 67 and 1 month in 2051 , is $ 1,555.00 . For your estimate , we assumed no future increases in prices or earnings . After changing future earnings to zero : Your estimated monthly benefit amount , beginning at age 67 and 1 month in 2051 , is $ 681.00 . For your estimate , we assumed no future increases in prices or earnings .
The <URL> of the <URL> 's 2012 General Income Tax and Benefit Guide explains how to donate money to the federal debt servicing and reduction account . The guide writes : To make a gift to this account , make it payable to the Receiver General , and send it with a note asking that we apply it to this account , to : Place du Portage Phase III , 11 Laurier Street Gatineau , Quebec K1A 0S5 Donations are tax-deductible : they 'll send you a tax receipt .
No , since you 're a non-resident alien you can not claim it . Had you been resident when you paid that tuition , you might have been able to claim it . You 're only a US resident for tax purposes starting of the first day of your TN status , and since you do n't pay US taxes on your earnings before that - you also do n't get credits . You should , of course , verify this with a licensed tax adviser ( which I 'm not ) .
You 're trying to mitigate the risk of having your investments wiped out by fraud committed by your broker by using margin loans to buy stock secured by other , non-cash assets in your account . The solution that you are proposing does not make any sense at all . You mitigate a very low probability/high impact risk by doing something that comes with a high probability/medium impact risk . In addition to interest costs , holding stocks on margin subjects you to the very real risk of being forced to sell assets at inopportune times to meet margin calls . Given the volatility that the markets are experiencing in 2011 , there is a high risk that some irrational decision in Greece could wipe you out . If I were worried about this , I would : Use a broker that allows you to sweep cash into a FDIC insured bank accounts . TD Ameritrade and Charles Schwab are examples of brokers who does this many other do as well . Transfer cash holdings in excess of FDIC limits that are not needed for immediate investments to TreasuryDirect and buy Treasury bills or notes . Diversify your holdings with multiple brokers to the extent practical . If you have enough money that SIPC protection limits are an issue , you desperately need a financial adviser . Do not implement any strategy involving margin loans until you talk to a qualified adviser .
You must consider the different levels of risk associated with each loan . When the bank loans you money , it does so based on a high degree of information about your financial situation ( through your credit report + additional information gathered at the time of granting your request ) . It feels quite confident that you will repay them , and therefore considers you to be low risk . In order to make a profit off of all its low risk clients , the bank only needs to charge a small rate of interest - competitive with the market but enough to cover the losses from clients who will default . When you loan money through a peer-to-peer program , you are at two distinct disadvantages from the bank : ( 1 ) Your loan portfolio will not be diversified ; that is , you may have only a single person or a small handful of people owing you money . Any catastrophic event in their lives may wipe out their loan to you . Whereas the bank can play the averages with a broader client base . ( 2 ) You have less information , and ultimately less ( effective ) power to reclaim your losses . Would you feel confident walking behind the desk at a bank today , and deciding whether to approve someone 's loan based on the information that the bank 's back-end has already determined is necessary to make that decision ? Now how about when you are doing it on your own ? Because of this , you take on more risk from a peer-to-peer loan than a bank takes on from you . That 's why the person is willing ( or , required due to market availability ) to pay a higher rate ; they know they are higher risk . That does n't mean this is a bad idea , just that there is a specific reason that the difference in rates exists , and it implies that you should consider carefully whether the risks outweigh the benefits . Note that the concept of taking a buy/sell position on two theoretically identical assets while earning a net profit at no risk is known as ' arbitrage ' . Arbitrage situations rarely exist , and never for long . Whenever you see a position that appears to be arbitrage , consider what might make it not so . ie : you could buy inventory in location A , and sell it at 10 % higher margin in location B - but have you considered transportation , carrying costs , and interest for the period that you physically held the inventory ? The appearance of arbitrage may ( in my opinion ) be a sign that you have incomplete information .
end question
start question
Can a bank statement be submitted as a proof of investment ?
Probably not . A debit of 50K in your Bank statement does not mean that its invested into tax saving instrument . This question is best answered by the finance department of your company . Practise vary from organization to organization .
Yes , you can pay off your credit card as early as you like , even before the closing date . If you do this , you 'll see this payment on your next statement , and the amount due will be adjusted accordingly . And as long as you pay the entire statement balance by the statement due date , you wo n't be charged any interest . I do n't know anything about your particular bank , but in general , yes , you can use online bill pay services to pay your credit card . Your credit card company probably also has a mechanism on their website for paying your bill electronically .
For this scheme to work , you would require an investment with no chance of a loss . Money market accounts and short-term t-bills are about your only options . The other thing is that you will need to be very careful to never miss the payment date . One month 's late charges will probably wipe out a few months ' profit . The only other caveat , which I 'm sure you 've considered , is that having your credit maxed out will hurt your credit score .
The rule of thumb ( and that is also what the IRS say in the link Chris posted in the comment ) is that if the institution is eligible for FAFSA - the tuition qualifies for the credits . The quote from <URL> : Eligible educational institution . An eligible educational institution is any college , university , vocational school , or other postsecondary educational institution eligible to participate in a student aid program administered by the U.S. Department of Education . It includes virtually all accredited public , nonprofit , and proprietary ( privately owned profit-making ) postsecondary institutions . The educational institution should be able to tell you if it is an eligible educational institution . To the best of my knowledge , none of the options you mentioned qualify for FAFSA ( one requirement would be accreditation , which none of the MOOCs have , IIRC ) .
All mutual funds are not created equal ; some invest in bonds while others in equities . Some highlight different sectors or have an international scope . Regardless of the mutual fund here are some general reasons why you might want to avoid them : They are expensive . Mutual funds regularly charge between 1-3 % in yearly fees . Sometimes even more . So that means if the fund increases in value by 5 % in one year and the annual fee is 3 % , you only net a 2 % increase . Another example , if the fund only increases by 1 % and the annual fee is 2 % , you 're actually losing 1 % of your money . Mutual funds are not priced continuously throughout the day . Unlike stocks , ETFs , and other securities that are priced constantly during the trading day , mutual funds are only priced once a day ( at the end of the day ) . This means that is impossible to day trade with mutual funds . Because of this , the investment time horizon must be longer than other securities that are constantly priced . There are alternatives ! ETFs ( exchange traded funds ) have become increasingly popular over the past decade . They are cheaper than mutual funds by sometimes a factor 10 . So a mutual fund may charge an annual fee of 3 % , while an ETF may only charge a 0.3 % annual fee . Like stocks , they are priced constantly during the trading day . This means that they can be used for day trading . For example , people used SPY ( tracks the S&amp;P 500 ) and GLD ( tracks the price of gold ) to easily bet on daily moves in price . ETFs also allow you to invest in commodities or currencies without having to transact in those markets directly . So to summarize , there is nothing wrong with mutual funds , but there are better alternatives . For the reasons listed above , I would try to investment in an ETF before a mutual fund ( given that they have similar investment characteristics ) . Here 's the section of the Wikipedia article on ETFs explaining their advantages : <URL>
Yes , you may do this at any time before signing - but to make a change like this after the official loan documents have been drawn up will cost you extra fees . The typical redraw fee is around $ 200 in CA . Does it make sense to do so ? No , it does not . If you have an extra 1 % , it would probably be better to use that money to purchase a lower interest rate . Here 's an example : Let 's say you 're buying a $ 200,000 house and your offered interest rate is 4.75 % ( just an example ) . With 10 % down you 'd have a loan amount of $ 180,000 and a p &amp; i payment of $ 938.97 per month . With 11 % down you 'd have a loan amount of $ 178,000 and a p &amp; i payment of $ 928.53 per month . Now let 's pretend you buy your interest rate down to 4.375 % . With 10 % down you 'd still have a loan amount of $ 180,000 but your p &amp; i payment would be $ 898.71 per month . Even though the last option gives you the best payment , if I were in your shoes I 'd stick with the 10 % down and save that extra cash in the bank for a rainy day . Buying a home comes with a lot of new expenses and many are unexpected . Good luck !
There are way too many details missing to be able to give you an accurate answer , and it would be too localized in terms of time &amp; location anyway -- the rules change every year , and your local taxes make the answer useless to other people . Instead , here 's how to figure out the answer for yourself . Use a tax estimate calculator to get a ballpark figure . ( And keep in mind that these only provide estimates , because there are still a lot of variables that are only considered when you 're actually filling out your real tax return . ) There are a number of calculators if you search for something like " tax estimator calculator " , some are more sophisticated than others . ( Fair warning : I used several of these and they told me a range of $ 2k - $ 25k worth of taxes owed for a situation like yours . ) Here 's an estimator from <URL> -- it 's handy because it lets you enter business income . When I plug in $ 140K ( $ 70 * 40 hours * 50 weeks ) for business income in 2010 , married filing jointly , no spouse income , and 4 dependents , I get $ 30K owed in federal taxes . ( That does n't include local taxes , any itemized deductions you might be eligible for , IRA deductions , etc. . You may also be able to claim some expenses as business deductions that will reduce your taxable business income . ) So you 'd net $ 110K after taxes , or about $ 55/hour ( $ 110k / 50 / 40 ) . Of course , you could get an answer from the calculator , and Congress could change the rules midway through the year -- you might come out better or worse , depending on the nature of the rule changes ... that 's why I stress that it 's an estimate . If you take the job , do n't forget to make <URL> ! Edit : ( some additional info ) If you plan on doing this on an ongoing basis ( i.e. you are going into business as a contractor for this line of work ) , there are some tax shelters that you can take advantage of . Most of these wo n't be worth doing if you are only going to be doing contract work for a short period of time ( 1-2 years ) . These may or may not all be applicable to you . And do your research into these areas before diving in , I 'm just scratching the surface in the notes below . Retirement plan . You can set up an Individual 401 ( k ) account and stash " up to " $ 49k tax-free ( you would n't qualify for this much though ) . Or you can open a SEP IRA ( which is a bit cheaper and simpler to set up ) , and save around $ 35k tax-free . Health care . You do n't mention if you have a spouse who works , and if you have health care through that employment . If you get a high-deductible health plan and establish a Health Savings Account , the premiums for the insurance should be deductible , and you can save up to $ 6150 in the HSA which is deductible . ( To be clear , I think the health care premiums you pay are deductible whether you have HDHP+HSA or not , but check with your accountant first . ) Disability insurance . It will take you a couple of years to have a track record before you 'll be able to buy it , but disability insurance premiums may be deductible . Be sure to talk to your accountant first , though , because choosing to deduct these premiums can have large consequences in the event that you need to collect on this insurance .
Yes , indeed . For example , Ford Motor Company 's website <URL> . Is there any advantage to having an actual physical note instead of a website ? You can safeguard them yourself . Which may or may not be a good thing . It certainly brings up a bit of hassle and extra costs if you want to sell them . Though you can have lost certificates replaced , so there is more to it than just having physical possession of the certificates .
The answer is , unfortunately , along the lines of " it depends " . It does depend a little on the bank - I 've had a US bank account for years before moving to the US , and I did n't have an SSN or any status when I opened the account . What I did have however was an address in the US that they could send the statements to , and proof that I was living abroad ( oh , and US citizen wife that had an account with the same bank ) . Not all banks will open a bank account for a foreigner with no status in the US , but it is generally possible . You will have to check with several banks and basically have paperwork showing your foreign address and proof of id ( passport , possibly a drivers license as well ) .
No . One of the key ideas behind a corporation is that an investor 's liability is limited to the amount he invests , i.e. the amount of stock he buys . This is the primary reason why small businesses become corporations , even though one person owns 100 % of the stock . Then if the business goes broke , he wo n't lose his house , retiretment fund , etc. . He 'll lose everything he had in the business , but at least there 's a limit to it . ( In some countries there are other ways to achieve the same results , like creating a " limited liabililty company " , but that 's another story . )
If your requirements are hard ( must have $ 1000/month , must have the same or bigger in capital at the end ) , stocks are a poor choice of investment . However , in many cases , people are willing to tolerate some level of risk to achieve the expected returns . You also do not mention inflation , which can take quite a lot out of your portfolio over the course of ten years . If we make some simplifying assumptions , you want to generate $ 12,000 a year . You can realistically expect the ( whole ) stock market , long term ( i.e. over time periods substantially longer than 10 years ) , to return approximately 4 - 5 % after factoring in inflation . That means an investment of $ 240,000 - $ 300,000 ( the math is simplified somewhat here ) . If you do n't care about inflation , you can up the percentage rather somewhat . According to <URL> , the S&amp;P 500 returned an average of 11.31 % from 1928 through 2010 ( not factoring in inflation ) , which would require an investment of approximately $ 106,100 . But ! This opens you up to substantial risk . The stock market may go down 30 % this year ! According to the above article , the S&amp;P returned only 3.54 % from 2001 to 2010 . Long-term , it goes up , but your investment case is really unsuited to investing in an index to the entire stock market given your requirements . You may be better suited investing primarily in stable bonds , or perhaps a mix of bonds and stocks . Alternatively , you may want to consider even more stable investments such as treasury notes . Treasury notes are all but guaranteed , but with a lousy rate of return . Heck , you could consider a GIC ( that may be Canada-only ) or even a savings account . There 's also the possibility of purchasing an annuity , though almost everyone will advise against such . Personally , I 'd go for a mutual fund which invested approximately 70 % bonds and the rest in stocks over such a time period . Something like <URL> , if you were in Canada . It substantially lowers your expected return but also lowers your risk . I ca n't honestly say what the expected return there is ; at this point , it 's returned 4 % per year ( before inflation ) , but has been around only since the beginning of 2008 . And to be clear , this is absolutely not free of risk .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
Stop watching . When I first got a job where I could log in to a website and view accounts , I did so pretty heavily for a few months . Typically there is n't any harm , but there are downsides ; you might be more tempted to trade or act on a rumor . You simply have more opportunity to act on a whim if you are logged in to your account . So stop watching . I have will power issues , so I ca n't have too much junk food in the house , and I learned to quit logging into my brokerage account . ( I still stare at quicken every couple nights . ) Just setup up systems to automatically deposit money and make purchases . Once a year on your birthday , log in and do whatever maintenance you need to do like overbalancing and such . If you really are a buy and hold type investor ( I am , for all the reasons you cited ) then be a buy and hold and stop watching one .
Tackling your last point , all banks in the EU should be covered to around $ 100,000 . The exact figure varies slightly between countries , and generally only private deposits are covered . In the UK it 's the <URL> that covers private deposits , to a value of # 85,000 , see <URL> for more information on what 's covered . In France ( for a euro denominated example ) , there 's coverage up to $ 100,000 provided by <URL> , see <URL> ( in French ) for full details . There 's a fairly good <URL> that covers all this too . I 'll let someone else chime in on the mechanics of opening something covered by the schemes though !
No , IRA contributions can only be made in the form of cash ( rollovers and conversions are different ) . You 'd have to sell the investments in your taxable account , incurring capital gains or losses , then transfer the proceeds to your IRA in cash . You could look into Vanguard Target Retirement funds , which have a lower $ 1,000 minimum investment , or Vanguard ETFs .
" Minimum investment " is what you need to put into the account to open it . They may charge you maintenance fees if you fall below some amount , but once you 're in you 're in . They 'll be more than happy to take their management fee . :)
Speaking from experience , yes ( this was 9 years ago though and may have changed due to stricter laws ) . I lived in London and was moving to NYC and wanted to have a functioning bank account upon arrival . I banked in London with HSBC and asked them if they could set me up . They connected me with the right people in the US and after many forms I had a fully functional US bank account with a foreign address and without having a social security number - and I was ( am ) just your average person . You will most likely not be able to get a credit card through them because of lack of credit history ( unless you are ridiculously rich or go for a secured credit card ) , but a debit card should be possible . * My advice is to talk to your local bank and see if they can help you , although it will help if they operate in the US . Good luck ! * I have heard from various expats that American Express may be willing to issue cards in the states based on their existing relation with clients in other countries , but I digress . If you have an Amex in Switzerland or Sweden I would recommend talking to them .
Well , you can just say that 1 dollar contributed = one share and pay out dividends based on number of shares . That makes it pretty easy to make things fair based . There are pros and cons with this pooling approach . Pros Much lower collective trading costs . If the five of you banded together that would be 5 times the brokers fees . Some investments require you to have a minimum investment ; having 5x the money will likely expand your investment horizon . More heads thinking about things will improve your expected returns . Division of labor means you can each specialize in parts of the market . You get to learn about investing , and build a set of buddies you can go to for advice and opinions . Cons 1000 is not a lot of money -- I dropped that much into an IRA when I was in grad school . Tax complications ; you can only contribute earned money into an IRA , and they 'll frown upon everyone dumping money into one person 's account . So you 're forgoing tax advantages . Liquidity fights . Everyone is going to have different ideas of when to pull money out . Even if you write it down on a prospectus that nobody can withdraw money for 3 years , someone is gon na need the money to make rent or get tired of losing money and demand a withdrawl . Opportunity costs . A number of college aged students carry credit card debt , which will cost more than an equal amount invested in the market will earn . I do n't recommend this , but it stands to reason you could find friends carrying CC debt and loan them money at a cheaper rate to pay off the high interest CC with .
Except in areas where there is a specific law against it , symbols or other marks may be used as a signature . There is no added " security " , however . I would think in most cases a symbol is much easier to duplicate than a handwritten name . In situations where the primary purpose of the signature is contractual , e.g. signing a will , marks are more likely to be allowed . You ca n't get out of a contract by claiming you did n't write your signature correctly . Where the primary purpose is verification of identity , such as signing your passport , your name is most often required .
A Home Equity Line Of Credit ( HELOC ) is simply a special type of secured credit . Secured credit is credit provided to you , where the lender has some rights to an associated asset in the event that you default . In the case of a HELOC , much like a mortgage , if you default on the payment terms , the bank may be legally able to foreclose on your house , sell the foreclosed property , and take the money owed to it from the proceeds , leaving you with any net remainder . Whether your friend will be able to have a bank offer her credit secured against her business assets would depend on a variety of factors . She should talk to her bank to see whether it would be possible in her case .
end question
start question
What does Dividend 165 % mean in stock market ?
<URL> <URL> , the DIV ( % ) is , as you say , 165 % . However , the dividend yield is 3.73 % at the time of writing . As the Investopedia page referenced above says : The payout ratio is calculated as follows : Annual Dividends per Share / Earnings per Share . which means that the dividends being paid out are more than the earnings of the company : In extreme cases , dividend payout ratios exceed 100 % , meaning more dividends were paid out than there were profits that year . Significantly high ratios are unsustainable . <URL>
I 'd interpret it as " Net Worth " reached 1M where " net worth " = assets - liabilities .
No , the deadline is for existing LLC/C-Corp to chose to be taxed as a S-Corp for the tax year 2013 . You have n't form a corporation at all , so its irrelevant for you . Once you do form your corporation ( i.e. : file the relevant documents with your State agency responsible - Secretary of State/Department of Corporations etc ) , you have 75 days to have the election made ( by filing <URL> ) . Consider having a consultation with a CPA/EA and a lawyer ( which I 'm neither of ) about whether you really need it . For most cases LLC will suffice . Some professionals are n't allowed to operate under LLC in some states , though .
If your returns match the market , that means their rate of return is the same as the market in question . If your returns beat the market , that means their rate of return is higher . There 's no one ' market ' , mind you . I invest in mutual funds that track the <URL> ( which is , very roughly , the U.S. stock market ) , that track the Canadian stock market , that track the international stock market , and which track the Canadian bond market . In general , you should be deeply dubious of any advertised investment option that promises to beat the market . It 's certainly possible to do so . If you buy a single stock , for example , that stock may go up by 40 % over the course of a year while the market may go up by 5 % . However , you are likely taking on substantially more risk . So there 's a very good chance ( likely , a greater chance ) that the investment would go down , losing you money .
You can employ a hedging strategy using short selling , put options , or other methods that will partially neutralize your exposure to the overall market . e.g. . You could short sell a market-wide index such as the S&amp;P 500 , while going long ( buying ) the company you are interested in . Investopedia has a nice primer on this : <URL> Also , see this related question here : <URL>
Interest means that the money on the accounts belongs to you , regardless of who 's name is the account titled to . For example , if you give money to someone ( non-US person , say , trying to avoid FBAR requirements ) and that person puts it in his account but will give you money whenever you ask for it - you have interest in that account . This is in order for people not to avoid FBAR requirements by putting their money into someone 's else accounts . Signature Authority means that although the account is not in your name , and the money on it is not your money - you have the right to access that account and perform operations on it . This usually happens when people are employees of a company and have signature authority over the company 's accounts , but it is also frequently the case for people having signature authority over the accounts that belong to their family members ( for example - your parents are not US persons , but they gave you access to their account because they do n't know how to work with the bank and you do - you have signature authority over the account ) . If you have your own account - you have both interest in it and signature authority over it .
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
A non-renounceable offer is a mechanism that many Australian companies use to raise capital/funds for operations . The " non-renouncable " part means you can not sell your right to the capital raising . If it was renouncable then you 'd see the rights trading under CTMR . These sorts of offers are very popular in bull markets but in subdued conditions often cost the company almost as much in administrative/legal fees as the capital raised . Any such offer will dilute your shareholding in the company unless you take up the offer . How do you know how many people will take up the offer ? You do n't until it has closed . You could always call the company secretary to ask . For speculative mining companies , such offers are common and are used to fund exploration efforts . Typically they are offered near the current market price or at a discount to the market price and sometimes have further characteristics such as an attaching option . When stock prices are volatile this dramatically affects how many people take up the offer .
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
An alias usually refers to a disposable or <URL> credit card number . These are also called temporary or virtual credit card numbers . Some credit card companies will allow you to generate a credit card number that links to your main account but is different from your main account number . You can usually set the number to expire after a certain amount of time or to only accept charges from a specific vendor or up to a certain amount . This allows you to make credit card purchases without as much worry about fraud , because your original credit card information is still hidden from the merchant . You may also hear about an alias on your credit report , which is simply a different name that 's also listed on your credit report . This could occur because you changed your name ( through marriage , for example ) , or someone a misspelling ended up on the report .
Short answer That ratio is a decent approximation of the market cap distribution in VTSMX , although it 's not perfect because the two funds you have access to , VIIIX and VIEIX , overlap somewhat in their holdings . The S&amp;P 500 and the completion index do n't . Using the S&amp;P 500 and the completion index as relative weights gives you ( 14.7 +3.4 ) / 14.7 = 81.2 % and 1-0 .812 = 18.8 % for VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively . We can verify that this is close to the best allocation using either of the two methods below . Based on that , it 's safe to say that an allocation of 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX should replicate VTSMX pretty well . Remember that because of expense ratios ( among other factors ) , the returns to your replicated portfolio may not match the returns to the target portfolio exactly . Long answer According to Morningstar , <URL> has the market cap distribution shown in the first column . Morningstar places VTSMX in the Large Blend category , so the category averages in the right-hand column are for that category . The benchmark index is the <URL> . <URL> and <URL> have these distributions : We want to find allocations for VIIIX and VIEIX , i.e. two percentages that sum to 1 , that give us a portfolio with a market cap distribution as close to that of VTSMX as possible . There are several methods that would work for this ; both return the same solution : Method 1 : Goal-seeking in Excel Using the goal-seek feature of Excel , I found that allocating 80.5712423979149 % of your portfolio to VIIIX and the remainder ( 19.4287576 % ) to VIEX yields this distribution ( shown in the " replicated " column ) , which is pretty close . The second data column is VTSMX , the fund you 're trying to replicate . This gives me the allocation of approximately 81 % to VIIIX and 19 % to VIEIX that I listed in the short answer above . The percent error , which is calculated as the absolute value of the difference between the allocations divided by the allocation in VTSMX , increases as market capitalization decreases , but that should n't bother you . Since allocation decreases as market cap decreases , even though the error grows as market cap decreases , that error represents an increasingly small amount of the fund 's actual value . This is n't a perfect system , because I 'm abusing the notion of " weighted percent errors " a little here , but hopefully the idea is clear . Method 2 : Matrices In this specific case , matrices provide a much more robust , and arguably logical , strategy . From a mathematical perspective , this is the problem we 're trying to solve : where and are the percentage allocations of VIIIX and VIEIX , respectively , that you want in your 401K portfolio . At first glance , it looks like you can simply solve the last equation for and substitute that value into any of the first four equations to solve for ; unfortunately , if you try this strategy with the fourth equation , you get a value of , but if you try this with the third equation , you get . If you try using the value of that came from the fourth equation in any of the other equations ( besides the fifth one , in which it does n't matter ) you 'll find it wo n't work . The same goes for the that came from the third equation , or the second , or the first . It seems we have a problem . All is not lost , however . If you 've ever taken an algebra course , you can see that the system of equations above looks like this matrix equation : I labeled the numerical matrix on the left-hand side of the equation to save space . The linear algebra theory probably is n't exciting to everyone as it is to me , so I 'll keep it short . Since is a 5x2 matrix with <URL> 2 , it therefore has a <URL> , which we can calculate like this : With our left-inverse in hand , we can quickly find the solution to the matrix equation like this : which gives us the same solution that we found with Excel . It 's also important to understand that this is the " best " solution to the problem ; in other words , we have found the weights of VIIIX and VIEIX that replicates the market cap distribution of VTSMX as closely as possible . If you 've ever taken a statistics or econometrics course , you might recognize the calculation and application of the left-inverse as the <URL> estimation of the weights ; that means that in this case , " closest " implies that the weights we found minimize the sum of the squares of the differences ( " errors " or " residuals " ) between our replicated portfolio and VTSMX . While the matrix/OLS method seems more complicated , I include it because it may be much quicker computationally than using Excel if you attempt to replicate a portfolio using more than two funds . The matrix/OLS method also scales very well in situations where more than two funds are used in the replication . Also , in this case , we had the relative weights of the S&amp;P 500 and the Completion Index to use as guides , but once we start adding more funds with potentially more overlapping holdings between them , calculating a simple ratio may not work
authorized 100,000,000 shares They can not issue shares more than that so 102M is n't possible . Common stock - $ .01 par value , authorized 100,000,000 shares , issued 51,970,721 and 51,575,743 shares If you look at the right 2 columns it become clear what it means . You missed the symbol and on the top ouststanding share 51,970,721 - > 520 On Sept 30 , 2014 outstanding shares * 0.01 and rounded off to arrive at 520 . ouststanding share 51,575,743 - > 516 On June 30 , 2014 outstanding shares * 0.01 and rounded off to arrive at 516 .
You 're missing the concept of systemic risk , which is the risk of the entire market or an entire asset class . Diversification is about achieving a balance between risk and return that 's appropriate for you . Your investment in Vanguard 's fund , although diversified between many public companies , is still restricted to one asset class in one country . Yes , you lower your risk by investing in all of these companies , but you do n't erase it entirely . Clearly , there is still risk , despite your diversification . You may decide that you want other investments or a different asset allocation that reduce the overall risk of your portfolio . Over the long run , you may earn a high level of return , but never forget that there is still risk involved . bonds seem pretty worthless , at least until I retire According to your profile , you 're about my age . Our cohort will probably begin retiring sometime around 2050 or later , and no one knows what the bond market will look like over the next 40 years . We may have forecasts for the next few years , but not for almost four decades . Writing off an entire asset class for almost four decades does n't seem like a good idea . Also , bonds are like equity , and all other asset classes , in that there are different levels of risk within the asset class too . When calculating the overall risk/return profile of my portfolio , I certainly do n't consider Treasuries as the same risk level as corporate bonds or high-yield ( or junk ) bonds from abroad . Depending on your risk preferences , you may find that an asset allocation that includes US and/or international bonds/fixed-income , international equities , real-estate , and cash ( to make rebalancing your asset allocation easier ) reduces your risk to levels you 're willing to tolerate , while still allowing you to achieve returns during periods where one asset class , e.g. equities , is losing value or performing below your expectations .
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
A falling $ AUD would be beneficial to exporters , and thus overall good for the economy . If the economy improves and exporters start growing profits , that means they will start to employ more people and employment will increase - and with higher employment , employees will become more confident to make purchases , including purchasing property . I feel the falling $ AUD will be beneficial for the economy and the housing market . However , what you should consider is that with an improving economy and a rising property market , it will only be a matter of time before interest rates start rising . With a lower $ AUD the RBA will be more confident in starting to increase interest rates . And increasing interest rates will have a dampening effect on the housing market . You are looking to buy a property to live in - so how long do you intend to live in and hold the property ? I would assume at least for the medium to long term . If this is your intention then why are you getting cold feet ? What you should be concerned about is that you do not overstretch on your borrowings ! Make sure you allow a buffer of 2 % to 3 % above current interest rates so that if rates do go up you can still afford the repayments . And if you get a fixed rate - then you should allow the buffer in case variable rates are higher when your fixed period is over . Regarding the doomsayers telling you that property prices are going to crash - well they were saying that in 2008 , then again in 2010 , then again in 2012 . I do n't know about you but I have seen no crash . Sure when interest rates have gone up property prices have levelled off and maybe gone down by 10 % to 15 % in some areas , but as soon as interest rates start falling again property prices start increasing again . It 's all part of the property cycle . I actually find it is a better time to buy when interest rates are higher and you can negotiate a better bargain and lower price . Then when interest rates start falling you benefit from lower repayments and increasing property prices . The only way there will be a property crash in Australia is if there was a dramatic economic downturn and unemployment rates rose to 10 % or higher . But with good economic conditions , an increasing population and low supplies of newly build housing in Australia , I see no dramatic crashes in the foreseeable future . Yes we may get periods of weakness when interest rates increase , with falls up to 15 % in some areas , but no crash of 40 % plus . As I said above , these periods of weakness actually provide opportunities to buy properties at a bit of a discount . EDIT In your comments you say you intend to buy with a monthly mortgage repayment of $ 2500 in place of your current monthly rent of $ 1800 . That means your loan amount would be somewhere around $ 550k to $ 600K . You also mention you would be taking on a 5 year fixed rate , and look to sell in about 2 years time if you can break even ( I assume that is break even on the price you bought at ) . In 2 years you would have paid $ 16,800 more on your mortgage than you would have in rent . So here are the facts : if you are looking to buy now you would be buying when properties are at their highs , if you plan to sell in 2 years time you will be selling possibly when prices have dropped , if you take on a 5 year fixed rate and plan to sell in 2 years time you may be hit with extra fees from your lender for getting out of the mortgage before the fixed period is over , you will be paying $ 700 more in mortgage repayments than rent - costing you $ 16,800 over 2 years , you will lose money on the extra required to pay the mortgage , you will lose money in buying high and selling low , and you will lose money in fees for breaking your fixed rate period early . A better strategy : do n't buy now , keep renting and save up extra money , wait for interest rates to go up and property prices to drop a bit - 5 % to 10 % - this will enable you to negotiate a better price when the market is week and vendors are desperate to sell , if you buy when interest rates are higher and you can afford the property and the repayments , then you will certainly be able to afford it when interest rates come down again , you will buy at a discount so there is more room for the price to move up when rates go down again and the market starts booming again , if you chose to live there for 2 years and then rent it out you will be able to ask for a higher rent ( when interest rates are higher there is less demand for buying property so you can usually buy cheaper , but there is more demand in renting - meaning rents will go up quicker ) , if you hold the property long term - 10 years , 15 years or more , you will build yourself an asset that has increased in price but also provides you with a net positive income each week . It will turn into an asset that you will never want to sell .
The price of real estate reacts to both demand for property and the rate of inflation and rate of income growth . Mortgage rates generally move as treasury rates move . See this paragraph : As we mentioned , intermediate term bonds and long-term mortgages ( more properly , Mortgage-Backed Securities , or MBS ) compete for the same fixed-income investor dollar . Treasury issues are 100 % guaranteed to be repaid , but mortgages are not ; therefore mortgages carry more risk of default or early repayment , which could potentially disturb the return on the investment . Therefore , mortgage rates must be priced higher to compensate for that risk . But how much higher are mortgages priced ? In a normal market , the average " spread " or markup above the 100 % secured Treasury is about 170 basis points , or 1.7 % . That markup -- the spread relationship -- widens and contracts with a range of market conditions , investor appetites and supply of available product -- as well as the presence of competing investment opportunities , like corporate bonds or domestic ( or foreign ) equity markets Source : <URL> And when the stock market crashes , investors tend to run to bonds and treasuries , which causes prices to go up and treasury yields to drop . Theoretically , this would also cause mortgage rates to drop , although most mortgage rates have a base price below which they can not fall . How easy is it to profit from recent stock market drops and at what frequency ? Incredibly difficult . The issue with your strategy is that you can not predict the bottom of the market ( at least us mortals ca n't ) . Just take the month of August for example . Stocks fell something like 15 % ? After the first 5-10 % drop , people felt that the bottom was there , so they rushed in , only to have the market fall even more . How will you know when to invest ? Even if the market falls by 50 % , and there 's a huge buying opportunity , and you increase the mortgage on your house , odds are your rates will increase because of the equity you take out . What if the market stays low for a very long time ? Will you be able to maintain mortgage payments ? Japan 's stock bubble popped in the early 90 's , and they 've had two lost decade 's now . Furthermore , there are issues of liquidity . What if you need more capital ? Can you just sell a property or can you buy now property to draw equity against ? What if the market is moving too fast for you to take advantage of . Do n't ignore transaction costs and taxes either . Overall , there are a lot of ways that your idea can go wrong , and not many ways it can go right .
The trader has purchased 1095 options , each of which is a contract which entitles him to sell 100 shares of Cisco stock for $ 16 a share . He paid $ 71 for each contract ( 71 cents a share x 100 ) which is roughly $ 78k total . He will get $ 109,500 for each dollar below $ 16 Cisco 's stock is when he exercises it ( he can buy the stock for the going rate and then sell it for $ 16 immediately ) , or he can sell the option itself to someone else for a similar gain ( usually a little more , especially if the option has a long time until it expires ) . If the option expires when the stock is over $ 16/share , he gets nothing ; i.e. the original $ 78k is lost . For reference , Cisco 's stock was trading at $ 17.14 / share as of market close on March 18 , 2010 . The share price had recently been boosted by the recent news that they would be paying a quarterly dividend . It has been heading mostly downward since February 9 , after they announced that they 're not expecting profits to be as good as the analysts thought they would be : they claim that people are n't buying too much networking equipment just now , and they 're also facing mounting competition from the likes of HP and Juniper for switches , and Aruba / HP / Motorola for wireless devices . They may lose market share or need to cut prices , hurting profits . Either way , there 's certainly a real possibility of their stock going below $ 16 in the next few months , so people are willing to pay for those options . ( Disclosure : I work for Aruba , who competes with Cisco . I also own shares of Aruba , possess assorted stock options and similar equity grants , and participate in the employee stock purchase program . I also own shares in Cisco indirectly through various mutual funds and ETFs . )
If you have held the stocks longer than a year , then there is no tax apart from the STT that is already deducted when you sell the shares . If you have held the stock for less than a year , you would have to pay short term capital gains at the rate of 15 % on the profit . Edit : If you buy different shares from the total amount or profits , it makes no difference to taxes .
I can understand your confusion here . Normally when a borrower , such as a corporation or the government , borrows money by issuing a bond , the amount being borrowed is referred to as the principal . This amount never changes over the life of the bond . For example , if a corporation borrows $ 10,000,000 through a bond issue , then , from the corporations point of view , the principal amount remains fixed at $ 10,000,000 for the life of the bond . However , what the market is willing to pay to participate in the interest payable does change over the life of the bond . In the example text you are quoting , the term principal is being used to refer to amount an investor has invested . The market value of an investment in bonds will change according to the prevailing interest rate environment and the perceived credit worthiness of the borrower . When interest rates go up , bond prices tend to go down . With current interest rates so low , an increase in interest rates to 2011 levels would mean a dramatic change in the interest rate environment and a corresponding dramatic effect on bond prices , resulting in a " plunge " in bond prices . The quoted text describes this as the " principal plunging " .
It means that the company earned 15 cents per share in the most recently reported quarter . Share price may or not be affected , depending on how buyers and sellers value the company . Just because profits " jumped , " does not mean the shares will follow suit . An increase in profits may have already been priced into the stock , or the market expected the increase in profit to be even higher . As the shareholder , you do n't actually get any of these profits into your hands , unless the company pays out a portion of these profits as a dividend .
end question
start question
Is it ever a good idea to close credit cards ?
Yes , it can be a good idea to close unused credit cards . I am going to give some reasons why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts , and then I will talk about why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea . Why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts " I 'd like to close the cards . " That is reason enough . Simplifying your financial life is a good thing . Fewer accounts let you focus your energy on the accounts that you actually use . Unused accounts still need to be monitored for fraud . You mentioned that you have high credit card balances that you are carrying . This may indicate that you have trouble using credit responsibly , and having more credit available to you might be a temptation for you . If these unused cards have annual fees , keeping them open will cost money . Unused cards sometimes get closed by the bank due to inactivity . As a result , the advice often given is that , in addition to not closing them , you are supposed to charge something to it every month . This , of course , takes more of your time and energy to worry about , as well as giving you another monthly bill to pay . Why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea to close unused accounts Other answers will tell you that it may hurt your credit score for two reasons : it would increase your utilization and lower your average account age . Before we talk about the validity of these two points , we need to discuss the importance of the credit score . Depending on what your credit score currently is , these actions may have minimal impact on your life . If you are in the mid 700 's or higher , <URL> , and closing these cards will likely not impact anything for you in a significant way . If you are n't that high in your score yet , do you have an immediate need for a high score ? Are you planning on getting more credit cards , or take out any more loans ? I would suggest that , since you have credit card debt , you should n't be taking out any new loans until you get that cleaned up . So your score in the mean time is not very important . Are you currently working on eliminating this credit card debt ? If so , your utilization number will improve , even after you close these accounts , when you get those paid off . Utilization has only a temporary effect on your score ; when your utilization improves , your score improves immediately . Your average account age may or may not improve when you close these accounts , depending on how old they are compared to the accounts you are leaving open . However , the impact of this might not be as much as you think . I realize that this advice is different from other answers , or other things that you may read online . But in my own life , I do a lot of things that are supposedly bad for the credit score : I only have two credit cards , ages 2.5 and 1.5 years . ( I closed my other cards when I got these . ) My typical monthly utilization is around 25 % on these cards , although I pay off the balance in full each month , never paying interest . I have no car loan anymore , and my mortgage is only 4 months old . No other debt . Despite those " terrible " credit practices , my credit score is very high . Conclusion Make your payments on time , get out of debt , and your score will be fine . Do n't keep unwanted accounts open just because someone told you that you should .
Credit cards are great . You get free money for 30 + days and a bunch of additional benefits like insurance , extended warranties and reward programs . When vendors do n't behave , you dispute the charge with the credit card and they deal with it on your behalf . Just get a fee-free American Express card and pay the balance off each month . There 's nothing wrong with using cash either , but I would avoid debit cards like the plague .
Great , your friend is well-off , and simply wants to have you hold the mortgage in your name . Here are a few of the problems/risks that I can think of : Since you have good credit , how/why does this help your credit ? Does your friend want joint title ? Does your friend want you to have life insurance on the mortgage held with joint title ? Should the real-estate market fail and the property lose value , your friend could bail , and you would be left paying for a property you can not sell . Can you pay the mortgage if your friend can not , or will not ? Are you willing to own this house if the deal goes bad ? Will your friend obtain your SSN ( or equivalent ) ? Whose name is the property title to ? Can you sell unilaterally should problems arise ? Who puts down money for purchase , and repairs ? Who makes the payments ? What if your friend forgets , or can not pay payment ( cash flow problems ) ? Will your friend deposit N payments in advance to ensure payments are timely ? Does friend provide funds for down-payment , reserve funds for rehab ? What is your extraction plan if you get stuck with a lemon ? A truck hits your friend ( death , illness ) , how do you complete the rehab and sale ? A truck hits you ( death/illness ) , how does your friend complete the rehab and sale ? Do you trust him/her ? Does he/she trust you ? Could the IRS consider this tax evasion ? Could the authorities consider this money laundering ? Could the authorities consider this bank fraud ? One strategy to make outsized returns on your investments is to use leverage . Leverage is to use OPM ( Other People 's Money ) to expand the amount of assets you can purchase . Perhaps you invest 10 % of your money , and borrow 90 % . When the asset increases in price by 10 % , you have doubled your money . Here is a specific example . You invest $ 20K to buy a $ 200K property ( invest 10 % , borrow 90 % ) , and sell the asset later for $ 250K , but you pay $ 10K for the use of the 90 % . The asset made $ 50K , a 25 % gain . But you made $ 40K on your $ 20K investment , a 200 % gain on your original investment ! Awesome ! But the other $ 180K only returned $ 10K , about 4.5 % . So you earned 200 % and the other party earned less than 5 % on a deal that was worth 25 % total gain . Suppose this is the deal your friend offers . You are at risk for the 90 % , and he is at risk for the 10 % , but your friend is offering you the 5 % gain to his 200 % gain . Your friend is screwing you royally . What you are missing is that you are providing most of the money for the deal . You are borrowing the money , but you are still agreeing to repay the debt , so you are providing the majority of the money , the OPM , the leverage . You are carrying the majority of the risk . And you are gaining the minority of the reward . Think of it this way - what if you were not getting a mortgage , but investing your own cash - would you be happy with the small part of the return ? The funny/sad part is that your friend does realize he is using you for leverage , but does not even consider how lopsided the deal , and that he is taking advantage of you . Fix the deal : You provide 90 % of the purchase , your friend provides 10 % , you sell and pay costs out of the proceeds . You get 90 % of the return , your friend gets 10 % . But the deal does n't happen . Because then your friend does not get the leverage , and rather than 200 % , must settle for 25 % . And really , your exposure is much less than the entire mortgage . Pragmatically , you are only risking about 20-30 % of the mortgage , so you should get about 2/3 to 3/4 of the gains , while your friend gets 1/3 to 1/4 , and probably only gets about a 100 % to 130 % return on his investment .
To expand on @JoeTaxpayer 's answer , the devil is actually in the fine print . All the " credit-card checks " that I have ever received in the mail explicitly says that the checks can not be used to pay off ( or pay down ) the balance on any other credit card issued by the same bank , whether the card is branded with the bank logo or is branded with a department-store or airline logo etc. . The checks can be used to pay utilities , or even taxes , without paying the " service fee " that is charged for using a credit card for such payments . The payee is paid the face amount of the check , in contrast to charges on a credit card from a merchant who gets to collect only about 95 % -98 % of the amount on the " charge slip " . Generally speaking , balance transfer offers are a bad deal regardless of whether you pay only the minimum amount due each month or whether you pay each month 's statement balance in full by the due date or anything in between . The rest of this answer is an explanation in support of the above assertion . Feel free to TL ; DR it if you like . If you make only the minimum payment due each month and some parts of the balance that you are carrying has different interest rates applicable than other parts , then your payment can be applied to any part of the balance at the bank 's discretion . It need hardly be said that the bank invariably chooses to apply it to pay off the lowest-rate portion . By law ( CARD Act of 2009 ) , anything above the minimum payment due must be applied to pay off the highest-rate part ( and then the next highest rate part , etc ) , but minimum payment or less is at the bank 's discretion . As an illustration , suppose that you are not using your credit cards any more and are conscientiously paying down the balances due by making the minimum payment due each month . Suppose also that you have a balance of $ 1000 carrying 12 % APR on Card A , and pay off the entire balance of $ 500 on Card B , transferring the amount at 0 % APR to Card A for which you are billed a 2 % fee . Your next minimum payment will be likely be $ 35 ; computed as $ 10 ( interest on $ 1000 ) + $ 10 transfer fee + $ 15 ( 1 % of balance of $ 1500 ) . If you make only the minimum payment due , that payment will go towards paying off the $ 500 , and so for next month , your balance will be $ 1500 of which $ 1035 will be charged 1 % interest , and $ 465 will be charged 0 % interest . In the months that follow , the balance on which you owe 1 % interest per month will grow and the 0 % balance will shrink . You have to pay more than the minimum amount due to reduce the amount that you owe . In this example , in the absence of the balance transfer , the minimum payment would have been $ 20 = $ 10 ( interest on $ 1000 at 1 % per month ) + $ 10 ( 1 % of balance ) and would have left you with $ 990 due for next month . To be at the same point with the balance transfer offer , you would need to pay $ 30 more than the minimum payment of $ 35 due . This extra $ 30 will pay off the interest and transfer fee ( $ 20 ) and the rest will be applied to the $ 1000 balance to reduce it to $ 990 . There would be no balance transfer fee in future months and so the extra that you need to pay will be a little bit smaller etc. . If you avoid paying interest charges on credit cards by never taking any cash advances and by paying off the monthly balance ( consisting only of purchases made within the past month ) in full by the due date , then the only way to avoid paying interest on the purchases made during the month of the balance transfer offer is to pay off that month 's statement in full ( including the balance just transferred over and the balance transfer fee ) by the due date . So , depending on when in the billing cycle the transfer occurs , you are getting a loan of the balance transfer amount for 25 to 55 days and being charged 2 % or 3 % for the privilege . If you are getting offers of 2 % balance transfer fees instead of 3 % , you are probably among those who pay their balances in full each month , and the bank is trying to tempt you into doing a balance transfer by offering a lower fee . ( It is unlikely that they will make a no-transfer-fee offer . ) They would prefer laughing all the way to themselves by collecting a 2 % transfer fee from you ( and possibly interest too if you fail to read the fine print ) than having you decline such offers at 3 % as being too expensive . Can you make a balance transfer offer work in your favor ? Sure . Do n't make any purchases on the card in the month of the balance transfer or during the entire time that the 0 % APR is being offered . In the month of the transfer , pay the minimum balance due plus the balance transfer fee . In succeeding months , pay the minimum balance due ( typically 1 % of the balance owed ) each month . All of it will go to reducing the 0 % APR balance because that is the only amount owing . Just before the 0 % APR expires ( anywhere from 6 to 24 months ) , pay off the remaining balance in full . But remember that you are losing the use of this card for this whole period
What you propose puts you at risk to owe tax next April . If you are using the Traditional , pre-tax account , $ 100 you put in will reduce the tax withheld , so you might see $ 70 less in your check . By bumping the allowances you withhold even less . If the employer is doing it right , the allowances do n't change for the fact that your 401 ( k ) changes deposits . Edit - To clarify - Traditional 401 ( k ) are withheld pretax . The effect is that my W2 reflects a box 1 Wages figure that is lower than either my Social Security wages or Medicare wages . All else being equal , 2 people with same number of W4 allowances , first has $ 60K income with a $ 10K 401 ( k ) deduction , the second has $ 50K income . The federal tax withholding should be identical as payroll withhold on the same $ 50K for each . My <URL> may help explain this a bit more . To specifically answer your last edited line , if your W4 is perfect , and you increase 401 ( k ) deductions , aside from trivial anomalies , it should remain perfect .
Many people who do transfer a balance from one credit card to another have no clue as to what is going on and how credit cards work . If you transfer a balance from one credit card to another , you are charged a fee of anywhere from 3 % upwards ( subject to a minimum of $ 10 or so ) up front . If Credit Card A has balance $ 1000 and you transfer it to Credit Card B which is offering no interest for a year on the transferred balance , you owe Credit Card B $ 1050 ( say ) . In most cases , that $ 50 has to be paid off as part of the following month 's bill . If you are carrying a revolving balance on Credit Card B , that $ 50 will typically be charged interest from the day of the transfer . Your monthly bill will not ( necessarily ) include that $ 1000 you owe for one year or six months or whatever the transfer agreement you accepted says . If you tend to pay anything less ( even a penny ) than full payment of each month 's bill on Credit Card B , your partial payment will be applied to that $ 1000 first , and anything left over will be applied to the monthly balance . In short , if you do n't pay in full each month , that $ 1000 will not be " yours " for a year ; you may end up paying $ 50 interest for borrowing $ 1000 for just one or two months , and the rest of your balance is the gift that keeps on giving as the credit card company likes to say . UPDATE : This has changed slightly in the United States . Any amount paid over the minimum amount due is charged to the higher-interest balances . So in this case , if you had $ 1000 at a 0 % promotional rate and a regular balance of $ 500 , and the minimum payment was $ 100 , and you paid $ 150 , $ 100 would pay down the promotional balance , and the extra $ 50 would pay down the regular balance . About the only way to make the deal work in your favor is to Transfer money only if you have paid the full amount due on the last two statements before the date of the transfer and are not carrying a revolving balance . Check your monthly statements to make sure they show Finance Charge of 0.00 . Many people have never seen such a sight and are unaware that this can be observed in nature . Make sure that you pay each month 's bill in full ( not the minimum monthly payment due ) each month for a whole year after that . Make sure that the bill containing that $ 1000 ( coming out a year after the transfer date ) is also paid in full . Very many credit-card users do not have the financial discipline to go through with this program . That is why credit card companies love to push transfer balances on consumers : the whole thing is a cash cow for them where they in effect get to charge usurious rates of interest without running afoul of the law . $ 50 interest for a one-year loan of $ 1000 is pretty high at current rates ; $ 50 interest for a two or three month loan where the customer does not even notice the screwing he is getting is called laughing all the way to the bank . See also the answers to <URL>
Bad bad bad idea . Properly managed HOA has rules that regulate usage of the common areas and property ; HOA manages repairs and maintenance , insurance and reserve . Not having HOA means the owners deal with problems on their own , as the problems appear . Need to fix the roof ? Assessment . Need to paint the walls - assessment . The roofer fell and broke a leg - liability suit . Huuuuuge assessment . You really want to deal with that ?
This does not seem , to me , to be a very good indication regarding the risk of the person not paying their balances off . If you do not have a source of income then how are you going to repay your debt . Not to mention there is recource for creditors to garnish wages . That is not possible if you have no income . The risk assessment is about the ability of the creditor to recover any moneys loaned and costs and still make a profit . For example , students have their parents pay them some pocket money to cover for expenses , or a person might be working sporadically on consulting gigs that do not have a fixed monthly or yearly component . Most credit card companies that are willing to issue to college students will allow you to include money from your parents in your income . Credit card companies are looking for customers that will carry a balance and incur fees but be able to pay them . These companies do not make money off of fees and interest that they do not collect . As such , sporatic work increases risk . Is it possible for people to get approved for unsecured credit cards if they do n't hold ( or have not held for some time ) a job at the time of application ? I was able to while I was in college . Though I did have a part time job . If you can show that you have the ability to pay you can usually get a credit card if you do not have bad credit . It will probably be high interest and have alot of fees some of them you will have to pay upfront . But what you probably mean to ask is " Is it possible to get a no cost unsecured credit card with out a reliable source of income ? " The answer to that is : probably not . Even the ones that look like they are free probably have hidden fees .
In most cases of purchases the general advice is to save the money and then make the purchase . Paying cash for a car is recommended over paying credit for example . For a house , getting a mortgage is recommended . Says who ? These rules of thumb hide the actual equations behind them ; they should be understood as heuristics , not as the word of god . The Basics The basic idea is , if you pay for something upfront , you pay some fixed cost , call it X , where as with a loan you need to pay interest payments on X , say % I , as well as at least fixed payments P at timeframe T , resulting in some long term payment IX . Your Assumption To some , this obviously means upfront payments are better than interest payments , as by the time the loan is paid off , you will have paid more than X . This is a good rule of thumb ( like Newtonian 's equations ) at low X , high % I , and moderate T , because all of that serves to make the end result IX > X. Counter Examples Are there circumstances where the opposite is true ? Here 's a simple but contrived one : you do n't pay the full timeframe . Suppose you die , declare bankruptcy , move to another country , or any other event that reduces T in such a way that XI is less than X . This actually is a big concern for older debtors or those who contract terminal illnesses , as you ca n't squeeze those payments out of the dead . This is basically manipulating the whole concept . Let 's try a less contrived example : suppose you can get a return higher than % I. I can currently get a loan at around % 3 due to good credit , but index funds in the long run tend to pay % 4 - % 5 . Taking a loan and investing it may pay off , and would be better than waiting to have the money , even in some less than ideal markets . This is basically manipulating T to deal with IX . Even less contrived and very real world , suppose you know your cash flow will increase soon ; a promotion , an inheritance , a good market return . It may be better to take the loan now , enjoy whatever product you get until that cash flows in , then pay it all off at once ; the enjoyment of the product will make the slight additional interest worth it . This is n't so much manipulating any part of the equation , it 's just you have different goals than the loan . Home Loan Analysis For long term mortgages , X is high , usually higher than a few years pay ; it would be a large burden to save that money for most people . % I is also typically fairly low ; P is directly related to % I , and the bank ca n't afford to raise payments too much , or people will rent instead , meaning P needs to be affordable . This does not apply in very expensive areas , which is why cities are often mostly renters . T is also extremely long ; usually mortgages are for 15 or 30 years , though 10 year options are available . Even with these shorter terms , it 's basically the longest term loan a human will ever take . This long term means there is plenty of time for the market to have a fluctuation and raise the investments current price above the remainder of the loan and interest accrued , allowing you to sell at a profit . As well , consider the opportunity cost ; while saving money for a home , you still need a place to live . This additional cost is comparable to mortgage payments , meaning X has a hidden constant ; the cost of renting . Often X + R > IX , making taking a loan a better choice than saving up . Conclusion " The general advice " is a good heuristic for most common human payments ; we have relatively long life spans compared to most common payments , and the opportunity cost of not having most goods is relatively low . However , certain things have a high opportunity cost ; if you ca n't talk to HR , you ca n't apply for jobs ( phone ) , if you ca n't get to work , you ca n't eat ( car ) , and if you have no where to live , it 's hard to keep a job ( house ) . For things with high opportunity costs , the interest payments are more than worth it .
Credit cards come with an interest-free grace period of ~ 25 days as long as you pay your balance in full every month . In other words , charges made in January will appear on a bill cut on Jan 31 , and due around the 25th of February . If paid in full by 2/25 , there 's no interest . It is a very good idea to get in the habit of paying off your entire balance every month for this very reason . Do n't buy anything you ca n't afford to pay for at the end of the month when the credit card bill is due . You 'll avoid interest charges , build good habits , and improve your credit score . By just paying the minimum amount due , you 'll be charged interest from the moment of purchase , and the grace period on new purchases goes away . Credit card companies make the minimum amount due relatively low as a way to encourage you to pay more and more in interest every month . Do n't fall for it ! Look for a credit card with zero annual fee . Sure , rewards are nice , but it 's more important to avoid fees , keep the interest rate low , and get in the habit of paying in full every month , in which case the interest rate wo n't matter . Your bank or credit union is a good place to start looking .
No , it 's not a good idea . You started by saying you 'd like to invest , but then mentioned something that 's not an investment , it 's a speculation . Both Forex and CFDs are not really investments . They are a zero sum game where over time , it 's a pool of your money , the other trader 's money , and the broker , redistributed over time . If you truly wish to invest , you 'll read up on the process , understand your own long term goals , and put aside X % ( say 5-15 ) of your monthly income . You should look into investments that are long term , and will fund your retirement 30-40 years hence .
Investing is good . Insurance when you have something to insure is good . But using a single account for investing and insurance is not so good . You need to determine how much you need to invest for retirement . You also need to determine if you need life insurance . As a single person you might determine that you do n't have a great need for life insurance . If you get married , or have kids , your needs may grow . So you will want to revisit your decisions every so often . You may need to save for retirement , or setup a college fund . You may need to protect your spouse or children in case you die . It does n't seem to make sense to invest and insure in a plan with complicated rules , fees and schedules . What happens if in 3 years you need to blow it up and start over ? What surrender charges will they hit you with ?
Am I running some risk by restricting myself to ETFs as an investment vehicle ? Yes there are risks here . First , be aware of what strategy are you using with the ETFs as if you invest in 30 or more of them , you may well wind up with a rather confusing combination of funds . Be sure you know what strategy you have for using ETFs with ideas like asset allocation , rebalancing and diversification as some ETFs may not necessarily be that diverse if one gets into the specialized sector ones for example . Is there anything I should pay attention to when selecting ETFs , other than the expense ratio and how the underlying index helps me diversifying ? Be aware of the purpose of the ETF as JoeTaxpayer 's comment on leveraged ETFs is worth noting . How liquid is the ETF , what is the size of the ETF and be aware of various strategies of how indices can be put together as while among US large-cap indices there may not be that many big shifts , in small-caps and a few other areas there may be differences as companies like Russell will re-constitute their indices twice a year while S &amp; P does a bit more management of their indices . The liquidity is how many shares trade each day as if the volume is low then you may run into greater gaps between the share price and the underlying Net Asset Value of the shares as the <URL> is usually done in blocks of 50,000 shares . The size of the ETF is the market capitalization as I could imagine some of the smaller ETFs eventually being shut down . An example here is Merrill Lynch 's HOLDRs product that existed for a while . The index reconstitution is worth noting for a couple of reasons : Purity of style . If a small-cap fund could let its winners run , they would then become mid-caps or large-caps and thus you are n't diversifying in reality . Some people may slice and dice things rather finely and thus one may not be aware of what ETF is covering which market segment . Thus , this is more a about how well does the fund handle style drift . While the same market segment may be covered , there could be different ways to look at this style . For example , there could be ETFs in the small-cap area that deal with the smallest stocks out there compared to others that deal with larger stocks that still make up what could be seen as small-cap stocks by some .
I think that is the wrong approach . You certainly need to teach the value of work , but you can not tie it to income levels as a hard and fast rule . If you do , how do you then explain athletes making millions per year and only ' working ' half a year , at most . And , then comparing that person to a person working hard in a factory , 40-50 hours per week , 50 weeks per year , bringing home $ 50K per year ? I 've always taught my kids to work hard and with integrity . And , most importantly , you better enjoy the work you do because no matter how much money you make , if you dread getting up in the morning to go to work , your money wo n't make you happy . I 've never focused on the amount of money they should be making .
There 's a different reason to have more than one credit card . ( If you have three , that 's probably enough . ) Someone can get access to your account number , and start making fraudulent charges . When you report this to the issuer , they cancel your account to prevent further charges . They send you a new one , but there 's a delay . This happened to not one , but two of our credit cards at the same time . Thank goodness we had a third one that we could use in the meantime . If we had had just one card to use , we 'd be cash only until the new cards arrived , which would have been a big inconvenience because we were used to using our card for everything . ( It was inconvenience enough tracking down all of the automatic bill payments we had on the cards that were compromised . )
No , it can really not . Look at Detroit , which has lost a million residents over the past few decades . There is plenty of real estate which will not go for anything like it was sold . Other markets are very risky , like Florida , where speculators drive too much of the price for it to be stable . You have to be sure to buy on the downturn . A lot of price drops in real estate are masked because sellers just do n't sell , so you do n't really know how low the price is if you absolutely had to sell . In general , in most of America , anyway , you can expect Real Estate to keep up with inflation , but not do much better than that . It is the rental income or the leverage ( if you buy with a mortgage ) that makes most of the returns . In urban markets that are getting an influx of people and industry , however , Real Estate can indeed outpace inflation , but the number of markets that do this are rare . Also , if you look at it strictly as an investment ( as opposed to the question of " Is it worth it to own my own home ? " ) there are a lot of additional costs that you have to recoup , from property taxes to bills , rental headaches etc. . It 's an investment like any other , and should be approached with the same due diligence .
A good faith estimate ( GFE ) is just that - an estimate . The Department of Urban Development made a GFE a requirement by law for loan applications to enable the buyer to compare among lenders . Furthermore , a GFE is a legally binding document with zero tolerance for some fees like origination charges and lender fees . This means that any change in these fees must be covered by the lender . Some other fees , like title insurance policies , have a 10 % tolerance , so they can increase by up to 10 % , but if they increase more than that , then the lender is liable for the surplus . However , rates are time sensitive . This means that the rate you are quoted on the GFE , albeit legally binding , may last for only a second or a very short period of time . Although many quoted rates end up being accurate , there is no legal guarantee to do so . So I highly suggest you get an official lock-in document to get the agreement on paper . Even if your lender has good intentions and believes the extra rate lock is unnecessary , get it anyways . A GFE 's rate quote is not final , and you can only help yourself by getting a letter of commitment that guarantees your rate .
Only 20 , and going through university This is an important question to ask yourself . Your earnings are 0 and will remain so , unless you start working . Are you willing to halve your money , if the markets tank after you put in your money ? Mostly good investors will buy some more , if they know the stocks they have picked are good . Considering that you have no income you will loose out on it . If you are graduating soon , it might make sense to start investing but it should be reliant on the fact on how quickly you will land a job . I would suggest stay put in the ISA for the time being . Check out if you might get a higher rate of interest if possible and transfer there . Check out <URL> . Do n't blindly put money in a ISA , see if you are getting the best deal in the market . And one thing , interest on ISA is calculated daily .
I believe it 's just to limit the less well-off from acquiring one . If your credit history and income do not support a $ 15,000 credit limit , then do n't even think about applying for an Altitude Black card . If they do , then do n't bother with a student card . It 's primarily about market segmentation by wealth or income .
From <URL> A frontier market is a type of developing country which is more developed than the least developing countries , but too small to be generally considered an emerging market . The term is an economic term which was coined by International Finance Corporation 's Farida Khambata in 1992 . The term is commonly used to describe the equity markets of the smaller and less accessible , but still " investable " , countries of the developing world . The frontier , or pre-emerging equity markets are typically pursued by investors seeking high , long-run return potential as well as low correlations with other markets . Some frontier market countries were emerging markets in the past , but have regressed to frontier status . Investopedia has a <URL> on Emerging Vs Frontier While frontier market investments certainly come with some substantial risks , they also may post the kind of returns that emerging markets did during the 1990s and early 2000s . The frontier market contains anywhere from one-fifth to one-third of the world 's population and includes several exponentially growing economies . The other Question and are they a good option as well ? This depends on risk appetite and your current investment profile . If you have already invested in domestic markets with a well diversified portfolio and have also invested in emerging markets , you can then think of expanding your portfolio into these .
end question
start question
Why do put option prices go higher when the underlying stock tanks ( drops ) ?
There are two components of option valuation , the value that 's " in the money " and the " time value . " In the case of the $ 395 put , that option was already in the money and it will move less than the stock price by a bit as there will still be some time value there . $ 22.52 is intrinsic value ( the right word for ' in the money ' ) and the rest is time . The $ 365 strike is still out of the money , but as jldugger implied , the chance of it going through that strike is better as it 's $ 6.66 closer . Looking at the options chain gives you a better perspective on this . If Apple went up $ 20 Monday , and down $ 20 Tuesday , these prices would be higher as implied volatility would also go higher . Now , I 'd hardly call a drop of under 2 % " tanking " but on the otherhand , I 'd not call the 25 % jump in the option price skyrocketing . Options do this all the time . Curious what prompted the question , are you interested in trading options ? This stock in particular ?
In order to short a stock , you have to borrow the number of shares that you 're shorting from someone else who holds the shares , so that you can deliver the shares you 're shorting if it becomes necessary to do so ( usually ; there 's also <URL> , where you do n't have to do this , but it 's banned in a number of jurisdictions including the US ) . If a stock has poor liquidity , or is in high demand for shorting , then it may well be impossible to find anyone from whom it can be borrowed , which is what has happened in this instance .
An index fund tracks the performance of an index by investing in securities in the benchmark in the same proportions as the benchmark . The funds track their indexes pretty closely , with the following factors contributing to deviations : Dividends . Some indexes exclude the dividends in their numbers , while the fund invested in the stocks of the index earns dividends . This helps the fund outperform the index . Cash . Because of redemptions and contributions , some of the fund 's funds are in cash rather than securities . Example : if 5 % of the fund is in cash , only 95 % is subject to growth or decline . If the market goes up 1 % , the fund 's value goes up 0.95 % . Similarly if the market goes down 1 % the fund loses 0.95 % . This helps the fund outperform in bad markets and underperform in bad markets . Fee : the fund incurs expenses for management , infrastructure , administrative fees , etc. . The index is a theoretical portfolio . This hurts the fund 's performance relative to the index . Trading : Funds incur trading costs any time contributions or redemptions occur . Also some indexes are rebalanced frequently , causing funds that follow them to trade more frequently to keep matched to the benchmark . This hurts performance . Benchmark deviations : While the funds attempt to mirror the index , they can never do it 100 % at all times due to market fluctuations , purchase timings , etc. . This can either hurt or help the performance of the fund . Hope this helps .
It costs money to invest in an asset . That cost is called an interest rate . It is the rate at which you would borrow ( e.g. to buy gold ) , or take out of your bank accounts . Either way , you would buy gold only if you thought its price rise would be greater than the interest rate you 'd earn on your money . Gold prices are believed to rise with inflation , either real or perceived . So the critical relationship is whether " inflation " ( actual or perceived ) will be higher than the going interest rate . If you subtract the inflation rate from the stated interest rate , you get the " real " interest rate . Ideally , this number should be zero or negative for gold to rise . <URL> is about the Fed 's buying banks ' paper assets , and thereby expanding the money supply . All other things being equal , this tends to lower real interest rates , and thereby lift the price of gold .
For the same reason you wanted it when you bought it . No-one guarantees that you 'll be able to sell the stock you hold , and in fact many people get stuck with stocks they 'd like to sell , but no-one is buying . But if investors think there 's a profit potential that is not exhausted yet - they 'll want to buy the stock .
The long term view you are referring to would be over 30 to 40 years ( i.e. your working life ) . Yes in general you should be going for higher growth options when you are young . As you approach retirement you may change to a more balanced or capital guaranteed option . As the higher growth options will have a larger proportion of funds invested into higher growth assets like shares and property , they will be affected by market movements in these asset classes . So when there is a market crash like with the GFC in 2007/2008 and share prices drop by 40 % to 50 % , then this will have an effect on your superannuation returns for that year . I would say that if your fund was invested mainly in the Australian stock market over the last 7 years your returns would still be lower than what they were in mid-2007 , due to the stock market falls in late 2007 and early 2008 . This would mean that for the 7 year time frame your returns would be lower than a balanced or capital guaranteed fund where a majority of funds are invested in bonds and other fixed interest products . However , I would say that for the 5 and possibly the 10 year time frames the returns of the high growth options should have outperformed the balanced and capital guaranteed options . See examples below : First State Super AMP Super Both of these examples show that over a 5 year period or less the more aggressive or high growth options performed better than the more conservative options , and over the 7 year period for First State Super the high growth option performed similar to the more conservative option . Maybe you have been looking at funds with higher fees so in good times when the fund performs well the returns are reduced by excessive fees and when the fund performs badly in not so good time the performance is even worse as the fees are still excessive . Maybe look at industry type funds or retail funds that charge much smaller fees . Also , if a fund has relatively low returns during a period when the market is booming , maybe this is not a good fund to choose . Conversely , it the fund does n't perform too badly when the market has just crashed , may be it is worth further investigating . You should always try to compare the performance to the market in general and other similar funds . Remember , super should be looked at over a 30 to 40 year time frame , and it is a good idea to get interested in how your fund is performing from an early age , instead of worrying about it only a few years before retirement .
Mutual funds do n't work like stocks in that way . The price of a mutual fund is set at the end of each day and does n't fluctuate during the day . So no matter when you put in your order , it will be filled at the end of the day at whatever the closing price is for that day . Here is some good information on that There is no continuous pricing of fund shares throughout the trading day . When an investor places an order to buy or sell a fund 's shares , the order is executed based on the NAV calculated at the end of that trading day , regardless of what time during the day the order was placed . On the other hand , if the investor were to check the price of his or her fund shares halfway through the business day , the price quoted would be the previous day 's NAV because that was the last time the fund calculated and reported the value . - <URL>
You 're correct in your implied point : Selling a cash secured put has less risk ( in terms of both volatility and maximum loss ) than buying the security outright . However , many brokerages do n't allow cash-secured put writing in IRA accounts . There are three reasons this tends to be the case : The higher suitability standards in an IRA makes the firm concerned that even though the strategy is safer than buying the stock , it 's more complex , and the duty to ensure that the client understands the risks ( small upside , large downside , etc. ) makes it not worth offering . The firm 's systems ca n't differentiate between cash-secured put writing and other types of put writing that are not appropriate for IRAs ( naked put writing , covered put writing against short stock , etc. ) The firm 's permitted options strategies for IRAs have not been changed in many years . This is the most common one . Most firms established covered calls , or covered calls and protective puts as the only strategies they 'd allow when they first became IRA custodians , and simply have n't changed them since .
You have the cause and effect backwards , the interest rate is the driver , not the bond price . The value of a bond goes down when interest rates rise , and the value of a bond goes up when interest rates fall . Note that this is only the value if you want to SELL a bond , if you intend to hold it to maturity the value is unchanged . The reason for the change is basically an adjustment to compete with new issues at the current rate . Lets say you have a 10,000 bond that is paying 5 % . That means your yearly return on the bond is $ 500 . Then lets say rates rise to 6 % , and you want to sell the bond . You need to make your bond as attractive to buyers as a new issue , why would someone buy your bond when they could spend the same amount on a new issue and make $ 600 per year ? Or to think of it another way , they could spend $ 8333.33 and get the same $ 500 return as your bond is yielding . So to be competitive with new issues , the selling price of your bond would have to be aprox $ 8333.33 On the other hand , if interest rates fall , then to get the same return , someone would have to invest $ 12500 , making your bond worth more than it 's face value . Those numbers are simplified because they do n't take into account the maturity date of the bond and the face value when the bond matures . The actual fluctuation is less than the above numbers , but I wanted to keep the math simple for the moment to get the concept across . Bond funds face similar pressures . The way to avoid this is to buy and hold bonds to their maturity , when they are paid off at face value . The gain or loss in value does not affect you if you do not sell the bond before maturity .
It is possible for an employer to check your credit score and it is legal . As long as you give them permission . You have every right to refuse BUT the employer also has the right to not give you a job . The reason is to get an overall feeling for your integrity , discipline , and lifestyle . People in debt are more likely to embezzle , etc. . A low credit score can also indicate that you make poor choices in your financial and purchasing deals . If you are refused a job you are qualified under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to get a copy of your credit report . Source - <URL>
Yes . I heard back from a couple brokerages that gave detailed responses . Specifically : In a Margin account , there are no SEC trade settlement rules , which means there is no risk of any free ride violations . The SEC has a FAQ page on <URL> , which states that it applies specifically to cash accounts . This led me to dig up the text on <URL> which gives the " free-riding " rule in § 220.8 ( c ) , which is titled " 90 day freeze " . § 220.8 is the section on cash accounts . Nothing in the sections on margin accounts mentions such a settlement restriction . From the <URL> , the margin agreement implicitly covers settlement . " Buying Power " does n't seem to be a Regulation T thing , but it 's something that the brokerages that I 've seen use to state how much purchasing power a client has . Given the response from the brokerage , above , and my reading of Regulation T and the relevant Wikipedia page , proceeds from the sale of any security in a margin account are available immediately for reinvestment . Settlement is covered implicitly by margin ; i.e. it does n't detract from buying power . Additionally , I have personally been making these types of trades over the last year . In a sub - $ 25K margin account , proceeds are immediately available . The only thing I still have to look out for is running into the day-trading rules .
The price of real estate reacts to both demand for property and the rate of inflation and rate of income growth . Mortgage rates generally move as treasury rates move . See this paragraph : As we mentioned , intermediate term bonds and long-term mortgages ( more properly , Mortgage-Backed Securities , or MBS ) compete for the same fixed-income investor dollar . Treasury issues are 100 % guaranteed to be repaid , but mortgages are not ; therefore mortgages carry more risk of default or early repayment , which could potentially disturb the return on the investment . Therefore , mortgage rates must be priced higher to compensate for that risk . But how much higher are mortgages priced ? In a normal market , the average " spread " or markup above the 100 % secured Treasury is about 170 basis points , or 1.7 % . That markup -- the spread relationship -- widens and contracts with a range of market conditions , investor appetites and supply of available product -- as well as the presence of competing investment opportunities , like corporate bonds or domestic ( or foreign ) equity markets Source : <URL> And when the stock market crashes , investors tend to run to bonds and treasuries , which causes prices to go up and treasury yields to drop . Theoretically , this would also cause mortgage rates to drop , although most mortgage rates have a base price below which they can not fall . How easy is it to profit from recent stock market drops and at what frequency ? Incredibly difficult . The issue with your strategy is that you can not predict the bottom of the market ( at least us mortals ca n't ) . Just take the month of August for example . Stocks fell something like 15 % ? After the first 5-10 % drop , people felt that the bottom was there , so they rushed in , only to have the market fall even more . How will you know when to invest ? Even if the market falls by 50 % , and there 's a huge buying opportunity , and you increase the mortgage on your house , odds are your rates will increase because of the equity you take out . What if the market stays low for a very long time ? Will you be able to maintain mortgage payments ? Japan 's stock bubble popped in the early 90 's , and they 've had two lost decade 's now . Furthermore , there are issues of liquidity . What if you need more capital ? Can you just sell a property or can you buy now property to draw equity against ? What if the market is moving too fast for you to take advantage of . Do n't ignore transaction costs and taxes either . Overall , there are a lot of ways that your idea can go wrong , and not many ways it can go right .
A trailing stop will sell X shares at some percentage below the current market price . Putting in this order with a 10 % trailing stop when the stock price is $ 50 will sell the stock when it hits $ 45 . It 's a market order at that point ( see below ) . A stop order will sell the stock when it reaches a certain price . The stop order becomes a market order when the magic price is hit . This means that you may not sell it at or below your price when the order is executed . But the stock will sell faster because the trader must execute . A stop limit order is the same as a stop order , except the stock wo n't be sold if it ca n't be gotten for the price . As a result , the sell may not be executed . More information <URL> .
A falling exchange rate is an indication of falling confidence in a currency . Countries like Iran or Venezuela , with a <URL> , set their exchange rates at a higher value than the market accepts . Such market expectations may be influenced by poor government management , interventions into markets ( such as nationalising businesses ) or general instability / scarcity . The governments act to manage that uncertainty by limiting the availability of foreign exchange and pegging the exchange rate . Since there is an inadequate supply of trusted foreign currency people turn to informal exchanges in order to hedge their currency risk . This creates a negative feedback loop . People in government who have access to foreign exchange start to trade on informal markets , pocketing the difference in the official and unofficial rates . The increasing gap between the two rates drives increasing informal market exchange and can result in speculative bubbles . Driving instability ( or economic contradiction ) is that the massive and increasing difference between the official and market exchange rates becomes a powerful form of rent for government officials . This drives further state-led rent-seeking behaviour and causes the economy to become even more unstable . If you 're interested in a more formal academic study of how such parallel markets in currency arise , <URL> at the University of Pretoria is a useful source .
Public companies in the US are supposed to follow accounting standards established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) when publishing financial statements . These standards require that assets be valued at current market rates . During the 2008 financial crisis , <URL> pressured Congress to pass legislation to suspend mark-to-market accounting since many banks were holding assets that had severely dropped in value after the crisis . Congress passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act ( EESA ) which required the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) to <URL> " Alternative accounting standards to those provided in [ Financial Accounting Standards Board ] Statement Number 157 " . At the time the SEC decided not to suspend mark-to-market . However , the EESA reaffirmed that the SEC has the authority to suspend mark-to-market if they choose .
Trying to " time the market " is usually a bad idea . People who do this every day for a living have a hard time doing that , and I 'm guessing you do n't have that kind of time and knowledge . So that leaves you with your first and third options , commonly called lump-sum and dollar cost averaging respectively . Which one to use depends on where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . Dollar cost averaging ( DCA ) has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a trade-off . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up , which is especially true with an index fund ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
So , this is n't always the case , but in the example provided the option is most likely in the money or near the money since the delta is nearly 1 - indicating that a $ 1 move in the underlying results in a $ 0.92 move in the option - this will happen when the expiration is very far out or the option is in the money . As expiration gets closer , movements in the underlying become more pronounced in the options because the probability of the stock price moving from its current position is lower . As the probability of the stock price moving goes down , the delta of in the money options approaches 100 , eventually reaching 100 at expiration . Another way to word this is that the premium on in the money options shrinks as expiration approaches and the intrinsic value of the option increases as percentage of total value so that movements in the underlying stock price become a greater influence on the option price - hence a greater delta . Again , if the option is out of the money , this is not the case .
Actually , they are done computer to computer , but only between authorized companies . The Wikipedia article is correct in its overall statement , in that only licensed people and companies are allowed to trade on the exchange . That can indeed , however , be between the computers of those companies and the computer that is the central matching engine of most exchanges these days . The usage of brokers is , in effect , a distributed trust model . The Exchange can vet and certify a certain number of serious people/companies . Those companies in turn can vet more people ( their clients ) . The brokers on the exchange therefore do n't have to worry about the clients of the other broker 's exchange , but only the other broker , and they trust that broker because of the Exchange 's oversight .
This is a case where a snapshot of the quote page would make good sense . As you can see , even though I tried to choose a range of strikes that were active , around the current price , the volume is n't really impressive . One option at $ 6 is a $ 600 trade , so even the 40 volume is less than $ 40K dollars . With little volume the bid/ask can easily go stale . If it 's the ' last ' that you are focusing on , it could very easily have been a trade early in the day . If I understand your question correctly , the answer is , " if you got a current bid/ask for a series of strikes , indeed they would cluster around the theoretical nice curve you expect . I believe the bid/ask would straddle the line very neatly . But at any moment , the last sale or the stale bid/ask wo n't reflect that curve . If you see a bid/ask that looks advantageous and try to place a real order the bid/ask will quickly update to reflect reality . "
Yes . What you 're asking about are called <URL> . Sometimes these inverse ETFs are also leveraged to provide 2x , 3x , etc. of the downside . But , beware : An inverse ETF as any leveraged ETF needs to buy when the market rises and sell when it falls in order to maintain a fixed leverage ratio . This results in a volatility loss proportional to the market variance . Compared to a short position with identical initial exposure , the inverse ETF will therefore usually deliver inferior returns . [ ... ] ( Source : Wikipedia . Emphasis mine . ) Inverse ETFs are n't hard to find -- they trade on the same stock exchanges regular ETFs trade on . You should have access through your broker if you can already buy ETFs . If you 're interested in a list of specific inverse ETFs , <URL> . Be careful with these . Some related Q&amp;A here : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
I received an email from my credit card company titled " URGENT : Your VbV VISA Password has expired ! " Is it legitimate ?
It 's a fake ! Do n't fall for it or you 'll regret it ! This is a classic example of what is called a phishing attack . A phishing attack is a form of social engineering or pretexting where you are led to believe through an official-looking email that the notice is from a legitimate source when , in fact , it is not . Cyber-criminals and online organized crime try to use phishing attacks to trick you into revealing your credit card number , your bank account information , your Social Security Number ( SSN , United States ) or Social Insurance Number ( SIN , Canada ) or any other kind of personal information . Your bank , credit card company , or other financial account provider should never ask you in an email to visit their site through a link provided in the email . Never trust a hyperlink provided in an email -- odds are good it leads to a fake site created by criminals ! When in doubt about such a message , do n't click anything . Contact your financial service provider by phone to inquire .
I have no personal knowledge of this company ; I 've only looked over what I found on the web . Overall , my judgement is that Pension Benefit Information , Inc. of San Rafael , CA is likely legitimate and aboutmyletter.com is one of two sites run by them ( the other being pbinfo.com ) . These two sites are <URL> to Pension Benefit Information , Inc. ( aboutmyletter uses Network Solutions privacy service but gives the company name ; pbinfo uses their name and San Rafael address . ) They are in the BBB . The president ( of the 8 employee Co. ) , Susan McDonald , has <URL> before Congress about business uses of SSNs . They made a ( very schlocky ) video , which has an interview with McDonald after several canned , generic , " impressive " introductions . I found the interview convincing of a person actually running a small , real business of this type . A short version is on their site , <URL> . There are some queries about their legitimacy online ( like this one ) , but I found nothing negative on them , and <URL> . <URL> talks about the suspicions they run into when contacting participants , and has some advice . Also , scammers are unlikely to pay the U.S. Postal Service money to send paper letters . So what are the dangers ? Money or identity . So do n't pay them any fees ( now or later ) , especially since it looks like their clients ( retirement funds ) pay on the other side . As for identity information : What 's in the letter ? Do n't they show that they already know a bunch about you ? Old employer ? Maybe the last four digits of your SSN ? Your address ( if this is not the forwarded-by-IRS type of contact letter ) . Other things , maybe ? What information would you be giving up if you did respond to them fully ? You could try contacting your old company directly ( mentioning PBI , Inc , ) , although on their website PBI says you 'll have to go through them . ( They probably get paid for each successful contact , and deserve it . ) Still , responding through mail or telephone to PBI seems like the reasonable thing to do .
A " credit " transaction runs through Visa/Mastercard . The transaction settlement varies by merchant and the merchant pays a 2-4 % fee , depending on their arrangement with the processor and your card . You are covered by the various insurance , consumer protection and other programs associated with your card . A " debit " transaction is secured using your PIN and settles immediately . The cost to the merchant is typically $ 0.10-0 .50 per transaction . You are not covered by benefits provided by Visa/Mastercard and have minimal fraud protection if your PIN is compromised . In terms of security , debit is probably the most secure option , as it is PIN-secured . But ... credit transactions limit your liability to $ 50 by law , and some issuers have $ 0 liability policies . The catch there is that it is up to you to detect and report fraudulent transactions in a timely manner . I 've always been puzzled by folks who use a debit card in credit mode . Other than exposing you to more risk and imposing some self-control on you , I ca n't see a reason to use a debit card in credit mode over a credit card .
Yes , in fact I used this method for my travels to the UK . You can get one <URL> , and you can even get it on the spot in some of their locations .
This is from the PBS Frontline show " Secret History of the Credit Card . " Getting rid of one card wo n't immediately trash your score , nor will it be by the full impact ( 15 % ) of credit history . If there 's no fee , I 'd buy gas once per quarter with it . If there is a fee , I 'd check my FICO score and if I can afford to lose 20 or so points for a time , I 'd go for it .
You could make an entry for the disputed charge as if you were going to lose the dispute , and a second entry that reverses the charge as if you were going to win the dispute . You could then reconcile the account by including the first charge in the reconciliation and excluding the reversal until the issue has been resolved .
I wrote <URL> some time ago . The answer is yes , this helps the credit score , but this factor , age of accounts , is pretty minimal . Grabbing deals , as you did , I 'm actually down to a " C " for this part of my score , but still maintain a 770 score .
If this is a pre-authorized automatic billing , and if you have signed any contract with the merchant , cancelling may not block any future charges from the merchant . Happens with gyms , magazines , memberships quite often . There is a time period after the cancellation this will occur , then it 'll be completely dead .
You should ask the company , there 's no one rule . From my observations , what usually happens is that the old options are replaced with the new options in the new company , and with a new vesting schedule . But that does n't have to be like that , the old options may be cancelled , bought out , replaced with the stocks of the new company , etc etc. . It depends on the grant contract and the company 's purchase agreement .
In my experience , it is better to pay on the vendor 's ( in this case , credit card 's ) website , rather than your checking account 's bill pay service . I 've personally had trouble with my bank 's bill pay service . When you pay with bill pay , there is usually a delay of at least a few days before the payment arrives at the destination . Sometimes the payment gets there late . Sometimes the recipient does n't know how to credit the payment when they get it . This has caused me to miss due dates and created a mess . When you pay with the credit card 's own website , the effective date of payment is immediate . If you schedule a future date , you can pick a precise date for the payment to be credited . ( Although , I always pay my bills a few days early to be safe . ) Of course , your bank 's bill pay service might be better than mine . But I 've had lots of trouble with mine , and I do n't use it anymore .
Magstripe : No . ( And maybe not even that much . ) Chip : Gods only know , but I doubt it . The purpose of the chip is to provide secure authentication of the card . It has no reason to do more than that .
This very much depends how you use that second line of credit and what your current credit is . If you max it out and then do not pay then it will hurt your credit . If you max it out and pay the minimum but currently have a low credit score it will help . If you already have a 700 + rating then it will hurt it . If you Never use it then it will have little impact on your rating but could cause problems if your available credit exceeds 50 % of your income . If you use it regularly but pay it off every month then it should improve your credit rating . There are of course many more combinations buy you can probably infer the impact based on these cases . Your credit score is based on your likely hood of being profitable to a creditor should they issue you credit . This is based on your history of your ability to manage your credit . Having more credit and managing it well shows that you have a history of being responsible with greater sums of money available . If you use the card responsibly now then you are more likely to continue that trend than someone with a history of irresponsibility . Having a line but not using it is not a good thing . It costs the creditor money for you to have an account . If you never use that account then you are not showing that you can use the account responsibly so if you are just going to throw the card in a safe and never access it then you are better off not getting the card in the first place .
If you have zero activity on a card , the issuing bank may decide to close that card . They have some costs each month , and if you are n't using the card they are n't making money off of you . Your inactivity is also a risk because if you lost the card , and do n't realize it , and it falls into the wrong hands then it can be used for fraudulent transactions . In their view it might already have been hijacked . If they close your account that can hurt your score : your utilization number will go up , and the age of your accounts could go down . They want you to use their card so they make money on the transaction fees and hopefully interest payments .
The credit card may have advantages in at least two cases : In some instances ( at least in the US ) , a merchant will put a " hold " on a credit card without charging it . This happens a lot at hotels , for example , which use the hold as collateral against damages and incidental charges . On a credit card this temporarily reduces your credit limit but never appears on your bill . I 've never tried to do it on a debit card , but my understanding is that they either reject the debit card for this purpose or they actually make the withdrawal and then issue a refund later . You 'll actually need to account for this in your cash flow on the debit card but not on the credit card . If you get a fraudulent charge on your credit card , it impacts that account until you detect it and go through the fraud resolution process . On a debit card , the fraudulent charge may ripple through the rest of your life . The rent payment that you made by electronic transfer or ( in the US ) by check , for example , is now rejected because your bank account is short by the amount of the fraud even if you did n't use the debit card to pay it . Eventually this will probably get sorted out , but it has potential to create a bigger mess than is necessary . Personally , I never use my debit card . I consider it too risky with no apparent benefit .
The Cash Credit from Unsettled Activity occurs because AGG <URL> in the past week . Since you purchased the ETF long enough before the record date ( June 5 , 2013 ) for that trade to settle , you qualified for a dividend . The dividend distribution was $ 0.195217 / share for each of your six shares , for a total credit of $ 1.17 = 6 * 0.195217 . For any ETF , the company 's website should tell you when dividends are issued , usually under a section titled " Distributions " or something similar . If you look in your Fidelity account 's History page , it should show an entry of " Dividend Received " , which confirms that the cash credit is coming from a dividend distribution . You could look up your holdings and see which one ( s ) recently issued a dividend ; in this case , it was AGG .
Here are two general " rules of thumb " that should keep you out of trouble when searching for a legitimate work at home opportunity among the expanse of scams : You should never have to pay them anything , period . Any mention of you sending them money for any reason indicates a scam . This is doubly true if they offer to send you money up-front and want a part of it sent back or to someone else . Do n't re-mail things for them If they want you to accept shipments and send them back out , or re-sell them on e-bay , etc. do n't do it . This is usually a front for fencing ( laundering ) stolen property . If they are too eager to get your SSN , run Many frauds act like they have a job and just need your information to fill out tax forms . This generally is NOT needed for contractors , but can be legitimate if they are hiring you as a full time W2 ( US ) employee . However , you really really need to check a company out and make sure it is legit before you give up this information . A red-flag is a company that asks for personal information too quickly , or does n't seem interested in discussing other details of the work . These job scams are a major source of identity theft . Some legitimate places to find work at home jobs : There are a number of online sources that connect people who want to do freelance work to companies that need the help . A major benefit is that many of these offer some kind of vetting process for both ends of the transaction and an escrow system to arrange the payment without giving up too much sensitive information . The downside is that the sites often take a cut of the deal ( 5-10 % or so ) . Here are a few I recomend <URL> Pros : Larger jobs/more money potential Cons : You will probably need to spend more time setting up a portfolio and may need to charge less until you build a reputation on the site to get the really good jobs . Typical Jobs : More skilled jobs like writing articles , building a web site , graphic design , etc. . <URL> Pros : Easier to get jobs without much prep or sales work . Also , a lot more less-skilled jobs are available here . Cons : Jobs are usually really small , and pay a usually small piece rate . Typical Jobs : Proof a web-site or document for errors . Visit a web-site and post reviews on other web-sites .
Sorry to hear about this happening to you . You should file a lawsuit in small claims court and get a judgement . Unfortunately , you are probably one of many creditors , and are unlikely to get much , if any , money back .
I got notice from Charles Schwab that the forms were n't being mailed out until the middle of February because , for some reason , the forms were likely to change and rather than mail them out twice , they mailed them out once . Perhaps some state tax laws took effect ( such as two Oregon bills regarding tax rates for higher incomes ) and they waited on that . While I have n't gotten my forms mailed to me yet , I did go online and get the electronic copies that allowed me to finish my taxes already .
Have a look over the <URL> ? It 's worth also mentioning they have <URL> : Closing costs ( upfront fee ) : up to 3.0 % of invested capital ( according to the cooperation with the local commercial partner / for values greater than $ 1.000.000 up to 2.0 % ) Annual Administration ( management fee ) : 1.0 % of the value " effectively " invested from the managed resources . Performance fee ( success fee ) : 20 % of annual net profits generated in accordance with the watermark principle . They 're going to have to get extraordinarily good returns to overcome that dead weight . Maybe they will , <URL> . If your requirement is just for an " offshore online investment " then there are certainly cheaper and arguably safer options . Open a brokerage account in a country of your choice , and buy a local-total-stockmarket ETF , gold , or bonds . Or see one of the several <URL> about opening a foreign bank account .
In the long term , Loss or Theft of your credit card ( whether used or not ) will not affect your credit report or score . You are not liable for the charges made and your credit report is the report of your credit usage . Not the report of an identity theft 's use of credit . That being said , in the short term fraudulent charges and accounts could be opened which will be reported to your credit report ( and affect your credit score ) until you contact the Fraud Victim departments of the appropriate accounts and report the error . You would also contact the credit reporting bureaus and have them remove the offending accounts . Unfortunately , this is the victim part of identity theft and while it will have no long term affect , it may take a while to clear this up . I 've had identity theft problems crop up during a home loan refinancing . While the theft did not stop my refinance , it did cause me to take extra steps to convince them I did n't own a home in another state where the loan paperwork used my social security number . Someone else using my social security number for a mortgage and a credit card did not affect my credit score at all in the long term , but did cause me some minor headaches in the short term .
end question
start question
Would a mortgage lender consider our savings in CDs to be as good as cash ?
Short answer : the CD can be considered as part of the down payment calculations . they will want a plan to cash them in the last days or weeks before settlement . When approving you for a mortgage they will be looking at : Income : Generally salary or from a guaranteed stream like a pension or social security . Commission based income is a special case . But generally not investment income . Expenses that you are committed to : Car Loans , school loans , other loans . Credit Card balances . Do you have other real estate that you will not be selling before completing this transaction . They will count taxes and Home Owner Association ( HOA ) fees as an expense . This could have a mortgage . If it has a renter this would be both income and expense . Other real estate that you will be selling prior to this transaction . Credit Score . They now know what you can afford to dedicate to this new property every month . They take into account principal , interest , taxes , insurance and the HOA fee . They will then look at how much money you will use as a down payment . They want this money to exist before applying , and they will check on its existence in the last days before settlement . The best is cash sitting in a bank . But it can also be money in savings bonds , or a CD , but they will want a plan for cashing that in just before settlement . They wo n't be comfortable with it being in a volatile account such as stocks especially if the current balance is exactly what you need for a mortgage that wo n't be closed for 3 more months . Because people use money they borrow from their 401K for a home purchase , it is possible to use money from volatile account . They will want to see a plan for getting money from these accounts just before settlement .
( Disclaimer : I am not an accountant nor a tax pro , etc. , etc. ) Yes , a Canadian corporation can function as a partial income tax shelter . This is possible since a corporation can retain earnings ( profits ) indefinitely , and corporate income tax rates are generally less than personal income tax rates . Details : If you own and run your business through a corporation , you can choose to take income from your corporation in one of two ways : as salary , or as dividends . Salary constitutes an expense of the corporation , i.e. it gets deducted from revenue in calculating corporate taxable income . No corporate income tax is due on money paid out as salary . However , personal income taxes and other deductions ( e.g. CPP ) would apply to salary at regular rates , the same as for a regular employee . Dividends are paid by the corporation to shareholders out of after-tax profits . i.e. the corporation first pays income tax on taxable income for the fiscal year , and resulting net income could be used to pay dividends ( or not ) . At the personal level , dividends are taxed less than salary to account for tax the corporation paid . The net effect of corporate + personal tax is about the same as for salary ( leaving out deductions like CPP . ) The key point : Dividends do n't have to be paid out in the year the money was earned . The corporation can carry profits forward ( retained earnings ) as long as it wants and choose to issue dividends ( or not ) in later years . Given that , here 's how would the partial income tax shelter works : Earn revenue for your corporation , doing whatever real business it does . * ( see far below ) Do not pay out all corporate revenue as salary . Leave all or most in the company . Revenue remaining in the company at the end of the year is subject to corporate income tax , likely at the corporate <URL> . e.g. Ontario , 2010 : 15.5 % . This rate is significantly less than the top personal income tax rate . Do not pay out those retained earnings as dividends . Leave all or most in the company . The company would invest retained earnings to generate a return . Next year , the company will owe tax on income generated by the invested retained earnings . ( Note : The tax man will want to see most of the company 's income being <URL> -- perhaps not a problem if it continues doing real business as in step 1 . ) Repeat . At some point , for you to personally realize income from the corporation , you can have the corporation declare a dividend . You 'll then have to pay personal income taxes on the income , at the dividend rates . But for as long as the money was invested inside the corporation , it was subject only to lesser corporate tax rates , not higher personal income tax rates . Hence the " partial " aspect of this kind of tax shelter . Or , if you 're lucky enough to find a buyer for your corporation , you could qualify for the <URL> on proceeds up to $ 750,000 when you sell a qualified small business corporation . This is the best exit strategy ; unfortunately , not an easy one where the business has no valuable assets ( e.g. a client base , or intellectual property . ) * The major sticking-point : You need to have real business revenue ! A regular employee ( of another company ) ca n't funnel his personally-earned employment income into a corporation just to take advantage of this mechanism . Sorry . : - /
Deposits are contributions . You deposit say , $ 5000 , and over time you have $ 6000 . The $ 5000 can be withdrawn any time with no issue . It 's tracked via <URL> . With this in mind , I wrote an article <URL> , suggesting that since one can withdraw deposits with no issue , the Roth can be used to hold emergency money .
From what I understand , the answer is no . Banking systems and credit reporting services are different from country to country , each has their own rules and way of doing things , and I 'm under the impression that neither really talks to one another except in the case of sending money ( in which case there are other things involved , the least of which being conversion ) . Note that , although not the greatest example , as an American living in Japan , the banks here are totally different than those in the States . Banks in one location know nothing of my credit rating in the other , and moreover would not trust it or even care . ( Multinational banks like Citibank may be an exception though and is worth looking into . )
VAT = Value Added Tax ( as an Aussie think " GST " ) This is applicable in Britain . Basically , if you were in Britain , and if you could claim VAT as a deduction , that invoice is not sufficient proof to make the claim . But you 're in Oz so it does n't apply to you in any case . For work-related deductions like book purchases , see <URL> Issues such as the books being second hand or purchased online are not cited in the instructions as relevant/limiting factors . In fact , if you really want to get into the nitty gritty , you could claim the work-related proportion of your internet access fees as a deduction ( question D5 instructions , above , cover that as well ) .
I 've been taking all the cheap fixed-rate debt banks would like to give me lately . What Rate ? In practice I find the only way I get a low-enough rate on a longish-term fixed-rate loan is to use collateral . That is , auto loans and home loans . I have n't seen any personal loans with a low enough fixed rate . ( Student loans may be cheap enough if they 're subsidized , I guess . ) Here 's how I think of the rate : If you look at <URL> , the average annual return on 80 % bonds / 20 % stocks is 6.7 % , with worst year -10.3 % . That 's a nominal return not a real return . If you subtract taxes , say your marginal rate ( the rate you pay on your last dollar of income ) is 28 % federal plus 5 % state , then if you have no tax deferral the 6.7 % becomes about a 4.5 % average , with reasonably wide variation year-by-year . ( You can mess with this , e.g. using tax-exempt bonds and tax-efficient stock funds , etc. which would be wise , but for deciding whether to take out debt , getting too detailed is false precision . The 6.7 % number is only an average to begin with , not a guarantee . ) Say you pay 4.5 % on a loan , and you keep your money in very conservative investments , that 's probably at least going to break even if you give it some years . It certainly can and sometimes will fail to break even over some time periods , but the risk of outright catastrophe is low . If your annual loss is 10 % , that sucks , but it should not ruin your life . In practice , I got a home loan for close to 4.5 % which is tax-deductible so a lower effective rate , and got an auto loan subsidized by the manufacturer for under 3 % . Both are long-term fixed-rate loans with collateral . So I was happy to borrow this money paying about a 3 % effective rate in both cases , well below my rough threshold of 4.5 % . I do not , however , run a credit card balance ; even though one of my cards is only 7 % right now , 7 % is too high , and it 's a floating rate that could rise . The personal loans I 've seen have too-high rates also . Thoughts One of the reasons I take the loans is liquidity . If I have $ N in cash and then owe relatively small payments over 6 years , then that is a lot more flexible than not having cash and owning a car . If not having cash and owning the car outright ever becomes desirable , then pay off the loan , and be in that situation overnight . The other direction is often impossible . Another reason I take the loans is that it makes budgeting easier . I like to think of major assets ( house , car , etc. ) in terms of monthly cost . Then you can see how much more you need per year ( and how much more you have to save for retirement ) if you spend a certain amount on the car . Of course if you pay cash you can still compute the monthly cost , but it 's just a little easier if it 's actually a monthly cost , in my opinion . If you need a credit history , getting a loan can give you one , though a credit card is probably a simpler way . I have a fair amount of " wiggle room " ( solid emergency fund , no trouble covering the debt payments ) . The more trouble you 'll have with the payments , the less you should be buying anything at all probably , let alone with debt . You probably should n't be considering your emergency fund in this calculation . That is , do n't consider using the emergency fund instead of getting the loan , and do n't consider putting the emergency fund in anything higher yield than cash . Borrowing money at a low rate puts you in a good place if interest rates rise ( or , probably saying the same thing , if inflation increases ) . Borrowing money ( even at a low rate ) would be bad if we get deflation . Thankfully that has n't happened in general since the Depression , but it is happening now in housing specifically , and I 'm sure you 've seen on the news how it 's bad for those who borrowed money to buy . Borrowing money at a floating rate is a risky idea . You lose in both inflation and deflation scenarios . I 'm not sure the pay-cash-or-get-the-loan decision is all that important in the scheme of things . It is n't likely to be make-or-break on your overall financial situation . So you may as well do what makes you feel comfortable . For me , extra flexibility makes me comfortable , but for others , debt makes them uncomfortable . Both are valid . My discussion here assumes you have the option to pay cash . If you could n't pay cash , you have nothing to invest , and no cash to keep in order to increase flexibility . Overall I think using debt as a tool requires that you 're already financially stable , such that the debt is n't creating a risky situation . The debt should be used to increase liquidity and flexibility and perhaps boost investment returns a bit . Where you 're likely to get into trouble is using debt to increase your purchasing power , especially if you use debt to buy things that are n't necessary . For me the primary reason to use debt is flexibility and liquidity , and the secondary " bonus " reason is a possible spread between the debt rate and investment returns .
" I have money to invest . Where should I put it ? " Anyone who answers with " Give it to me , I 'll invest it for you , do n't worry . " needs to be avoided . If your financial advisor gives you this line or equivalent , fire him/her and find another . Before you think about where you should put your money , learn about investing . Take courses , read books , consume blogs and videos on investing in stocks , businesses , real estate , and precious metals . Learn what the risks and rewards are for each , and make an informed decision based on what you learned . Find differing opinions on each type of investment and come to your own conclusions for each . I for example , do not understand stocks , and so do not seriously work the stock market . Mutual funds make money for the folks selling them whether or not the price goes up or down . You assume all the risk while the mutual fund advisor gets the reward . If you find a mutual fund advisor who can not recommend the purchase of a product he does n't sell , he 's not an advisor , he 's a salesman . Investing in business requires you either to intimately understand businesses and how to fund them , or to hire someone who can make an objective evaluation for you . Again this requires training . I have no such training , and avoid investing in businesses . Investing in real estate also requires you to know what to look for in a property that produces cash flow or capital gains . I took a course , read some books , gained experience and have a knowledgeable team at my disposal so my wins are greater than my losses . Do not be fooled by people telling you that higher risk means higher reward . Risks that you understand and have a detailed plan to mitigate are not risks . It is possible to have higher reward without increasing risk . Again , do your own research . The richest people in the world do not own mutual funds or IRAs or RRSPs or TFSAs , they do their own research and invest in the things I mentioned above .
US bank deposits over $ 10K only need to be reported to FinCEN ( Financial Crimes Enforcement Network - a bureau of the US Department of Treasury ) if the deposits are made in cash or other money instruments where the source can not be traced ( money orders , traveler checks , etc ) . Regular checks and wires do n't need to be reported because there is a clear bank trail of where the money came from . If your family member is giving you money personally ( not from a business ) from a bank account which is outside of the US , then you only need to <URL> . Note , you would need to report that regardless of whether the money was deposited into your US bank account , or paid directly to your credit cards on your behalf , and there are stiff penalties if you play games to try to avoid reporting requirements . Neither deposit method would trigger any taxable income for the scenario you described .
It 's a real pain in the rear to get cash only from a bank teller ( the end result of cutting the card as suggested ) . There is a self control issue here that , like weight loss , should ultimately be addressed for a psychologically healthy lifestyle . You do n't mention a budget here . A budget is one of the first tools necessary for setting spending limits . Categorizing your money into inviolable categories , such as : savings ( in a savings account separate from your debit/checking account ) home auto grocery fun stuff ( clothes , toys , electronics etc. ) will force you to look at any purchase in context of your other needs and goals . Note that savings is at the top of the list , supporting the aphorism to , " Pay yourself first . " Make realistic allowances for each budget category , then force yourself to stick to this budget by whatever means necessary . Cash in several envelopes labeled with each category can physically reinforce your priorities ( the debit card is usually left at home for now ) . Roll remaining funds from each month over into the next month to cover irregular larger expenses , such as auto repairs . What sort of investing are we talking about ? If you are just talking about retirement savings , an automatic deduction of just $ 50 to a Roth IRA account at a discount brokerage every pay check is a good start . An emergency fund of 6 months expenses is also common financial advice , and can likewise be built from small automatic deductions . In defense of wise use of plastic , a debit card can be a great retroactive budgeting tool because it records all spending for you . It takes a lot more effort to save and enter receipts for cash , and a compulsive spender without a budget is just as likely to run out of money whether or not he uses plastic . You could keep receipts in the envelope you take the cash out of when you 're getting started . If you are so addicted to spending that you must cut your debit card to enforce your budget , at least consider this a temporary measure to get yourself under control . When the bank issues you a new card , re-evaluate this decision and the self control measures you 've implemented to see if you 've grown enough to keep the card .
You 're a partnership . You should ask the money to be paid to the partnership . You 'll have to fill partnership income tax return ( form 1065 ) and each of you will get a K-1 schedule with your own personal portion of the income . For example , you 're Adam , Ben and Clara . You work together on a project and are being paid . You get a check for $ 300 issued to " Adam , Ben and Clara , DBA ABC Partnership " . You do n't have to have a DBA , it just makes it easier to show you as a single entity . You then deposit the check to an account you set up for your partnership , and from that account you transfer $ 100 to each of you . Year end , you file form 1065 , showing $ 300 income , and attach K-1 for each of the partners showing $ 100 income . That $ 100 income will flow to your individual tax returns . The overhead here is setting up a partnership account , potentially making a DBA , and filing the extra tax return . That 's the proper way to do it , especially if it is something you 're going to do regularly . For a one-time thing , one of you can get paid , report it as income on his/her Schedule C , and issue 1099 to the rest of you for your parts , and deduct the amount as his/her expense . Here , the overhead is Schedule C for each of you ( instead of Schedule E if handling it as a partnership ) , extra 1099 forms ( instead of 1065 and K-1s ) , and a risk of one partner defrauding the others ( depends on how much you trust each other ) . With proper documentation , each of these is equally legal , and tax-wise the costs are the same ( i.e. : either way you pay the same taxes ) . With partnership the overhead is a bit more expensive ( DBA +1065 extra cost ) , but in the long term it will make your life easier if you do this kind of thing regularly . You may want to consider setting up your partnership as a LLC/LLP ( depending on what your State allows ) , but that would require State paperwork and potentially more fees .
There 's no tax difference between using AirBnB or Craigslist or any other method to find tenants . The rules relating to occupancy and frequency may be different for some purposes if you go from yearly or monthly tenants to daily-rate tenants . Your state and local authorities may in the future try to consider you a motel or Bed n Breakfast equivalent , and subject you to various regulations and business taxes . But the method of finding customers itself is probably not meaningful for tax purposes .
Portlander here too ! Have you made sure to consider the tax burden you will have from the inheritance ? Do you have any debts ? Pay them first . Sounds like you have a current mortgage . Pay that first before you invest . Do you have several months of expenses in cash as an emergency fund ? Make sure you do . Do you have a fully funded retirement ? Pay that and any catch up . If you have children or plan to , is college paid for ? Investing in extra property is something that you should do when you are all paid up . You do n't want a job loss or other emergency make it impossible to keep the house you live in . What happens if you buy a house and then lose both your jobs ? Do you let the bank foreclose on both homes ? I think you would be in a much more stable position owning fully all your property . Once your first house is paid off , you can rent that or consider buying another . The key advice here is to stabilize and remove all your debts now . It is less exciting but safer . But if you do n't owe any money . Go for it .
Some credit card companies , like Citi , offer the ability to auto-generate a one time use credit card number linked to your card . This site has more details : <URL> Otherwise , sticking to trusted , mainstream sites is your best bet . The Amazons of the world ( probably ) have more oversight on their employees . But really , it is a crap shoot . Once you send your information over the Internet , you do not have any real guarantee of what is happening to it .
A fee note is the same as an invoice . There are VAT reasons behind issuing a fee note , but from the receivers perspective , it still needs to be paid in the same way as you 'd pay an invoice .
It depends if you are with a direct market access provider or a market maker . With direct market access you are basically trading based on the liquidity of the under security . With a market maker the provider will try to match the liquidity of the underlying in most cases , but may differ from one provider to another .
Given your numbers , expect to pay about 11 % in total income taxes . Use <URL> for reference .
just pick a good bond and invest all your money there ( since they 're fairly low risk ) No . That is basically throwing away your money and why would you do that . And who told you they are low risk . That is a very wrong premise . What factors should I consider in picking a bond and how would they weigh against each other ? Quite a number of them to say , assuming these are n't government bonds ( US , UK etc ) How safe is the institution issuing the bond . Their income , business they are in , their past performance business wise and the bonds issued by them , if any . Check for the bond ratings issued by the rating agencies . Read the prospectus and check for any specific conditions i.e. bonds are callable , bonds can be retired under certain conditions , what happens if they default and what order will you be reimbursed ( senior debt take priority ) . Where are interest rates heading , which will decide the price you are paying for the bond . And also the yield you will derive from the bond . How do you intend to invest the income , coupon , you will derive from the bonds . What is your time horizon to invest in bonds and similarly the bond 's life . I have invested in stocks previously but realized that it is n't for me Bonds are much more difficult than equities . Stick to government bonds if you can , but they do n't generate much income , considering the low interest rates environment . Now that QE is over you might expect interest rates to rise , but you can only wait . Or go for bonds from stable companies i.e. GE , Walmart . And no I am not saying you buy their bonds in any imaginable way .
You did not state which country you were referring to , so I 'm going to assume Canada . Obviously , the standard approach if you accidentally rip a $ 100 bill in half would be to tape the two halves together . Failing that , though , the Bank of Canada will still accept damaged bills . A torn bill consisting of more than three-fifths of the note is worth full value . A bill is worth half if between 40 % and 60 % of the bill remains intact . It is worth nothing if less than this remains intact . This information comes from <URL> and <URL> ( The Great Canadian Trivia Book by Ray and Kearney ) . In your example , each half would be worth $ 50 . You would not be able to profit from this approach . Indeed , I know of no country where you could profit from this approach , for obvious reasons .
The rule of thumb ( and that is also what the IRS say in the link Chris posted in the comment ) is that if the institution is eligible for FAFSA - the tuition qualifies for the credits . The quote from <URL> : Eligible educational institution . An eligible educational institution is any college , university , vocational school , or other postsecondary educational institution eligible to participate in a student aid program administered by the U.S. Department of Education . It includes virtually all accredited public , nonprofit , and proprietary ( privately owned profit-making ) postsecondary institutions . The educational institution should be able to tell you if it is an eligible educational institution . To the best of my knowledge , none of the options you mentioned qualify for FAFSA ( one requirement would be accreditation , which none of the MOOCs have , IIRC ) .
That is correct , the SS cap is on total wages , not each wage . When you create an LLC ( as a disregarded entity ) , you do n't pay yourself with a W2 , all the LLC earnings are your earnings . So instead of Social Security deductions , you will be paying <URL> ( which totals to the same amount as you would be paying with W2 to yourself , just under different name ) . Note that S-Corp is a pass-through entity for Federal taxes , so there 's not much difference from LLC being taxed as LLC ( other than extra complexity , for S-Corp you need to file additional forms while LLC is completely invisible on your Federal taxes ) . It may be different on a state level , but probably not much as well . S-Corp existed when there were no LLC 's , but now I do n't see a reason to ever deal with S-Coprs unless you 're dealing with shareholders and shares . Something to take into the account : if you 're paying yourself with W2 - you 'll have to deduct the FICA taxes on all your earnings , and then get credit on your 1040 . With LLC - you wo n't have to pay and wait for refunds .
end question
start question
When an insider discloses a stock trade are they required to execute ?
No . And furthermore , canceling based on insider information is not considered insider trading . <URL> ( a ) Does the act of terminating a plan while aware of material nonpublic information result in liability under Section 10 ( b ) and Rule 10b-5 ? No . Section 10 ( b ) and Rule 10b-5 apply " in connection with the purchase or sale of any security . " Thus , a purchase or sale of a security must be present for liability to attach . See <URL> , 421 U.S. 723 ( 1975 ) . [ link mine ] A 10b5-2 is a <URL> that governs trading on " material nonpublic information . " Fried ( <URL> ) even concluded that : The SEC 's safe harbour permitting insiders to buy or sell shares pursuant to prearranged trading plans while in possession of material nonpublic information and to cancel the plans while aware of material nonpublic information enables insiders to profit from their access to such information . The SEC could easily eliminate insider 's advantages over public shareholders by not allowing insiders to cancel their plans after becoming aware of material nonpublic information .
Sounds like you are starting an <URL> . What you need is an investment club partnership agreement . Have a look at <URL> . EDIT Based on OP 's comments , it appears that the OP will be acting as an adviser/manager of a private investment fund . If the fund is not open to the public , it may still be treated as a type of investment club , but different rules -- including possibly having to register with the SEC -- may apply ( quoted from the first link ) : If the adviser is compensated for providing the advice regarding the club 's investments , the adviser may need to register according to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 . Also , if one person selects investments for the club , that person may have to register as an investment adviser . In general , a person who has $ 25 million or more in assets under management is required to register with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 . A person managing less than $ 25 million may be required to register under the securities laws of the state or states in which the adviser transacts business .
Yes , there are situations where a stock is a bad buy in spite of a low PE . PE ratio tells you the current share price divided by the prior 4 quarters earnings per share . It does not consider : assets liabilities sustainability of the business competitive threats management competence management integrity cash flow dozens of other things crucial to an investment decision Imagine someone walked up to you and said , " Do you want to buy a piece of my business ? I 'll sell you 1 % of it for $ 1000 . Last year the business earned $ 25000 . " A quick calculation shows a PE of 4 [ $ 1000 / ( $ 25000 * .01 ) ] . Even though this PE is comparatively low , you would n't buy in without a lot more info . What kinds of things might you ask ? What kind business is it ? Who are your competitors ? Who is leading the business ? Can I trust the leaders ? What assets does it have ? What liabilities does it owe ? What will the business look like in 10 years ? 20 ? PE is one tiny component of an informed investment decision .
Some history : In the US , this is very tightly controlled and regulated . Although stock market securities insider trading is a relatively new crime around the world ( 20-30 year old ) , the United States is exceptional for offering the longest sentences for it , although it is still far more lucrative than and carries lower sentences than something like petty larceny . The perception of illegal insider trading has changed in the US over the years , although it is based on much older fraud statutes the regulators and the courts have only really developed modern case law against insider trading in the past 20-30 years . The US relies on its vast network of registered broker-dealers to detect and report abnormal trading activity and the regulator ( SEC ) can quickly obtain emergency court orders from rent-a-judges ( Administrative Law Judges ) to freeze trader 's assets to prevent them from withdrawing , or quickly enacting sanctions . So this reality helps deter trading on material inside information . So for someone that needs to get an information advantage on the market , it is [ simply ] necessary for them to rationalize how this information could be inferred from public sources . Similarly there is a thin line between non-public information and public information , the " lab experiment " example would be material insider information , but the fact that there will be litigation over a company 's key patents may be " public " as soon as the lawyer submits the complaint to the court system . It is also worth noting that there are A LOT of financial products trading in the capital markets , and illegal insider trading laws only applies to trading of shares of a company . So if a major holder in gold is about to liquidate all their holdings , being short gold futures is not subject to civil and criminal sanctions . Hope this helps . The above examples should help you understand what kind of information is material inside information and what kind is not , and how it is relevant to trading decisions .
It is just a different category of stock issued by a company that gives its owners different treatment when it comes to dividend payment and a few other financial transactions . Preferred stock holders get treated with some preference with regard to the company 's profits and assets . For example , dividends are typically guaranteed to preferred stock holders whereas the leadership in the company can elect at any time not to pay dividends to common stockholders . In the event the company is liquidated , the preferred stockholders also get to be in line ahead of common stockholders when the assets are distributed .
Appreciation of a Capital Asset is a <URL> . In the United States , Capital Gains get favorable tax treatment after being held for 12 months . From the <URL> : Capital gains and losses are classified as long-term or short-term , depending on how long you hold the property before you sell it . If you hold it more than one year , your capital gain or loss is long-term . If you hold it one year or less , your capital gain or loss is short-term . The tax rates that apply to net capital gain are generally lower than the tax rates that apply to other income . For 2009 , the maximum capital gains rate for most people is15 % . For lower-income individuals , the rate may be 0 % on some or all of the net capital gain . Special types of net capital gain can be taxed at 25 % or 28 % . The IRS defines a Capital Asset as " most property you own " with a list of exclusions found in <URL> . None of the exclusions listed relate to Bond ETFs .
who computes the S&amp;P 500 ? <URL> . Why are they sharing this information and Because that 's what they do . This is a financial research company . how do they recuperate the costs inherent in computing the S&amp;P 500 ? By charging clients for other information . The computing of the index itself is not all that complicated , its coming up with the index that 's a problem . Once they 've come up with the formula , and it became widely accepted , the computation itself is not an issue . But the fact that its so popular leads to the S&amp;P brand recognition , and people come and pay good money for their other services ( ratings and financial analysis of securities ) . They do more work for free . For example , the ratings of various government debts are being done by S&amp;P for free ( governments do n't pay for that ) , while private bonds are rated for a fee ( corporations pay to have their bonds rated ) . Also , as noted by JBKing , there are probably some licensing fees for using the index name in the fund name ( and other users are probably paying the licensing fee , like the news agencies and the exchanges ) . <URL> , and as such can not be used without the owner 's permission . Why is then " active management " not required for indexed funds Because no research and stock picking is required . In fact , these funds do n't really require a manager , they can be managed by a simple script . and how does it lower taxes ? ( perhaps this could be a different question if this has become too broad ) Actively managed funds perform a lot more buy/sell operations , each leading to tax consequences to the fund ( which rolls them over to the investors ) . Index funds only buy and sell to re-balance back to the index ( or when the makeup of the index changes , usually once a year or half a year ) , leading to much lesser realized capital gains to the fund , thus much lesser tax consequences .
Unfortunately , transportation to school , including tolls , is not a deductible educational expense . From the IRS 's <URL> : Expenses that Do Not Qualify Even if you pay the following expenses to enroll or attend the school , the following are not qualified education expenses : Room and board Insurance Medical expenses ( including student health fees ) Transportation Similar personal , living or family expenses
<URL> includes India in the list of countries where is possible to open an international account to invest in the US Stock Market . They just merged with Charles Schwab and they have a nice online trading platform . Stocks and ETFs are little bit pricey . . Get in touch with them to get more information .
I will assume that you are not asking in the context of high frequency trading , as this is Personal Finance Stack Exchange . It is completely acceptable to trade odd lots for retail brokerage customers . The odd lot description that you provided in your link , from Interactive Brokers is correct . But even in that context , it says , regarding the acceptability of odd lots to stock exchanges : The exception is that odd lots can be routed to NYSE/ARCA/AMEX , but only as part of a basket order or as a market-on-close ( MOC ) order . Google GOOG is traded on the NASDAQ . Everything on the NASDAQ is electronic , and always has been . You will have no problem selling or buying less than 100 shares of Google . There is also an issue of <URL> : While trading commissions for odd lots may still be higher than for standard lots on a percentage basis , the popularity of online trading platforms and the consequent plunge in brokerage commissions means that it is no longer as difficult or expensive for investors to dispose of odd lots as it used to be in the past . Notice what it says about online trading making it easier , not more difficult , to trade odd lots . I do recall that it would take longer to get odd lot trades executed , but not significantly , not for a non-institutional order .
As you say , the currency carry trade should n't work . The deluge of new cash into a high-interest currency should result in falling exchange rates . <URL> by Òscar Jordà and Alan Taylor of the University of California , Davis , may be offer one approach which is more stable . According to <URL> : They find that a refined carry-trade strategy -- one that incorporates a measure of long-term value -- produces more consistent profits and is less prone to huge losses than one that targets the highest yield . However , exchange rates , central bank interest rates , as well as money supply are all political as well as economic constructs . An economic driver for arbitrage may be offset by political will ( such as US quantative easing ) or even social malaise ( Japanese continual low inward investment ) . I would n't go so far as calling the carry trade " free money " - currencies have proven far too unstable for that - but state interference in markets tends to be clearly telegraphed and a trader with nerves of steel may take advantage of it .
As for a formula , there is n't a simple one that you can apply to every type insurance . I 'll try my best for a simple answer . Is the event devastating enough to change your lifestyle ( looking at life necessities , not wants and nice to haves ) ? Is the event very likely to happen ? Do you have enough emergency funds to cover such an event ? Once that emergency fund is utilized , how long does it take you to restore that fund to be ready for the next event ? If the event is devastating enough and is very likely to happen and you do not have the cash to cover the event , and/or it would take too long to restore that emergency fund , then it makes sense to consider insurance . Then you would have to examine if the benefit ( s ) outweight cost of the premium paid for the insurance . If it is pennies of premium for a dollar of benefit , then it makes sense .
No . You 're entitled to 1 % of votes at the shareholders ' meeting ( unless there 's class division between shareholders , that is ) . If more than 50 % of the shareholders vote to close the company , sell off its assets and distribute the proceeds to the owners - you 'll get 1 % share of the distributions .
I do n't know what you mean by ' major ' . Do you mean the fund company is a Fidelity or Vanguard , or that the fund is broad , as in an s &amp; P fund ? The problem starts with a question of what your goals are . If you already know the recommended mix for your age/risk , as you stated , you should consider minimizing the expenses , and staying DIY . I am further along , and with 12 year 's income saved , a 1 % hit would be 12 % of a year 's pay , I 'd be working 1-1/2 months to pay the planner ? In effect , you are betting that a planner will beat whatever metric you consider valid by at least that 1 % fee , else you can just do it yourself and be that far ahead of the game . I 've accepted the fact that I wo n't beat the average ( as measured by the S&amp;P ) over time , but I 'll beat the average investor . By staying in low cost funds ( my 401 ( k ) S&amp;P fund charges .05 % annual expense ) I 'll be ahead of the investors paying planner fees , and mutual fund fees on top of that . You do n't need to be a CFP to manage your money , but it would help you understand the absurdity of the system .
There is no easy way to know for sure . Apple does vet applications , but not for many privacy concerns . If someone spent the time to test such an application out on a wifi network , and sniff the network traffic , then it 's possible to detect if the application is calling in to some central server , but even that wo n't detect everything . It is possible to reverse engineer the software , but that 's an expensive and/or time consuming process , so it 's unlikely that someone would take the time to do that . This is an area where developers could use some help . If a third party company vetted their software source code ( such as Verisign ) , then they might be able to extend assurances to their users . Until then , caveat emptor .
You can employ a hedging strategy using short selling , put options , or other methods that will partially neutralize your exposure to the overall market . e.g. . You could short sell a market-wide index such as the S&amp;P 500 , while going long ( buying ) the company you are interested in . Investopedia has a nice primer on this : <URL> Also , see this related question here : <URL>
This is not intended as legal advice , and only covers general knowledge I have on the subject of wills as a result of handling my own finances . Each state of the USA has its own laws on wills and trusts . You can find these online . For example , in Kentucky I found state laws here : <URL> and Title XXXIV is about wills and trusts . I would recommend reading this , and then talking to a lawyer if it is not crystal clear . Generally , if a lawyer does not draft your will , then either ( 1 ) you have no will , or ( 2 ) you use a form or computer program to make a will , that must then be properly witnessed before it is valid . If you do n't have it witnessed properly , then you have no will . In some states you can have a holographic will , which means a will in your own handwriting . That 's when you have that 3am heart attack , and you get out a pad of paper and write " I rescind all former wills hereby bequeathing everything to my mistress Samantha , and as to the rest of you go rot in hell . " One issue with these is that they have to get to court somehow , and someone has to verify the handwriting , and there are often state laws about excluding a current spouse , so you can guess for yourself whether that one might disappear in the fireplace when another family member finds it next to the body or if a court would give it validity . And there can be logic or grammar problems with do it yourself wills , made in your own handwriting , without experience or good references on how to write things out . Lawyers who have done a bunch of these know what is clear and makes sense . ( 1 ) In Tennessee , where I live , an intestate 's property , someone who died with no will , is divided according to the law . The law looks to find a spouse or relatives to divide the property , before considering giving it to the state . That might be fine for some people . It happened once in my family , and was resolved in court with minimal red tape . But it really depends on the person . Someone in the middle of an unfinalized divorce , for instance , probably needs a will help to sort out who gets what . ( 2 ) A form will is valid in Tennessee if it is witnessed properly . That means two witnesses , who sign in yours ' and each others ' presence . In theory they can be called to testify that the signature is valid . In practice , I do n't know if this happens as I am not a lawyer . I have found it difficult to find witnesses who will sign a form will , and it is disconcerting to have to ask friends or coworkers for this sort of favor as most people learn never to sign anything without reading it . But a lawyer often has secretaries that do it ... There is a procedure and a treaty for international wills , which I know about from living overseas . To streamline things , you can get the witnesses to each sign an affidavit after they signed the will . The affidavit is sworn written testimony of what happened , that they saw the person sign their will and sign in each others ' presence , when , where , no duress , etc. . If done correctly , this can be sufficient to prove the will without calling on witnesses . There is another option ( 3 ) you arrange your affairs so that most of your funds are disbursed by banks or brokers holding your accounts . Option ( 3 ) is really cheap , most stock brokers and banks will create a Transfer-On-Death notice on your account for free . The problem with this is that you also need to write out a letter that explains to your heirs how to get this money , and you need to make sure that they will get the letter if you are dead . Also , you ca n't deal with physical goods or appoint a guardian for children this way . The advantage of a lawyer is that you know the document is correct and according to local law and custom , and also the lawyer might provide additional services like storing the will in his safe . You can get personalized help that you can not get with a form or computer program .
A limit order is simply an order to buy at a maximum price or sell at a minimum price . For example , if the price is $ 100 and you want to sell if the price rises to $ 110 , then you can simply put a limit order to sell at $ 110 . The order will be placed in the market and when the price reaches $ 110 your order will be executed . If the price gaps at the open to $ 111 , then you would end up selling for $ 111 . In other words you will get a minimum of $ 110 per share . A stop limit order is where you put a stop loss order , which when it gets triggered , will place a limit order in the market for you . For example , you want to limit your losses by placing a stop loss order if the price drops to $ 90 . If you chose a market order with your stop loss as soon as the price hits $ 90 your stop loss would be triggered and the shares would sell at the next available price , usually at $ 90 , but could be less if the market gaps down past $ 90 . If on the other hand you placed a limit order at $ 89.50 with your stop loss , when the stop loss order gets triggered at $ 90 your limit order will be placed into the market to sell at $ 89.50 . So you would get a minimum of $ 89.50 per share , however , if the market gaps down below $ 89.50 your order will be placed onto the market but it wo n't sell , unless the price goes back to or above $ 89.50 . Hope this helps .
Beg , plead , whimper , and hope they take pity on you . Sorry , but there 's no way to force someone to take less than you legitimately owe them except to declare bankrupty , and even that may not do it . If they are n't interested in throwing away $ 3000 , your best bet really is to try to arrange a payment plan , or to get a loan from somewhere and pay that back over time . Of course either of those options is likely to cost you interest , but that 's what happens ... I wish I could say something else , but there really is n't any good news here .
It depends on the broker , each one 's rules may vary . Your broker should be able to answer this question for how they handle such a situation . The broker I used would execute and immediately sell the stock if the option was 25 cents in the money at expiration . If they simply executed and news broke over the weekend ( option expiration is always on Friday ) , the client could wake up Monday to a bad margin call , or worse .
end question
start question
Is VAT applied when a tradesman charges for materials ?
The plumber will apply for and receive a refund of the amount of VAT he paid on the purchase amount . That 's the cornerstone of how VAT works , as opposed to a sales tax . So for example : Pipe cost # 15 to consumer - > # 18 incl # 3 VAT paid to the plumber Pipe cost # 10 to plumber - > # 12 incl # 2 VAT paid to the supplier Pipe cost # 5 to supplier - > # 6 incl # 1 VAT paid to the producer Pipe material cost # 1 to producer - > # 1.2 incl # 0.2 VAT paid to the material company ( Rounded approximate amounts for simplicity ) Now , at each point , the amount between ( original cost VAT ) and ( new VAT ) is refunded . So by the end , a total of # 3 VAT is paid on the pipe ( not # 6.2 ) ; and at each point the business ' adding value ' at that stage pays that much . The material company adds # 1 value ; the producer adds # 4 value ; the supplier adds # 5 value ; the plumber adds # 5 value . Each pays some amount of VAT on that amount , typically 20 % unless it 's zero/reduced rated . So the pipe supplier pays # 1 but gets a # 0.2 refund , so truly pays # 0.8 . The plumber pays # 3 ( from your payment ) but gets a # 2 refund . So at each level somebody paid a bit , and then that bit is then refunded to the next person up the ladder , with the final person in the chain paying the full amount . The # 0.2 is refunded to the producer , the # 1 is refunded to the supplier , the # 2 is refunded to the plumber .
Different stakeholders have different views of ' failure ' . Maybe from Air Berlin 's point of view it was a failure , but technically speaking it is not really possible to ' fail ' . As long as all shares were purchased , which is a virtual guarantee since the investment banks who underwrite the IPO by and large must do to some extent , it will always be ' successful ' . A decrease in value of shares immediately after IPO means that the investment bank who did the IPO for Air Berlin did n't match its IPO price with market expectations , causing shorts on the stock , and thus a decline . No failure per se .
A broker will only get so many shares for any IPO . They will give their highest profit customers priority , but try to keep the smaller ones happy as well . So where my TWTR order today was for 1000 shares , I actually was granted 100 . In the dotcon * bubble of the late 90 's , there were some stocks I saw as many as 1000 hit my account . ( * not a typo , this is the title of a book on that period , the making of a bubble and irrational doings on Wall Street .
AFAIK , there are two kinds of taxes your web freelancing income may be subject to in Quebec : income taxes , and sales taxes ( GST &amp; QST ) On the income taxes : The net income you realize from your web freelancing activities would be considered taxable income . Assuming you are not operating as an incorporated business , you would need to declare the freelancing income on both your federal and provincial tax returns . You should be able to deduct certain costs related to your business -- for instance , if you paid for software , hosting , domain name registration , etc. . That is , only the profit from your business would be subject to income tax . With income and expenses arising from self-employment , you may want to use a professional to file your taxes . On the sales taxes : You may also need to charge <URL> on your services : You must enroll and charge GST and QST once you exceed the " small supplier " revenue threshold of $ 30,000 measured over four consecutive quarters . ( You can still choose to enroll for GST/QST before you reach that amount , but over that amount enrollment becomes mandatory . Some businesses enroll before the threshold is reached so they can claim input tax credits for tax paid on expenses , but then there 's more paperwork -- one reason to perhaps avoid enrolling until necessary . ) In Quebec , the <URL> administers both GST ( on behalf of the federal government ) as well as provincial QST . Be sure to also check out their informative booklet , <URL> . See also <URL> .
The usual arrangement that I have seen , when moving in the same area , is to overlap the apartments by a few days . Generally , the first months rent on the new apartment is prorated for the time you actually have possession of it . So you take possession of the new place on 9/25 and turn over the old place on 9/30 . This has the advantage of making moving a bit less stressful since everything does n't have to happen all at once ( moving , cleaning , etc ) . If moving more than a day 's drive away , it is less of an issue because you will be spending the night in a hotel ( or your car ) anyway .
Nationwide Flex Account lets you receive money internationally for free , but you have to pay to send it . It meets all your other criteria .
Answer all of their questions honestly and as accurately as you can , but do n't stress too much about it . If you do n't know the answer to something , ask the insurance agent what it means ; that 's what they 're there for . ( If you 're doing this online , email the support , or the ' live chat ' feature many of them have . Or , do n't do it online , if you feel better having an agent in person ; nowadays , most of the major insurers are similar on price so it 's not a massive savings to skip the agent . ) As far as whether it 's important to pick a specific insurer - that 's really your call . Read reviews , understanding that folks with bad experiences are more likely to write reviews than the 90 % of folks who get no benefit from homeowner 's insurance . You need to make the decision as to how important reputation and ease of claims process is versus price . That 's why there are multiple insurers , after all - you can decide how important it is to you . It sounds like you would prefer a simpler claims process , so perhaps you should go with someone who is known for an easier claims process ( understanding that no insurer is always going to agree with every claimant 100 % ) .
The major reason to start an LLC for side work is if you want the additional personal liability protection afforded by one . If you 're operating as a sole proprietor , you may be exposing yourself to liability : debts and judgments against your business can put your personal assets at risk ! So , if you 're intending to continue and grow your side work in the future , you ought to consider the LLC sooner than later . It 's also an important legal decision and you should consider seeking a professional opinion . The Wall Street Journal has a brief guide titled <URL> . Here are some notable excerpts : A limited liability company , or LLC , is similar to a partnership but has the legal protections of personal assets that a corporation offers without the burdensome formalities , paperwork and fees . [ ... ] Some states charge annual fees and taxes that can diminish the economic advantage of choosing to become an LLC . Among LLC advantages : pass-through taxation -- meaning the profits and losses " pass through " the business to the individuals owning the business who report this information on their own personal tax returns . The result can be paying less in taxes , since profits are not taxed at both the business level and the personal level . Another plus : Owners are n't usually responsible for the company 's debts and liabilities . [ ... ] Also check out onstartups.com 's <URL> ? Here are some additional articles that discuss the advantages / disadvantages of forming an LLC : <URL> - allbusiness.com <URL> - ehow.com <URL> - gaebler.com
Based on my experience with previous UK house purchases : anything that would have incurred costs for the solicitors ( e.g. search fees charged by third parties , Land Registry fees , etc ) were needed up front . This actually took the form of a deposit towards all such expenses , with the remainder taken off the final bill . All other funds ( including solicitors ' fees , stamp duty , rest of the deposit , etc. ) had to be in the solicitors ' account shortly ( a day or two ) before completion , so that once completion was complete , no further money was due . In other words , your experience sounds similar to mine .
Simple answer - they are obligated to do it manually . When they show the logo on their door , you are obliged to produce a valid card with sufficient credit line , the rest is on them . Page 21 of <URL> spells out what the store is supposed to do if the terminal 's reader is n't working . Nowhere in the document does it say the merchant can just insist on cash .
After the closing the lender does not matter . Many brokerages who do n't hold the note will sell the note after the closing anyway . The only real issues you should concern yourself with are the lenders responsiveness to help you close quickly and the terms of your loan . Also be proactive and confirm terms and closing documents BEFORE the actual closing . Tell your lender and attorney you want to see documents BEFORE the closing to avoid surprises and have time to confirm that the terms are what you agreed to . Some brokerage lender have a tendency to change some small terms before closing . Other than your terms and responsiveness . Your lenders do n't differ all that much .
Without knowing your specific goals , I 'd suggest you review the choices at <URL> . This site discusses the accounts for children and tax benefits for UK residents .
In the credit card fees disclosure they tell you how much they charge for a foreign currency transaction , it is usually 1-3 % . Check with your card issuer the fee for your particular card ( same issuers can have different fees for different cards ) . If the transaction is in USD , then the credit card issuers do n't charge fees ( usually , that is , check with your issuer ) but you 'll pay much more because of the unfavorable exchange rate . It is my personal experience that buying with credit cards is the cheapest way to convert money while traveling .
There may be a specific IRS-required deadline which might or might not have been violated in your case . but the main delay usually is from the employer 's end . The 401k administrator has to receive verification that employment has terminated before the funds can be distributed , and this can take some time because some people get two weeks salary in lieu of notice etc. . In your case , because of the merger/acquisition , there may be legal questions as to whether one employment was terminated and another begun ( and so you can roll over the funds in the old 401k into an IRA ) or whether the terms of the merger/acquisition are such that the assets of the old 401k plan get rolled over into the existing 401k plan of the new employer . In short , while " effectively let go from the old company and re-hired as new employees at the acquiring company " might be what it appears from the outside , legally it might be something different , and everybody is waiting till the lawyers figure out the details , and does not want to allow rollovers etc until the dust has settled .
Short answer is no it is not province-restricted and you can claim federal and provincial tuition and education ( and textbook ) amounts against tax payable on any taxable income , regardless of what province you earned it in . N.B. : You should have earned both federal and provincial tuition credits in each year that you were in school . The crux is how the provincial credits are handled when moving . When moving from BC to Ontario , the form <URL> states that you can carry over your provincial credits as is . ( That is , unless you 're moving from Quebec , in which case your unused provincial amount must be set to your unused federal amount . ) A related example would be moving to Alberta , where <URL> states that your unused provincial amount should be set to your unused federal amount no matter what . This rule may change from year to year as well . So as long as you kept track of your provincial amounts when moving , you should be square .
It 's complicated and if you have to deal with this professionally , you should seek advice from someone ( accountant/lawyer ) who knows the system . There is such a thing as a 0 % VAT rate ( but not in every EU country ) . If you are selling goods taxed at 0 % , you are entitled to reclaim the VAT you paid on your supplies and have to keep track of it accordingly . <URL> in the UK . There is also such a thing as being VAT-exempt . In that case , there is usually some other specific legal mention to include on all invoices . If your whole business is outside the VAT system ( e.g. very small businesses and non-profit organisations ) , you do not itemize it on your own invoices , pay VAT on your supplies and can not reclaim it . If you sell goods to such a business , you charge them VAT just like you would in a transaction with a private person . So both exist and are distinct .
The bank SHOULD be able to issue you a new card without letting vendors roll over the recurring payments . In fact , I 've never had a bank move recurring payments to a new card automatically , or even upon request ; they 've always told me to contact the vendor and give them my new card number . So go back to the bank , tell them specifically that you have a security issue and you want the new card issued WITHOUT carrying over any recurring charges , and see if they can do it properly . If not : 1 ) Issue a " charge back " every time a bogus charge comes in . This costs the vendor money , and should convince them to stop trying to access your card . It 's a hassle because you have to keep contacting the bank about the bad charges , but it wo n't cost you more than time and a phone call or letter . ( The bank can tell you what their preferred process is for this . ) 2 ) Consider moving to a bank that is n't stupidly over-helpful .
They will include the rental income into the calculation . They do n't give you a 100 % credit for the income because they have to factor that you might have a gap between tenants . Years ago they only credited me with 66 % of the expected monthly income . Example : $ 600 Principal , Interest , Taxes , Insurance , Condo Fee $ 400 Rent credit ( 2/3 of the $ 600 in rent I charged the tenant ) Resulting in an expected loss of $ 200 a month . This expense was then supposed to come from the 10 % of my income that was allocated for monthly non-principal mortgage loans , e.g student loan , auto loan , credit card debt ...
A pretty good ( and easy to implement ) play on the Euro failing would be to short the large Eurozone banks , e.g. Deutsche , Suisse , Societe , UBS , etc. . In fact , you could short just about any bank in the world , since they 're all screwed if that happens . Or you could short the Euro FX market . If you want to get complicated , you can get your broker to engineer a short on Euro sovereign bonds . Realistically , however , if the Euro collapses , we ( the world ) are going to be a lot poorer as a whole .
If your gross pay is $ 2000 per month and you are depositing $ 200 into the 401-K , the company sees this as a 10 % contribution . If they match 100 % up to 5 % they will contribute 5 % of the gross or $ 100 per month . It does n't matter if your contribution is pre - or post-tax and it does n't matter to the company what your tax bracket is . Also note that all of their contributions are considered pre-tax . Keep in mind that in the quoted example ignored Social Security , Medicare , state taxes , health insurance ...
end question
start question
What is the most efficient way to transfer money from the UK to a US account also in my name ?
My current favorite service for this kind of transfer is <URL> . The fees are quite low when compared to the 2.5-3 % by high-street banks for currency conversion , to which you need to add the international wire transfer fee , and it 's often a lot faster , as they split it into two domestic transfers while the international part + currency conversion happens internally to Transferwise .
The deadline for each year is June 30th of the next year . So if you became US resident in 2014 - the first FBAR has to be filed by June 30th , 2015 . As with tax returns , FBAR is filed for the previous calendar year .
Typically you can use credit card balance transfers to consolidate some , or all , of your other loan balances in one place . The interest rate might be lower . Some prefer to make one payment rather than multiple payments . There is typically a fee that is imposed by the card that is originating or creating the loan . This would be the credit card you are transferring the balances . That fee is typically in the 3 % to 5 % range . While tempting and attractive on the surface , this plan typically leads to a worse situation then you are now . It 's a " tough pill to swallow " , but your problem is that you spend too much money . Transferring money will not change this problem , it is your behavior that has to change in order to not accumulate more debt . It has to change further if you want to get rid of the debt in a timely fashion . You would be far better served to forget about this transfer and get your life into control . Spend a lot less , earn more . Pay off the cards you have now and cut them up . Make a goal to be done in a year and figure out how to earn enough money to make that happen . BTW I am a reformed over-spender that now owes nothing . Yep my house , cars , and rental property are all paid for . You can get there too .
When I asked this particular question on a car forum recently , I got the following suggestions : Accept cash , but make sure you check it 's not home printed , so to speak If the buyer wants to pay by cashier 's check , meet him at his bank and see him draw the check out of his account right there and then ( no " here 's one we got earlier " cashier 's checks , the danger of them being a good fake is very real ) Any other method of payment ? Tell the buyer to take a hike When we bought our last car , we met with the seller in the DMV 's parking lot as there generally is some police around and paid him cash . Here in NV the plates stay with the PO so you have to get it registered or a movement permit anyway before you can drive the vehicle so this worked out pretty reasonable and safe for both parties .
Within Canada , to send money to a friend online , you 'd typically use the <URL> service offered by most Canadian banks &amp; credit unions . <URL> . My bank charges $ 1.50 to send money via Interac e-Transfer , and zero to receive . Charges are likely to vary by bank . FWIW , <URL> is a not-for-profit organization &amp; network founded about 30 years ago by some major Canadian banks to facilitate ATM , debit , and other electronic financial transactions within Canada . It 's also possible at some banks to set up another person 's bank account as a " personal payee " -- at which point the account becomes available as a bill payment candidate in your online banking . I know at least three of the <URL> have this functionality . I use it at my own bank , but only for payees who also bank at my institution , and I 'm not sure if it works between banks . You 'll need to ask your candidate banks if they have such a feature , and whether it costs anything . The nice thing about the " personal payee " functionality is that , at least at my bank , there 's no cost , so for recurring transfer scenarios it can keep costs down . To send payments outside of Canada , wire transfers remain an option -- but doing so through a Canadian bank may be expensive . There exist some non-bank wire transfer providers that have more competitive fees and exchange rates . PayPal remains an option as well .
Transfer of Millions of USD in and out is not possible for Individuals . There are limits on how much money an individual Indian Ordinary Citizen can send or receive . If an corporate wants to send money , depending on the services offered , they would have to initiate a SWIFT transaction . It typically takes 2-3 days for settlement of International wire .
According to the New York Attorney General 's <URL> : Landlords , regardless of the number of units in the building , must treat the deposits as trust funds belonging to their tenants and they may not co-mingle deposits with their own money . Landlords of buildings with six or more apartments must put all security deposits in New York bank accounts earning interest at the prevailing rate . Each tenant must be informed in writing of the bank 's name and address and the amount of the deposit . So you have to keep it separate , you ca n't spend it , and if you own more than six units , you have to put it in a bank account . ( The guide goes on to explain that the interest should be paid to the tenant . )
I 'm sorry , but there really is no silver bullet and the answer is fairly obvious . You need to find people who will extend credit to you , even if the terms are n't ideal , and establish a record of always paying your bills on time . It may take a while , but eventually your credit will start to recover .
The expense ratio is 0.17 % so doesnt that mean that for every 10K I keep in the money market fund I lose $ 17/year ? Not really . The expense ratio is taken before distributions are paid which applies to all mutual funds . Should I care about this ? In this case not really . If it was a taxable account , then other options may be more tax-efficient that is worth noting . The key with money market funds is that the expense ratio often represents how much money the administrators will take before paying out the rest . So , if your money market fund bought investments that paid .25 % then you 'd likely see .08 % as that is what is left over after the .17 % is taken in the dividends . If at the start of the year , the funds NAV is $ 1 , and at the end of the year , the funds NAV is still $ 1 , I havent lost anything right ? Right . <URL> has a good article on money market funds . Keep in mind that most money market funds are run as one of a number of funds from a fund family that may have to take a little less profit on the money market funds when rates are low .
See the <URL> ( # 3 ) . Go to <URL> and look up rates so you know what to punch in to those calculators .
Any large stockbroker will offer trading in US securities . As a foreign national you will be required to register with the US tax authorities ( IRS ) by completing and filing a <URL> form and pay US withholding taxes on any dividend income you receive . US dividends are paid net of withholding taxes , so you do not need to file a US tax return . Capital gains are not subject to US taxes . Also , each year you are holding US securities , you will receive a form from the IRS which you are required to complete and return . You will also be required to complete and file forms for each of the exchanges you wish to received market price data from . Trading will be restricted to US trading hours , which I believe is 6 hours ahead of Denmark for the New York markets . You will simply submit an order to the desired market using your broker 's online trading software or your broker 's telephone dealing service . You can expect to pay significantly higher commissions for trading US securities when compared to domestic securities . You will also face potentially large foreign exchange fees when exchaning your funds from EUR to USD . All in all , you will probably be better off using your local market to trade US index or sector ETFs .
I checked this myself and there is no monetary penalty for late filing . However , since I am late I have to do all publication over again which costs me extra $ 50 .
A 15 % discount is a 17.6 % return . ( 100/85 = 1.176 ) . For a holding period that 's an average 15.5 days , a half month . It would be silly to compound this over a year as the numbers are limited . The safest way to do this is to sell the day you are permitted . In effect , you are betting , 12 times a year , that the stock wo n't drop 15 % in 3 days . You can pull data going back decades , or as long as your company has been public , and run a spreadsheet to see how many times , if at all , the stock has seen this kind of volatility over 3 day periods . Even for volatile stocks , a 15 % move is pretty large , you 're likely to find your stock doing this less than once per year . It 's also safest to not accumulate too many shares of your company for multiple reasons , having to do with risk spreading , diversification , etc. . 2 additional points - the Brexit just caused the S&amp;P to drop 4 % over the last 3 days trading . This was a major world event , but , on average we are down 4 % . One would have to be very unlucky to have their stock drop 15 % over the specific 3 days we are discussing . The dollars at risk are minimal . Say you make $ 120K/yr . $ 10K/month . 15 % of this is $ 1500 and you are buying $ 1765 worth of stock . The gains , on average are expected to be $ 265/mo . Does n't seem like too much , but it 's $ 3180 over a years ' time . $ 3180 in profit for a maximum $ 1500 at risk at any month 's cycle .
Nowadays , the field is irrelevant for processing the transfer and completely ignored by the banks . Pretty much the only purpose it has is for documenting whom you intended to send the transfer to . If you mistakenly send a transfer to the wrong person ( which is becoming extremely unlikely with the IBAN due to the builtin check digits ) then they are mandated by law to give it back to you . If they refuse to do so and you end up going to court , the content of that field could be important to prove them wrong if they claim they are the rightful recipient .
Allowing others to share access to your Bank Account ; i.e. giving then the login id and password has its risks ; Loose all the money , i.e. someone can withdraw without your notice . You have volidated your Online access agreement to keep the login id / password safe . The account can be mis-used for illegal activities and you would be responsible . Create more liabilities , Potentially request a check book and mis-use it or similar things . Potentially gain more information and use it to operate your other accounts .
There is a service <URL> through which you can send money from UK banks to EUR bank accounts in the EU for a 1 GBP fee ( much cheaper then about 25 GBP for a SWIFT transfer ) . You send them a UK national GBP transfer to their UK HSBC account , and they send the equivalent amount in EUR from their Irish EUR bank account to your EUR account - for example in Germany . What is best , is that they use bare mid-market ForEx exchange rates , without any markup on the GBP to EUR exchange rate , which is usually in the range of 2 % to 5 % in banks , so you do n't lose anything on the exchange rate .
If you are n't familiar with <URL> , it 's worth looking at . This is a mechanism using a Canadian brokerage account to simultaneously execute one stock trade in CAD and one in USD . The link I provided claims that it only starts potentially making sense somewhere in the 10,000 + range .
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
Yes , in fact I used this method for my travels to the UK . You can get one <URL> , and you can even get it on the spot in some of their locations .
Assuming the rates are the same , and they will remain the same , and assuming that there is no real difference between the loans . Then by the simplest math it does n't make difference in the approach to paying the loan . If the loans worked more like credit cards , where there is a minimum payment of x % of the balance of y $ whichever is greater , and if the goal was to stretch a fixed amount of money over 4 accounts then paying off the smallest balance first makes sense . It allows the minimum payment for that account to be applied to the other accounts . If they had different rates the higher rate could make the most sense . That leaves only 2 reasons to pick an unbalanced approach to paying off the loans : psychology and logistics . Getting rid of one loan quickly makes you feel better , even though it does n't make you any closer to being debt free . If one of the loans is with a separate lender then it cuts down on the amount of transactions in your bank account and email , or snail mail . I have heard horror stories of people who left school unsure of how many loans they had , only to discover they forgot about one until it went to collections . They key to your question is that the loans are essentially the same , if they were n't then the math becomes more complex because it depends on the rate and balances .
end question
start question
What kind of account should we open for a young child who was given some money ?
Assuming that the will that bequeathed the money to your son did not stipulate any restrictions or set up a trust to hold the money until your son turns 25 , or something like that , I do n't think you have much choice except to put the money in a UTMA account ( which of course can be invested in whatever the trustee ( which could be you , or you and your wife jointly ) decides . Note : not a UGMA account since the money is not a gift . You also do n't have any option except to turn the account over to your son when he turns eighteen . The point is , the investment can be in anything as long as the account is registered as a UTMA account . But do remember also that your son is entitled to sue you for breach of fiduciary duty if you do n't take good care of the money , so that blowing it all in risky investments is also not a good idea . If you are worried about taxes and your son 's income being taxed at your rate , one way of deferring the issue is to buy US Savings Bonds . The interest can be deferred from taxation until the bonds are redeemed . Edit added in response to JoeTaxpayer 's comments : But a better strategy is to declare the accrued interest each year as unearned income of the child on the kiddie tax form that is part of your tax return , and pay the tax , if any , that results To ease your mind or conscience , think of the tax that you pay on your child 's behalf as a gift to your child ! In any case , there will likely not be much tax due since the first $ 950 of unearned income of a child is tax-free and the next $ 950 taxed at 10 % . Then , when the bonds are cashed in , the interest that accrued ( and was " taxed " ) in earlier years can be deducted from the interest ( cash in price minus purchase price ) that you ( or your son ) will be told is the interest that the bonds earned . Of course , if kiddie tax is not a concern ( and it should n't be , given the amount available for investment ) , an even better strategy is to set up the UTMA account ( s ) in long-term investments in low-cost index funds or ETFs ( as JoeTaxpayer suggests ) and pay the tax , if any , as it comes due .
I would disagree with your analysis . To me there are two purposes for a money market ( MM ) : Emergency Fund Pre-purchase money parking fund Your emergency fund should be from 3 to 6 months of expenses . Think of it of an insurance policy against Murphy . You may want to have some money designated for big expenses , or even sinking funds . For example , I keep some money in a MM for a car as both the wife , daughter , and I driver older vehicles . I may need to replace them . If you were planning on making a larger purchase car , house , boat , engagement ring I would put the money in a MM fund so you are not subject to the whims of the market . After that you are free to invest all your money . Its likely that you should have some money outside of tax advantaged funds so if you want to start a business you will not have to do high cost withdrawals .
I found <URL> at MarketWatch.com - a listing on online games that help parents teach kids about saving and finance , set up by age group . Here 's an example of some of the content : For children six to nine : <URL> , sponsored by the Fleet Bank , has great games -- like " Buy lo , Sell hi " and " Chunka Change " -- that teach kids about spending and saving . Kids can compete for prizes such as computers and backpacks for their schools .
Most likely " a letter from the doctor " may be requested if this is the first time you are filing . You may also need paperwork related to the adoption itself , so that the IRS can verify the child is your legal dependent . Generally you should expect a delay in receiving any refund you are due , as the IRS will generally request information from you before finishing your return . This is not an audit - but they will still need certain requested paperwork and some additional time to process your return before issuing any money . Generally the IRS will not want any documents sent in advance ( with your return ) , but your case is somewhat complex because of the amount of different issues involved - adoption , disability , etc. . You may qualify for a range of different credits and special tax situations , such as the <URL> and the <URL> . I would strongly encourage you to have a planning session with a tax professional - not just a regular tax preparer , preferably one with experience with complex situations like this - as there are many thousands of dollars of tax credits , incentives , and potential penalties involved . This does n't need to be a high-stress situation and you might have a few very nice tax years , but it 's always better to get the filings right the first time and have paperwork ready in advance - as you are obviously already trying to do ! One final word of warning : be careful about issues related to the year of filing and claiming of credits/expenses . As noted in topic 607 ( linked above regarding adoption ) , what year you can claim things varies on multiple factors ( foreign vs domestic adoption , when expenses were paid , when the adoption was completed , etc. ) . There may be some things you can claim on this years return ( taxes related to last year ) , and there is some you might not be able to claim until next year ( taxes related to this current year ) . You 'll need to read all the fine print closely to make sure you claim things appropriately , and again a qualified professional may be warranted if available to you . I tend to prefer to file my own taxes with tax software to assist , but be prepared for a lot of IRS publication reading if you want to make sure you handle everything appropriately ! Most importantly : congratulations on a successful adoption , and good luck ! You 're already doing a great job by trying to get all your ducks in a row in advance of when you really need to , which is a very wise choice .
I think you 've got competition on that list for where to put the money - I 'd work out which option is costing me the most currently or will cost me the most in the future and take care of it . I 'd be willing to bet that Eric is right , though , that it will need to be the roof . Not fixing it could cost you more in the long run than any of the other items on the list ( assuming your circumstances remain roughly the same ) . General comments/other considerations : Interest on education loan tends to be quite low , so not worth targeting Not enough to top up the 401K given everything else you have going on I 'd ignore the car payments , unless you 're getting nailed with a bad interest rate ; if that were the case , it might warrant a closer look . Any money that does n't get spent on the roof ( if any ) - I would put in a rainy day fund .
He should definitely look into a <URL> . Each state offers one . These provide tax incentives . Other relatives can contribute . A downside is if your nephew does not end up going to college , there will be a pentalty for withdrawing the money for other purposes ( as there would be for withdrawing from a 401K early ) .
Shareholders of Monsanto will get the money from Bayer . Shareholders are independent people or entities . Think of Monsanto as a thing that shareholders had . This thing is now being purchased by Bayer
You 're in an area where a professional advice is a must . It is not only the taxes and reporting , but also an issue of international taxation . US is very aggressive towards holdings in foreign lands . The tax rates for income from foreign corporations are higher than domestic , with less available deductions and credits , and less ability to avoid double taxation . Get a good EA/CPA licensed in your state , who 's proficient in working with Canadians and the US-Canadian tax treaty . Remember , that after reporting all the taxes - there are additional forms for you to file : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and possibly a bunch of others ( form <URL> specific for Canadians , for example ) . Welcome to the US . You 're a foreigner , its a crime here . As a punishment , you 'll have to author a small book ( not kidding , my tax return was close to 100 pages at some point , more than Mitt Romney 's , and I 'm no millionaire ... ) every year .
This is an excellent question . The category of fixed income investments generally includes all kinds of bonds and preferred shares and other instruments that pay a fixed rate of return and are expected to return your principal by some maturity date . The spectrum of fixed-income investing is wide . For the fixed income component of a personal investment portfolio , I 'd look to investing in high quality , short-term government bonds or index funds and ETFs composed of such . Consider also holding some to protect against inflation -- such as <URL> ( TIPS ) in the U.S. , or <URL> ( RRBs ) in Canada . Corporate bonds , junk bonds , long term bonds , strip bonds , convertible bonds or debentures , and preferred shares ought to be avoided by investors who do not understand well the make-up and risks of such investments . Also , structured products like <URL> ( collateralized debt obligations ) , <URL> ( asset-backed commercial paper ) , <URL> ( mortgage-backed securities ) , etc. should be avoided . While originally marketed as high-quality fixed income investments , many structured products blew up during the credit crisis and left investors with a capital loss on their supposed " safe " investment . On the subject of CDs / certificates of deposit ( or GICs / guaranteed investment certificates in Canada ) : Yes , they can be considered fixed income investments , in that they yield a fixed rate of return and are expected to return one 's principal at maturity . However , if a fixed income investment 's maturity is short ( e.g. less than one year ) , and the quality high ( e.g. government paper or insured deposits ) , and it can be liquidated before maturity if desired ( at slight penalty ) , then such a fixed income investment could instead be considered part of the cash or cash equivalents component in a portfolio , since there is little risk of significant loss of principal due to interest rate fluctuations , and the money is accessible if necessary . Whereas , if a CD ca n't be sold before maturity , I would personally consider it fixed income yet not a cash equivalent until maturity . Additional Resources : <URL> <URL>
Nothing happens . A bank is a business ; your relationship with the bank does n't change because your visa or immigration status changes . Money held in the account is still held in the account . Interest paid on the account is still taxable . And so on . If the account is inactive long enough , abandoned account rules may apply , but that still has nothing to do with your status .
A lot of Americans have used Swiss bank accounts to avoid paying taxes . However recently several large Swiss banks have started disclosing the details on some of their customers to the IRS . There is n't much security in Swiss banking at this point in time .
The third Friday of each month is an expiration for the monthly options on each stock . Stock with standardized options are in one of three " cycles " and have four open months at any give time . See <URL> In addition some stocks have weekly options now . Those generally have less interest because they are necessarily short-term . Anything expiring on April 8 and 22 ( Fridays this year but not third Fridays of the month ) are weeklies . The monthly options are open for longer periods of time so they attract more interest over the time that they are open . They also potentially attract a different type of investor due to their length of term , although , as it gets close to their expiration date they may start to behave more like weeklies .
It 's a matter of keeping contemporaneous records for legitimate income . My daughter started baby sitting at age 11 , and even then , was earning $ 10/hr . I told her that in exchange for keeping a notebook listing the date , name , time , and money earned , I 'd make deposits to her account . It 's important to note that the exact dollar earned does n't have to be deposited , only that there 's income greater than the deposit . It can come from savings or a gift . The limit to deposit is $ 5500 in 2015 or the child 's earned income , whichever is less . For a toddler , aside from modeling/acting , I do n't know what earned income he might have . As he gets older , yard work in the summer or snow shoveling in the winter can both add up fast .
" I have money to invest . Where should I put it ? " Anyone who answers with " Give it to me , I 'll invest it for you , do n't worry . " needs to be avoided . If your financial advisor gives you this line or equivalent , fire him/her and find another . Before you think about where you should put your money , learn about investing . Take courses , read books , consume blogs and videos on investing in stocks , businesses , real estate , and precious metals . Learn what the risks and rewards are for each , and make an informed decision based on what you learned . Find differing opinions on each type of investment and come to your own conclusions for each . I for example , do not understand stocks , and so do not seriously work the stock market . Mutual funds make money for the folks selling them whether or not the price goes up or down . You assume all the risk while the mutual fund advisor gets the reward . If you find a mutual fund advisor who can not recommend the purchase of a product he does n't sell , he 's not an advisor , he 's a salesman . Investing in business requires you either to intimately understand businesses and how to fund them , or to hire someone who can make an objective evaluation for you . Again this requires training . I have no such training , and avoid investing in businesses . Investing in real estate also requires you to know what to look for in a property that produces cash flow or capital gains . I took a course , read some books , gained experience and have a knowledgeable team at my disposal so my wins are greater than my losses . Do not be fooled by people telling you that higher risk means higher reward . Risks that you understand and have a detailed plan to mitigate are not risks . It is possible to have higher reward without increasing risk . Again , do your own research . The richest people in the world do not own mutual funds or IRAs or RRSPs or TFSAs , they do their own research and invest in the things I mentioned above .
No , you should certify your correct tax status when you open a bank account . I have never been asked to provide any proof of address , and I 've opened several bank accounts . What you need to do is probably to shop around and consider opening in person in the branch and not online .
Never invest money you need in the short term . As already suggested , park your money in CDs .
On re-reading the question , I see that you 're self-employed , decent income , but only have an IRA . Since the crux of the question appears to be related to your wanting to put aside more money , I suggest you open a Solo 401 ( k ) account . The current year limit is $ 17,000 , and you can still have an IRA if you wish .
Dazed , an RESP is a type of account . Within the RESP , you can have cash , investments or even savings vehicles like GICs etc. . So depending on where you put the money within the RESP , yes , there is a chance of losing money . If you think your children will attend post secondary education , I do n't think that there is a better way to save . The government will match 20 % of your contribution , up to a maximum grant of $ 500 per year . To take advantage of the grant , we contribute $ 2500 per year to obtain the maximum $ 500 grant . Hope this helps !
Seems like you could shoehorn this into an investment account . You make purchases similar to what you would make in a money market account ( $ 1 per share ) via your premium payments . You see appreciation in those shares . You incur expenses on your " purchases " via cost of insurance and possibly monthly payment fees .
Could it possibly be detrimental and possibly negatively impact my cash secured cards from " maturing " to unsecured cards ? In theory moving could impact getting an unsecured card , but that is going to be if you move to a state where the company does not offer unsecured cards . But if you are just looking to move off campus not out of state then this should not be an issue . Could it possibly lead to me being turned down if I wanted to increase my credit lines or apply for a new loan ( like a car loan , a new phone contract etc ? ) Moving itself will not affect this . However moving creates expenses and opportunities to create debt . Having more debt impacts your debt/income ratio . That can impact your credit score ( both positively and negatively ) . So it can indirectly affect these but will not directly affect them .
end question
start question
Is usage of someone else 's bank card allowed ?
In my experience , this choice is entirely up to the bank itself . There was a time when , given my mothers ATM card I could go to the bank and pull money for her , but the bank has since changed their rules and now they only will allow people listed on the account to access it , card or no card . If the bank is aware of who you are and knows that your friend is not you , they may be skeptical of allowing your friend to withdraw any money , or they might not care , it 's at their discretion . If they do not know who either of you are , if your friend has the card and information needed , that will likely be sufficient , unless they ask for identification .
In my experience , this choice is entirely up to the bank itself . There was a time when , given my mothers ATM card I could go to the bank and pull money for her , but the bank has since changed their rules and now they only will allow people listed on the account to access it , card or no card . If the bank is aware of who you are and knows that your friend is not you , they may be skeptical of allowing your friend to withdraw any money , or they might not care , it 's at their discretion . If they do not know who either of you are , if your friend has the card and information needed , that will likely be sufficient , unless they ask for identification .
In the US there 's no significant difference between what a business can deduct and what an individual can deduct . However , you can only deduct what is an expense to produce income . Businesses are allowed to write off salaries , but individuals ca n't write off what they pay their gardener or maid ( at least in the US ) If you 're a sole proprietor in the business of managing properties - you can definitely deduct payments to gardeners or maids . Business paying for a gardener on a private property not related to producing the income ( like CEO 's daughter 's house ) can not deduct that expense for tax purposes ( although it is still recorded in the business accounting books as an expense - with no tax benefit ) . Businesses are allowed to deduct utility expenses as overhead , individuals can not Same thing exactly . I can deduct utility expenses for my rental property , but not for my primary residence . Food , shelter , clothing and medical care are fundamental human needs , but we still pay for them with after-tax money , and pay additional sales tax . Only interest ( and not principal ) on a mortgage is deductible in the US , which is great for people who take out mortgages ( and helps banks get more business , I 'm sure ) , but you 're out of luck if you pay cash for your house , or are renting . Sales taxes are deductible . You can deduct sales taxes you paid during the year if you itemize your deduction . You can chose - you either deduct the sales taxes or the State income taxes , whatever is more beneficial for you . BTW in many states food and medicine are exempt from sales tax . Medical expenses are deductible if they 're significant compared to your total income . You can deduct medical expenses in excess of 10 % of your AGI . With the ACA kicking in - I do n't see how would people even get to that . If your AGI is low you get subsidies for insurance , and the insurance keeps your expenses capped . For self-employed and employed , insurance premiums are pre-tax ( i.e. : not even added to your AGI ) . Principle for mortgage is not deductible because it is not an expense - it is equity . You own an asset , do n't you ? You do get the standard deduction , even if your itemized ( real ) deductions are less - business do n't get that . You also get an exemption amount ( for your basic living needs ) , which businesses do n't get . You can argue about the amounts - but it is there . In some States ( like California ) renters get tax breaks for renting , depending on the AGI . CA renters credit is phasing out at AGI of about $ 60K , which is pretty high .
[ Making my comment into an answer ] It 's not relevant how much you originally paid for the house or how much of your mortgage you have already paid off . To make it clear in the light of your comment : the equity you have in your old/current house is the current market value minus any outstanding mortgage debt . From the lender 's perspective , they will assume you need . Then they will look at the new mortgage amount against your salary . An old rule of thumb for the mortgage was a multiple of 3 times your annual salary , or 2.5 times the joint salary of a couple . Pre-credit-crunch when lenders were competing heavily for custom , this got stretched as far as 5 or 6 times salary . However this has now been replaced by affordability checks so a better way of looking at it would be to say that your monthly mortgage payment should not be more than about 40 % of your net monthly income ( after any debt repayment etc. has been taken off ) . There are plenty of mortgage calculators out there that will take a mortgage amount , term and interest rate and tell you what the monthly repayment will be . As always with this sort of thing - rather than blindly going with the maximum the bank will lend you , it is worth looking carefully at your own circumstances - what happens if you lose your job ( how easily will you be able to get another one ? ) , what happens if interest rates - which are very low and have been for a long time - rise , as they inevitably will . The other thing to remember is that buying a house incurs expenses over and above the pure cost of the house itself - conveyancing fees , search fees , survey fees , stamp duty etc. . Not to mention the stuff you always end up needing when you move house ( bits of DIY , furniture , sundries which all add up to a ridiculous amount ) . So also make sure you have enough left over out of the equation to afford all that .
Basically , yes . That does n't mean that it 's easy to do . The government provides a dividend tax credit since an individual takes on more risk to invest in dividend-paying corporations rather than trading their human capital for an income . Thus , for the most part , $ 1 earned from dividends is taxed much less than $ 1 earned from income or interest . Finally , note that foreign dividends are not eligible for the dividend tax credit , and are not preferentially taxed .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
From the Press release titled <URL> The $ 50 note , which was also unveiled in June , will be issued in March 2012 . The $ 20 note will begin circulating in late 2012 , followed by the $ 10 and $ 5 notes by the end of 2013 . Detailed images of the notes and information on their designs will be released on their official unveiling dates .
Its not just Citi and BoFA , even Barclays , HSBC and other large Banks are trading below book value in markets they are listed . Are there particular assets that are causing these two banks to be valued lower relative to their book values than the other banks ? There no particular assets . Given the current economic situation most Banks are not making good returns , i.e. expected returns of markets are around 10-12 % and the returns getting generated are around 4-6 % . The overall slow down in various segments as well as regulations in most countries mean that banks have to relook at the business model in short term and generate more revenue . The market believes that Banks may loose money faster and hence the negative outlook and the trading below the book value . Note Book Value is derived in ideal conditions , i.e. when the company is healthy . If any company were to sell the assets in distress , the actual funds raised would be quite a bit less than Book Value . Its also to be noted that typically Banks would not close out and hence Book Value to an extent is just an indicator . Or is it a residual loathing based on their being the biggest losers of 2008 that are still around today ? The 2008 has gone past . This is more recent . If you look most of these banks were doing quite well till last year and had recovered substantially after 2008 .
According to the <URL> : any consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report [ ... ] to a person which it has reason to believe [ ... ] intends to use the information in connection with a credit transaction involving the consumer on whom the information is to be furnished and involving the extension of credit to , or review or collection of an account of , the consumer See p12 ( section 604 ) . The usual interpretation of this that I 've heard is that a debt collection agency that owns or has been assigned a debt can make hard pulls on your credit report without your consent . <URL> seems to support that ( and references the same part of the act , among others ) : According to the Fair Credit Reporting Act , [ ... ] , any business can access your credit history without your permission provided the business has a valid " permissible purpose . " The FCRA notes that one such permissible purpose is to review your credit information in connection with the collection of a debt . Thus , if you owe money to a debt collector , the debt collector has the legal right to pull and review your credit report . If they have n't been assigned the debt or own it outright , I believe you have a legal right to dispute it . Consult a lawyer if this is actually a situation you face . Once use for this is if the debt collection agency has trouble locating you ; since your credit report normally contains current and past addresses , this is one way to locate you .
Only if ( or to put it even more bluntly , when ) they default . If your friend / brother / daughter / whoever needs a cosigner on a loan , it means that people whose job it is to figure out whether or not that loan is a good idea have decided that it is n't . By co-signing , you 're saying that you think you know better than the professionals . If / when the borrower defaults , the lender wo n't pursue them for the loan if you can pay it . You 're just as responsible for the loan payments as the original borrower , and given that you were a useful co-signer , probably much more likely to be able to come up with the money . The lender has no reason to go after the original borrower , and wo n't . If you ca n't pay , the lender comes after both of you . To put it another way : Do n't think of cosigning as helping them get a loan . Think of it as taking out a loan and re-loaning it to them .
I removed the bank account because I could n't change the default , and now it uses my credit card as the default . I have n't noticed any downsides . I think Paypal is just trying to save paying credit card transaction fees . But I do n't much like their user-hostile method of doing so , personally . Most cards kick back some of those fees to cardholders via rewards . If Paypal wants us to use a bank account maybe they should consider giving out an incentive instead of making us do annoying extra clicks on every purchase !
Banks make money by charging fees on products and charging interest on loans . If you keep close to a $ 0 average balance in your account , and they are n't charging you any fees , then yes , your account is not profitable for them . That 's ok . It 's not costing them much to keep you as a customer , and some day you may start keeping a balance with them or apply for a loan . The bank is taking a chance that you will continue to be a loyal customer and will one day become profitable for them . Just be on the lookout for a change in their fee structure . Sometimes banks drop customers or start charging fees in cases like yours .
Nothing happens . A bank is a business ; your relationship with the bank does n't change because your visa or immigration status changes . Money held in the account is still held in the account . Interest paid on the account is still taxable . And so on . If the account is inactive long enough , abandoned account rules may apply , but that still has nothing to do with your status .
They just see your email address and in some cases your address ( for shipping ) . <URL> and <URL> ( scroll down to " There are lots of other reasons to use PayPal . " )
I had a joint account at Chase , and each of us had own on-line login , and could access the account ( each of us also had non-joint accounts in Chase , and with the same login we already had we could access the joint accounts , but not the other 's non-joint accounts ) . It seems like your bank is really backwards on this , change the bank . By the way , in joint accounts you have the option of requiring both partners to sign on every document , so that every check or order you write will only be valid with both of your signatures . I do n't know if that 's what you need , but some may want that ( it is quite uncomfortable , IMHO ) .
From a user perspective , my standpoint is to use the cheapest available to me , that the receiver will find acceptable .
If you are looking at domestic transfers , all Banks hold accounts with the Central Bank [ Reserve Bank ] , in US the Central Bank is called Federal Reserve . The money from account of Bank of America held with Fed is debited and the account of Citi held with Fed is credited .
<URL> FDIC currently insures up to $ 250,000 . ( I would have put that as a comment to Jeffery but it says it was locked . ) You do n't want to put all your eggs in one basket . If you shop around , and keep shopping all the time you can keep your accounts in a single place so long as that single place provides the best deal . Do n't have any loyalty to your banking institutions because they do n't have any loyalty to you . Also , having lots of accounts means you are familiar with lots of institutions , so you are likely better at shopping around . Things I consider . For fewer institutions : Best rates Package deals , getting bigger discounts Better negotiation because you have much business with that bank Ease of managing accounts and summary statements Fewer phone calls to make in the case of emergencies For more institutions : Less people know my full financial history Less danger if any single bank is compromised I can play banks offers off of each other ( price matching or beating by 5 % ) More and varied accounts helps with credit score ( I think )
You ca n't insure for more than the financial cost of the event that you 're insuring against , but that can be more than the current market value of the item . If you 'd need to buy a new one , then that 's your financial loss . New-for-old cover is common for property insurance .
Your immigration status is irrelevant . I 've purchased multiple homes in the US while being on multiple statuses , and no-one cared . The only place where it does matter is the bank , if you 're taking a mortgage . Banks generally want a significant horizon of commitment , and that includes your commitment to being in the US . Some banks wo n't allow mortgages for H1b statues , others will . You 'll need to shop around if you need a loan .
end question
start question
GnuCash bookkeeping for account contributions to accounts having annual contribution limits ?
I do n't know if this is " valid " from a bookkeeping/accounting standpoint , but I 'm just trying to keep records for myself so this works for me unless someone has another suggestion . I created two Expense accounts for the HSA ( Roth , etc would work the same way ) : Expense : HSA Contribution Expense : HSA Contribution : HSA CY ( " CY " meaning current year . ) When I make a $ 50 contribution , I enter the following splits : Debit : Expense : HSA Contribution : HSA CY : $ 50 Credit : Expense : HSA Contribution : $ 50 ( and debit/credit the actual to/from checking accounts like I normally would ) When you look at this in the Accounts tab , it shows the parent account with a zero balance ( because the subaccount balance is positive and the parent account is negative ) . The subaccount has the balance accumulated so far ; this lets me see the YTD contributions to my HSAs . At the end of the year I will make a closing transaction in the opposite direction ( for whatever the total balance of the CY account is ) : Debit : Expense : HSA Contribution : $ 600 Credit : Expense : HSA Contribution : HSA CY : $ 600 This will zero-balance these two accounts . The only complication I see remaining is the issue of making contributions for the prior year during the January-April time frame . I do n't generally make current-year contributions followed by prior-year contributions , so I can just wait to enter the closing transaction until I know I 'm done with prior-year contributions .
I can say that I got X dollars from an account like " Income : Benefits " ... but where do I credit that money to ? " Expenses : Groceries " Yes does n't feel right , since I never actually spent that money on food , You did , did n't you ? You got food . I 'm guessing there 's an established convention for this already ? Doubt it . Established conventions in accounting are for businesses , and more specifically - public companies . So you can find a GAAP , or IFRS guidelines on how to book benefits ( hint : salary expense ) , but it is not something you may find useful in your own household accounting . Do what is most convenient for you . Since it is a double-booking system - you need to have an account on the other side . does n't feel right ? Add or or whatever . When you do your expense and cash-flow reports - you can exclude both the income and the expense benefits accounts if you track them separately , so that they do n't affect your tracking of the " real " expenses .
You can certainly use the formula for the effective rate . The effective six-month rate is the rate of interest , compounded every six months , you would need to earn in order to earn the same amount of interest as an investment of the same principal , compounded annually . For example , if the interest rate , compounded annually , is 10 % , you calculate the six-month effective rate as shown : Solving this equation for yields a six-month effective rate of 4.881 % . You can verify that this gives the same investment as the annual rate with this calculation : where $ 100 is the principal , i.e. the initial investment . You can cancel it in this equation , but I left it in for the sake of clarify . This means that an investment earning 4.881 % interest , compounded every six months , would be worth the same as an investment earning a 10 % interest rate , compounded every year . In other words , the fact that the six-month compounding period is smaller than the annual compounding period does n't matter . The annual rate and the six-month rate both represent an answer to this question : Given some compounding period , what interest rate do I need to earn 10 % on my initial investment over the course of a year ? In my example , say you start with $ 100 and want to have $ 110 by the end of the year . A single interest payment of $ 10 at the end of a year ( " an annual rate of 10 % " ) would work , but two interest payments of 4.881 % , the first paid after six months based on your initial investment , and the second paid after a year based on your initial investment and the previous interest payment , would also work . Both interest rate structures give you the same amount after a year . The amounts and times at which they pay you are different , but the end result is the same . I 'm not sure which formula for nominal interest rates you 're referring to , but usually this refers to interest rates that do n't take inflation into account . That formula ( ) is n't directly related to compounding , and usually if you see the term " interest rate " listed without specifying nominal or real , it 's referring to the nominal rate . In the calculations above , I 'm exclusively referring to nominal rates .
If $ X is the amount saved as of the beginning of the time period , $ Y is the amount contributed at fixed intervals of time ( once a month , once a quarter , once a year , whatever ) , and the contribution is made at the end of the interval and during each such interval , the earnings on the account are 100z % for that time period , then , at the end of the first interval , the account will have $ X ( 1 + z ) + Y in it at the end of the second interval , the account will have $ ( X ( 1 + z ) + Y ) ( 1 + z ) + Y = X ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y in it at the end of the third interval , the account will have $ ( X ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y ) ( 1 + z ) + Y = X ( 1 + z ) ^ 3 + Y ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y in it money.SE does not support MathJax and so additional math gets messier , but some people may have recognized the calculations as being the same as what is called <URL> for evaluating a polynomial . The polynomial in question is a polynomial with variable t given by Xt ^ n + Yt ^ { n-1 } + Yt ^ { n-2 } + ... + Yt + Y and it is evaluated at t = 1 + z. Note that if the periodic contributions are variable instead of being fixed , this is easily accommodated by changing the appropriate coefficient of the polynomial . On the other hand , for fixed contributions , the polynomial in question can be expressed Xt ^ n + Y ( t ^ n - 1 ) / ( t-1 ) which , when evaluated as t = 1 + z gives X ( 1 + z ) ^ n + Y ( ( 1 + z ) ^ n-1 ) / z as the amount that one will have after n time intervals have elapsed .
The snide answer is because they can . The psychological answer is that it drives loyalty . Because you have spent money on the membership , you are more likely to go back several times in the year in order to get your money 's worth . Once you are in the store , impulsiveness can have its way with you , as you leave the store with a cart full of items that you did n't know you needed until you saw their low price .
Class 4 NI does n't get you anything ( other than avoiding the trouble you might be in for not paying it ! ) . If you 're paying Class 4 then presumably you 're also paying Class 2 ? Class 2 does count towards amassing qualifying years which go into calculating how much state pension you may be entitled to .
Is there anyway I can get my state and federal refund for 2012 ? Yes . You need to get your ITIN , and you 'll get your refund . If you 're afraid its going to go beyond the State or IRS statute of limitations for refunds ( for Federal - 3 years ) , you should file a protective claim . Talk to a good EA/CPA about this . Here 's a link to an <URL> . Do not do that without a professional counsel . Has anyone been through something similar with IRS and ITNIs ? <URL> , so not many people has gone through the new procedures , and a lot of people are having troubles with them . My guess would be that you did n't send the original documents ( your spouse 's passport ) , but a copy . They only accept copies certified by the issuing agency ( i.e. : the government unit that issued that passport ) . Is it advisable to attempt take IRS to court on this , if at all possible ? No , because they 're following the letter of the law , so there 's nothing to take them to court for . You can claim that they 're imposing unreasonable requirements for documentation , but it 's quite a burden to prove that their regulations are unreasonable ( although I personally believe they are - requiring people to send their original passports IMHO is not reasonable at all ) . What you can do is talk to the taxpayer advocate , and you can also <URL> to talk to a real person there .
Box 1 on your w2 is gross pay minus pre-tax deductions , like 401k ( traditional 401ks , not Roth ) , so you are correct with that assumption . With that in mind , it was my experience that the bank only looked at gross pay from my previous two months of paychecks . Double check with a loan officer , but mortgage applications only take gross income into account so a deduction wo n't affect your dti . Also , mortgage apps usually assume that you can liquidate or borrow some large percentage of your 401k to add to your cash on hand for a down payment and closing costs . Something to keep in mind .
Whoever you were trying to pay does not get the money . Depending on who you were trying to pay , that probably means your bill is still open and you 're subject to late fees . I do n't think you can go to jail for it , if that 's what you 're asking in the part about being prosecuted ( except in some unusual case , maybe , like the ACH was paying a court fine and you get in trouble for that ) . No direct impact on your credit , but if it makes your payment late that could impact your credit just like if you had not tried to pay at all .
The short answer is the annualised volatility over twenty years should be pretty much the same as the annualised volatility over five years . For independent , identically distributed returns the volatility scales proportionally . So for any number of monthly returns , setting the annualization factor annualises the volatility . It should be the same for all time scales . <URL> However , note the discussion here : <URL> Scaling volatility [ like this ] only is mathematically correct when the underlying price model is driven by Geometric Brownian motion which implies that prices are log normally distributed and returns are normally distributed . Particularly the comment : " its a well known fact that volatility is overestimated when scaled over long periods of time without a change of model to estimate such " long-term " volatility . " Now , a demonstration . I have modelled 12,000 monthly returns with mean = 3 % and standard deviation = 2 , so the annualised volatility should be . <URL> <URL> Calculating annualised volatility for return sequences of various lengths ( 3 , 6 , 12 , 60 months etc. ) reveals an inaccuracy for shorter sequences . The five-year sequence average got closest to the theoretically expected figure ( 6.9282 ) , and , as the commenter noted " volatility is [ slightly ] overestimated when scaled over long periods of time " . Annualised volatility for varying return sequence lengths <URL> Edit re . comment Reinvesting returns does not affect the volatility much . For instance , comparing some data I have handy , the Dow Jones Industrial Average Capital Returns ( CR ) versus Net Returns ( NR ) . The return differences are somewhat smoothed , 0.1 % each month , 0.25 % every third month . More erratic dividend reinvestment would increase the volatility . <URL>
If you 're a cash-based taxpayer then you only recognize the income you 've actually received . If you 're accrual tax payer , then you recognize the income invoiced . How you deal with the missing $ 20 , if you 're accrual basis , depends on why they 're missing . If they just decided to not pay it - then it 's accounts receivable , until you either sue them to recover , or they declare bankruptcy , or you find another way to write it off ( talk to your licensed tax adviser about the legal ways to write unrecoverable debts off ) . If the fee is something you 've agreed to , then you write it down as an expense , provided they provide you with documentation and your contract supports the fee . While you do n't need to account for it if you 're cash-based , I suggest you check the legality of their actions nonetheless . Talk to your lawyer .
You have tracked the non-deducted IRA money via form 8606 . Now , you have two numbers . Total balance and taxed deposits . For example - I deposited $ 5K/yr into my IRA for the last 4 years , not deducted from my income . I now have a $ 20K post tax amount , but my actual balance can be higher ( I 'd hope ) or lower . If my balance is lower , a full conversion has no tax due at all . If my balance is , say , $ 25,000 , conversions are 20 % taxable , i.e. a full conversion has $ 5K of the conversion subject to taxes , $ 20K not . A $ 10K conversion ( ready ? ) has $ 2K taxed , and my running " post-tax " balance is now $ 12K , as $ 8K was just converted . When answering questions , I struggle to balance brevity with a comprehensive answer , forgive me if I missed the mark prior to editing here .
A credit balance can happen any time you have a store return , but paid the bill in full . It 's no big deal . Why not just charge the next gas purchase or small grocery store purchase , to cycle it through ? Yes - unused cards can get canceled by the bank , and that can hurt your credit score . In the US anyway . I 'm guessing it 's the same system or similar in Canada .
It appears that the <URL> in $ 6,500 as long as the combined income is greater than the total contributions for both spouses . Spousal IRAs If you file a joint return , you and your spouse can each make IRA contributions even if only one of you has taxable compensation . The amount of your combined contributions ca n't be more than the taxable compensation reported on your joint return . It does n't matter which spouse earned the compensation . Examples : Sarah , age 52 , is married with no taxable compensation for 2012 . She and her husband reported taxable compensation of $ 60,000 on their 2013 joint return . Sarah may contribute $ 6,500 to her IRA for 2013 ( $ 5,500 plus an additional $ 1,000 contribution for age 50 and over ) .
If there were no contribution limits , you could shelter practically all of your income from income tax . The government would not have sufficient tax revenue . Hence , there are limits which ensure some personal income remains taxable today . Similarly , when you retire , there are rules for minimum required distributions ( withdrawals ) which ensure the government gets to tax some of your income each year in your retirement , depending on the account type . One other advantage of limits is to encourage people to approach saving for retirement using regular , ongoing contributions made in the context of each year 's limit . The limit , in a sense , can be a form of guidance . Some aim to contribute to the limit , and some even save beyond it using plain taxable investments .
Make sure you understand the difference between <URL> coverage , and which funds are protected by which insurance . Evaluate the account knowing that it is online only , and make sure that the fees and limits work for you . It takes an awareness of the difference between your investment funds and your normal day-to-day operating funds . Some individuals have trouble separating these types of funds in their mind , and do better keeping them in separate entities .
An <URL> is an increase in the value of an asset that has not been sold . It is , in essence , a " paper profit . " When an asset is sold , it becomes a realized gain . The unrealised gain is recorded in the " Other comprehensive income account " . Here is an example <URL> : A common example of an unrealized gain is the gain in the market value of an investment in the stock of another corporation that is held as an available-for-sale security . The unrealized holding gain is reported on the balance sheet by 1 ) increasing the asset available-for-sale securities , and 2 ) increasing the stockholders ' equity component in accumulated other comprehensive income . Note that the holding gains on available-for-sale securities are not reported on the income statement . But in your case debit balance of 875 does n't suggest any gains but otherwise so will have to check where the discrepancy is . But if it is " unrealized gains " then you can follow the above method .
First , the balance sheet is where assets , liabilities , &amp; equity live . Balance Sheet Identity : Assets = Liabilities ( + Equity ) The income statement is where income and expenses live . General Income Statement Identity : Income = Revenue - Expenses If you want to model yourself correctly ( like a business ) , change your " income " account to " revenue " . Recognized &amp; Realized If you have n't yet closed the position , your gain/loss is " recognized " . If you have closed the position , it 's " realized " . Recognized Capital Gains ( Losses ) Assuming no change in margin requirements : Increase/decrease the " recognized capital gains " account under assets by the increase/decrease in the value of the position Increase/decrease equity by the increase/decrease in the value of the position Margin interest should increase margin liabilities thus decrease equity and can be booked as an expense on the income statement . Margin requirements for shorts should not be booked under liabilities unless if you also book a contra-asset balancing out the equity . Ask a new question for details on this . Realized Capital Gains ( Losses ) Credit off the position ( the initial cost &amp; any accumulated recognized capital gains/losses ) under assets Debit off any liabilities ( margin ) due the position Debit cash in the amount of the liquidated position Increase/decrease equity by the gain/loss due to the position if they have n't been marked under " recognized capital gains/losses " Mark the sale of the position as " Revenue " Mark the buy of the position as " Expenses " Balance Sheet Identity Concepts One of the most fundamental things to remember when it comes to the balance sheet identity is that " equity " is derived . If your assets increase/decrease while liabilities remain constant , your equity increases/decreases . Double Entry Accounting The most fundamental concept of double entry accounting is that debits always equal credits . Here 's the beauty : if things do n't add up , make a new debit/credit account to account for the imbalance . This way , the imbalance is always accounted for and can help you chase it down later , the more specific the account label the better .
Yes , you can do everything that Fidelity promises with the cash management account . Your benefits are : Free checks ATM fees reimbursed Free bill pay Free account Relatively easy to set up direct deposit or ACH transfers . Free debit card The downsides ? They do n't have branches everywhere , so if you do need to see a person , you may not be able to do so . Likewise , you wo n't be able to do cash deposits . Before anyone says it 's too good to be true , brokerages like Schwab and Fidelity offer this because the hope is that you 'll end up establishing or using other services they offer , so they do have ways to profit from this . Still , compared to the joke that is many other banks , it 's a good deal provide you 're aware of the two downsides listed above this .
The employer contribution is not considered income , thus is not included in the employee 's contribution deduction limit . It is affected by an additional limit , not just the 17K . <URL> , the total of your and your employer 's contributions can be up to 100 % of the salary or $ 50K , the lesser : Additional limits . There are other limits that restrict contributions made on your behalf . In addition to the limit on elective deferrals , annual contributions to all of your accounts - this includes elective deferrals , employee contributions , employer matching and discretionary contributions and allocations of forfeitures to your accounts - may not exceed the lesser of 100 % of your compensation or $ 49,000 for 2011 and $ 50,000 for 2012 .
end question
start question
Could a 401k or IRA contribution switch my current taxable income to a lower tax bracket ? is this the same for traditional and Roth 401k ?
From my friends at <URL> this is the 2012 tax table . This is the table of tax due on taxable income , i.e. the ' bottom line ' of the return after all deductions , credits , etc. . If your taxable income is exactly $ 35,350 , you are " in the 15 % bracket " as the last $ 100 was taxed at 15 % . But , the next $ 100 of income would be taxed at 25 % . Yes , part of the 401 ( k ) process is that you need to be aware of what the tax would have been on the pre-tax 401 ( k ) money . Since a Roth is post-tax money , it does n't change your bracket , only pre-tax 401 ( k ) or Traditional IRA will do that . At a taxable $ 50,000 , you are clearly in the 25 % bracket and would choose your account accordingly . You can see above , the way the tax structure works is progressive . i.e. . The tax on $ 35,350 is fixed at $ 4867.50 and only the amount above this is taxed at 25 % . The next $ 100 or $ 1000 in taxable income wo n't push other income into the higher bracket . Many use the strategy user102008 alluded to , navigating one 's retirement deposits so the pretax account saved them from 25 % income , but does n't drop too far into the 15 % bracket . A mix of Traditional 401 ( k ) , Roth 401 ( k ) , Traditional IRA , and Roth IRA , can help you hit the goal dead-on if you are willing to pay a bit of attention during the year .
Contributions are post-tax , so there 's no direct tax benefit to choosing a year . I just made a 2010 contribution today , and the institution 's form explicitly asks me if I want it on 2010 or 2011 . The primary advantage of backdating like this is being able to contribute 5k more over your lifetime than otherwise possible , under the timing constraints . While there may be a year in the future which you do n't contribute the max , contributing now lets you build up earnings tax free . For '10 vs ' 11 , you 're probably holding cash so it 's not a big deal , but over five years is a long time to hold cash or invest with tax penalty .
You can rollover money from a 401 ( k ) to Traditional IRA and back to a 401 ( k ) . There are likely account closure fees associated with this , so it 's not completely free . As long as you 're rolling from one tax deferred account to another there are no penalties . The IRS has a <URL> showing what accounts can roll where . Note , starting next year , you can only do one IRA rollover per year . The IRS has <URL> . One additional comment - on the concept of your money being " locked " into an IRA . Generally you have far more options with an IRA than a 401 ( k ) . If you go with a large , low cost provider like Vanguard you 're likely to be much better off than in a small company 401 ( k ) that only offers costly funds that are likely selected primarily to benefit the administrator of the plan . Choose your IRA provider and the investments with them wisely , and leave that money there for a very long time .
Your question is meaningless as it is , because you do n't tell us if you 're likely to be in a higher bracket when you retire , or lower . However , I would argue that neither would be as beneficial for you as a Solo 401K account , as the limits for 401K contributions are much higher than IRA ( Roth or not Roth ) . There are plenty of questions on the topic on the right side of the screen , under " Related " , check them out .
What is your age ? How much house do you intend to purchase ? What is the employer match on your 401k ? If you maintain your current saving strategy , how long will it take for your to reach your 100k down payment goal ? Any other debt in the equation ? Have you decided on a 15 year or 30 year mortgage ( or some other duration ) 63k is a nice downpayment on a reasonably priced home many regions of the country . You already have enough to avoid mortgage insurance on a home costing 315k or less . Because mortgage interest rates are likely to rise over the next year or two , you should calculate whether it makes sense to pull the trigger on a house with savings you already have . It might not pay off to wait and save if rates tick up and erode the advantage of making a larger downpayment . Assuming that you do need or want to continue saving towards the 100k goal , then my advice is to contribute enough to your 401k at least enough to maximize your employer contribution , but no more . Throw whatever you can after that at other debt and saving for your goal . IMO , the fact that rates are at near historic lows factors into your strategy . Edit based on your comment : If mortgage rates were near their historic average , I would recommend that you just be patient and stick with your current savings plan . But that is n't the case . Rates are near historic lows and you are close to having 20 % down on a 400k house , which eliminates the cost of mortgage insurance . If I was in your situation , I would reduce my down payment goal from 100k to 80k , and maximize my savings towards that goal in an effort to get a house purchased sooner rather than later . The downside is that you throw away some free money and delay getting your retirement savings ramped up . You can make up for this since you are only 26 . I do n't feel qualified enough to give advice on converting to a roth and then borrowing against it . I will let others tackle that .
Yes . I describe the Roth flavor as " <URL> . " For those with more money they wish to save this factor should be added to the mix . Of course you can save $ 16500 + 5000 ( in an IRA ) for $ 21500 total pretax if you wish ( and are within the limits . )
According to <URL> , it seems like 401 ( k ) s have unlimited protection , while IRA 's have up to $ 1m in protection . It seems like it 's kind of complicated . If you are trying to protect more than $ 1,000,000 in retirement assets during a personal bankrupcy , you can probably afford to have a good lawyer give you advice .
The tax deferred status of a 401k plan helps you in theory because your tax rate will be lower once you retire and start drawing the money . This theory could prove incorrect . Also the money you add to a 401k lowers your taxable income today so you end up paying less taxes to the government right now . Depending on where you are in the tax bracket scale that could have the affect of lowering your tax bracket which will save you money in other areas . Each person 's situation is different by my general theory is to contribute towards retirement in the following order : 401k - contribute enough to get any free money . Roth IRA - contribute the maximum allowed under the law . 401k - contribute the additional up to the maximum allowed under the law . Non-retirement account - any additional you want to save just save it in a non-tax deferred account . Hope this helps .
You must file as married for 2013 if you were married as of December 31 , 2013 . It is true that the Roth IRA contribution phaseout for Married Filing Separately is 0 - $ 10K . But you can still do backdoor Roth IRA contribution ( contribute to a Traditional IRA , then convert it to a Roth IRA ; assuming you do not have any pre-tax IRAs , this is identical to a Roth IRA contribution ) . But you already made a Roth IRA contribution for 2013 , and did not do the backdoor . Let 's assume that you want to turn it into a backdoor Roth IRA contribution , and that you do n't have any pre-tax IRAs . There are two ways to do this : Withdraw the Roth IRA you contributed ( including earnings ) . Then , do a normal backdoor Roth IRA contribution ( contribute to a Traditional IRA , then immediately convert it to Roth IRA ) . The earnings you had in the Roth IRA that you withdrew will be treated as normal income and taxed . The conversion will not be taxable because all of the Traditional IRA was non-deductible when you converted . Re-characterize your original Roth IRA contribution as a Traditional IRA contribution , then convert it to Roth IRA . It will be treated as if you made a Traditional IRA contribution originally , and then waited until now to convert . The earnings in the IRA up till now will be taxed on conversion . So in both cases , you will need to pay income tax on the earnings in the account up to now . The difference between the two is in the amount of money in the IRA now . With the first way , you can only contribute $ 5500 now . With the second way , you will keep the same amount of money you have in the IRA now .
I think you may be drawing the wrong conclusion about why you put what type of investment in a taxable vs. tax-advantaged account . It is not so much about risk , but type of return . If you 're investing both tax-advantaged and taxable accounts , you can benefit by putting more tax-inefficient investments inside your tax-advantaged accounts . Some aggressive asset types , like real estate , can throw off a lot of taxable income . If your asset allocation calls for investing in real estate , holding it in a 401k or IRA can allow more of your money to remain invested , rather than having to use it to pay for taxes . And if you 're holding in a Roth IRA , you get that tax free . But bonds , a decidedly non-aggressive asset , also throw off a lot of taxable income . You 're able to hold them in a tax-advantaged account and not pay taxes on the income until you withdraw it from the account ( or tax free in the case of a Roth account . ) An aggressive stock fund that is primarily expected to provide returns via price appreciation would do well in a taxable account because there 's likely little tax consequence to you until it is sold .
So , lets get it straight . I 'm using 2014 numbers and my Intuit tax software : Let 's ignore the ACA tax here , it comes into play since you did n't mention anything about the ACA mandate insurance . Looking at the calculation worksheet ( <URL> ) - the account is right ( the tax amount may be a bit off , since the tax tables are still not updated for 2014 ) . You have $ 20000 capital gains , and $ 6000 ordinary income . Capital gains are taxed at 0 , as expected . Ordinary income is taxed at $ 603 , <URL> .
I would not recommend borrowing your 401 ( k ) money to buy a house for two reasons : When you borrow money from your 401 ( k ) , it is no longer invested . Yes , you pay yourself interest , but you miss out on the investment gains for the life of the loan . If you leave your job , the loan is due in full shortly thereafter . If you do not pay it back , you are hit with taxes and penalties . If I were you , I would roll it over into an IRA for the reasons you mentioned .
You 're thinking that by rolling over your Roth 401 ( k ) to Roth IRA the whole amount becomes " contribution " . That is not so , you 're not losing the characteristics of the amounts within the account . The grouping rules of <URL> still apply , and you still need to separate contributions from earnings . See specifically this text in the statute : Any distribution allocated to a qualified rollover contribution under clause ( ii ) ( II ) shall be allocated first to the portion of such contribution required to be included in gross income . So no , you do not get to withdraw earnings tax free just because you rolled them over . As a general rule , when you read the IRS pub 590 - consider your rollover from Roth 401 ( k ) as if it was a roll-over from a different Roth IRA . But do consult a tax professional ( EA/CPA licensed in your state ) as there are intricacies . You seem to be confused about various holding period limitations ( " 5-year rules " ) for Roth IRA . There are two : You can not have qualified distributions unless you had the Roth IRA for at least 5 years . You can not withdraw earnings on amounts from conversions without penalty ( additional 10 % ) within the first 5 years of conversion . These are two separate and unrelated limitations . Since you 're talking about Roth 401 ( k ) roll-over - the second one does n't apply , since you did n't do any conversion . The first one does . See <URL> for in-depth discussion on this . In any case , you pay tax ( with or without the additional 10 % penalty ) on distribution attributed to earnings , unless it is qualified distribution .
Both types of plans offer a tax benefit . A traditional IRA allows you to invest pre-tax money into the account and it grows tax free . Once you withdraw the money it then gets taxed as though it were income based on the amount you withdraw for that calendar year . A Roth IRA has you invest post-tax money and also grows tax free . However , when you make withdraws in retirement that money is then tax free . Neither plan is right for everybody . If you have a very high income now and plan on being in a smaller tax bracket later when you 'll be making withdraws then the traditional IRA is better . If you will be in a higher bracket later , then the Roth IRA will serve you more . Depending on the way you manage your retirement investing you can likely invest in both if you are unsure as to which would be better . The same type of investments should be able to be nested within each type .
William - You need to go to a local branch right now . I know few brokers that will guarantee a same day transaction of this type . I tried to read your question a few times , and am stuck . I believe I understand Traditional IRAs , Roth IRAs , and the rules of conversion pretty well . It sounds to me like you want to have income in 2010 for one transaction , and over the 11-12 tax years for another . A recharacterization should n't be part of this . Recharacterizing takes you back to a traditional IRA from a Roth conversion . But if there 's something you actually need done , today is the last day , and direct dialog with the broker is probably best . If you edit your question for clarity , I 'll edit my response . Edit - Taking the income in 2010 was a choice , take in 10 or split over 11 and 12 . The only way to take over all three years would have been to convert or deposit in different accounts . Recharacterizing does n't apply in this scenario . For future readers - part of this discussion surrounds a one-time chance to convert from one IRA type to another and defer that income over the next two tax years . It 's an important issue , but one that will not apply after this evening . Today is the final day for 2010 returns even with extension of 6 months .
Depends on how the money is invested within the 401k ... but in general , prices move both up and down with a long-tem bias toward up . Think of it this way : with fund shares priced lower now , you are getting shares cheaper than when you entered the plan . So this dip is actually working in your favor , as long as you are comfortable trusting that long-term view ( and trusting the funds your 401k money is going into ) . Believe me , it 's even scarier when you 're nearer your target retirement date and a 10 % dip may be six figures ... but it 's all theoretical until you actually start drawing the money back out , and you have to learn to accept some volatility as part of the trade-off for getting returns better than bonds .
No , you can not . 401k must not be discriminatory , i.e. : you can not have different matching for different employees .
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 59 1/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
Yes . A most emphatic yes . I suggest you look at your 2014 return and project what 2015 will look like . I 'd convert enough to " top off " the 15 % bracket . Note , if you overshoot it , and in April 2016 , see that you are say $ 5K into the 25 % rate , you can just recharacterize the amount you went over and nail the bracket to the dollar . If you have the time and patience , you can convert into 2 different Roth accounts . One account for one asset class , say large cap stocks/funds , the other , cash/bonds . In April , keep the account that outperformed , and only recharacterize the lagger . <URL> is my name for this strategy . It 's risk free , and has the potential to boost the value of your conversions . Edit - To be clear , you are permitted to recharacterize ( undo ) any or all of the converted amount . You actually have until tax time ( 4/15 or so ) plus the 6 month extension . You can recharacterize for any reason - Your converted assets dropped in value , why pay 15 % on $ 20K ( say ) when the stock current value is $ 10K ( ouch ) . You overshot the target bracket and want to nail your " taxable income " number dead on . You do n't have the funds to pay the tax and do n't want to cash out more IRA money to pay it . You are retired , collecting Social Security , and find the conversion puts you in a <URL> You just changed your mind . ( I mean this literally . No reason is required by the IRS , just paperwork . ) A personal anecdote - I manage my mother in law 's money . She is well under the 25 % bracket cutoff . Each year I convert , and each April , recharacterize just enough to be at the top of the 15 % bracket . Over $ 100K has been shifted from Traditional IRA to Roth by now . Taxed at 15 % so her daughters will ' not ' pay 25 % when they withdraw . $ 10K in tax saved from uncle sam , for my effort of filling out paper twice a year for 12 years now . Well worth my effort .
Congratulations on your raise ! Is my employer allowed to impose their own limit on my contributions that 's different from the IRS limit ? No . Is it something they can limit at will , or are they required to allow me to contribute up to the IRS limit ? The employer can not limit you , you can contribute up to the IRS limit . Your mistake is in thinking that the IRS limit is 17K for everyone . That is not so . You 're affected by the HCE rules ( Highly Compensated Employees ) . These rules define certain employees as HCE ( if their salary is significantly higher than that of the rest of the employees ) , and limit the ability of the HCE 's to deposit money into 401k , based on the deposits made by the rest of the employees . Basically it means that while the overall maximum is indeed 17K , your personal ( and other HCE 's in your company ) is lowered down because those who are not HCE 's in the company do n't deposit to 401k enough . You can read more details and technical explanation about the HCE rules in <URL> and in this <URL> .
end question
start question
Is it possible to use an RRSP mortgage to pay off a line of credit ?
Short answer : Probably not . It would cost too much to administer the mortgage . It would be easier to increase your existing mortgage with a financial institution and role your line of credit into the mortgage . The exception : If you own a home that has a mortgage with less than 75 % of the value of the home left on it and you have an RRSP with more than $ 30,000 this might be an option . In theory getting a mortgage from your RRSP might sound like a good idea and technically you can take out a mortgage from your RRSP on a house you are going to buy or on a house you already own . However , the fees associated with <URL> ( 100-300 / year ) , and the <URL> ( mandatory if you are lending to yourself and ranging from .5 to 2 % annually ) usually outweigh the benefits gained . The break even point of taking out an RRSP mortgage is around 30,000 $ , the mortgage must be administered by a trustee approved under the National Housing Act ( TD Waterhouse , Canadian Western Trust , ect ) , and must be held in a self directed RRSP . These qualifications make RRSP mortgages useful only in very specific situations .
Portlander here too ! Have you made sure to consider the tax burden you will have from the inheritance ? Do you have any debts ? Pay them first . Sounds like you have a current mortgage . Pay that first before you invest . Do you have several months of expenses in cash as an emergency fund ? Make sure you do . Do you have a fully funded retirement ? Pay that and any catch up . If you have children or plan to , is college paid for ? Investing in extra property is something that you should do when you are all paid up . You do n't want a job loss or other emergency make it impossible to keep the house you live in . What happens if you buy a house and then lose both your jobs ? Do you let the bank foreclose on both homes ? I think you would be in a much more stable position owning fully all your property . Once your first house is paid off , you can rent that or consider buying another . The key advice here is to stabilize and remove all your debts now . It is less exciting but safer . But if you do n't owe any money . Go for it .
No . Income inside an RRSP is sheltered from income tax until you withdraw it . That is , indeed , the major benefit of RRSPs . Note that you will eventually declare this as income . Consider the following case : - in 2015 , you make $ 1000 in income . - in 2015 , you contribute $ 100 to your RRSPs . You store this in an account that pays interest , rather than investing it in stocks , bonds , or mutual funds . - between 2015 and 2025 , your money makes an additional $ 100 in interest . - in 2025 , you are retired and pull out the entire amount in your RRSP , i.e. $ 200 . Now , between 2015 and 2025 , you did not declare the income from interest . You 'd have had to do this if the money was in a regular bank account ( instead of an RRSP or a TFSA ) . Indeed , your bank would have issued tax forms in that case . But you do n't report income sheltered in an RRSP . This is good , as it increases the power of compounding . In 2015 , you pay tax on only $ 900 rather than the full $ 1000 . In 2025 , you pull out the entire $ 200 . You report all $ 200 as income ( or , actually , as a withdrawal from your RRSP , but it 's the same thing ) . You pay tax on the initial $ 100 investment ( which you did not do in 2015 ) , and you also pay tax on the $ 100 that your investment has made ( and which you are now pulling out ) . The hope is that your income is now lower , as you are retired . So you 'll end up paying less income tax . Plus , your investment has had many years of opportunity to compound , tax-free . TL ; DNR : You do n't pay tax on , or report gains in , an RRSP account . The bank or investment house wo n't even issue tax forms , not until you withdraw the money .
Once the discharge order is issued , you can not reaffirm a debt . Lawyers will often advise you to not reaffirm debts like mortgages for you to avoid personal liability for the mortgage . Right now , you 're in an interesting grey area , since the bank probably can not foreclose on the basis of your failure to reaffirm ( laches doctrine ) -- but you do not benefit ( from a credit point of view ) from making timely payments . You also do not have an obligation to pay .
The safest financial decisions that you can make in Greece involve getting your money out of Greece . That said , it depends . If the economy is going to implode and you 'll be out of the job with devalued savings -- you 'll be bankrupt anyway . You did n't mention enough about your situation for anyone to really answer the question . In a high-inflation environment , * if * you have the assets to weather the storm , holding debt on real property and durable goods is a good thing . The key considerations are : Do you have assets that will allow you to make it through the crisis ? Will someone convert your Euro-denominated loan into some Greek currency ? ( Answer : Nobody knows that answer ) Is the property desirable ? If you have the means , times of crisis are great opportunities .
First I would like to say , do not pay credit card companies in an attempt to improve your credit rating . In my opinion it 's not worth the cash and not fair for the consumer . There are many great resources online that give advice on how to improve your credit score . You can even simulate what would happen to your score if you did " this " . <URL> - will give you your TransUnion credit score for free and offers a simulation calculator . If you only have one credit card , I would start off by applying for another simply because $ 700 is such a small limit and to pay a $ 30 annual fee seems outrageous . Try applying with the bank where you hold your savings or checking account they are more likely to approve your application since they have a working relationship with you . All in all I would not go out of my way and spend money I would not have spent otherwise just to increase my credit score , to me this practice is counter intuitive . You are allowed a free credit report from each bureau , once annually , you can get this from <URL> , this wo n't include your credit score but it will let you see what banks see when they run your credit report . In addition you should check it over for any errors or possible identity theft . If there are errors you need to file a claim with the credit agency IMMEDIATELY . ( edit from JoeT - with 3 agencies to choose from , you can alternate during the year to pull a different report every 4 months . A couple , every 2 . ) Here are some resources you can read up on : <URL> <URL> <URL>
It appears that this is the case . From IRS <URL> , Health Savings Accounts and Other Tax-Favored Health Plans Qualified medical expenses are those incurred by the following persons . You and your spouse . All dependents you claim on your tax return . Any person you could have claimed as a dependent on your return except that : The person filed a joint return , The person had gross income of $ 3,700 or more , or You , or your spouse if filing jointly , could be claimed as a dependent on someone else 's 2011 return .
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
Your coworker is mistaken . A higher credit line is fine especially if you have zero balance . If you happen to carry a balance at the time of mortgage application , then a higher credit line will mean you have a lower utilization . A lower utilization will mean that your credit score will be better than if you had a higher utilization . I know someone who just got a mortgage for 3.65 % with a DTI of 41 % , one late payment from two years ago and a short sale on their credit report . With what you are telling us , your mortgage application should not be a problem . Ensure you have adequate reserves ( 3-6 months of income ) either in your bank account or 401k .
Some banks ( Chase bank is one of them ) do differentiate between " credit limit " and " credit access line " . A " credit limit " is a hard limit which you can not go over , whereas a " credit access line " is the maximum amount you can revolve between statements , but you can still charge more than your access limit in any one statement . For example , if your credit limit is $ 5,000 , and you have charged $ 4,995 in a billing cycle , and now try to buy something for $ 6 , it will be declined . But if your credit access line is $ 5,000 , that same $ 6 charge would go through . Perhaps charges of $ 500 over your limit might go through as well . When it comes time to pay your bill , your minimum payment will be all overages plus your normal minimum payment as if your credit was completely maxed out . Pros : You can overspend in a month if you need to . Cons : If you are close to maxed out and are carrying a balance each month , your minimum payment could be higher than you are used to . Most banks do n't tell you what your true hard limit actually is , so once you are over the limit you never actually know if your card is going to be denied or not .
The cost to you for selling is 3/8 % of a years salary , this is what you wo n't get if you sell . Tough to calculate the what-if scenarios beyond this , since I ca n't quantify the risk of a price drop . Once the amount in he stock is say ,10 % , of a years salary , if you know a drop is coming , a sale is probably worth it , for a steep drop . My stronger focus would be on how much of your wealth is concentrated in that one stock , Enron , and all .
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
Yes , it can be a good idea to close unused credit cards . I am going to give some reasons why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts , and then I will talk about why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea . Why it can be a good idea to close unused accounts " I 'd like to close the cards . " That is reason enough . Simplifying your financial life is a good thing . Fewer accounts let you focus your energy on the accounts that you actually use . Unused accounts still need to be monitored for fraud . You mentioned that you have high credit card balances that you are carrying . This may indicate that you have trouble using credit responsibly , and having more credit available to you might be a temptation for you . If these unused cards have annual fees , keeping them open will cost money . Unused cards sometimes get closed by the bank due to inactivity . As a result , the advice often given is that , in addition to not closing them , you are supposed to charge something to it every month . This , of course , takes more of your time and energy to worry about , as well as giving you another monthly bill to pay . Why it is NOT necessarily a bad idea to close unused accounts Other answers will tell you that it may hurt your credit score for two reasons : it would increase your utilization and lower your average account age . Before we talk about the validity of these two points , we need to discuss the importance of the credit score . Depending on what your credit score currently is , these actions may have minimal impact on your life . If you are in the mid 700 's or higher , <URL> , and closing these cards will likely not impact anything for you in a significant way . If you are n't that high in your score yet , do you have an immediate need for a high score ? Are you planning on getting more credit cards , or take out any more loans ? I would suggest that , since you have credit card debt , you should n't be taking out any new loans until you get that cleaned up . So your score in the mean time is not very important . Are you currently working on eliminating this credit card debt ? If so , your utilization number will improve , even after you close these accounts , when you get those paid off . Utilization has only a temporary effect on your score ; when your utilization improves , your score improves immediately . Your average account age may or may not improve when you close these accounts , depending on how old they are compared to the accounts you are leaving open . However , the impact of this might not be as much as you think . I realize that this advice is different from other answers , or other things that you may read online . But in my own life , I do a lot of things that are supposedly bad for the credit score : I only have two credit cards , ages 2.5 and 1.5 years . ( I closed my other cards when I got these . ) My typical monthly utilization is around 25 % on these cards , although I pay off the balance in full each month , never paying interest . I have no car loan anymore , and my mortgage is only 4 months old . No other debt . Despite those " terrible " credit practices , my credit score is very high . Conclusion Make your payments on time , get out of debt , and your score will be fine . Do n't keep unwanted accounts open just because someone told you that you should .
If you have the ability to pay online with a guaranteed date for the transaction , go for it . My bank will let me pay a bill on the exact date i choose . When using the mail , of course , this introduces a level of risk . I asked about rates as the US currently has a near zero short term rate . At 3.6 % , $ 10,000 , this is $ 30/month or $ 1/day you save by delaying . Not huge , but better in your pocket than the bank 's .
The missing piece : what is the savings account for ? Is it earmarked for something in particular , or is it just money you have n't spent ? Paying off the 3k balance immediately will save you money . Go look at your credit statement and look and see how much it 's costing you in interest every month you continue to not pay it off . Certainly it 's costing more in interest than the bank is paying in interest . The exception is 0 % interest . If somehow you manage to not be paying interest , and that deal is still in place , then MAYBE it 's better to hold onto the cash for a rainy day . Even then , paying off the stupid bill and not having to worry about it does have benefits .
The name on the Form 1098 that the mortgage lender sends you . That 's the SSN and payments reported to the IRS .
Self employment is typically harder to qualify with than W2 income . In general the bank is going to want 2 years of tax returns . You will be asked to sign a 4506-T that allows the bank to get the records directly from the IRS . Self employment income will be averaged across the 2 years , I do n't think a 20 % drop in profits is large enough to cause concern but it might . I would plan on being able borrow against the lowest year just in case . If you get a W2 job you will be able to count the income immediately assuming it is not a temporary position . The bank will ask for the offer letter . If you have decent credit and 20 % down , you should be able to get a mortgage either way . A W2 is typically less paperwork and you would get to claim your current income assuming that is higher than your past income .
Usually services like Western Union or MoneyGram only give the recipient the money , not the information about who and when sent it . But you can verify with them directly . However , for legal/tax reasons , your friend might have to declare that it was a gift , and where it came from . So depending on the country of the destination you might not be able to completely " hide " from the recipient , even if the transfer service technically allows that . In any case , when you transfer the money out from the US you 'll have to provide your personal identification and information . Since the <URL> , it is impossible to transact " anonymously " ( not sure if it ever was possible in the US , actually ) .
Assuming the rates are the same , and they will remain the same , and assuming that there is no real difference between the loans . Then by the simplest math it does n't make difference in the approach to paying the loan . If the loans worked more like credit cards , where there is a minimum payment of x % of the balance of y $ whichever is greater , and if the goal was to stretch a fixed amount of money over 4 accounts then paying off the smallest balance first makes sense . It allows the minimum payment for that account to be applied to the other accounts . If they had different rates the higher rate could make the most sense . That leaves only 2 reasons to pick an unbalanced approach to paying off the loans : psychology and logistics . Getting rid of one loan quickly makes you feel better , even though it does n't make you any closer to being debt free . If one of the loans is with a separate lender then it cuts down on the amount of transactions in your bank account and email , or snail mail . I have heard horror stories of people who left school unsure of how many loans they had , only to discover they forgot about one until it went to collections . They key to your question is that the loans are essentially the same , if they were n't then the math becomes more complex because it depends on the rate and balances .
In my experience , it is better to pay on the vendor 's ( in this case , credit card 's ) website , rather than your checking account 's bill pay service . I 've personally had trouble with my bank 's bill pay service . When you pay with bill pay , there is usually a delay of at least a few days before the payment arrives at the destination . Sometimes the payment gets there late . Sometimes the recipient does n't know how to credit the payment when they get it . This has caused me to miss due dates and created a mess . When you pay with the credit card 's own website , the effective date of payment is immediate . If you schedule a future date , you can pick a precise date for the payment to be credited . ( Although , I always pay my bills a few days early to be safe . ) Of course , your bank 's bill pay service might be better than mine . But I 've had lots of trouble with mine , and I do n't use it anymore .
end question
start question
Are IRAs and 401 ( k ) s protected against lawsuits and garnishments ?
From an article <URL> it would seem that the IRA offers less protection than the 401 ( k ) . This is consistent with other articles I 've read . You do n't ask about divorce . In a divorce , the 401 ( k ) is fair game and it 's one of the times such accounts can be transferred to another individual with no tax consequence . This is through the process know as QDRO ( Qualified domestic relations order ) in which the 401 ( k ) is split to give a portion to the spouse .
Usually the best advice is to find a company that offers IRAs containing low-cost index funds . <URL> is a noted example . Open a rollover IRA there and invest in funds the <URL> way . Pick an allocation by using the <URL> tag here to get the information you need about international stocks , domestic stocks , bonds , risk tolerance , and where you can find way more information . Rebalance that allocation every 12-18 months . Other than that , ignore the market . Unless you have the resources of a hedge fund manager , and maybe not even then , you wo n't be able to beat indexes like the S&amp;P 500 on their performance . Why should you go this route ? A little-touted fact about retirement investing is that one of the best ways to grow your money is to choose funds with the lowest expense ratio ( percentage of your earnings that go to the fund managers ) . See these questions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Am I on crack , or do the perceived tax savings via S-Corp distributions really not matter at a certain level of business income ? You 're not on crack . Generally , if all the income is generated by your own personal services - this is the outcome . The benefit of S-Corp is when you have employees who generate your income , and you distribute to yourself profits that come out of other 's personal services . In this case your distributions are exempt from FICA since it is not in fact a self-employment income . You 'd still have to pay yourself a reasonable salary for your position ( as a manager/officer ) , but it would n't have to cover all of the available profits . So if the IRS takes a position against you it would be that your salary should be to include the whole profits , since it is the compensation to you for the personal services that produced the income to the corporation ( you ) . In many cases they might agree that a salary at the SS maximum limit would be reasonable - but that 's only a speculation of mine . In that case you might gain some portion of the medicare tax ( with the recent law changes at the levels you 're talking about you 'll pay some medicare anyway ) . There are a lot of accountants who take more aggressive position saying that not all of the distributions are liable for SE taxes , even if you 're the sole employee of the corporation . These cases often end up in the Tax Court , and whatever the outcome , your legal fees become higher than the FICA savings . What is probably missing in your picture is the SS limit of ( currently $ 112K ) above which you do n't pay social security tax , so whether you get it as a salary or as a distribution - that limit is the same . That is why you do n't see a significant difference . I know there are a lot of accountants who 'd disagree , but I would argue that for a sole employee of your company , S-Corp does n't provide significant benefits over the disregarded LLC taxation , but has some additional overhead that adds to your expenses . <URL> where he suggests ( and says many accountants follow ) 60/40 division between salary and distributions . I.e. : his take , similarly to mine , is that most of the earnings have to be treated as salary . In your case , when the total is about 300K - you indeed will not get any FICA savings with such a division other than some of the medicare . Unusually low wages when compared to distributions can draw unwanted IRS scrutiny and an audit . An unfavorable audit will likely result in some portion of the distributions being reclassified as earned income for federal income tax purposes , which results in a deficiency assessment ( i.e. , a tax bill ) , interest on those unpaid taxes , and IRS penalties . The article also talks about the Watson case ( one of the Tax Court cases I referred to ) , which can be used as the guidelines for determining the " reasonable " compensation . Talk to your tax adviser . I 'm neither a tax adviser nor a tax professional . For a tax advice contact a CPA/EA licensed in your state . This is not a tax advice , just my personal opinion .
The biggest reason why one might want to leave 401k money invested in an ex-employer 's plan is that the plan offers some superior investment opportunities that are not available elsewhere , e.g. some mutual funds that are not open to individual investors such as S&amp;P index funds for institutional investors ( these have expense ratios even smaller than the already low expense ratios of good S&amp;P index funds ) or " hot " funds that are ( usually temporarily ) closed to new investors , etc. . The biggest reason to roll over 401k money from an ex-employer 's plan to the 401k plan of a new employer is essentially the same : the new employer 's plan offers superior investment opportunities that are not available elsewhere . Of course , the new employer 's 401k plan must accept such roll overs . I do not believe that it is a requirement that a 401k plan must accept rollovers , but rather an option that a plan can be set up to allow for or not . Another reason to roll over 401k money from one plan to another ( rather than into an IRA ) is to keep it safe from creditors . If you are sued and found liable for damages in a court proceeding , the plaintiff can come after IRA assets but not after 401k money . Also , you can take a loan from the 401k money ( subject to various rules about how much can be borrowed , payment requirements etc ) which you can not from an IRA . That being said , the benefits of keeping 401k money as 401k money must be weighed against the usually higher administrative costs and usually poorer and more limited choices of investment opportunities available in most 401k plans as Muro has said already .
If you 're simply a futures speculator , then yes , it does seem like gambling . If you 're a farmer producing a few thousand bushels of wheat , futures can be a mechanism for you to hedge against certain kinds of market risk . Same if you 're running a heating oil company , etc. . I just read somewhere that the bad spring weather in South Dakota has prevented farmers from getting corn planted -- nothing is in the ground yet . This is " objective data " from which you might infer that this year 's corn harvest could be late and/or smaller than normal . So maybe if you 're a buyer for General Mills , you use corn futures to control your costs . In this case you 'd have some idea based on experience what to expect for the price of corn , what your production line requires for input , how much you can charge for finished product , etc. . These all factor in to the price you 'd be willing to pay for corn futures .
You likely received the shares as ordinary income for services of $ 10k , since they withheld taxes at granting . Separately , you likely had a short term capital loss on sale of $ 2k , since your holding period seems to have been under one year .
Federal taxes are generally lower in Canada . Canada 's top federal income tax rate is 29 % ; the US rate is 35 % and will go to 39.6 % when Bush tax cuts expire . The healthcare surcharge will kick in in a few years , pushing the top bracket by a few more points and over 40 % . State/provincial taxes are lower in the US . You may end up in the 12 % bracket in New York City or around 10 % in California or other " bad " income-tax states . But Alberta is considered a tax haven in Canada and has a 10 % flat tax . Ontario 's top rate is about 11 % , but there are surtaxes that can push the effective rate to about 17 % . Investment income taxes : Canada wins , narrowly . Income from capital gains counts as half , so if you 're very rich and live in Ontario , your rate is about 23 % and less than that in Alberta . The only way to match or beat this deal in the US in the long term is to live in a no-income-tax state . Dividends are taxed at rates somewhere between capital gains and ordinary income - not as good a deal as Bush 's 15 % rate on preferred dividends , but that 15 % rate will probably expire soon . Sales taxes : US wins , but the gap is closing . Canada has a national VAT-like tax , called GST and its rate came down from 7 % to 5 % when Harper became the Prime Minister . Provinces have sales taxes on top of that , in the range of 7-8 % ( but Alberta has no sales tax ) . Some provinces " harmonized " their sales taxes with the GST and charge a single rate , e.g. Ontario has a harmonized sales tax ( HST ) of 13 % ( 5 +8 ) . 13 % is of course a worse rate than the 6-8 % charged by most states , but then some states and counties already charge 10 % and the rates have been going up in each recession . Payroll taxes : much lower in Canada . Canadian employees ' CPP and EI deductions have a low threshold and top out at about $ 3,000 . Americans ' 7.65 % FICA rate applies to even $ 100K , resulting in a tax of $ 7,650 . Property taxes : too dependent on the location , hard to tell . Tax benefits for retirement savings : Canada . If you work in the US and do n't have a 401 ( k ) , you get a really bad deal : your retirement is underfunded and you 're stuck with a higher tax bill , because you ca n't get the deduction . In Canada , if you do n't have an RRSP at work , you take the money to the financial company of your choice , invest it there , and take the deduction on your taxes . If you do n't like the investment options in your 401 ( k ) , you 're stuck with them . If you do n't like them in your RRSP , contribute the minimum to get the match and put the rest of the money into your individual RRSP ; you still get the same deduction . Annual 401 ( k ) contribution limits are use-it-or-lose-it , while unused RRSP limits and deductions can be carried forward and used when you need to jump tax brackets . Canada used to lack an answer to Roth IRAs , but the introduction of TFSAs took care of that . Mortgage interest deduction : US wins here as mortgage interest is not deductible in Canada . Marriage penalty : US wins . Canadian tax returns are of single or married-filing-separately type . So if you have one working spouse in the family or a big disparity between spouses ' incomes , you can save money by filing a joint return . But such option is not available in Canada ( there are ways to transfer some income between spouses and fund spousal retirement accounts , but if the income disparity is big , that wo n't be enough ) . Higher education : cheaper in Canada . This is not a tax item , but it 's a big expense for many families and something the government can do about with your tax dollars . To sum it up , you may face higher or lower or about the same taxes after moving from US to Canada , depending on your circumstances . Another message here is that the high-tax , socialist , investment-unfriendly Canada is mostly a convenient myth .
I thought the other answers had some good aspect but also some things that might not be completely correct , so I 'll take a shot . As noted by others , there are three different types of entities in your question : The ETF SPY , the index SPX , and options contracts . First , let 's deal with the options contracts . You can buy options on the ETF SPY or marked to the index SPX . Either way , options are about the price of the ETF / index at some future date , so the local min and max of the " underlying " symbol generally will not coincide with the min and max of the options . Of course , the closer the expiration date on the option , the more closely the option price tracks its underlying directly . Beyond the difference in how they are priced , the options market has different liquidity , and so it may not be able to track quick moves in the underlying . ( Although there 's a reasonably robust market for option on SPY and SPX specifically . ) Second , let 's ask what forces really make SPY and SPX move together as much as they do . It 's one thing to say " SPY is tied to SPX , " but how ? There are several answers to this , but I 'll argue that the most important factor is that there 's a notion of " authorized participants " who are players in the market who can " create " shares of SPY at will . They do this by accumulating stock in the constituent companies and turning them into the market maker . There 's also the corresponding notion of " redemption " by which an authorized participant will turn in a share of SPY to get stock in the constituent companies . ( See <URL> and <URL> ) Meanwhile , SPX is just computed from the prices of the constituent companies , so it 's got no market forces directly on it . It just reflects what the prices of the companies in the index are doing . ( Of course those companies are subject to market forces . ) Key point : Creation / redemption is the real driver for keeping the price aligned . If it gets too far out of line , then it creates an arbitrage opportunity for an authorized participant . If the price of SPY gets " too high " compared to SPX ( and therefore the constituent stocks ) , an authorized participant can simultaneously sell short SPY shares and buy the constituent companies ' stocks . They can then use the redemption process to close their position at no risk . And vice versa if SPY gets " too low . " Now that we understand why they move together , why do n't they move together perfectly . To some extent information about fees , slight differences in composition between SPY and SPX over time , etc. do play . The bigger reasons are probably that ( a ) there are not a lot of authorized participants , ( b ) there are a relatively large number of companies represented in SPY , so there 's some actual cost and risk involved in trying to quickly buy/sell the full set to capture the theoretical arbitrage that I described , and ( c ) redemption / creation units only come in pretty big blocks , which complicates the issues under point b . You asked about dividends , so let me comment briefly on that too . The dividend on SPY is ( more or less ) passing on the dividends from the constituent companies . ( I think - not completely sure - that the market maker deducts its fees from this cash , so it 's not a direct pass through . ) But each company pays on its own schedule and SPY does not make a payment every time , so it 's holding a corresponding amount of cash between its dividend payments . This is factored into the price through the creation / redemption process . I do n't know how big of a factor it is though .
If the company shares are not restricted , you could simply hedge yourself by selling them . Otherwise , an easy ( but maybe not optimal ) approach could be purchasing Proshares <URL> or <URL> ETFs , assuming that the US and Canadian industries are correlated . <URL> may work as a Canada-focused hedge , but not sure it is liquid enough .
These are two rather distinct questions ; only one of which is relevant to a Money web site . In general , the investment is questionable . Leaving aside the green feel-good factor , you need to look at a total cost of ownership ( TCO ) and payback on the asset . Neither is cheap as such . There are DIY windmill plans , but you likely still need a commercial battery charger/inverter/controller setup . Government incentives , depending on where you live , may change the story considerably . Many jurisdictions around the globe have both incentives to install and then power-feed-in tariffs if you sell back excess power . Your latitude also has an impact on your total available solar energy , along with regular weather patterns for both cloud cover and wind . One of the cheapest solar projects can be hot-water . Particularly if you have a pool , or even for domestic use , if you use a lot . All that said , given the green feel-good factor , if you want a small set of solar panels and have the space/budget , go ahead ! You can add more later . For the second question : it is indeed possible to live off grid . Some remote houses do just this , and the methods to accomplish it vary . The number one thing you need to do is work on a power budget ; and be both ruthless as well as realistic . Fridge , freezer , AC , furnace , plasma TV , etc. . Depending on your climate and preferences , these may not all be possible for an off-grid lifestyle . ( Of course , if you get a propane fridge and have a truck come by once a month , does that count as off-grid ? )
A REIT is a real estate investment trust . It is a company that derives most of its gross income from and holds most of its assets in real estate investments , which , in this case , include either real property , mortgages , or both . They provide a way for investors to get broad exposure in a real estate market without going to buy a bunch of properties themselves . It also provides diversification within the real estate segment since REITs will often ( but not necessarily ) have either way more properties than an individual could get or have very large properties ( like a few resorts ) that would be too expensive for any one investor . By law , they must pay at least 90 % of their taxable income as dividends to investors , so they typically have a good dividend rate ( possibly but not necessarily ) at the expense of growth of the stock price . Some of those dividends may be tax advantaged and some will not . An MLP is a master limited partnership . These trade on the exchange like corporations , but they are not corporations . ( Although often used in common language as synonyms , corporation and company are not the same thing . Corporation is one way to organize a company under the law . ) They are partnerships , and when you buy a share you become a partner in the company . This is an alternative form of ownership to being a shareholding . In this case you are a limited partner , which means that you have limited liability as with stock . The shares may appreciate or not , just like a stock , and you can generally sell them back to the market for a capital gain or loss under the same rules as a stock . The main difference here from a practical point of view is taxes : Partnerships ( of any type ) do no pay tax - Instead their income and costs are passed to the individual partners , who must then include it on their personal returns ( Form 1040 , Schedule E ) . The partnership will send each shareholder a Schedule K-1 form at tax time . This means you may have " phantom income " that is taxable even though cash never flowed through your hands since you 'll have to account for the income of the partnership . Many partnerships mitigate this by making cash distributions during the year so that the partners do actually see the cash , but this is not required . On the other hand , if it does happen , it 's often characterized as a return of capital , which is not taxable in the year that you receive it . A return of capital reduces your cost basis in the partnership and will eventually result in a larger capital gain when you sell your shares . As with any investment , there are pros and cons to each investment type . Of the two , the MLP is probably less like a " regular " stock since getting the Schedule K-1 may require some extra work at tax time , especially if you 've never seen one before . On the other hand , that may be worth it to you if you can find one that 's appreciating in value and still returning capital at a good rate since this could be a " best of everything " situation where you defer tax and - when you eventually do pay , you pay at favorable capital gains rates - but still manage to get your cash back in hand before you sell . ( In case not clear , my comments about tax are specific to the US . No idea how this is treated elsewhere . ) By real world example , I guess you meant a few tickers in each category ? You can find whole lists online . I just did a quick search ( " list of MLP " and " list of REIT " ) , found a list , and have provided the top few off of the first list that I found . The lists were alphabetical by company name , so there 's no explicit or implicit endorsement of these particular investments . Examples of REIT : AKR AIV ARE Examples of MLP : CAFD ACMP AB
One way to analyze the opportunity cost of using a 401K loan would be to calculate your net worth after using a 401K loan . If your net worth increases then the 401K loan would be advisable . Note that the calculations provided below do not take into account tax considerations . A net worth calculation is where you add all your assets and then subtract all your liabilities . The resulting number is your net worth . First , calculate the net worth of not taking the loan and simply paying the credit card interest . This means you only pay the interest on the credit card . In addition to the parameters identified in your question , two additional parameters will need to be considered : Cash and the market rate of return on the 401K . Scenario 1 ( only pay credit card interest ) : After 12 months all you have paid is the interest on the credit card . The 401K balance is untouched so it will hopefully grow . The balance on the credit card remains at the end of 12 months . Scenario 2 ( use 401K loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from your 401K to pay the credit card balance . You will have to pay $ 5,000 plus the 401K interest rate back into your 401K account . Use the following equation to determine when Scenario 2 increases your net worth more than scenario 1 : Thus , if your credit card interest rate is greater than the rate you can earn on your 401K then use the 401K loan to pay off the credit card balance . Another scenario that should be considered : borrow money from somewhere else to pay off the credit card balance . Scenario 3 ( external loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from somewhere besides your 401K to pay off the credit card balance . The following is used to determine if you should use an external loan over the 401K loan : This means you should use an external loan if you can obtain an interest rate less than the rate of return you can earn on your 401K . The same methodology can be used to compare Scenario 3 to Scenario 1 .
No , the situation is not different , the roll-over rules are the same . It wo n't be taxable ( as opposed to traditional to Roth roll-over ) , but other than that it 's the same . Whether the 401k allows rolling over or not while you 're still employed - you have to check with the plan administrator ( ask your payroll/HR for details ) . Usually , the deferred compensation can not be rolled over out of the 401k while you 're still employed .
Simplest way to answer this is that on margin , one is using borrowed assets and thus there are strings that come with doing that . Thus , if the amount of equity left gets too low , the broker has a legal obligation to close the position which can be selling purchased shares or buying back borrowed shares depending on if this is a long or short position respectively . <URL> has an example that they walk through as the call is where you are asked to either put in more money to the account or the position may be closed because the broker wants their money back . What is Maintenance Margin ? A maintenance margin is the required amount of securities an investor must hold in his account if he either purchases shares on margin , or if he sells shares short . If an investor 's margin balance falls below the set maintenance margin , the investor would then need to contribute additional funds to the account or liquidate stocks in the account to bring the account back to the initial margin requirement . This request is known as a margin call . As discussed previously , the Federal Reserve Board sets the initial margin requirement ( currently at 50 % ) . The Federal Reserve Board also sets the maintenance margin . The maintenance margin , the amount of equity an investor needs to hold in his account if he buys stock on margin or sells shares short , is 25 % . Keep in mind , however , that this 25 % level is the minimum level set , brokerage firms can increase , but not decrease this level as they desire . Example : Determining when a margin call would occur . Assume that an investor had purchased 500 shares of Newco 's stock . The shares were trading at $ 50 when the transaction was executed . The initial margin requirement on the account was 70 % and the maintenance margin is 30 % . Assume no transaction costs . Determine the price at which the investor will receive a margin call . Answer : Calculate the price as follows : $ 50 ( 1 - 0.70 ) = $ 21.43 1 - 0.30 A margin call would be received when the price of Newco 's stock fell below $ 21.43 per share . At that time , the investor would either need to deposit additional funds or liquidate shares to satisfy the initial margin requirement . Most people do n't want " Margin Calls " but stocks may move in unexpected ways and this is where there are mechanisms to limit losses , especially for the brokerage firm that wants to make as much money as possible . Cancel what trade ? No , the broker will close the position if the requirement is n't kept . Basically think of this as a way for the broker to get their money back if necessary while following federal rules . This would be selling in a long position or buying in a short sale situation . <URL> walks through an example where an e-mail would be sent and if the requirement is n't met then the position gets exited as per the law .
<URL> is into businesses that supply the original business ; downstream is into businesses that make use of the original product . So in that description , what they are saying is that the original business received products from plantations and sent products to manufacturing . This is also called <URL> . Meaning that they are diversifying along their supply chain so that they control more of it . This is in contrast with <URL> , where they move into new products that either compete with the existing products or which are entirely separate . In general , the upside of vertical integration is that a company is less reliant on suppliers ( and intermediate consumers ) and has more control over its supply chain . The downside is that they have less opportunity to partner with other companies in the same supply chain , as they compete with them . Some companies are better at managing to do both . For example , Amazon.com has integrated fulfillment and sales . But partners can still do their own fulfillment and/or sales , choosing how much to send out to Amazon . If you are investing in individual stocks , integrated companies can be problematic in that they cut across diversification areas . So they can be harder to balance with other stocks . You can either buy plantations , transport , and manufacturing together or not buy at all . If your investment strategy says to increase plantations and reduce manufacturing , this can be difficult to implement with an integrated company . Of course , everyone else has the same problem , which can lead to integrated companies being undervalued . So they may be an opportunity as a value stock .
The tax tables are created from the tax rates . Its not as simple as multiple taxable income by the rate for your tax bracket , due to the way tax brackets work . The rate for each tax bracket only applies for certain income ranges . For example , the first $ 8,375 are taxed at 10 % , $ 8,375 - $ 34k at 15 % , $ 34k - $ 82,400 at 25 % , etc. . So just because you are in the 25 % tax bracket does n't mean that you are paying 25 % on your entire income . If you have 82,400 in taxable income , and assuming the singe rate , your tax is 16,788 for an effective tax rate of 20 % of taxable income . Your effective tax rate is actually less than that if you base the calculation on your adjusted gross income . Your <URL> is simply your total taxes divided by your total income . The tax rate and the tax table are based on your taxable income , which is your gross income minus any deductions and credits .
Amounts on line 1 of the K-1 are translated into taxable income to you . Amounts on line 16 of the K-1 with code D are translated into reduction of your cost basis for the shares . If your cost basis is already $ 0 - they are <URL> . You need to track and adjust your cost basis in the shares . When you sell your shares - you 'll pay capital gains tax on the difference between the proceeds and the adjusted basis . When distributions wipe out your basis , further distributions are treated as gains , and taxed at the year distributed . So at the end of 2014 , your adjusted cost basis in these shares is $ 3000 : $ 4000 you paid - $ 1000 you got back ( distribution on line 16 with code D ) .
Your Personal Investment Performance or PIP can also be described as the Internal Rate of Return . I found an explanation of <URL> on the Governments TSP page ; the TSP is the government version of a 401K . Personal Investment Performance ( PIP ) -- The rate of return earned by your entire account during the 12-month period ending on the date indicated on your annual statement or on your Account Balance page of the TSP website . The PIP is a time-weighted return that has been calculated using a modified-Deitz method ( a method used by many financial institutions and an industry standard ) . The PIP adjusts for the distorting effects of cash flows into or out of your account . It is an estimate ; therefore , your PIP may not be the same as the 12-month performance of the TSP funds , which are time-weighted returns . Let 's pretend that you had a starting value of $ 10,000 and an ending value of $ 20,000 . The simple calculation would imply that you doubled your money . But you and the government put in a total of $ 7,000 . To calculate the return do you base it on the 10K or the 17K ? The answer is that you need to know when the deposits were made . With deposits every 2 weeks , this become very complex . So do n't expect to be able to calculate it without a lot of work . Keep in mind it is just there to tell you how your investments did .
I wrote a brilliant guest post at Do n't Mess With Taxes , titled <URL> . ( Note - this article now reflects 2012 rates . Just updated ) Simply put , it 's an ongoing question of whether your taxes will be higher now than at any point in the future . If you are in the 25 % bracket now , it would take quite of bit of money for your withdrawals to put you in that bracket at retirement . In the case of the IRA , you have the opportunity to convert in any year between now and retirement if your rate that year drops for whatever reason . The simplest case is if you are now in the 25 % bracket . I say go pre-tax , and track , year by year what your withdrawal would be if you retired today . At 15 % , but with a good chance for promotion to the 25 % bracket , start with Roth flavor and then as you hit 25 % , use a combination . This approach would smooth your marginal rate to stay at 15 % . To give you a start to this puzzle , in 2012 , a couple has a $ 11,900 standard deduction along with 2 exemptions of $ 3800 each . This means the first $ 19,500 in an IRA comes out tax free at retirement . If you believe in a 4 % withdrawal rate , you need a retirement account containing $ 500K pretax to generate this much money . This tick up with inflation , 2 years ago , it was $ 18,700 and $ 467K respectively . This is why those who scream " taxes will go up " may be correct , but do you really believe the standard deduction and exemptions will go away ? Edit - and as time passes , and I learn more , new info comes to my attention . The above thoughts not withstanding , there 's an issue of taxation of Social Security benefits . This creates a <URL> which I recently wrote about . A single person with not really too high an income gets thrust into the 46 % bracket . Not a typo , 46.25 % to be exact .
A 401k plan will ask you to name a beneficiary who will receive the funds if you do n't withdraw them all before death . Usually , a primary beneficiary and a secondary beneficiary is requested . If you do n't specify a beneficiary , your estate is the beneficiary by default . Note that the name supplied to the 401k plan is who will get the money , and you can not change this by bequeathing the money in your will . For example , if you neglected to change the beneficiary upon divorce , it is useless to say in your will that the money in the 401k plan goes to your new wife ; the 401k plan will give it to your ex-wife who still remains the beneficiary of your 401k Money in a 401k plan is what is called income with respect to a decedent ( IRD ) on which income tax is levied , and it is also is part of your estate and thus liable to be subject to estate tax . The latter is true even if the 401k plan assets are not mentioned anywhere in your will , and even if the assets got sent to your ex-wife which is not what you wanted to have happen . There are various estate tax exceptions for spouse beneficiaries ( no estate tax due now , but will be charged when the spouse passes away ) . With regard to income tax , the beneficiaries of a 401k plan ( similarly IRAs , 403b plans etc ) generally get to take the whole amount and pay the income tax themselves . Edit in response to littleadv 's comments : Each 401k plan is different , and some plans , especially the smaller ones , may prefer to distribute the 401k assets as a lump sum rather than allow the beneficiaries to withdraw the money over several years ( and pay income tax on the amount withdrawn each year ) . This is because there are far too many rules and regulations to trip over when making withdrawals over several years . The lump sum distribution can be transferred into a newly established Inherited IRA ( see the Nolo article linked to in @littleadv 's answer for some details and some pitfalls to avoid ) and the income tax is thus deferred until withdrawals occur . Spouse beneficiaries are entitled to more generous rules than non-spouse beneficiaries . If your heirs are otherwise well provided for and you are in a philanthropic mood ( or you do n't want to give 'em a dime , the ungrateful ... who never call , not even on Father 's Day ! ) , one way of avoiding a lot of tax is to make the beneficiary of your 401k be one or more of your favorite charities . In fact , if your testamentary inclination is to make some charitable bequests as part of your will , it is much more advantageous to give money from a tax-deferred account to the charity ( size of estate is reduced , no income tax paid by anyone on amount given ) , and bequeath assets in non-retirement accounts to one 's heirs ( bequests are not taxable income , and heirs get a step up in basis for assets that have appreciated ) rather than the other way around ( heirs pay income tax as they withdraw the money from tax-deferred account ) Estate planning is a complicated business , and you really should talk to a professional about such matters and not rely on advice from an Internet forum .
end question
start question
How does the 1 % penalty on TFSA transfers work ?
The relevant Canada Revenue Agency web site is <URL> Withdrawing in the same year does not generate additional room . <URL> suggest it is best to avoid withdrawing if you expect you would replenish in the same year . Likewise , you can transfer among your various accounts without penalty . If you change financial institutions , for example , there is no double reporting as you seem to be concerned about if it is tracked as a TFSA Transfer ( similar to an RRSP transfer ) from one registered account to another . The paperwork is not as if it was a deposit but merely a transfer .
There are several ways that the issuers profit from CFDs . If the broker has trades on both sides ( buy and sell ) they can net the volumes off against each other and profit off the spread whilst using the posted margins to cover p &amp; l from both sides . Because settlement for most securities is not on the same day that the order is placed they can also buy the security with no intention of taking delivery and simply sell it off at the end of day to pass delivery on to someone else . Here again they profit from the spread and that their volumes give them really low commissions so their costs are much lower than the value of the spread . If they have to do this rather than netting the position out the spreads will be wider . Sometimes that may be forced to buy the security outright but that is rare and the spreads will be even wider so that they can make a decent profit .
I checked this myself and there is no monetary penalty for late filing . However , since I am late I have to do all publication over again which costs me extra $ 50 .
Donations , particularly those in the context of you providing a free service ( software , libraries , etc. ) are a notable grey area in tax code . Simply naming a button " Donate " does n't necessarily classify the money transfer as a " gift " . The IRS can decide that it 's money you 're being paid to continue your excellent work/service , making it taxable income ( unless you 're a registered non-profit organization ) . In the instance of Patreon , and many other crowd-funding services , you 're providing a certain level of " service " for each tier of donations ( such as early access or something , I 'm not sure what you 're offering ) , which means they 're receiving consideration for their donations , which most likely makes it fall into taxable income ( again , unless you 're a registered non-profit organization ) . State tax law is even more convoluted , and you should consult your tax professional for clarification on your specific situation .
Can you put a more specific example . Normally there are multiple workflows involved ; however the common theme is that a reference number ties it together . For example , in PayPal , if you need to transfer money from your Bank account to the PayPal account , you first have to log into PayPal and enter the details , they will then generate a payment instruction [ this has the details of PayPal account and reference number ] that you would go and submit to your Bank . The reference number goes back to PayPal and they know the money if from you . Other way is to have PayPal debit your account directly held at the bank , in this case they already know which PayPal account to credit and hence when the debit is successful , they will credit your account . Similar scheme of things apply to various Merchants , you specify some mututally agreed reference number that would allow the Merchant to match the payment your make to you .
As you say , the currency carry trade should n't work . The deluge of new cash into a high-interest currency should result in falling exchange rates . <URL> by Òscar Jordà and Alan Taylor of the University of California , Davis , may be offer one approach which is more stable . According to <URL> : They find that a refined carry-trade strategy -- one that incorporates a measure of long-term value -- produces more consistent profits and is less prone to huge losses than one that targets the highest yield . However , exchange rates , central bank interest rates , as well as money supply are all political as well as economic constructs . An economic driver for arbitrage may be offset by political will ( such as US quantative easing ) or even social malaise ( Japanese continual low inward investment ) . I would n't go so far as calling the carry trade " free money " - currencies have proven far too unstable for that - but state interference in markets tends to be clearly telegraphed and a trader with nerves of steel may take advantage of it .
Context is key here . Futures do n't really have to do with a time in the future in this context . Futures are a capital market ( futures market ) , just like Stocks are a market ( stock market ) . Both capital markets have the ability to affect each other . Up until 30 years ago there was a separate use for the futures market , but in the days since they are MOSTLY used for stock derivatives ( financial futures are the most widely traded contracts since 1980 , hugely eclipsing the commodity futures that the market was designed for . ) So there is overlap and one affect the other , I 'm not going to go into too much detail here but basically the futures market trades 24 hours a day , 6.5 days of the week and the stock market trades 8-12 hours a day , 5 days a week . So when the stock market closes , the futures market is still running will react and effect the broad stock market . Hope that gets you started in your research
Unfortunately that is exactly how FSA works . When your employment ended with that company , that puts a early end date on the funds . You can still submit bills , but only if they are for the period between January 1st 2015 and your last day under the plan . If there are any bills from earlier in the year , you can still submit them . Otherwise there is nothing you can do .
You do not report the Roth IRA on your 1040 because it has no implication to your current tax situation ( as you fund it with after-tax dollars ) . Your IRA custodian ( s ) would report the contributions to the IRS on form <URL> , which would then be used to determine if all of your contributions for the tax year were under the Roth IRA limits . If you did over-contribute , you are subject to a penalty , per year , of 6 % of the above-the-limit amount ; so if you contributed $ 6,000 , and your limit was $ 5,500 , you may be subject to a penalty of .06 * 500 or $ 30 per year until you correct the over-contribution ( by withdrawing the over amount plus its portion of the IRA 's gains , paying taxes on the gains , and paying any early withdrawal penalties if applicable ) . ( Credit to <URL> for the <URL> in comments . )
Sometimes 403b 's contain annuities or other insurance related instruments . I know that in many New York schools the local teacher unions administer the 403b plan , and sometimes choose proprietary investments like variable annuities or other insurance products . In New York the Attorney General sued and settled with the state teacher 's union for their endorsement of a high cost ING 403b plan -- I believe the maintenance fees were in excess of 3 % / year ! In a tax deferred plan like a 401k , 403b or 457 plan , the low risk " insurance fund " is generally a GIC " Guaranteed Investment Contract " . A GIC ( aka " Stable Value Fund " ) is sort of cross between a CD and a Money Market fund . It 's used by insurance companies to raise short term capital . GICs usually yield a premium versus a money market and are a safe investment . If your wife is in a 403b with annuities or other life-insurance tie ins other than GICs , make sure that you understand the fee structure and ask lots of questions .
The closest American thing to Canadian TFSA were the Lifetime Savings Accounts ( LSA ) proposed during the first term of George W. Bush administration . LSA had many features of TFSA : after-tax contributions with an annual limit , tax-sheltered growth , tax-free withdrawals of both contributions and earnings at any time . ( The proposal was never enacted - here 's a politically-neutral explanation : LSA amounted to a tax cut on investment income and , considering the cost of tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 and two wars , it was very difficult for the Congress to pass such a proposal . ) Without LSA , Roth IRA is the closest thing . There is one important difference . From Roth IRA , you can only withdraw contributions in nominal dollars , not adjusted for inflation . Earnings can be withdrawn without penalty only in retirement . This condition makes Roth IRA suitable primarily for retirement savings . TFSA , due to their tax-free withdrawals , are suitable for saving and investment of any time horizon , from long-term retirement investing to saving for the next major purchase ( car , appliances , or home improvement ) .
The payment is amortized based on the remaining principal and term of the loan . So in your example , the payment in year 6 is calculated using 3.875 % , $ 310,000 and 25 years .
No , this is not generally possible , as each security purchase is booked as a separate order = > hence separate transaction . You can do this through purchasing of a fund , i.e. : purchasing one share of a ETF will get you a relative share of the ETF holdings , but the actual holdings are not up to you then .
JoeTaxpayer 's answer adequately explained leverage and some of your risks . Your risks also include : If your balance drops too low , below the required margin , but still positive , the broker can close your trade . It has been reported that some forex brokers will review margin call accounts in an unscrupulous way , after reviewing the currency 's chart for the day , closing out accounts at the worst price of the day instead of the price at which margin was insufficient . Spikes . Some brokers report price spikes in the buying or selling price which can cause your trade to be closed out unfavorably . These spikes may or may not exist at other forex brokerages or in futures market prices . Unlike the stock market and unlike the futures market , there is not a central forex market and so there is not a definitive price/time chart that could aid in holding a broker accountable for any unusual executions on your trades . You could indeed be trading in a small " bubble " of the " real " forex market . Should your broker 's internet site go down at the wrong time , or the broker have to close its doors , you may not be able to control your account for a time long enough to lose substantial amounts of money . Your account might then be closed for low margin , or closed out as zero or negative . Unlike accounts for trading in the stock and futures markets , a forex account can not be easily transferred . This exacerbates risk ( 4 ) , compared to what would happen at a bankrupt or government-seized stock or futures broker . The firm 's risk is that you will figure out a way to leave them with a negative account that contributes to another customer 's profit and yet you disappear in a way that makes the negative account impossible to collect . Another risk is that you are not who you say you are , or that the money you invest is not yours . These are called " know your customer " risks .
It is in dollars , but US government can not " print " dollars . That 's prerogative of the Federal Reserve , which is formally an independent institution . They sometimes do something that amounts to " printing money " - heard about " quantitative easing " ? That 's it . But US Treasury ca n't do that . To fund whatever US Govt needs money for , it can get money in two ways : collect taxes or sell bonds ( i.e. take loans ) . Since most of the budgets recently run a deficit , that means US Govt collects less taxes than it spends . The difference is covered with loans , or bonds . So the debt is the sum of all government bonds held by individuals or foreign nations . As many of the lottery/casino winners have learned , the key to financial soundness is to have more income than spending . If you spend more than you got , it does n't matter how much you 've got - you 'll end up broke . US Government , for political reasons , routinely <URL> - because for politicians , spending gets them elected , while austerity gets them hated . Thus US debt is growing . Private people and foreign government gave those loans to US government . They do it because they consider it relatively safe investment and they get interest on it - just as you would do if you have savings account . Your savings account is a loan to a bank and earns you interest . US Government bond is a loan to the government and earns them interest . In fact , most of the bonds more like CD ( certificate of deposit ) than savings account , since they are given for a fixed amount of time - 5 , 10 , 20 , etc. years . There are shorter and longer term bonds , but in any case you can not demand payment before the term ( though you can sell the bond and recover the money , but somebody then needs to buy it from you ) . Since most of the people trust that US Government is not going under any time soon , since , as you noted , US is wealthy , they are content with investing their money and getting the interest . The size of the debt is not dangerous until there 's doubt that the debtor can repay - and the fear is that we approaching this threshold . It 's like somebody taking a mortgage - if you have good income , you can take a big mortgage , but the bank will ( or supposed to , at least :) related the mortgage size with your repayment ability . So far US repayment ability was found adequate by people , but if we abuse it , it may change and then US is up for the tough times - just as if someone stops paying the mortgage . In this case , both sides lose - the investors lose their investment or at least see it diminish and the US loses its credibility and thus ability to take more loans . Nobody wants it happen , so politicians from all countries try to work together to prevent it . We 'll see how good they manage to do it .
The deposit insurance is n't provided by the bank ; it 's provided by the Singapore Deposit Insurance Corporation ( SDIC ) . In the event that the bank fails or is declared insolvent , the SDIC will pay deposit holders their total balance in all accounts with that bank , up to S$ 50,000 . If you hold S$ 60,000 in all of your <URL> , you 'll only receive S$ 50,000 if the bank fails . The SDIC provides an <URL> with sample calculations , and this is exactly what they show . If you deposit an amount greater than $ S50 ,000 , it 's only insured up to S$ 50,000 . So does it mean one should open multiple accounts under different banks to spread the money around and maintain only S$ 50,000 in one deposit account ? This is one option . The calculations page I linked to above gives this reminder : Deposits are not insured separately in each branch office of a DI Scheme member i.e. all your eligible accounts maintained with different branches of a DI Scheme member are aggregated and insured up to S$ 50,000 . This seems like common sense , but it 's important to remember that if you open an account with two branch offices of Bank A , your deposits are aggregated and insured up to S$ 50,000 . The SDIC insurance is per institution ( called a Deposit Insurance Member ) , not per branch . If you hold S$ 45,000 in each branch office , for a total of S$ 90,000 , you 're still only insured up to S$ 50,000 for that bank . If you want to spread out your accounts between multiple banks , make sure they 're different banks , not just different branches . Another option , if it applies to you , is to open a joint account with your spouse . In the <URL> , the SDIC gives this example under point 14 : if you and your husband have a joint account with S$ 70,000 , and you have a separate account of S$ 20,000 , your total deposits of S$ 55,000 will be covered to the maximum of S$ 50,000 . The deposit of $ S70 ,000 is split evenly between the spouses , so in the eyes of the SDIC , each are holding S$ 35,000 . Then , the husband 's additional S$ 20,000 is added to S$ 35,000 for a total of S$ 50,000 . This is then insured up to S$ 50,000 as usual . I 'm sure there are other options specific to Singapore that I 'm not aware of ; if you 're well above the limit , i.e. holding millions of dollars , I 'm sure a professional accountant in Singapore could guide you further .
This is an interesting question and I ca n't find any definitive statement . See discussion <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Those last two posts are saying that TurboTax directs people to mark " no " for this question even if they have completed four years , as long as they have not yet finished their degree ( the opposite of your situation -- those who take more than 4 years to graduate ) . My gut feeling is that the key is in <URL> ( emphasis added ) : the student had not completed the first four years of postsecondary education ( generally , the freshman through senior years of college ) , as determined by the eligible educational institution That suggests that what matters is not actual revolutions around the sun , but the number of years ' worth of education completed . On that theory , even if you graduated in 3 years , you still completed the first 4 years of education . Your school at some point probably classified you as a " senior " by number of units completed . ( This is also consistent with the TurboTax discussions above . ) To be on the safe side , I would mark " Yes " . If you 're not going to actually try to claim a tax benefit that would require you to mark " no " ( like the American Opportunity Credit ) , it probably does n't matter much how you tick this box . If you are going to attempt to claim such a credit , you should get solid guidance from a tax professional to make sure that 's on the up-and-up .
First a warning : if you 're a foreigner you must familiarize yourself with the FATCA and FBAR requirements . Search this forum and ask questions if you do n't know what these are . The penalties are horrifying and can drive you bankrupt even if you do n't even owe a dime in taxes , just because you did n't attach a piece of paper to your tax return . To your question : In the United States , brokers/banks do not withhold taxes from your gains ( what is called " at source " ) , it is your responsibility . Taxes are due when the income is earned , i.e. : when you sell the stocks . Paying on April 15th next year may trigger late payment penalties . The right way to do it is using <URL> . However , since capital gains is not your only income but you also have salary , you have another option . Using <URL> , you can adjust the withholding your employer takes out of your paycheck so that it will cover not only the salary itself but also the extra income you have through capital gains . If you do that , you do not need to do the quarterly estimates . You can use the worksheets in W4 instructions to calculate the exact number . What you need to understand is that the employer does n't withhold the actual tax , but rather what you think your actual tax should be given your situation . Using form W4 you can ask the employer to withhold more or less , and you can change your selection during the year if adjustments are required . Any tax paid through withholding is considered paid on time ( even if all of it is paid on December 31st ) . If you withheld too much , it balances out on your yearly tax return ( the one due by the April 15th ) , and you get a refund from the IRS . If you withheld too little - you have tax due on April 15th and you pay it . As long as due is less than $ 1000 or whatever your tax liability was the year before - you wo n't have penalties ( the $ 1000 delta refers to withholding only , if you paid through estimates and have tax due - you may get hit by penalties even if you owe less than $ 1000 ) . Do I have to keep all record of transactions in order to calculate the gains and appropriate tax payment ? You need to keep all records as long as the tax year is open ( statute of limitation is 3-6 years for most income tax issues ) , however it is advised to digitize your records and keep it forever . You 'll need it in case of an audit or dispute with the IRS or the State taxing agency .
Summary When you invest in an S&amp;P 500 index fund that is priced in USD , the only major risk you bear is the risk associated with the equity that comprises the index , since both the equities and the index fund are priced in USD . The fund in your question , however , is priced in EUR . For a fund like this to match the performance of the S&amp;P 500 , which is priced in USD , as closely as possible , it needs to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . If the fund simply converted EUR to USD then invested in an S&amp;P 500 index fund priced in USD , the EUR-priced fund may fail to match the USD-priced fund because of exchange rate fluctuations . Why hedging is important Here is a simple example demonstrating why hedging is necessary . I assumed the current value of the USD-priced S&amp;P 500 index fund is 1,600 USD/share . The exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR . If you purchase one share of this index using EUR , you would pay 1230.77 EUR/share : If the S&amp;P 500 increases 10 % to 1760 USD/share and the exchange rate remains unchanged , the value of the your investment in the EUR fund also increases by 10 % ( both sides of the equation are multiplied by 1.1 ) : However , the currency risk comes into play when the EUR/USD exchange rate changes . Take the 10 % increase in the price of the USD index occurring in tandem with an appreciation of the EUR to 1.4 USD/EUR : Although the USD-priced index gained 10 % , the appreciation of the EUR means that the EUR value of your investment is almost unchanged from the first equation . For investments priced in EUR that invest in securities priced in USD , the presence of this additional currency risk mandates the use of a hedge if the indexes are going to track . The fund you linked to uses <URL> , which I discuss in detail below , to hedge against fluctuations in the EUR/USD exchange rate . Since these derivatives are n't free , the cost of the hedge is included in the expenses of the fund and may result in differences between the S&amp;P 500 Index and the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index . Also , it 's important to realize that any time you invest in securities that are priced in a different currency than your own , you take on currency risk whether or not the investments aim to track indexes . This holds true even for securities that trade on an exchange in your local currency , like ADR 's or GDR 's . I wrote an <URL> that goes through a simple example in a similar fashion to the one above in that context , so you can read that for more information on currency risk in that context . Process of hedging There are several ways to investors , be they institutional or individual , can hedge against currency risk . <URL> offers an ETF that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index and uses a over-the-counter currency swap contract called a <URL> to hedge against the associated currency risk . In these contracts , two parties agree to swap some amount of one currency for another amount of another currency , at some time in the future . This allows both parties to effectively lock in an exchange rate for a given time period ( a month in the case of the iShares ETF ) and therefore protect themselves against exchange rate fluctuations in that period . There are other forms of <URL> , <URL> , etc. that could be used to hedge against currency risk . In general , two parties agree to swap one quantity , like a EUR cash flow , payments of a fixed interest rate , etc. for another quantity , like a USD cash flow , payments based on a floating interest rate , etc. . In many cases these are over-the-counter transactions , there is n't necessarily a standardized definition . For example , if the European manager of a fund that tracks the S&amp;P 500 Euro Hedged Index is holding euros and wants to lock in an effective exchange rate of 1.4 USD/EUR ( above the current exchange rate ) , he may find another party that is holding USD and wants to lock in the respective exchange rate of 0.71 EUR/USD . The other party could be an American fund manager that manages a USD-price fund that tracks the FTSE . By swapping USD and EUR , both parties can , at a price , lock in their desired exchange rates . Final note I want to clear up something else in your question too . It 's not correct that the " S&amp;P 500 is completely unrelated to the Euro . " Far from it . There are many cases in which the EUR/USD exchange rate and the level of the S&amp;P 500 index could be related . For example : Troublesome economic news in Europe could cause the euro to depreciate against the dollar as European investors flee to safety , e.g. invest in Treasury bills . However , this economic news could also cause US investors to feel that the global economy wo n't recover as soon as hoped , which could affect the S&amp;P 500 . If the euro appreciated against the dollar , for whatever reason , this could increase profits for US businesses that earn part of their profits in Europe . If a US company earns 1 million EUR and the exchange rate is 1.3 USD/EUR , the company earns 1.3 million
Hedge funds work by investing on variety of instruments including options and derivatives . i.e. they even short sell the stocks if they believe that the market is going down . They may also buy stocks that may not be fundamentally sound , just to make few bucks out of it . Mutual funds on the other hand stick to purely picking up good stocks that are supposed to give good returns over a period of time . They churn of portfolio is less compared to the Hedge fund . More details at <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Are Shiller real-estate futures and options catching on with investors ?
The Case-Schiller macro derivatives market has seen very minimal activity . For example , in the three regional markets of San Diego ( SDG ) , Boston ( BOS ) and Los Angeles ( LAX ) on 28 November 2011 , there was zero trading volume , no trades settled , no open interest . Source : <URL> [ PDF ] for all 20 regional indices . Why have n't these real-estate futures caught on with investors ? Some new futures products are n't successful , for exogenous or marketing-related reasons ( not the case here , I do n't believe ) . Current economic uncertainty is discouraging proprietary traders from entering a new market , one with no prior history . Pension funds are the other plausible buyers of these products . Real estate derivatives offer a unique opportunity to mitigate risk concentration through more diversified holdings , while maintaining liquidity . Yet pension fund managers are unlikely to get approval to invest in a new security type now . Again , this would be due to high levels of uncertainty about the economy in general , as well as the uncertain effect of new Dodd-Frank related securities regulations . Keep in mind that the CME introduced these indices , with support from Professor Shiller <URL> several years ago . The CME seems committed to wait this out , as they have shown <URL> of dropping the Case-Shiller indices . There are alternative real-estate investment securities to the Case-Shiller indices . I do n't think the market of investors is so small that Case-Shiller has been , in effect , " crowded out " by them . I think it is more likely a matter of known quantities . Also , I do n't know how well these alternatives are doing ! Additional reference : CME spec 's for Case-Shiller index <URL> and <URL> contracts .
No , not only . OTC stocks are stocks not traded on regulated exchanges , but these are still stocks that represent shares of ownership in various companies . There may be numerous reasons why the company would not be trading on a regulated exchange . There are many privately held companies which are n't officially listed on a regulated exchange , but which stocks are popular and sought after . For example , Facebook was trading on OTC for quite a while before their IPO because they were not listed publicly yet some people had shares that they could trade ( some early employees/investors with fully vested stocks were selling them OTC ) . Another example would be many companies <URL> for one reason or another ( many times companies late with their SEC filings get delisted from a regulated exchange , yet there are retail investors owning stocks trying to get rid of , or buy some while they 're cheap ) . If you believe the company now in trouble will get better - you 'd want to invest in it even if it is not listed on a regulated exchange .
You did the math correctly . You do n't lose the entire deduction for the sake of the FSA . But it does come off the top , so as you calculated , you still have $ 5000 to take as an itemized deduction .
The income and recurring costs will be shown at the end of each year , however the initial cost is recorded at the time they are incurred meaning at t = 0 ( Jan 2014 ) The first net profits/loss of 658500 is recorded at the end of Dec 2014 ( t = 1 ) And the remaining four ones at the end of 2015 ( t = 2 ) 2016 ( t = 3 ) 2017 ( t = 4 ) 2018 ( t = 5 ) -8000000 658500 658500 658500 658500 6658500 t = 0 ) -8000000 t = 1 ) 658500 t = 2 ) 658500 t = 3 ) 658500 t = 4 ) 658500 t = 5 ) 6658500
First , your benchmark : Your SB account gives you 4 % . Now , consider a fixed deposit . Banks offer you those , at rates that depend on the term . The 1-year FD today gets you between 9 and 9.5 % . While the term is locked in , you can get an early withdrawal - if you exit the 1 year FD within , say , 60 days , they 'll give you the interest rate that applied for 60 days when you started the FD ( with some banks reducing a further 1 % from that rate as a penalty ) . Still , your principal is returned in full ( the penalty is only on the interest ) . Negatives : Taxes . The interest paid is fully taxed , and worse , taxes are deducted at source ( TDS = 10 % of the interest ) , so even if you do n't use the interest it 's counted as income and taxed . Next , consider a short term debt mutual fund . These are , for terms of more than a month , just as low on risk as a bank fixed deposit . There is no equity , and these funds put money back into bank wholesale deposits which give an even better rate . You can withdraw any time you want ( it takes only a day to get money back into your account ) . Usually early withdrawal penalties will apply for about 30 days , but if you have a longer horizon that should n't be a problem . The good part : No TDS , and the interest received is not considered " income " , until you withdraw . So if you get 9 % and do n't exit , you pay no taxes , and the compounding of the full 9 % happens . It 's an alternative to a Savings Bank account - just keep putting your money in , and take it out when you need it . The bad part : There is no guarantee that you 'll get 9 % ; with market prices being volatile , the yields could drop to 6 % . So you have to track this carefully ( currently , yields have been between 8 and 9 % for the last year ) A more detailed piece on this at : <URL> Choosing such a fund : I wrote an article about it at <URL> - I still continue to be invested in those funds ( and they 're giving me about 9 % ) The above are limited risk options . For a long term view I would consider equity investments ( buying stocks or equity mutual funds ) from reputed funds . If you 're risk averse consider buying a " balanced " fund like HDFC Prudence , where they invest part in fixed income markets and part in stocks . Lastly , do n't look at the recent past only . The Sensex has returned over 18 % in the last ten years , but the ten years before that were horrible . Equity markets are risky , but can give you fantastic returns as well .
I just read this article and found it useful <URL> Options outlined in the article ( read the article or about the different solutions to learn more ) : Continue paying and wait until the home value comes back up ( if you have the money and are commited to this home ) Refinance ( if you qualify ) Rent it out ( if it makes sense financially and you know the pros and cons of being a landlord ) Loan modification ( but watch out for terms , it might end up increasing the monthly payment ) Foreclosure or walking away ( big credit hit ) Deed in lieu ( give home ownership to bank , credit hit ) Short sale ( if you find a buyer and the lender agrees to it , credit hit )
I have 2 PayPal accounts for this purpose ( with different email addresses ) . The first account is tied to my real email address , and has my real name , phone and home address associated with it . This account is also connected to my bank account and credit cards . For riskier transactions where I do n't need physical delivery ( or will accept delivery to my local post-office in cases where I do n't trust the seller with my personal details ) I use my secondary account , which has a secondary email address of mine , and a fake name and with a fake address , it is not connected to any external accounts . To send or receive money " anonymously " I first send money from my real account to my fake account ( inter-account transfers are free with PayPal ) , and then send the money to the seller from the fake account . This is in violation of PayPal 's terms of service , but I 've been using this system for the past 5 + years without any issues .
No , futures do not carry a premium . The premium on an option contract exists because the rights and obligations of the parties involved are not equivalent . On an option , one party has an obligation while the other party has a right to buy or sell at a price ( with no obligation to do so ) . This difference in obligation is why the side that sells the contract receives the premium while the side that buys the contract pays it . The side that gets more choice pays the side that gets fewer . With futures , the two sides are both obligated to fulfill the contract . Because their obligations are equivalent , neither pays a premium to the other .
When you buy a futures contract you are entering into an agreement to buy gold , in the future ( usually a 3 month settlement date ) . this is not an OPTION , but a contract , so each party is taking risk , the seller that the price will rise , the buyer that the price will fall . Unlike an option which you can simply choose not to exercise if the price goes down , with futures you are obligated to follow through . ( or sell the contract to someone else , or buy it back ) The price you pay depends on the margin , which is related to how far away the settlement date is , but you can expect around 5 % , so the minimum you could get into is 100 troy ounces , at todays price , times 5 % . Since we 're talking about 100 troy ounces , that means the margin required to buy the smallest sized future contract would be about the same as buying 5 ounces of gold . roughly $ 9K at current prices . If you are working through a broker they will generally require you to sell or buy back the contract before the settlement date as they do n't want to deal with actually following through on the purchase and having to take delivery of the gold . How much do you make or lose ? Lets deal with a smaller change in the price , to be a bit more realistic since we are talking typically about a settlement date that is 3 months out . And to make the math easy lets bump the price of gold to $ 2000/ounce . That means the price of a futures contract is going to be $ 10K Lets say the price goes up 10 % , Well you have basically a 20:1 leverage since you only paid 5 % , so you stand to gain $ 20,000 . Sounds great right ? WRONG . . because as good as the upside is , the downside is just as bad . If the price went down 10 % you would be down $ 20000 , which means you would not only have to cough up the 10K you committed but you would be expected to ' top up the margin ' and throw in ANOTHER $ 10,000 as well . And if you ca n't pay that up your broker might close out your position for you . oh and if the price has n't changed , you are mostly just out the fees and commissions you paid to buy and sell the contract . With futures contracts you can lose MORE than your original investment . NOT for the faint of heart or the casual investor . NOT for folks without large reserves who can afford to take big losses if things go against them . I 'll close this answer with a quote from the site I 'm linking below The large majority of people who trade futures lose their money . That 's a fact . They lose even when they are right in the medium term , because futures are fatal to your wealth on an unpredicted and temporary price blip . Now consider that , especially the bit about ' price blip ' and then look at the current volatility of most markets right now , and I think you can see how futures trading can be as they say ' Fatal to your Wealth ' ( man , I love that phrase , what a great way of putting it ) This <URL> has a pretty decent primer on the whole thing . their view is perhaps a bit biased due to the nature of their business , but on the whole their description of how things work is pretty decent . <URL> has a more detailed ( and perhaps more objective ) tutorial on the futures thing . Well worth your time if you think you want to do anything related to the futures market .
This is a great question ! The IRS is not 100 % clear on this . IRS publications do however very strongly suggest that assuming your wife has a plan providing family coverage , you can contribute up to your family maximum . If she does NOT have a family coverage plan then the answer is definitively no , you may only contribute the individual limit . Note if you have children covered by her plan then she is considered to have " family coverage " even if you are not covered by her plan ( see <URL> ) . Latest IRS HSA Publication From the <URL> , bottom of Page 4 . For 2012 , if you have self-only HDHP coverage , you can contribute up to $ 3,100 . If you have family HDHP coverage , you can contribute up to $ 6,250 . This is presumably the referencing the definition which is introduced and discussed for married couples on Page 6 : Rules for married people . If either spouse has family HDHP coverage , both spouses are treated as having family HDHP coverage . If each spouse has family coverage under a separate plan , the contribution limit for 2012 is $ 6,250 . You must reduce the limit on contributions , before taking into account any additional contributions , by the amount contributed to both spouse 's Archer MSAs . After that reduction , the contribution limit is split equally between the spouses unless you agree on a different division . Example . For 2012 , Mr. Auburn and his wife are both eligible individuals . They each have family coverage under separate HDHPs . Mr. Auburn is 58 years old and Mrs. Auburn is 53 . Mr. and Mrs. Auburn can split the family contribution limit ( $ 6,250 ) equally or they can agree on a different division . If they split it equally , Mr. Auburn can contribute $ 4,125 to an HSA ( one-half the maximum contribution for family coverage ( $ 3,125 ) + $ 1,000 additional contribution ) and Mrs. Auburn can contribute $ 3,125 to an HSA . The last example is nearly the exact situation you are in assuming your wife 's plan is family coverage . The only assumption beyond what is explicitly written you need to make is that you are considered to have family coverage in the example as per the " Rules for married people " section , even though your plan only is a single-coverage plan . This conclusion seems to logically follow from information in the FAQs <URL> ( see Q32 ) , as well as <URL> document . Neither the above example nor any IRS documents referenced in this answer cover your situation completely .
This sounds like an investment club . Assuming the securities being purchased can be easily valued at each point of purchase ( e.g. if they are public securities being purchased ) , then you can use a unit valuation system . See <URL> : " UVS is a time weighted performance metric " . Then calculating the rates of return for A , B , and C would be based on their respective unit holdings and purchases . You could use IRR on each set .
Credit cards are meant to be used so generally it does n't hurt your credit score to use them . To top it off you even get an interest grace period so you do n't have to rush home and pay balances as soon as they 're charged . In general you accrue charges during your statement period , we 'll call it September 1 through September 30 . The statement due date is something like 20 days after the close of the statement period , so we 'll call it October 20 . As long as you habitually pay your entire statement balance by the due date you will never pay interest . You charge your laptop on September 3 , it shows up on your statement as $ 1,300 , you pay $ 1,300 on October 18 , you pay no interest . However , if you pay $ 1,000 on October 18 leaving a $ 300 balance to be carried in to the next statement period ( a carried balance ) you will pay interest . Generally interest is calculated based on your average daily balance during the statement period , which is now be the October 1 to October 31 period . You 'll notice that you did n't pay anything until the October 18 , that means the entire $ 1,300 will be included in your average daily balance up to the 18th of the month . Add to that , anything else you charge on the card now will be included in your average daily balance for interest charge calculation purposes . The moral of the story is , use your card , and pay your entire statement balance before the due date . Now how much will this impact your credit score ? It 's tough to say . Utilization is not a bad thing until it 's a big number . I 've read that 70 % utilization and over is really the point at which lenders will raise an eyebrow and under 30 % is considered excellent . If you have one card and $ 1,300 is a significant portion of your available limit , then yes you should probably pay it down quickly . Spend six or so months using the card and paying it , then call your bank and ask for a credit line increase .
First , the usual caveat applies : consult a tax professional with experience in these matters . That being said , the term you 're looking for is a <URL> . The 60/40 rule applies to any contract that falls under this designation , which includes Regulated futures contracts Foreign currency contracts Nonequity options Dealer equity options Dealer securities futures contracts Futures options ( on commodities , indexes , etc. ) would fall under the " nonequity option " category , which is any listed option ( defined later ) that is not an equity option . Nonequity options include debt options , commodity futures options , currency options , and broad-based stock index options . A broad-based stock index is based on the value of a group of diversified stocks or securities ( such as the Standard and Poor 's 500 index ) .
IANAL , nor am I a financial professional . However , I 've just looked into this because of a relative 's death , and I have minor children . I am in the US . First , a named beneficiary on many accounts means that any proceeds are kept out of the estate and do not have to go through probate . That usually means that they 're available much more quickly . Second , a beneficiary statement trumps a will . The account may pay out long before a will is even filed with the probate court . Third , you can name a trust as the beneficiary . In this case , because you want to make sure the money goes to your children , that 's likely your best option .
The tax tables are created from the tax rates . Its not as simple as multiple taxable income by the rate for your tax bracket , due to the way tax brackets work . The rate for each tax bracket only applies for certain income ranges . For example , the first $ 8,375 are taxed at 10 % , $ 8,375 - $ 34k at 15 % , $ 34k - $ 82,400 at 25 % , etc. . So just because you are in the 25 % tax bracket does n't mean that you are paying 25 % on your entire income . If you have 82,400 in taxable income , and assuming the singe rate , your tax is 16,788 for an effective tax rate of 20 % of taxable income . Your effective tax rate is actually less than that if you base the calculation on your adjusted gross income . Your <URL> is simply your total taxes divided by your total income . The tax rate and the tax table are based on your taxable income , which is your gross income minus any deductions and credits .
You likely received the shares as ordinary income for services of $ 10k , since they withheld taxes at granting . Separately , you likely had a short term capital loss on sale of $ 2k , since your holding period seems to have been under one year .
Given the context , I 'd imagine you need to give at least 24 hours notice of viewings so that the landlord can inform the tenant ( probably due to a clause in the lease )
Sale of a stock creates a capital gain . It can be offset with losses , up to $ 3000 more than the gains . It can be deferred when held within a retirement account . When you gift appreciated stock , the basis follows . So when I gifted my daughter 's trust shares , there was still tax due upon sale . The kiddy tax helped reduce but not eliminate it . And there was no quotes around ownership . The money is gone , her account is for college . No 1031 exchange exists for stock .
The Case-Schiller macro derivatives market has seen very minimal activity . For example , in the three regional markets of San Diego ( SDG ) , Boston ( BOS ) and Los Angeles ( LAX ) on 28 November 2011 , there was zero trading volume , no trades settled , no open interest . Source : <URL> [ PDF ] for all 20 regional indices . Why have n't these real-estate futures caught on with investors ? Some new futures products are n't successful , for exogenous or marketing-related reasons ( not the case here , I do n't believe ) . Current economic uncertainty is discouraging proprietary traders from entering a new market , one with no prior history . Pension funds are the other plausible buyers of these products . Real estate derivatives offer a unique opportunity to mitigate risk concentration through more diversified holdings , while maintaining liquidity . Yet pension fund managers are unlikely to get approval to invest in a new security type now . Again , this would be due to high levels of uncertainty about the economy in general , as well as the uncertain effect of new Dodd-Frank related securities regulations . Keep in mind that the CME introduced these indices , with support from Professor Shiller <URL> several years ago . The CME seems committed to wait this out , as they have shown <URL> of dropping the Case-Shiller indices . There are alternative real-estate investment securities to the Case-Shiller indices . I do n't think the market of investors is so small that Case-Shiller has been , in effect , " crowded out " by them . I think it is more likely a matter of known quantities . Also , I do n't know how well these alternatives are doing ! Additional reference : CME spec 's for Case-Shiller index <URL> and <URL> contracts .
The " $ 1000 is no money at all " people are amusing me . Way back in the mists of time , a very young me invested on the order of ~ $ 500 in a struggling electronics manufacturer I had a fondness for . An emotional investment , not much money , but enough that I could get a feel for what it was like owning stock in something . That stock 's symbol was AAPL . This is admittedly a rare outcome , but $ 1000 invested over the long term is n't not worth doing . If for no other reason then when the OP has " real " money , he 'll have X + $ 1000 invested rather than X , assuming 0 % return , which I doubt . It 's a small enough amount that there are special considerations , but it 's a solid opportunity for learning how the market works , and making a little money . Anyway , my advice to the OP is as follows : All of this assumes you have enough money to live on , and this $ 1000 is indeed " play money " . If you need this money for books , rent , etc. put it in a savings account . Putting $ 1000 into the market , and then needing to tap high interest credit card debt to make ends meet is losing money . Consider opening a Roth IRA . If you 've already got the money , you 've already been taxed on it , and as a non-working student , your tax rate is as low as its likely going to be . Consider how much risk you 're willing to shoulder . Are you alright with having $ 0 at the end of all this ? Take a look at index ETFs and mutual funds . While these do n't have a spectacular return , at least recently , the market as of Fall 2011 is unusually highly correlated , which means it 's unlikely that you 'll do much worse or staggeringly better unless you 're lucky . Pay special attention to commissions and expenses with these , as they can eat into your returns , which will admittedly be small . An $ 10 commission on a $ 10,000 investment is much less of a big deal than it is on a $ 1,000 investment . Some discount brokerages even have mutual funds that are themselves baskets of index funds ( instant diversification ) , and if you 're a client with them , these have low minimum investments and fairly small fees , which are properties you 're looking for . Which brings me to the last bit . Whatever you end up doing , hold it . Actively trading with as little money as you have will devour your returns with transaction fees .
end question
start question
When buying expensive electronics is it worth getting the extended warranty ?
My knee-jerk reaction was " no , they are not worth it " , but I took a little time to look up what some of the trusted names in consumer electronics reviews had to say about extended warranties/service contracts . A <URL> writer said that your decision should consider the price of the service contract relative to the price of the item you 're buying , as well as the amount of hassle you 're willing to endure , should something go wrong . <URL> believes that the warranties that come with your products are almost always enough , and they say that electronics and appliances are so well-built nowadays , the likelihood of you needing extra service before you upgrade are slim-to-none . And the folks over at <URL> offer the same maybe-yes-maybe-no advice as the cnet guys : depends on your appetite for risk and the options available to you . So I would suggest that the answer be " no " most of the time , but consider it anyway .
I think that the reason is the same one that is driving the costs of undergraduate degrees . There is no incentive to provide competitive costs because Economic inflation is pushing this up just like everything else . Anyone that wants that degree or doctorate needs to go to an accredited school ( same for undergrad ) . Financial aid and private loans ( even at horrible rates ) are widely available and are not given out with proper credit risk analysis . I will admit that I 'm from the school of thought that financial aid is partially to blame because it subsidizes the true costs and alters the supply and demand that is at work in all markets . I think that if the costs were allowed to reflect the supply and demand without subsidization through heavy financial aid , they would push demand down and stabilize the costs . I also think that eventually the costs would begin to fall to reflect the loss in revenue from people not going to school , and then the system would balance itself . That 's the beauty of a true free market , whether you believe that the actual supply or actual demand is ethically right , it does reflect the true costs .
You ca n't buy it outright . You ca n't take the time to save up . if the remaining choice is between a card that charges from day one , and a card with this kind of grace period , the grace card is the better choice . Plan wisely , pay it in full before that rate starts to be charged . One additional note - There are two groups of people , the pay-in-fullers and the balance carriers . I believe that one should pay in full , and never pay interest . A zero rate offer can be used by the balance carrier to feel great for 12 months , but have even more debt after the rate kicks in . As a pay-in-full user , I 've used the zero rate to throw $ 20K at the 5.25 % mortgage , and planned a refinance to 3.5 % just as it ended . a $ 750 savings ( after the tax effect ) well worth the bit of effort . The fees should be in the fine print . My zero rate had a transfer fee , $ 50 max , which was nothing in comparison to the savings .
I quit diligently reconciling monthly statements some years before everything was online , when I realized that for years before that , every time I thought I found a mistake , it was always my own error . I was spending a fair amount of time ( over the years ) doing something that was n't helping me . So I quit . That said , I do look at the statements and/or check the transactions on a regular basis ( I now use email notifications of automatic deposits as the trigger , and then look over withdrawals , too ) to make sure everything looks appropriate . I 'm less concerned about a bank error than I am about identity or account theft .
Over the past five years , QFVOX has returned 13.67 % , compared to the index fund SPY that has returned 50.39 % . SEVAX has lost 23.96 % . AKREX has returned 81.82 % . In two of your three examples , you would have done much better in an index fund with a very low expense ratio as suggested . While one can never , as you see , make a generalization , in almost every case , most investors will do better , and often much better , with an index fund with a low expense ratio . My source was Google Finance . <URL>
Generally , a polite decline . However , I have dealt with sales people who take first refusal as a " test " response , and decide to go into the details anyway . The longer they talk the more robust my responses . See this Telegraph article that discusses why their experts think it 's a ripoff , and why you should check your credit cards and home insurance policies as they may already have you covered ( possibly UK/Europe only ) . <URL> On a different note , see this list of questions to ask if you are considering going with the extended warranty . The source does n't rule for or against the idea , leaving it at caveat emptor : <URL>
If I buy VUSA from one exchange , can I sell it in a different exchange , assuming my brokerage account lets me trade in both exchanges ? Or is it somehow tied to the exchange I bought it from ? This does n't happen for all securities and between all stock exchanges . So that is dependent on broker and country . I checked for VUSA with Selftrade . They categorically refused allowing me to trade in VUSA in different exchanges . I can only buy and sell in same currency only , albeit sell ( buy ) in the same exchange where I buy ( sell ) from . Should be the same behaviour for all brokers for us mere mortals , if you are a bank or a millionaire than that might be a different question . The VUSA you quote is quoted in GBP in LSE and in EUR in AEX , and the ETF has been created by an Irish entity and has an Irish ISIN . As Chris mentioned below , happens between US and Canadian exchanges , but not sure it happens across all exchanges . You can not deal in inter-listed stocks in LSE and NYSE . Since it 's the same asset , its value should not vary across exchanges once you compensate for exchange rates , right ? Yes , else it opens up itself for arbitrage ( profit without any risk ) which everybody wants . So even if any such instance occurs , either people will exploit it to make the arbitrage profit zero ( security reflects the equilibrium price ) or the profit from such transaction is so less , compared with the effort involved , that people will tend to ignore it . Anyways arbitrage profit is very difficult to garner nowadays , considering the super computers at work in the market who exploit these discrepancies , the moment they see them and bring the security right to the zero arbitrage profit point . If there 's no currency risk because of # 2 , what other factors should I consider when choosing an exchange to trade in ? Liquidity ? Something else ? Time difference , by the time you wake up to trade in Japan , the Japanese markets would have closed . Tax implications across multiple continents . Law of the land , providing protection to investors . Finding a broker dealing in markets you want to explore or dealing with multiple brokers . Regulatory headaches .
If you can afford it , Yes . You will be able to roll it over ( however much it has in it ) to your next 401K , or to your own self-directed IRA . Anything you can afford to save now will begin to compound , and with compounding ( and being in your mid-twenties ) , time is everything .
No . This logic is dangerous . The apples to apples comparison between renting and buying should be between similar living arrangements . One ca n't ( legitimately ) compare living in a 600 sq ft studio to a 3500 sq ft house . With the proposal you offer , one should get the largest mortgage they qualify for , but that can result in a house far too big for their needs . Borrowing to buy just what you need makes sense . Borrowing to buy a house with rooms you may never visit , not a great idea . By the way , do the numbers . The 30 year rate is 4 % . You 'd need a $ 250,000 mortgage to get $ 10,000 in interest the first year , that 's a $ 312,000 house given an 80 % loan . On a median income , do you think it makes sense to buy a house twice the US median ? Last , a portion of the tax savings is ' lost ' to the fact that you have a standard deduction of nearly $ 6,000 in 2012 . So that huge mortgage gets you an extra $ 4000 in write-off , and $ 600 back in taxes . Do n't ever let the Tax Tail wag the Investing Dog , or in this case the House Dog . Edit - the investment return on real estate is a hot topic . I think it 's fair to say that long term one must include the rental value of the house in calculating returns . In the case of buying of way-too-big house , you are not getting the return , it 's the same as renting a four bedroom , but leaving three empty . If I can go on a bit - I own a rental , it 's worth $ 200K and after condo fee and property tax , I get $ 10K/yr . A 5 % return , plus whatever appreciation . Now , if I lived there , I 'd correctly claim that part of my return is the rental value , the rent I do n't pay elsewhere , so the return to me is the potential growth as well as saved rent . But if the condo rents for $ 1200 , and I 'd otherwise live in a $ 600 apartment with less space , the return to me is lost . In my personal case , in fact , I bought a too big house . Not too big for our paycheck , the cost and therefore the mortgage were well below what the bank qualified us for . Too big for the need . I paid for two rooms we really do n't use .
No , in the vast majority of cases . ( I +1 with littleadv but I wanted to add another idea ) If you happen to have a reason to suspect somebody you know will be attempting to steal your identity as a means of revenge , having a monitoring service might provide you peace of mind . ( Or you know you have been exposed via other criminal activity ) You can also get free monitoring from Credit Karma ( which is run by Transunion I think ) . It wo n't be all inclusive as it is only one agency , but I do n't see the harm . But the best solution for almost everybody is to <URL> . Freezing your credit will prevent the most harmful shenanigans that a credit monitoring service will only be able to tell you about after the fact . Freezing is typically cheaper as well . You ca n't have credit opened in your name you do n't know about , so monitoring your existing statements and a freeze will keep you as protected as any service I know of .
Many companies that contract their employees use a multiplier of 2x when relating what they need to charge compared to what they can pay . If the employee makes 50K a year , then they have to charge $ 50 dollars an hour . Yes that math is correct . That difference covers the cost of benefits ( both required and optional ) , overhead for management and support staff , plus equipment and utilities , and of course profit . Some of these costs are fixed : a family health policy from insurance company x is the same for a minimum wage worker , and the CEO . Some are based on a percentage of salary , others are a percentage of salary with a ceiling : social security and medicare . These multipliers are used contract wide or maybe even company wide so they are averages . It will cost the company in true dollars more than just the bump in salary , but the last dollar is not as expensive as the first dollar . This is why having a team split 40 hours of overtime a week is probably cheaper than hiring a new employee .
As for a formula , there is n't a simple one that you can apply to every type insurance . I 'll try my best for a simple answer . Is the event devastating enough to change your lifestyle ( looking at life necessities , not wants and nice to haves ) ? Is the event very likely to happen ? Do you have enough emergency funds to cover such an event ? Once that emergency fund is utilized , how long does it take you to restore that fund to be ready for the next event ? If the event is devastating enough and is very likely to happen and you do not have the cash to cover the event , and/or it would take too long to restore that emergency fund , then it makes sense to consider insurance . Then you would have to examine if the benefit ( s ) outweight cost of the premium paid for the insurance . If it is pennies of premium for a dollar of benefit , then it makes sense .
Sounds like you 've got a good approach on the cost/benefit calculation and just lack one of the variables . My own findings are confirming that information on specific insurance company defensive driving discounts are n't generally disclosed , and discounts are n't consistent across companies . Some insurance company pages I found do confirm many offer a discount , but not exactly what percentage that discount would be . Further browsing revealed : an <URL> : " they offer a 10 % discount if I take a defensive driving class " a mention from <URL> & sup1 ; that " Some insurance companies give a reduction in rates to course participants " -- meaning , other insurance companies might not ! <URL> : " Courses may also qualify the student for a discount on car insurance . " [ my emphasis ] An <URL> stating " varies [ ... ] but discounts of 5-15 % are common . " So if we told you " between zilch and 15 % " , does that satisfy or would you still be wondering ? ;-) I think you need to seek out information specific to your case . IIWY , I would call my car insurance company and ask : " If I qualified for your defensive driving discount , how much would I be paying for my policy , all else being equal ? What specific or kinds of courses would qualify me ? Online , or in-car only ? " It 's in their interest to inform you on this , since better trained policy-holders are less likely to claim . & sup1 ; Note : I do n't endorse any particular company ; this was just an example from my search results .
What does this mean ? This fund is not an investment company regulated under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and is not afforded its protections . That the fund is n't a traditional open-end mutual fund , unit investment trust or closed-end fund . The <URL> as noted on Investopedia was created after the crash of 1929 to regulate these instruments . What happens if ProShare decided to delist this ETF ? I 'd presume shareholders would get the proceeds from the liquidation of the fund , though delisting is n't likely though reverse splits would be my caution as if the price gets low enough some exchanges may request companies do reverse splits that can annoy some people . Anything else you think is important to know to trade this ETF ? Yes , understand what strategy you have around trading this ETF in terms of getting in and out as it could be quite a volatile holding looking at its graph .
There are several distinctions that need to be made in order to properly address this question . For one the make and model needs to be considered . Each such make and model have different rates of depreciation . Another is the age of a car made in comparison . You cite a two year old car , but the variables will be quite different if you buy one that is five years old , then one that is ten or two . Also a well maintained five year old car can easily also last 10 years , the time you cite owning of a new car . However , in general , these are the things to consider in evaluating the risk : 1 ) Asset loss . If you own the vehicle to term , and sell , you will realize the loss of an asset . You buy a 30K car , and in 10 years it will probably be worth around 5K . About 2500 per year . You will lose less buying a 2 year old car , and driving it 8 years . To really avoid asset loss buy a 10 year old car and drive it for 3 to 5 years . 2 ) Being forced to sell prior to term . While there is probably not much difference in the asset loss of owing a new car 10 years , and owning a 2 year old car 8 years you might be required to sell prior to the term in question . Most often this will happen because of destruction of a vehicle . A loss in the first couple of years of ownership is especially devastating because of the rapid declining in values . 3 ) Higher ancillary costs . When you pay more for a new car , that sales tax amounts to something . Additionally you may pay higher insurance or licensing fees . In some occupations or status in life you may be better owning a newer car . Salesmen who have to portray a level of wealth in order to make sales should drive only late model " clean " cars . The same may hold if you are single and on the hunt for a mate . In short there are a lot of assumptions and variables one has to make . Very difficult comparison to make . However , if you save up and pay cash for a car , you know you can afford it !
I wo n't discuss the current market as much as I will address the title question . Is selling your house without an agent worth the hassle ? It depends on who you are . Take a good hard look at yourself and ask yourself - do I know anything about houses ? the market ? the paperwork involved in a sale ? do I like talking with people I do n't know ? am I comfortable sharing my opinions , advising others , negotiating ? does anyone ever say I could sell ice to an Eskimo ? am I familiar with other neighbourhoods , features , benefits , nearby amenities , comparable homes , design elements , etc ? Am I available , do I have time to do showings , can I handle the communication , appointments , etc necessary to show the home ? What is a reasonable asking price ? How did I arrive at it ? How will I justify it to a buyer ? There is a great deal more involved with selling a home than many people think . If you read through the above list and think , I do n't even know where I would start to talk about any of this , chances are you either need an agent , or assistance from someone you trust who can help you in these areas . I watched a neighbour sell his home privately a year or two ago . He wrote up a great ad with a popular company that supports private sellers . The home had undergone many upgrades , the ad raved about them and all other related info , the price was realistic in the market at the time , and he was a gregarious , confident guy who worked in sales . He had no problem taking calls , answering questions , and had enough handyman experience and reno background that he could speak confidently about the condition of the home . He got a great price , over asking , in about 20 days . Contrast this to another person I watched list her home privately . She was quiet , a teacher , with an unassuming , though lovely personality . The home needed some upgrading but was solid and attractive , the ad was more generic , the photos were flat and unexciting . Same great neighbourhood , but you 'd never guess it from the ad . Same website . Similar market timing . She reduced , then reduced again . I think it took six months before it finally sold . I could n't have imagined her selling anything , much less a house . Or negotiating . Some people just do n't have that sales personality . Of course it 's much , much cheaper to do it on your own . But first ask yourself , are you up for the challenge ?
We tried to negotiate the price for some but the sellers were always firm . We ended buying one in a dealership with warranty within the same price and mileage range . Why people are selling cars in Craigslist for much above the kbb prices cars that are not even worth that ? Apparently they are able to get those prices . If they were n't , they 'd compromise eventually . Look for older advertisements where people may be feeling more desperate . If you ca n't find them , then that means that the car is selling . They 're right about the prices ; Kelley Blue Book ( KBB ) is wrong . It 's interesting that the dealership has n't caught up yet . If the used car market on Craigslist is robust , it should carry over eventually . I would expect dealership prices to be noticeably higher on average . The warranty if nothing else . Perhaps Craigslist has too good a reputation . People are buying there even though they 'd be better off with a dealer . Easy enough to fix . Go to a dealer and offer to sell cars for them ( for commission ) . Advertise on Craigslist . Buyers should prefer warrantied cars over non-warrantied cars at the same price . With cars selling like hot cakes , the dealer will increase prices . KBB will adjust their numbers . Auction was n't a good option since we needed the car quickly and quality there varies and we do n't really know how to deal in auctions . I would n't recommend buying a car at auction unless you plan to buy a lot of cars . The quality is all over the place . You can get a great deal , but you are just as likely to get a lemon . If you buy a lot of cars , it will even out over time . But if you just need one , you can get royally screwed . Auctions are designed for buyers who are constantly processing cars . If one is a lemon , they can make it up on the next one . The low prices at auction are a sort of reverse insurance . They charge less because they ca n't guarantee quality . So let the dealers buy at auction and fix up the cars with a warranty . Because they do it often , it works out in the long run for them . For an individual buying one car , I would n't recommend it . Too much risk with too few options for mitigation . I realize this is just reinforcing what you already thought . I just do n't want other people to start diving into auctions without understanding how they work . Yes , cars can be cheaper there . But the reason is that auctions sell anything , including cars that the seller is dumping because they are lemons . In bulk , the risk is manageable . Individually , it is n't . You may get lucky , or you may get a turkey that costs you more than it benefits you .
I would say ASAP . I have recently been in your situation ( first-time home buyer ) so here 's our experience : We got an agent from the start . We started to look in August , aiming to close around end of the year , and ended up closing in December . We had a month period in the middle where we were not looking but otherwise almost all that time was spent looking so 3 months is definitely not too much time . We did skip some good options in the first weeks since we felt we did not see enough and do n't want to buy just yet . Looking back at it it probably was a mistake ( one looked like a really good deal , though I 'm not sure we would end up getting it , but if I knew what I know now I probably would have not passed on it ) . We could probably be more prepared if we did some stand-alone research - like just going to open houses , etc. but we did n't . However , that was one-of-a-kind deal and then we did n't see anything we liked for quite some time . We chose agent basing on the advice of friends who recently worked with them and we did not regret the decision . I think this is the best way to choose - it 's virtually impossible to distinguish good agent from bad one until you invest some time with them and since you have only 3 month wasting a month on a bad agent might put you in time-constrained situation . So solicit references from everyone you know and talk to agents that make their clients happy :) Now for what the agent does . Our agent helped us first with choosing the areas we want to look in , set up the searches . Then they helped us to plan visits ( we mostly did it on weekends , and looked 5-10 houses each time , so took some planning to organize ) , arrange it with seller agents and homeowners , getting keys for houses that are n't occupied , etc. . When we started doing offers , they helped us navigate the paperwork , understand what we are signing , what options we have , what are the steps and the timeframes , etc. . We had to go through and sign a stack of papers several inches high , literally , so the help of somebody who actually knows what these talk about and seen them before is very useful . Of course , this is for US , where such transactions inevitably causes a ton of papers to be signed , some locations may have more simple procedures but in the US I think the services of somebody who can navigate this paper jungle is essential , otherwise you have a big chance of signing something you should n't or not checking proper checkbox and ending up losing money . They also put us in contact with mortgage consultant which handled our mortgage needs and turned out to be quite good and efficient ( we checked other offers too but that one ended up best on service and prices - not the rock-bottom cheapest , but cheap enough to be competitive and excellent service ) . We could probably have figured that part out by ourselves if needed , but the agent helped us to know who to contact , what to ask for and how all the process should look like , which for first-time buyer is very helpful . There 's a lot of moving parts in the process and without knowledgeable person it 's sometimes hard to figure out how they should work together . So I would say find yourself a good agent ASAP and then start looking and use them to help you guide through the process . Note that the agent wants the process to be completed as soon as possible ( they get paid only when you close ) but you should not feel pressured by it - it 's your money on the line and it 's probably the biggest deal in your life so far , so do n't be afraid to take your time and ask them about anything , it 's their job to help you .
From the IRS page <URL> : Your tax year investment income must be $ 3,400 or less for the year . ( Emphasis mine . ) It is not the size of your investment that affects the EITC ; it is the amount of investment income that can disqualify you . Also , " investment income " in this case means taxable investment income . Inside your retirement account , any earnings your investments make would not disqualify you for the EITC .
If you are looking for numerical metrics I think the following are popular : Price/Earnings ( P/E ) - You mentioned this very popular one in your question . There are different P/E ratios - forward ( essentially an estimate of future earnings by management ) , trailing , etc. . I think of the P/E as a quick way to grade a company 's income statement ( i.e : How much does the stock cost verusus the amount of earnings being generated on a per share basis ? ) . Some caution must be taken when looking at the P/E ratio . Earnings can be " massaged " by the company . Revenue can be moved between quarters , assets can be depreciated at different rates , residual value of assets can be adjusted , etc. . Knowing this , the P/E ratio alone does n't help me determine whether or not a stock is cheap . In general , I think an affordable stock is one whose P/E is under 15 . Price/Book - I look at the Price/Book as a quick way to grade a company 's balance sheet . The book value of a company is the amount of cash that would be left if everything the company owned was sold and all debts paid ( i.e. the company 's net worth ) . The cash is then divided amoung the outstanding shares and the Price/Book can be computed . If a company had a price/book under 1.0 then theoretically you could purchase the stock , the company could be liquidated , and you would end up with more money then what you paid for the stock . This ratio attempts to answer : " How much does the stock cost based on the net worth of the company ? " Again , this ratio can be " massaged " by the company . Asset values have to be estimated based on current market values ( think about trying to determine how much a company 's building is worth ) unless , of course , mark-to-market is <URL> . This involves some estimating . Again , I do n't use this value alone in determing whether or not a stock is cheap . I consider a price/book value under 10 a good number . Cash - I look at growth in the cash balance of a company as a way to grade a company 's cash flow statement . Is the cash account growing or not ? As they say , " Cash is King " . This is one measurement that can not be " massaged " which is why I like it . The P/E and Price/Book can be " tuned " but in the end the company can not hide a shrinking cash balance . Return Ratios - Return on Equity is a measure of the amount of earnings being generated for a given amount of equity ( ROE = earnings / ( assets - liabilities ) ) . This attempts to measure how effective the company is at generating earnings with a given amount of equity . There is also Return on Assets which measures earnings returns based on the company 's assets . I tend to think an ROE over 15 % is a good number . These measurements rely on a company accurately reporting its financial condition . Remember , in the US companies are allowed to <URL> if approved by the government so be careful . There are <URL> who simply do n't follow the rules and report whatever numbers they like without penalty . There are many others . These are just a few of the more popular ones . There are many other considerations to take into account as other posters have pointed out .
end question
start question
How can I find the cheapest prepaid credit card ?
While this is a localized question that will change over time , nerdwallet.com tracks what they think are the best <URL> The deal with the prepaid cards is they shift around all the time , with who is the best at any given time being something you must shop for . So , here are the ways to shop for a prepaid card Look for the fees Monthly fees Transactions fees ATM Fees Fees to purchase the card Fess to reload the value on the card Balance inquiry fees Bill pay fees Inactivity fees ( which should tell you this is n't a great deal ) Look for limits ATM withdrawal limits Daily transaction limits Which ATMs you can use How to you put money on the card Will it accept direct deposits ? Is there a fee for that ? Other Gotchas Can you use it where you want to use it ? Will the card report to credit reporting agencies ?
TL ; DR summary : 0 % balance transfer offers and " free checks usable anywhere " rarely are a good deal for the customer . 0 % rate balance transfer offers ( and the checks usable anywhere including payment of taxes ) come with a transaction fee because the credit card company is paying off the balance on the other card ( or the tax or the electric bill ) in the full amount of $ X as stated on the other card statement or on the tax/electric bill ) . This is in contrast to a purchase transaction where if you buy something for $ X , you pay the card company $ X but the card company pays the merchant something less than $ X$ . ( Of course , the merchant has jacked up the sale price of the item to pass on the charge to you . ) Can you get the credit card company to waive the transaction fee ? You can try asking them but it is unlikely that you will succeed if your credit score is good ! I have seen balance transfer offers with no transaction fees made to people who have do n't have good credit scores and are used to carrying a balance on their credit cards . I assume that the company making the offer knows that it will make up the transaction fee from future interest payments . A few other points to keep in mind with respect to using a 0 % balance transfer offer to pay off a student loan ( or anything else for that matter ) : The unpaid part of the 0 % rate balance becomes subject to an interest rate that might be higher than the regular interest rate once the 0 % period expires . So , do n't pay off more of the student loan than you could have managed to pay directly over the 0 % rate period or you will be in a bigger hole when the 0 % rate period expires . After you accept a 0 % offer , your card 's status changes to " Did n't pay off last month 's statement due in full by the due date " and so interest is charged on new purchases from the date of purchase , that is , there is no " grace period " of 25 days to pay off the credit card without having to pay interest . The only way to avoid interest charges on purchases is to pay off in timely fashion the entire balance ( including the 0 % rate balance ) shown on the first monthly statement that you receive after acceptance of the offer ( balance transfer or check usage ) . So , at best , the transaction fee will be prepaid interest for a period of 55 days or so , making the APR much more than stated in Dheer 's answer . Of course , if you have a zero balance on the card , and can put away your credit card and not use it at all during the 0 % interest rate period , you can make this work in your favor . ( There is an answer somewhere on money.SE by Moderator @JoeTaxpayer that describes how he paid off a huge chunk of his mortgage via a 0 % rate loan , but very few of us can match his savvy or his iron discipline ) . If you are used to interest being charged from Day One of each purchase and rarely pay off the monthly statement in full , then be aware that if only the minimum payment due is made , that amount will be applied to the 0 % balance . Meanwhile , all your purchases and finance charges on them will continue to accrue unpaid . The CARD Act of 2009 mandates that the part of the payment that exceeds the minimum required payment must be applied to the part of the balance that has the highest interest rate . But , the minimum payment due ( or any lesser amount ) can be applied to whichever part of the balance the credit card company chooses , and they invariably choose to apply it to the lowest interest rate balance .
It will impact your credit score , but typically very minor - paying one bill late is much worse . It reduces your average credit card age , which is a minor contributor to credit score . The disadvantages are : you are giving them your address and name , and implicit permission to spam you with mail , email , etc. for the next years ; you can only do it once ( it 's typically in the fine print - new customers only ) it 's a lot of form filling and hassle Yes , you make 50 $ , and it 's not a bad hourly rate . But except if you really need that money , it 's not worth the effort .
If you have an AMEX from another country , you can get an AMEX in the US . American Express has a separate system that is not as strongly country-dependent as , say , VISA and MasterCard . Equifax operates in both Canada and the United States , so if you 're from Canada you can ask the bank to get your credit score through Equifax . Not a lot of people know about this but it can be done , so be persistent if they say it ca n't . This may be possible with other credit reporting agencies as well . If you have proof of income and some cash , most banks will let you get a card . They let teenagers with no credit get a card !
First and foremost you should do more research on credit cards and what everything means . As expressed by others the balance transfer fee is not what you think it is . Credit cards can be great , they can also quickly erode your credit score and your standing . So understanding the basics is VERY important . The credit card that is right for you should have the following criteria . Have no annual fee . Be accepted where you plan to use it . Provide the best perks for your situation . The first two points should be straight forward , you should not have to pay a CC company for the privilege to use their card . They should pay you through perks and rewards . It should also be a CC that can be used for what you need it for . If you travel internationally a lot and the CC you choose only works within the US then what good is it ? The third point is where you need to ask yourself what you do a lot and if a CC can offer rewards through travel miles , or cash back or other bonuses based on your lifestyle . The transfer fee is not what you think it is , people who already are carrying debt on another credit card and would like to transfer that debt to another credit card would be interested in finding a fee or a low % . People do this to get a batter rate or to get away from a bad credit card . If one charges 28 % and another charges 13 % , well it makes sense to transfer existing debt over to the 13 % provided they do n't crush you on fees . Since you have no credit card debt ( assumption based on the fact you want to build your credit ) , you should ask yourself for what purpose and how often do you plan to use the credit card . Would this card be just for emergencies , and wont be used on daily purchases then a credit card that offers 3 % cash back on gasoline purchases is not for you . If you however love to travel and plan to use your credit card for a lot of purchases OR have a few large purchases ( insurance , tuition etc. ) then get a credit card that provides rewards like miles . It really comes down to you and your situation . There are numerous websites dedicated to the best credit card for any situation . The final thing I will say is what I mentioned at the beginning , its important , CC 's can be a tool to establish and improve your credit worthiness , they can also be a tool to destroy your credit worthiness , so be careful and make smart choices on what you use your card for . A credit score is like a mountain , it requires a slow and steady discipline to reach the top , but one misstep and that credit score can tumble quickly .
The <URL> state the following : Credit Bureau Reporting . We may report information about your account to credit bureaus . Late payments , missed payments , or other defaults on your account may be shown in your credit report . The card is issued by Synchrony Bank . Generally , store cards do report to credit bureaus , so I see no reason why this one would not .
In general , it works like this . For ease of explanation , assume that the billing cycle is aligned on month boundaries , and have 10 days from the time you get the bill to when you have to pay . These numbers will vary by credit card , but the concept is the same . Between Jan. 1 and Jan 31 , you charge $ 1000 On Jan 31 , the January billing cycle ends You charge an additional $ 500 on Feb 5 , and nothing more for the rest of the month On Feb. 10 , you receive a bill for January , for $ 1000 , due on Feb. 20 On Feb. 20 , you pay your bill of $ 1000 . On Feb. 28 , the February billing cycle ends On March 10 , you receive a bill for $ 500 , due on March 20 . There would be no interest charged in this scenario . As long as you pay the total amount of each bill by the due date , there is no interest charge . Note that if you continuously charge on your card , it may never have a zero balance , even though you are paying your bill on time .
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
In general , things to look for are : How high is is the account 's rate of return ? How easy is it to access your money ? Things to look out for : Minimum monthly amounts to put into checking accounts , or you 'll be dinged with a monthly fee Large expense ratios in " mutual funds " you invest into , or $ 5 + dollar expenses when investing in mutual funds . I 'd recommend two places : Find a high interest HSA savings account . For example , <URL> currently offers 1.5 % to members without direct deposit , 2.5 % to members with $ 500 direct deposit in a checking account . EDIT : SFCU has dropped their rates substantially and is not a recommended bank for this purpose . For longer term investments , consider <URL> which have Vanguard Admiral funds . Realize this is a bit more risky if you 're depositing/withdrawing money often , but it can pay off assuming the stock/bond market has a higher rate of return . This is , however , risky , as many people mention that you should not plan on having " growth " in a mutual fund like this unless you keep and hold money there for 3 or more years . Additionally , the customer service of Fulton Bank is awesome . I 'd recommend reading up on HSA 's in this <URL> .
It does not matter . Your credit score is affected by late payments , by credit usage and by age of credit . DO NOT PAY LATE . Paying early is only good in that it means you do n't pay late . Your credit usage is calculated by percentage of the credit you have that you actually use . Keep your usage to under 20 % of your limit and you look great as a credit risk as you have lots of buffer .
To add to ChrisH 's response : In addition to front end load and back end load , there are also fund expenses for trading , management , administration , etc. . These expenses are rolled up and reported as the fund 's Management Expense Ratio ( MER ) . Furthermore , there are also funds that are sold on a No Load basis , which means you do n't pay either a front or back end load type of commission . However , MERs are always present . Funds may also pay trailer fees to the advisors that sell them . These are small commission amounts paid each year . All of these fees add up and can consume a significant portion of your expected investment return . For instance , if the fees total 2 % per annum and you expect to earn 8 % per annum , then 25 % of your expected returns are going to fees . ( Most people only consider the 2 % and think that 's small ; it is n't , when expressed in terms of your returns ! ) Prefer no-load funds with low MERs . Funds with loads and higher fees do n't outperform the market . Do your own research to convince yourself of this . Finally -- you can usually look up the fees for a fund in its simplified prospectus . Do n't buy a fund without understanding what it invests in , how it is managed , and what fees are charged for buying , holding , and selling it .
Yes you can deposit money into your credit card . When you make a repayment of your credit card bill you are making a deposit into it and it will show up as a credit on your statement . If you get a refund for an item you returned this will also be listed as a credit on your statement .
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
<URL> ended up having credo in their system but you ca n't find it if you search from their top bar . In their current design you need to click " money " in the top nav and then search in the box in the middle of the page .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ( SIFMA ) publishes these and other relevant data on their <URL> , in the " Treasury &amp; Agency " section . The <URL> contains annual and monthly data with bins for varying maturities . These data only go back as far as January 2001 ( in most cases ) . SIFMA also publishes <URL> with monthly data for bills , notes , bonds , etc. going back as far as January 1980 . Most of this information comes from the <URL> , so that 's another source of specific information that you could aggregate yourself . Somewhere I have a parser for the historical data ( since the Treasury does n't provide it directly ; it 's only available as daily text files ) . I 'll post it if I can find it . It 's buried somewhere at home , I think .
For Chase I can confirm that it 's $ 500 during the first three months . Typically the clock starts running on that three months the day you are approved , not the day you activate the card . Also with Chase , the credit occurs in whichever month the criteria is met . Some banks wait until the initial period is exhausted to determine whether bonus criteria was met then issue the credit or points or whatever . Generally these sign up bonuses refer to an initial time period of three to six months , not a monthly minimum spend in each month .
No , it wo n't affect your score until your statement is posted . Paying your bill before your statement is posted is actually a good way to keep your credit utilization low . If you 're worried about high credit utilization negatively affecting your credit score , consider paying your bill several times a month to ensure that when your final monthly statement is posted , your utilization is still low . When my credit limit was very low while I was in college , I did this almost every month , and I 've seen other sites recommend this practice as well . From <URL> : The easiest way [ to lower credit utilization ] is to make credit card payments more than once a month so that your balance never gets too high . and <URL> : Consider making payments to creditors more than once each month . Otherwise , if you put a major expense -- like a new appliance -- on a credit card , even if you plan to pay it off , your FICO score may take a hit . The reason is that credit scores are calculated as a snapshot in time , so if that happens to be right after you charged a new $ 700 washing machine , your utilization ratio will look worryingly high . Remember , though , that it 's best to have some balance on your card when your statement is posted ( assuming you pay it off in full each month ) , because as the chart shows , 0 % utilization is about as bad as utilization > 31-40 % : Also , remember that credit utilization affects your credit score <URL> , so if you have high utilization one month but a lower utilization the next month , the hit to your score will disappear once a statement with low utilization is posted .
While this is a localized question that will change over time , nerdwallet.com tracks what they think are the best <URL> The deal with the prepaid cards is they shift around all the time , with who is the best at any given time being something you must shop for . So , here are the ways to shop for a prepaid card Look for the fees Monthly fees Transactions fees ATM Fees Fees to purchase the card Fess to reload the value on the card Balance inquiry fees Bill pay fees Inactivity fees ( which should tell you this is n't a great deal ) Look for limits ATM withdrawal limits Daily transaction limits Which ATMs you can use How to you put money on the card Will it accept direct deposits ? Is there a fee for that ? Other Gotchas Can you use it where you want to use it ? Will the card report to credit reporting agencies ?
end question
start question
Making a big purchase over $ 2500 . I have the money to cover it . Should I get a loan or just place it on credit ?
I would not be concerned about the impact to your credit rating . You already have an <URL> , and the temporary change to your utilization will have minimal impact to your score . If you really need to make this $ 2500 purchase and you have the money in the bank to pay for it , I would not recommend borrowing this money . Only put it on the credit card if you plan on paying it off in full without paying interest . Let me ask you this : Why do you want to keep this $ 2500 in the bank ? It certainly is n't earning you anything significant . My guess is that you 'd like to keep it there for an emergency . Well , is this $ 2500 purchase an emergency ? If it is necessary , then spend the money . If not , then save up the money until you have enough to make the purchase . It does n't make sense to keep money for an emergency in the bank , but then when one comes up , to leave the money in the bank and pay interest on your emergency purchase . If you make this emergency purchase and another emergency comes up , you can always ( if necessary ) borrow the money at that time . It does n't make sense to borrow money before you need it . That having been said , I would encourage you to build up your emergency fund so that you have enough money in there to handle things like this without completely depleting your savings account . 3 to 6 months of expenses is the general recommendation for your emergency fund . Then if something unplanned comes up , you 'll have the money in the bank without having to borrow and pay interest .
I will attempt to answer three separate questions here : Should you leave your emergency fund in a high yield investment ? Should you leave your emergency fund in BRL or convert it to SEK ? Can a moderate risk investment in BRL or SEK yield better results ? Should you leave your emergency fund in a high yield investment ? The standard answer is that an emergency fund should not be in an investment that can lose value . The safest course of action is to put it in a savings account or other very low risk investment somewhere . Should you leave your emergency fund in BRL or convert it to SEK ? This question becomes : can a reasonable and low risk investment in Sweden be comparable to or better than a low risk investment in Brazil ? Inflation in Brazil has averaged a little less than 6 % over the last 10 years with a recent spike up above 8 % . A cursory search indicates interest rates on savings accounts in Brazil are outpacing inflation so you might still expect a positive return on money in a savings account there . By contrast , Sweden 's inflation rate has been around 1 % over the last 10 years and has hovered around 0 or even deflation in recent years . Swedish interest rates for savings accounts right now are very low , nearly 0 % . Putting money in a savings account in Sweden would likely hold its value or lose a slight amount of value . Based on this , you might be better off leaving your emergency fund invested in BRL in Brazil . Can a moderate risk investment in BRL or SEK yield better results ? The answer to this a little unclear . The Brazilian stock market has been all over the place in the last 10 years , with a slight downard trend in recent years . In comparison , Sweden 's stock market has shown fairly consistent growth in spite of the big dip in 2008 . Given this , it seems like the fairest comparison would your current 13 % ROI investment in Brazil vs. a fund or ETF that tracks the Swedish stock market index . If we assume a consistent 13 % ROI on your investment in Brazil and a consistent inflation rate of 6 % , your adjusted ROI there would be around 7 % per year . The XACT OMS30 ETF that tracks the Swedish OMS 30 Index has a 10 year annualized return of 9.81 % . If you subtract 0.8 % inflation , you get an adjusted ROI 9 % . Based on this , Sweden may be a safer place for longer term , moderate risk investments right now .
Perhaps the right question you should be asking yourself is why you need the higher limit . If you pay your credit card off in full every month , and you need a higher limit just to give you the extra flexibility and cash flow , then that seems sensible . If you want a bigger limit just for the sense of security of being able to draw that much credit , but do n't have plans to use it , that also seems like a legitimate rationale , however many credit cards seem to increase your limit automatically over time ( presuming you 've got good credit , etc. ) so it may not be worth worrying about too much . If you need additional credit limit to help pay for a one-time purchase or are simply wanting to improve your credit rating , you should really explore other debt options such as a line of credit at your bank , or a personal loan . Particularly these days you can get a much better interest rate than you can with credit cards . It 's ironic but true that to get a higher credit rating you need to incur debt . At least , in the US . What I 've been told by loan specialists is that showing responsible credit card use is okay but the best kind of debt for maximizing your credit rating is not credit cards but rather fixed loans like a car , house , college , or etc. that will have a specific monthly payment . Credit agencies apparently like to see evidence that you can use debt responsibly and demonstrate making payments reliably over a period of time . So , like join a local credit union and tell the teller you want to take out a small loan for purposes of building your credit rating , and buy a new computer , stereo , or whatever . Then make regular payments on that over a few years . Not only will this look better than credit card debt , it 'll also be at a lower rate . If you 've accumulated a large amount of credit card debt , and are wanting the higher limit in order to accumulate additional debt , that may be a red flag that your finances are out of balance . It is seductively easy to rack up an enormous debt , but it can be extraordinarily laborious to get it paid off . Two of my family members fell into this trap ( one while in college , the other while between jobs ) . At typical credit card interest rates of 15 % , 20 % , and even 25 % , if carrying debt month to month the debt is going to grow very quickly . If you 're in this case I 'd say count your blessings for having a low credit limit and get some help getting the debt in control . Finally , to actually answer your question , yes it 's been my experience most credit card companies are quite happy to increase your credit rate . Often you can call their customer service phone number and get it raised instantly . And I think they 'd send you a free noose as well . ;-)
First of all , congratulations on paying off $ 40k in debt in one year . Mathematically , you 'd be better off making the standard car loan payments and putting your extra money toward the student loan . However , there are a few other things that you might want to consider . Over the last year , you 've knocked out a whole bunch of different debts . Feels pretty good , does n't it ? At your current rate , you could knock out your new car loan in 6 months . Then you 'd only have one debt left . If it sounds to you like it would be nice to only have one debt left , then it might be worth the mathematical disadvantage you would get by paying off the car early instead of putting the money toward the last student loan . The car loan is 0 % , but if you are late on a single payment , they will take that opportunity to raise your interest rate to something probably higher than the interest rate of your student loan . For this reason , you may decide it is not worth the hassle , and you 'd rather just eliminate the car loan as quickly as possible . Either choice is fine , in my opinion , as long as you have a purpose behind the choice and you are committed to eliminating both debts as quickly as possible . As an aside , it is important to remember that even a 0 % loan is not really free money , and needs to be paid back . You know this , of course , but sometimes you see a 0 % loan advertized and it feels like free money . It 's not . You have probably already paid for the loan by forfeiting a rebate . So although , at this point having already taken this loan and paying for it , you will come out ahead by dragging out your car loan for the full term , in the future do not think that you can make money by buying something at 0 % interest .
I say yes . The realtors will have you think you 're missing a golden opportunity no matter how the market actually is . ( I know , I 've asked them before AND after the bubble burst ) . You actually save a LOT of money renting longer . The interest , PMI , HOA , insurance , repairs , extra utilities furniture all costs you would n't have spent renting . People always buy a house bigger than they need , while renting you can move only when you need extra space . In short - think of a house as an expense , not as an investment . Do n't buy a house until the expense is worth it on its own .
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
2.47 % is a really , really good rate , doubly so if it 's a fixed rate , and quadruply so if the interest is tax-deductible . That 's about as close to " free money " as you 're ever going to get . Heck , depending on what inflation does over the next few years , it might even be cheaper than free . So if you have the risk tolerance for it , it 's probably more effective to invest the money in the stock market than to accelerate your student loan payoff . You can even do better in the bond market ( my go-to intermediate-term corporate bond fund is yielding nearly 4 % right now . ) Just remember the old banker 's aphorism : Assets shrink . Liabilities never shrink . You can lose the money you 've invested in stocks or bonds , and you 'll still have to pay back the loan . And , when in doubt , you can usually assume you 're underestimating your risks . If you 're feeling up for it , I 'd say : make sure you have a good emergency fund outside of your investment money - something you could live on for six months or so and pay your bills while looking for a job , and sock the rest into something like the <URL> or a similar instrument ( Vanguard 's just my personal preference , since I like their style - and by style , I mean low fees - but definitely feel free to consider alternatives ) . You could also pad your retirement accounts and avoid taxes on any gains instead , but remember that it 's easier to put money into those than take it out , so be sure to double-check the state of your emergency fund .
You only have to unfreeze the file of the credit reporting agency that the creditor uses to check your creditworthiness ; so if for example , the creditor pulls from TransUnion , then you only need to unfreeze your TransUnion file . Unfreezing varies by agency . There are several options , not all of which are available for every agency : Unfreeze for a period of time , specified by you ( TU , EQ , EX ) Unfreeze for a specific named creditor ( EQ ) Create a single-use PIN ( EX ) Provide your personal PIN to the creditor ( TU ) Call to remove the freeze ( TU ) This list is not comprehensive ; some agencies may offer such services besides the ones I listed . Note that none of the credit reporting agencies make this a consistent or simple process . This is because they make money by selling their own personalized " lock/unlock " services , which involve creating an account with the agency , and you pay them a monthly fee for monitoring services and credit report access , as well as the ability to selectively " lock/unlock " your report without additional fees . This is not as secure as a security freeze ( which has legal weight as mandated by the FCRA ) but it is more convenient -- because you 're paying for it monthly , as opposed to per incident . Note that if you are victim of identity theft , if you submit a valid police report to each agency , they are obligated by the FCRA to permit you to freeze and unfreeze your file at no cost ; normally the cost is between $ 8-10 per freeze or unfreeze . Also note that in some states , you are also given the right to view your credit file once a month for 12 consecutive months after the occurrence of the ID theft . Finally , note that if you are temporarily or permanently removing a freeze , you should have a fraud alert on your file . The fraud alert then notifies the creditor to use additional means of verification . It does n't stop access to your file . If you create a temporary PIN with an agency , this PIN has a limited-time use , so you can not create several in advance to use at a later time . The way the process is intended to work is : You submit the application The creditor uses their computer system to pull your report The pull is denied because of the freeze The creditor notes the freeze , puts your application on hold and asks you for a way to access your file You create a single-use PIN or otherwise grant the creditor access The creditor sees your file , sees the fraud alert , and asks you more questions before making a decision . If you temporarily unfreeze for a specific time period , then the creditor never sees the freeze . They will still see the fraud alert . But this is risky if you have recently been an ID theft victim . The thief still has your information , and in some cases , ID thieves are sophisticated enough to find ways to access your credit files . I know this from personal experience , because when someone stole my identity , the first thing they did was pull my credit reports , and the next thing they did was sign up for a credit monitoring service so that they could continue to access my reports . Once I discovered this , I had to go through many steps to thwart them . ID theft is not just about fraudulent credit card applications . In many cases , it is about complete impersonation , trying to gain as much access as possible .
I have to agree with you . On the short sale , it 's clear the owner is gone . But - On a great foreclosure deal , so long as you have a legitimate title company offering title insurance , the risk should be acceptable .
Your daughter can give you ( and also as many other persons as she likes , for that matter ) $ 14K or less each year as a gift without needing to file a Federal gift tax return . She does not have to report the money anywhere on her Federal income tax return or anywhere else . In particular , she does not get to deduct that money in arriving at what is called the Adjusted Gross Income or the Taxable Income on her income tax return . In other words , that $ 14K is coming out of money which she has in her bank accounts , and on which she has already paid income tax . All she has to do is write you a check or hand over cash or buy you a car or whatever . ( But be aware that the $ 14K exemption applies to the totality of all gifts given to you by your daughter that year , including birthday , anniversary , Christmas presents etc. , not just cash or check ) . You , as the recipient , do not need to declare the $ 14K that you will receive from her as income and pay income tax on it to the Federal Government . You do n't owe gift tax either ( even if the gift exceeds $ 14K in any year ) : gift tax is assessed on the donor , not the recipient ( except in very unusual circumstances ) . Since Texas has no income tax , there is no State income tax issue for you either . Some of this may be inapplicable if you and/or your daughter are not US citizens or US tax residents or if State gift tax rules have different exemptions in the State in which your daughter resides .
Usually services like Western Union or MoneyGram only give the recipient the money , not the information about who and when sent it . But you can verify with them directly . However , for legal/tax reasons , your friend might have to declare that it was a gift , and where it came from . So depending on the country of the destination you might not be able to completely " hide " from the recipient , even if the transfer service technically allows that . In any case , when you transfer the money out from the US you 'll have to provide your personal identification and information . Since the <URL> , it is impossible to transact " anonymously " ( not sure if it ever was possible in the US , actually ) .
You 're not clueless at all . You do n't mention that you have any debt , but if you have consumer debt , you might want to consider accelerating your payments on those debts unless you 're already doing so . You and your wife have a baby on the way . They 're an absolute joy ( we have a 7-year-old ) , but they 're also a financial strain . If I were in your shoes knowing what I know about your situation , I 'd think carefully and go slowly with any investing until after you adjust to a larger family . That way you run less risk of having a sizable investment tank when you really need the money for your new baby . Continue to learn about investing . There 's no reason to rush into something you 're not comfortable with . If your goal is for a down payment on a house , then continue towards that . Cash is just fine for that . Shop around for a good house from someone who really needs to sell .
<URL> is a good starting point . Specifically , IFF all your credit cards are paid , and you made sure you 've got no outstanding liabilities ( that also accrues interest ) , <URL> might be a good place for 5-10 years timeframes . For grad school , I 'd probably look into cash ISA ( or local equivalent thereof ) - the rate of return is going to be lower , but having it in a separate account at least makes it mentally " out of sight - out of mind " , so you can make sure the money 's there WHEN you need it .
Yes , they 're referring to the credit card dispute ( chargeback ) process . In the case of dispute , credit card company will refund/freeze your charge so you do n't have to pay until the dispute is resolved ( or at all , if resolved in your favor ) . If the dispute is resolved in your favor , your credit card company will charge back the merchant 's service provider which in turn will charge back ( if it can ) the merchant itself . So the one taking the most risk in this scenario is the merchant provider , this is why merchants that are high risk pay significantly higher fees or get dropped .
It depends on what your plans for the future are . . Taking out a loan is not a bad thing if it is at a good rate and under good terms and you are sure you can handle the payments . If you buy the car with cash you may be giving up the opportunity to later get a great rate on that $ 8k . However , you are probably not utilizing that $ 20k to make as much interest as you 'd then be paying if you did take the $ 8k on loan . Since you say " house fund " I assume you are saving to make a down payment on a new house . If you plan to buy that house within the next 6 months the hard pulls on your credit report from applying for the car loan will probably ding your credit score for the next 6 months which might cost you on your mortgage rate . However , if you do n't plan to buy for a few more years and if you 've never had a car payment before then the auto loan would actually be adding diversity to your credit history and in the long run would help your score . Another factor to consider is the loan-to-value ratio you are shooting for . LTV affects the interest rate , requirements for private mortgage insurance , etc. . Mortgage rates are at an all-time low and lower than auto-rates , so depending on the terms of the house purchase that $ 8k might be better spent on the car than the house . In short , if you want to buy the house soon ( rates are loooow , market is a buyer 's market ) , and you need that $ 8k to get a better mortgage rate or prevent you from being required to buy PMI you should probably put it toward the house . Otherwise you should probably put it toward the car . Last piece of advice . If you absolutely must buy a house and a car in the same short time-frame , do them both on the same day so that your credit score is not dinged before applying for one or the other . With mortgages this may be difficult considering the longer closing procedures , but try to time it so that your credit is getting checked by the mortgage broker and the auto lender on the same day .
The number to hold depends on your usage and your goals . However the most important aspect of credit cards is the effect it has on your credit score . Having a good credit score can be useful later when making large purchases like a car or house . Things to consider about credit cards : Paying the minimum monthly balance . Late payments affect your score negatively . Excessive credit . High unused credit limits can flag you as a high risk . Also too many credit cards with low limits can also create lots of unused credit . ( Another user mentioned getting free tupperware with every card they got ) . Merchant support . Not all merchants support all the common cards . e.g. . You may want 1 Visa , 1 Mastercard . Reward systems . Some cards have a maximum limit on rewards given based on spending . At that point you may switch to another card . For most people who have never had a credit card 1 credit card is usually enough initially since the expenses should not exceed income ( plus this reduces the temptation to get into lots of debt ) . The best way to find out if you are okay is to check your credit score and do it regularly . In Canada there are several ways to get this information and some of it free like <URL> .
Full payment is always better than auto-loan if you are prudent with finances . I.E if you take a loan , you are factoring the EMI hence your savings will remain as is . However if you manage well , you can buy the car with cash and at the same time put aside the notional EMI as savings and investments . The other factor to consider is what return your cash is giving . If this more than auto-loan interest rate post taxes , you should opt for loan . For example if auto-loan is 10 % and you are getting a return of 15 % after taxes on investment then loan is better . Company Car lease depends on terms . More often you get break on taxes on the EMI component . But you have to buy at the end of lease period and re-register the car in your name , so there is additional cost . Some companies give lease at very favourable rates . Plus if you leave the job lease has to be broken and it becomes more expensive .
You must consider the different levels of risk associated with each loan . When the bank loans you money , it does so based on a high degree of information about your financial situation ( through your credit report + additional information gathered at the time of granting your request ) . It feels quite confident that you will repay them , and therefore considers you to be low risk . In order to make a profit off of all its low risk clients , the bank only needs to charge a small rate of interest - competitive with the market but enough to cover the losses from clients who will default . When you loan money through a peer-to-peer program , you are at two distinct disadvantages from the bank : ( 1 ) Your loan portfolio will not be diversified ; that is , you may have only a single person or a small handful of people owing you money . Any catastrophic event in their lives may wipe out their loan to you . Whereas the bank can play the averages with a broader client base . ( 2 ) You have less information , and ultimately less ( effective ) power to reclaim your losses . Would you feel confident walking behind the desk at a bank today , and deciding whether to approve someone 's loan based on the information that the bank 's back-end has already determined is necessary to make that decision ? Now how about when you are doing it on your own ? Because of this , you take on more risk from a peer-to-peer loan than a bank takes on from you . That 's why the person is willing ( or , required due to market availability ) to pay a higher rate ; they know they are higher risk . That does n't mean this is a bad idea , just that there is a specific reason that the difference in rates exists , and it implies that you should consider carefully whether the risks outweigh the benefits . Note that the concept of taking a buy/sell position on two theoretically identical assets while earning a net profit at no risk is known as ' arbitrage ' . Arbitrage situations rarely exist , and never for long . Whenever you see a position that appears to be arbitrage , consider what might make it not so . ie : you could buy inventory in location A , and sell it at 10 % higher margin in location B - but have you considered transportation , carrying costs , and interest for the period that you physically held the inventory ? The appearance of arbitrage may ( in my opinion ) be a sign that you have incomplete information .
Yes you should get rental insurance . It covers more than you think , much more than just belongings . Replacement cost for all your property in event of damage or theft . This one 's been mentioned a couple times . Do you really want to buy everything twice ? Replacement cost for items that are damaged or stolen outside your house . For example , this will cover bike theft if you 've locked it up downtown while on errands . Liability if you are responsible for damaging property of others in the building ( or injuring them ) . Like you start a fire or clog the drains which causes flooding . Living expenses if some incident or someone damages your apartment and you need a temporary place to stay . They start the fire , pipes burst , etc. . Liability and medical coverage if someone injures themselves in your apartment . Say they slip on the stairs or trip on a carpet and decide to sue you . You can add additional coverage for high-value items like jewelry , boats , art , etc. . Californians may be able to tack on earthquake insurance You may be able to also tack on flood insurance Of course read the coverage details of any plans your are considering . You may get a discount if you have other policies with the company . You may get a discount if you have a burglar alarm system , have a fire hydrant on your block , stuff like that . When you buy the house and shop for homeowner 's insurance you 'll find a lot of coverage similarities .
As a new graduate , aside from the fact that you seem to have the extra $ 193/mo to pay more towards your loan , we do n't know anything else . I wrote a lengthy article on this in response to a friend who had a loan , but was also pondering a home purchase in the future . <URL> discusses the math behind one 's ability to put a downpayment on a house vs having that monthly cash to pay towards the mortgage . In your case , the question is whether , in 5 years , the $ 8500 would be best spent as a home down payment or to pay off the 6.8 % loan . If you specifically had plans toward home ownership , the timing of that plan would affect my answer here , as I discuss in the article . The right answer to your question can only come by knowing far more of your personal situation . Does your employer offer a matched 401 ( k ) ( or other matched retirement account if you are not in the US ) , and are you depositing the full amount to capture that match ? It makes little sense to set aside funds to pay off a 6.8 % loan if you are leaving a 50 or 100 % match on the table . Do you have any other high interest debt ? 18 % card takes priority over this loan . What is the nature of your current savings and rate of savings ? An emergency fund or funds that would take care of unexpected expenses , including bridging the gap during a time of unemployment is an important first step for the new grad . Start by hitting the first $ 1000 , $ 2000 , etc. . But ultimately , you want X months worth of expenses to have a true safety net . Meanwhile , the plan comes at a cost . Your plan will get rid of the loan in about 5 years , but if you simply double up the payments , advising the servicing company to apply the extra to principal , it would drop to just a couple month over over 4 . As you read more about personal finance , you 'll find a lot of different views . Some people are fixated on having zero debt , others will focus on liquidity . In the end , you need to understand each approach and decide what 's right for you .
end question
start question
Can I deduct equipment that I 'm required to purchase by my employer ?
It looks like you can . Take a look at these articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> But of course , go to the source : <URL> From publication 529 : You can deduct certain expenses as miscellaneous itemized deductions on Schedule A ( Form 1040 or Form 1040NR ) . You can claim the amount of expenses that is more than 2 % of your adjusted gross income . You figure your deduction on Schedule A by subtracting 2 % of your adjusted gross income from the total amount of these expenses . Your adjusted gross income is the amount on Form 1040 , line 38 , or Form 1040NR , line 36 . I hope that helps . Happy deducting !
I have an ESPP with E * Trade ; you can transfer stock like that via a physical ( paper ) asset-transfer form . Look for one of those , and if you ca n't find it , call your brokerage ( or email / whatever ) . You own the shares , so you can generally do what you want with them . Just be very careful about recording all the purchase and transfer information so that you can deal properly with the taxes .
I believe you can , under professional fees . To be sure , you should ask a professional tax preparer or tax adviser ( CPA/EA ) .
No , you can not . 401k must not be discriminatory , i.e. : you can not have different matching for different employees .
If there is land for sale , you can buy it . The United States does n't have many restrictions on the purchase of land . However , you need to be able to afford it . Dependent on where you are looking $ 20,000 can either be a lot or very little land , I suspect that the question you were looking to ask is ' can I afford it ? ' . Have a look around , there should be plenty of places for you to find land for sale . As for credit , it is more important that you do n't build bad credit . With things like mortgages , your salary is likely to be more important than your credit score alone , but no one will give you a dime if you have a record of not paying your bills .
The agent listed on the sign works for the home owner . They have signed an agreement with them to get the best deal they can . ( Best can be measured by money , speed , hassle ) . If you use the same agent , they probably will have to give you a dual agent form , which advises you of that fact , and you recognize they work for two parties with different goals . Therefore get your own agent . They will show you houses that you are interested in and can afford . They will keep your interests in mind , they can help you determine the amount your should offer , and the contingencies you should put on the deal . Remember the seller wants the most money and no contingencies . If there is one agent , they get the full commission ( lets assume 6 % ) . If each party has their own agent , they will each get 3 % . The commission is paid for from the sellers funds . ( Yes I know the commission is rolled into the price/mortgage ) . Having your own agent will not increase the buyers costs . There are times when a sellers agent tries to keep the listing for themselves , so they get the full commission . They are hurting the seller when they do this . They are limiting the possible buyers , they are telling anybody with an agent to stay away .
Yes . See for instance <URL> , which says in part : You 're covered by an employer retirement plan for a tax year if your employer ( or your spouse 's employer ) has a : Defined contribution plan ( profit-sharing , 401 ( k ) , stock bonus and money purchase pension plan ) and any contributions or forfeitures were allocated to your account for the plan year ending with or within the tax year ;
In the old version of the plan you were flipping the stock very quickly . Some of the money was tied up for almost 90 days , some for only a few weeks . The risk that the stock would fall enough to cause you to lose money was small , but not zero . Therefore you felt comfortable with risking several hundred dollars a paycheck . The general advice is to not make the current company you work for a significant portion of your net worth because if the company suffers a disaster you can lose both the money and your job . How much is at risk ? Assume 7 checks per quarter @ $ 200 / check deposited . In the old program you had $ 1400 at risk but you owned ~ $ 1650 in stock . Under the new plan in the first quarter you will still deposit $ 1400 but while waiting for the 6 month window you will deposit another $ 2800 . By the time the first sell date occurs you will now have $ 4200 at risk , but you will own ~ 4950 in stock . The question is would you be willing to invest $ 4200 today in your company stock knowing that you ca n't sell for 6 to 9 months ? If that is too much of your net worth to put at risk , then you might have to look at some other way to allocate your money . Note : I do n't consider what you were doing as an investment . You found a way to generate some income each quarter . They are now changing the rules to make that a much riskier proposition , especially if the goal was income generation . The company may be trying to discourage participation in the new program .
You can purchase stock immediately in the open market on the day of the IPO when market opens . Below link gives you more information . <URL>
Based on <URL> it looks like you can claim these expenses as deductions , but you only get to claim any amount of Unreimbursed Employee Expenses that exceeds 2 % of your adjusted gross income ( Form 1040-line 38 ) . So unless you are spending a LOT of money on software or have other expenses of this type , it probably wo n't be worth it . Unreimbursed Employee Expenses Generally , the following expenses are deducted on Schedule A ( Form 1040 ) , line 21 , or Schedule A ( Form 1040NR ) , line 7 . You can deduct only unreimbursed employee expenses that are : Paid or incurred during your tax year , For carrying on your trade or business of being an employee , and Ordinary and necessary . An expense is ordinary if it is common and accepted in your trade , business , or profession . An expense is necessary if it is appropriate and helpful to your business . An expense does not have to be required to be considered necessary . You may be able to deduct the following items as unreimbursed employee expenses . Depreciation on a computer your employer requires you to use in your work . Subscriptions to professional journals and trade magazines related to your work . Tools and supplies used in your work . Work-related education . Note : I truncated this list to items most likely to be relevant to a programmer working for an employer . Follow the link above to see the fulllist .
Yeah , it 's kindof assumed that if you have to go to the client , you 're not staying there forever . You deduct your mileage for the whole trip , including the part where you actually have to leave there and go back .
Your best bet is to call your credit card . However , it 's extremely unlikely that your phone would be covered unless you bought it , straight out , on your credit card . The situation you are describing is one where you do not buy the phone ( until your contract is up ) , and so you should not expect your extended warranty to apply . Note that it is often cheaper , over the course of the contract , to purchase an unsubsidised phone and take advantages of discounts most Canadian carriers offer , rather than lock in to a two year contract . Of course , this relies on you having the money up-front .
Look at taking a deduction under <URL> . Generally , you can deduct the entire cost of certain business equipment ( up to a limit ) in the year you purchase it , rather than depreciate it over time . There 's a <URL> with lots of information . Make sure you qualify and keep records for each piece of equipment you elect under Section 179 . To make the election , include IRS form 4562 on your tax return .
You will need to file your tax return ( form 1040 ) with the form 2555/2555-EZ attached to it . Usually , retail tax preparation services , especially on-line websites , are not tailored for such a unique need and people working there are likely not train to understand what it is that you 're talking about . If you 're up to doing the research yourself you can use the IRS free fillable forms or just mail in paper return which you can fill manually . Otherwise , check with a local US-licensed tax prepare or find a US-based tax prepare working with expats . @Eric raises a good point - this is a good time to remind you that you also need to file <URL> ( separately of the tax return ) and maybe other reports .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
No , you ca n't deduct expenses incurred in 2010 from 2009 income tax . Source : <URL> : " You can include only the medical and dental expenses you paid this year . " Sorry . :(
In my experience , any kind of equity you may be offered by the company is just a carrot . Your offer may be written in such a way that your potential ownership represents , say , 1 % of the company today . But if the company goes for a round of financing your ownership percentage can get diluted . If this happens a couple of times and the terms of financing are n't very favorable then your percentage can go from that 1 % down to 0.001 % , making the equity worthless . I 've known people who heard their company was being bought and thought they might get some kind of payoff . Come to find out the company had n't done all that well and there was n't anything to pay out after the main investors got some money back . ( The main investors took a loss . ) For obvious reasons , management was n't keeping the staff up to date about the fact that they were operating in the red and their options were worthless . Some people grumbled about lawyers and filing lawsuits , but at the end of the day , there was n't any money to be won . Keep this in mind . As to your question regarding what to look out for : What does the offer represent in terms of percentage of the company ? In a corporation , there may be multiple classes of shares . With an LLC , the sky is the limit as to what they 're going to offer you . Beyond just share classes , profit rights and voting/control rights can be divided up in any way the Membership Agreement states . Are they offering you Membership ? Will your shares/units have voting rights ? Are you even getting shares/units or is it just a promise to share profit/equity in case of a buyout ? Are there any provisions regarding dilution ? How big is the employee pool ? What is the vesting schedule ? What are your rights / obligations if you separate from the company ? Is there a difference between voluntary and involuntary separation ? If you exercise your offer before the company is bought , and you become a Member ... can you continue as a Member after leaving the company ? is your employment tied to Membership in any way ? can you sell your shares/units ? what are your rights/obligations as a Member ? Can you get a copy of the Membership Agreement ( or Bylaws ) ?
It looks like you can . Take a look at these articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> But of course , go to the source : <URL> From publication 529 : You can deduct certain expenses as miscellaneous itemized deductions on Schedule A ( Form 1040 or Form 1040NR ) . You can claim the amount of expenses that is more than 2 % of your adjusted gross income . You figure your deduction on Schedule A by subtracting 2 % of your adjusted gross income from the total amount of these expenses . Your adjusted gross income is the amount on Form 1040 , line 38 , or Form 1040NR , line 36 . I hope that helps . Happy deducting !
I would n't be too concerned , yet . You 're young . Many young people are living longer in the family home . See this Guardian article : <URL> . You 're in good company . Yet , there will come a time when you ought to get your own place , either for your own sanity or your parents ' sanity . You should be preparing for that and building up your savings . Since you 've got an income , you should -- if you 're not already -- put away some of that money regularly . Every time you get paid , make a point of depositing a portion of your income into a savings or investment account . Look up the popular strategy called <URL> . Since you still live at home , it 's possible you 're a little more loose with spending money than you should be -- at least , I 've found that to be the case with some friends who lived at home as young adults . So , perhaps pretend you 're on your own . What would your rent be if you had to find a place of your own ? If , say , # 600 instead of the # 200 you 're currently paying , then you should reduce your spending to the point where you can save at least # 400 per month . Follow a budget . With respect to your car , it 's great you recognize your mistake . We 're human and we can learn from our mistakes . Plan to make it your one and only car mistake . I made one too . With respect to your credit card debt , it 's not an insurmountable amount . Focus on getting rid of that debt soon and then focus on staying out of debt . The effective way to use credit cards is to never carry a balance -- i.e. pay it off in full each month . If you ca n't do that , you 're likely overspending . Also , look at what pensions your employer might offer . If they offer matching contributions , contribute at least as much to maximize the tax free extra pay this equates to . If you have access to a defined benefit plan , join it as soon as you are eligible . Last , I think it 's important to recognize that at age 23 you 're just starting out . Much of your career income earning potential is ahead of you . Strive to be the best at what you do , get promotions , and increase your income . Meanwhile , continue to save a good portion of what you earn . With discipline , you 'll get where you want to be .
If your current property is valued at $ 270K and you currently have a mortgage of $ 200k , then your equity in the current property is $ 70K or 25.9 % This means that your LVR is about 74 % . So since your current LVR is below 80 % you do n't pay any LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) . If you were looking to buy another property worth approximately $ 300K you would need to have more than $ 114K in equity ( I say more because you would have to include the extra required for closing costs - including Stamp Duty if required and conveyancing costs in addition to the $ 114K ) to keep your LVR to 80 % or below and avoiding LMI . ( 20 % of $ 570K = $ 114K ) . So if you want to avoid paying LMI you will need an additional $ 50K or so at least . Even if you went for a LVR of 95 % on the new property you would still need $ 69K plus closing costs , so you are still a bit short . You would also have to pay LMI on the new mortgage and you would be taking on a lot of extra risk , especially if interest rates rise ( as they are likely to in 12 to 18 months time ) , you lost your job or some other emergency came up . You are better off waiting some time before purchasing a second property , allowing your equity to grow further and for you to save up a bit more . You may want to open up an offset account linked to your loan account ( if you have n't already ) so that any additional savings you have in the offset account reduces the interest payable on your mortgage . When you are ready to purchase a second property allow an additional 2-3 % in your serviceability calculations on top of the mortgage interest rates you get , so that you do n't get into trouble when interest rates do go up , or if you are on a fixed rate , when your fixed period ends and the variable at the time is higher than your fixed rate .
end question
start question
Is there a penalty if I withdraw from TFSA ?
There is a whole pile of information on TFSAs <URL> . I recommend reading it . There is no penalty for withdrawing money from a TFSA as such . You can withdraw from it at any time . The only restriction is that you ca n't put the money you took out back in the same year ( unless you have sufficient contribution room for it to be considered an additional contribution ) . <URL> explains it . There may be penalties for withdrawing money from the investment vehicle into which you paid the TFSA contents . For example your TFSA contents may be in a mutual fund , or in an interest-bearing savings account . If those have restrictions on how much you can withdraw , or have penalties for withdrawl , then you will have to abide by the rules and pay any penalties .
No , you can not withdraw the money until settlement day . Some brokers will allow you to trade with unsettled funds , but you can not withdraw it until it is settled . Think about it , when you buy stock you have to pay for them by T +3 , so if you sell you actually do n't receive the funds until T +3 .
No , as far as I know , a free credit report is only available by mail . Here 's <URL> with contact information for Equifax and TransUnion for ordering a credit report by mail . Also note that anyone offering free online credit reports in Canada is lying through their teeth . There are a couple sites out there ( e.g. , canadafreecreditscore.ca , freecreditreportsincanada.ca ) that offer a " free " online credit report in seconds , but that 's just the hook line and sinker for <URL> . Not sure of the details , but I generally avoid anything that 's not Equifax or TransUnion for credit reports .
You file in every State you worked in . Technically , while you 're in a State and you work - your earnings are sourced to that State . Also , since you were domiciled in New Jersey - you file there as well , as your residency State . From the time you moved to NY - you should check whether you 're still considered a resident in NJ , but you 're likely to be considered a resident in NY , so you file a part-year return there for that period . It is possible to be considered resident in more than one State at the same time , so it may get even more complicated .
Yes , depending <URL> . You generally can make a tax-free withdrawal of contributions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax return for the year in which you made them . This means that even if you are under age 59 1/2 , the 10 % additional tax may not apply . These distributions are explained in <URL> I believe any growth is subject to the <URL> : The 10 % additional tax on distributions made before you reach age 59 1/2 does not apply to these tax-free withdrawals of your contributions . However , the distribution of interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329 and , unless the distribution qualifies as an exception to the age 59 1/2 rule , it will be subject to this tax .
To understand diversification , I highly recommend <URL> . It walks through how diversification works starting with a practical example and then working through the math . " Too diversified " does n't really make sense based on what you 're talking about . You might apply that description if you had a portfolio that was invested into a couple of dozen different asset classes and the complexity of managing it was becoming a burden . Of if you have so many asset classes that you incur extra costs that you ca n't recover through either higher return or reduced risk . ( Beyond a handful of well-chosen asset classes , adding more diversification does n't really buy you much extra risk reduction . ) Is this advisor fee-only or does he have a vested interest in getting you to buy something ? If the latter , beware of advice given by salesmen ... If you read the book , you 'll be able to ask more intelligent questions of your advisor . But in any case , you should ask him to specifically explain why he thinks adding VTI or VEU will add more variance or lower expected returns to your portfolio than QQQ or SPY . Ideally , he can show you a pair of curves like this to back up his assertion -- one for VTI+VEU and one for QQQ+SPY :
HSAs are very similar to IRAs . Any investment returns grow tax-deferred and once you reach age 59 1/2 65 , you can withdraw the funds for any purpose ( subject to ordinary income tax ) , just like a traditional IRA . If you can afford to do so , I would recommend you to pay medical expenses out-of-pocket and let the funds in your HSA accumulate and grow . In general , the best way to allocate your funds is in the following order : Contribute to a 401 ( k ) if your employer matches funds at a substantial rate Pay off high-interest debt ( 8 % of more in current environment in 2011 ) Contribute to an IRA ( traditional or Roth ) Contribute to an HSA Contribute to a 401 ( k ) without the benefit of employer matching One advantage of HSAs versus IRAs is that you do n't have to have earned income ( salary or self-employment income ) in order to contribute . If you derive income solely from rents , interest or dividends , you can contribute the maximum amount ( $ 3,050 for individuals in 2011 ) and get a full deduction from your income ( Of course , you will need to maintain a high-deductible health plan in order to qualify ) . One downside of HSAs is the lack of competitively priced providers . Wells Fargo offers HSAs for free , but only allows you to keep your funds in cash , earning a very measly interest rate , or invest them in rather mediocre and expensive Wells Fargo mutual funds . Vanguard , known for its low-fee investment options , provides HSAs through a partner company , but the account maintenance charges are still quite high . Overall , HSAs are a worthwhile option as part of your investment plan .
When you say " Currently I have a mix of my own contributions along with this rollover " , do you mean that you have made direct contributions to your Roth IRA ? When withdrawing , the <URL> is that contributions always come out first , then conversions and rollovers , and lastly earnings . So if the amount you withdraw is less than your direct contributions , it will only come out of contributions and not touch the conversion amount . But if you withdraw some of the conversion amount within 5 years of the conversion , there will be a <URL> . The penalty applies to the part of the conversion that was taxable , which was all of the conversion in your case . There is no " principal " or " earnings " within this conversion -- conversions are counted separately from contributions or earnings in the Roth IRA .
Your freelance income will not qualify you for the work-from-home deductions , for that you would need a T2200 form signed by your employer . But , you are allowed to be self employed as a sole-proprietorship while still being an employee of another company . If you take that route , you 'll be able to write-off even more expenses than those you linked to . Things like a portion of your internet bill can be claimed , for example . But note that these deductions would only apply to offset the self-employment income , so if you 're not earning very much from the freelance work , it might not be worth all the hassle . Filing taxes when self-employed is definitely more complicated , and many people will get professional tax preparation help - at least for the first time .
One of the reasons , apart from historical , is that different people have different tax liabilities which the employer may not be aware of . For example , in the US we do n't pay taxes in source on investment income , and there are many credits and deductions that we ca n't take . So if I have a child and some interest income from my savings account - employer 's withholding will not match my actual tax liability . There are credits for children , additional taxes for the interest , and the actual tax brackets vary based on my marital status and filing options I chose . So even the same family of two people married will pay different amounts in taxes if they chose to file separate tax returns for each , than if they chose to file jointly on one tax return . For anyone who 've lived anywhere else , like you and me , this system is ridiculously complex and inefficient , but for Americans - that works . Mainly for the reason of not knowing anything better , and more importantly - not wanting to know .
TFSA is a misnomer . It is not a Savings Account , but a registered Savings Plan . For example , My TFSA is in mutual funds , so there is no interest as such . I make my earnings through share value growth , and dividends . If you want a guaranteed return , then you put it in GICs . You can put TFSA funds in a savings account ( which is essentially keeping it in cash ) , in which case the rate would fluctuate just like your regular savings account . However , I believe the best strategy is RRSPs should be stable and secure , and TFSA 's should be higher risk/higher reward , giving you the tax free benefit on the bulk of your earnings .
Do not provide any personal information . If the debt is not yours , ask the caller to provide all the identifying information they have over the phone to verify whether they have your information , or are just following up on similar names . Even if they have information that is yours , do not provide more information . Always make them tell you what they know . If they provide information that is not yours , simply state that it is not your information and politely end the call . If they persist in calling you , there are local agencies you can report them to . If they have your information , then ask for all of the details of the debt -- who is it owed to , when was the debt incurred , what was the original amount of the debt , what is the current balance , when was the last activity on the account , what is their relation to creditor . Once you know the creditor , you can contact them directly for more information . It is possible they may have written off the account and closed it , selling it to a debt collector in order to get some sort of return on debt . If they truly have a debt that is yours , and you did not incur it , then you will need to file a police report for a case of identity theft . Be prepared for some scrutiny .
If you receive a 1099-MISC from YouTube , that tells you what they stated to the IRS and leads into most tax preparation software guided interviews or wizards as a topic for you to enter . Whether or not you have a 1099-MISC , this <URL> is pertinent to your question . You could probably elect to report the income as a royalty on your copyrighted work of art on Schedule E , but see this note : " In most cases you report royalties in Part I of Schedule E ( Form 1040 ) . However , if you ... are in business as a self-employed writer , inventor , artist , etc. , report your income and expenses on Schedule C or Schedule C-EZ ( Form 1040 ) . " Whether reporting on Schedule E or C is more correct or better for your specific circumstances is beyond the advice you should take from strangers on the internet based on a general question - however , know that there are potentially several paths for you . Note that this is revenue from a business , so if you paid for equipment or services that are 100 % dedicated to your YouTubing ( PC , webcam , upgraded broadband , video editing software , vehicle miles to a shoot , props , etc. ) then these are a combination of depreciable capital investments and expenses you can report against the income , reducing the taxes you may owe . If the equipment/services are used for business and personal use , there are further <URL> as to estimating the split . These apply whether you report on Sch . E , Sch . C , or Sch C-EZ . Quote : " Self-Employment Income It is a common misconception that if a taxpayer does not receive a Form 1099-MISC or if the income is under $ 600 per payer , the income is not taxable . There is no minimum amount that a taxpayer may exclude from gross income . All income earned through the taxpayer 's business , as an independent contractor or from informal side jobs is self-employment income , which is fully taxable and must be reported on Form 1040 . Use Form 1040 , Schedule C , Profit or Loss from Business , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) to report income and expenses . Taxpayers will also need to prepare Form 1040 Schedule SE for self-employment taxes if the net profit exceeds $ 400 for a year . Do not report this income on Form 1040 Line 21 as Other Income . Independent contractors must report all income as taxable , even if it is less than $ 600 . Even if the client does not issue a Form 1099-MISC , the income , whatever the amount , is still reportable by the taxpayer . Fees received for babysitting , housecleaning and lawn cutting are all examples of taxable income , even if each client paid less than $ 600 for the year . Someone who repairs computers in his or her spare time needs to report all monies earned as self-employment income even if no one person paid more than $ 600 for repairs . "
I doubt that there is an arrangement with any country that would allow you to transfer money out of a 401 ( k ) and roll it over to another country that is n't governed by US Tax Laws without taking a distribution . The US government wo n't let you pull out like that without taking its cut . There may be , but I 'd be surprised . Check around in the appropriate venues . If you 're making a distribution that incurs penalties , then that 's what you 're doing . If you can do so without incurring penalties , then great for you , just deposit into the vehicle of your choice in your country .
Yes , this is restricted by law . In plain language , you can find it on the IRS website ( under the heading " When Can a Retirement Plan Distribute Benefits ? " ) : 401 ( k ) , profit-sharing , and stock bonus plans Employee elective deferrals ( and earnings , except in a hardship distribution ) -- the plan may permit a distribution when you : • terminate employment ( by death , disability , retirement or other severance from employment ) ; • reach age 59 1/2 ; or • suffer a hardship . Employer profit-sharing or matching contributions -- the plan may permit a distribution of your vested accrued benefit when you : • terminate employment ( by death , disability , retirement or other severance from employment ) ; • reach the age specified in the plan ( any age ) ; or • suffer a hardship or experience another event specified in the plan . Form of benefit - the plan may pay benefits in a single lump-sum payment as well as offer other options , including payments over a set period of time ( such as 5 or 10 years ) or a purchased annuity with monthly lifetime payments . Source : <URL> If you want to actually see it in the law , check out 26 USC 401 ( k ) ( 2 ) ( B ) ( i ) , which lists the circumstances under which a distribution can be made . You can get the full text , for example , here : <URL> I 'm not sure what to say about the practice of the company that you mentioned in your question . Maybe the law was different then ?
This is largely dependent on your overall investment goals . GIC 's provide protection of the invested capital and a guaranteed return at the end of the term . However , in real terms , 1.4 % over 18 months results in a loss of capital in real terms . This is because inflation in Canada is just about at or higher than 1.4 % per year . In other words , at best , you are equalling inflation and gaining nothing in those 18 months . If their typical rate is 1.2 % over 12 months , you are only gaining an additional 0.2 % for the additional 6 months . You know as well as I do , 0.2 % for 6 months is abysmal . If you have no use for the money in the medium to long term , you should look in to an index fund that is balanced , and diversified and more likely to get you a higher real return over the time period of a few years . Look in to : <URL> ( if you are okay with managing your own portfolio online ) <URL> ( if you want to pay a little more to have it managed for you ) If you want to preserve the capital over the short term because you might need it after the 18 months period , the GIC is the safer and recommended option .
From <URL> ( accessible from your link above ) : Early redemption is available only on GICs/Term Deposits with terms of 1 year and above at 0.75 % ( interest is paid only if early redemption is made at least 6 months after opening the GIC/Term Deposit ) . No interest is paid for early redemption on GICs/Term Deposits with terms of 1 year and above if the redemption is made within 6 months of opening the GIC/Term Deposit . No interest is paid for early redemption on 1 month , 3 month and 6 month GICs/Term Deposits . So no penalties , just less interest paid . Note that this policy is specific to ICICI Bank and GIC redemption policies vary between institutions .
With a match , the 401 ( k ) becomes the priority , up to that match , often ahead of other high interest debt . Without the match , the analysis is more about the cost within the 401 ( k ) . The 401 ( k ) is a tax deferred account ( let 's not go on a tangent to Roth 401 ( k ) ) so ideally , you 'd be skimming off money at 25 % and saving it till you retire , so some of it is taxed at 0 , 10 , 15 % . If the fees in the 401 ( k ) are say 1.5 % between the underlying funds and management fee , it does n't take long to wipe out the potential 10 or 15 % you are trying to gain . Yes , there 's a risk that cap gain rates go away , but with today 's tax law , the long term rate is 15 % . So that money put into a long term low cost ETF will have reinvested dividends taxed at 15 % and upon sale , a 15 % rate on the gains . There are great index ETFs with sub - .1 % annual cost . My simple answer is - If the total cost in that 401 ( k ) is .5 % or higher , I 'd pass . Save the money in an outside account , using IRAs as best you can . ( The exact situation needs to be looked at very carefully . In personal finance , there 's a lot of ' grey ' . For example , a frequent job changer can view the 401 ( k ) as a way of saving pretax , knowing the fee will only last 2 years , and will end with a transfer to the IRA )
Only cash and goods are considered charitable donations . A gift of services ( in this case free rent ) does not apply . She might qualify as a <URL> though . However since she you wrote " almost all of 2010 " I suspect she may go over the ~ $ 3k income limit .
The rules are quite different . There is no special home purchase penalty-free withdrawal . In the case that your account has been open for five years , you can withdraw the principal ( but not the earnings ) without penalty . You may want to talk to a professional for further details . The real question is : why do you want to borrow against your future to finance your present ? Your down payment funds should come from another source than your retirement . Retirement funds should only be touched in the direst financial straights .
end question
start question
Can I request to change 401k offerings from my employer , e.g. to invest in ETFs ?
The presence of the 401K option means that your ability to contribute to an IRA will be limited , it does n't matter if you contribute to the 401K or not . Unless your company allows you to roll over 401K money into an IRA while you are still an employee , your money in the 401K will remain there . Many 401K programs offer not just stock mutual funds , but bond mutual funds , and international funds . Many also have target date funds . You will have to look at the paperwork for the funds to determine if any of them meet your definition of low expense . Because any money you have in those 401K funds is going to remain in the 401K , you still need to look at your options and make the best choice . Very few companies allow employees to invest in individual stocks , but some do . You can ask your employer to research other options for the 401K . The are contracting with a investment company to make the plan . They may be able to switch to a different package from the same company or may need to switch companies . How much it will cost them is unknown . You will have to understand when their current contract is up for renewal . If you feel their current plan is poor , it may be making hiring new employees difficult , or ti may lead to some employees to leave in search of better options . It may also be a factor in the number of employees contributing and how much they contribute .
You no longer can . Experian ceased its Canadian operations in 2009 . At the time , Experian Canada had the following posted on their website : Effective April 17 , 2009 , Experian will unfortunately discontinue its Canadian consumer credit bureau operations as a result of the very difficult economic environment in Canada and around the world , which Experian believes will persist for some time . This means that as of April 18 , 2009 , Experian will no longer be providing credit reports out of its Canadian database regarding any consumer in Canada . We will continue to respond to ongoing consumer requests for copies of credit reports , as well as handle disputed items and other consumer assistance until April 17 . After that date and upon completion of any disputes in process , all consumer information will be deleted from our database and will no longer be available to consumers or creditors . If you have not previously obtained your credit report from us or initiated a dispute on your Experian credit report , you may wish to contact one of the other credit bureaus for assistance . This message is no longer on their website , but <URL> still have the message available for viewing .
All else being equal , No The interest on your debt is quite high and is probably not tax deductable . Any earnings on your investments would be taxed at about 30 % based on your income . To positively gear these you would need a return of about 19.5 % . The only investment I know that returns this is a roulette table but the risk profile is rather high . Renegotiate the interest rate - it is way too high , Pay the debt off as soon as you possibly can . Get proper financial advice before you considerer gearing for investing - it increases returns and risk .
In the end it is your money . when you leave your job you will be given a few options if you have money in the 401k : 1 ) Leave it in the 401K account with the employer . You wo n't be able to contribute anymore , but you usually CAN keep the money there with no issues . For balances less than $ 5K , the employer can force you to take the money out of their plan ( see options 2-4 ) . I do n't generally suggest doing this . Option 3 gives you a lot more flexibility and usually less fees on the account . 2 ) Roll the balance into a new employers plan . 3 ) Roll the balance into a self-directed IRA or Roth IRA ( Depending on the type of 401K ) 4 ) Cash out the balance - EXTREMELY bad idea . You can lose up to 40 % of your money through penalties and taxes doing this . The employer match is slightly more complicated . You will want to look at the employer 's vesting period . Any employer match that is not vested , they will likely not let you keep . However YOUR contributions belong to you and they ca n't legally take that . Clarification on the vesting period : Companies have the option to specify a vesting period to encourage you to stay with them longer . How this typically works is that whatever you put in the 401K , they will contribute an additional amount ( usually less than 10 % ) of their money to your account with a string attached , that you only get to keep the money they put in the account if you stay with the company at least X years . In many cases they have a vesting schedule something like this : The vesting period never applies to money YOU put in the account , only what the employer contributes .
Unfortunately , It would be very unusual if you were able to roll a 401k out of your current employer . Details are plan specific , so you should check with your plan administrator .
JoeTapayer has good advice here . I would like to add my notes . If they give a 50 % match that means you are getting a 50 % return on investment ( ROI ) immediately . I do not know of a way to get a better guaranteed ROI . Next , when investing you need to determine what kind of investor you are . I would suggest you make yourself more literate in investments , as I suggest to anyone , but there are basic things you want to look for . If your primary worry is loss of your prinicipal , go for <URL> . This means that you are willing to accept a reduced expected ROI in exchange for lower volatility ( risk of loss of <URL> ) . This does not mean you have a 100 % safe investment as the last market issues have shown , but in general you are better protected . The fidelity investments should give you some information as to volatility or if they deem the investments conservative . Conservative investments are normally made up of trading <URL> , which have the lowest ROI in general but are the most secure . You can also invest in <URL> , although stock is inherently riskier . It is pointed out in comments that stocks always outperform bonds in the long term , and this has been true over the last 100 years . I am just suggesting ways you can protect yourself against market downturns . When the market is doing very well bonds will not give you the return your friends are seeing . I am just trying to give you a basic idea of what to look for when you pick your investments , nothing can replace a solid investment adviser and <URL> .
It looks like you can . Take a look at these articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> But of course , go to the source : <URL> From publication 529 : You can deduct certain expenses as miscellaneous itemized deductions on Schedule A ( Form 1040 or Form 1040NR ) . You can claim the amount of expenses that is more than 2 % of your adjusted gross income . You figure your deduction on Schedule A by subtracting 2 % of your adjusted gross income from the total amount of these expenses . Your adjusted gross income is the amount on Form 1040 , line 38 , or Form 1040NR , line 36 . I hope that helps . Happy deducting !
You are already doing everything you can . If your employer does not have a 401 ( k ) you are limited to investing in a Roth or a traditional IRA ( Roth is post tax money , traditional IRA gives you a deduction so it is essentially pre tax money ) . The contribution limits are the same for both and contributing to either adds to the limit ( so you ca n't duplicate ) . <URL> : Roth or regular IRA Insurance products ( blech ) Low cost investments ( index funds , etfs , tax free muni bonds ) Plead with your employer One thing you may want to bring up with your employer is that they could <URL> . This allows them to set a % ( up to 25 % ) that they contribute pre-tax to an IRA for everyone at the company that has worked there at least 3 years . If you are at a small company , maybe everyone with that kind of seniority would take an equivalent pay cut to get the automatic retirement contribution ? ( Note that a SEP-IRA has to apply to everyone equally percentage wise that has worked there for 3 years , and the employer makes the contribution , not you ) .
What you 're asking about is called a " distribution " when it comes to an LLC . It 's basically you paying yourself some or all of the proceeds of the business , depending on how you 're set up . You can pay yourself distributions on a regular schedule , say monthly , or you can do it at the end of the year . Whatever you do in this regard , what you take out as distributions is reported on your personal income tax as taxable income . LLCs in the U.S. use pass-through taxation ( unless you intentionally elect to have the LLC treated as a corporation for tax purposes , which some people do ) , so whatever the principals receive in distribution is personally taxable . Keep in mind that you 'll have to pay ALL of the taxes normally covered by an employer , such as self-employment tax ( usually about 15 % ) , social security tax , and so on . This is in addition to income tax , so remember that . I hope this helps . Good luck !
California is not one of the states that have a " Connivence of Employer " rules that would force a non-resident ( telecommuter ) to pay state income tax As of 2013 , only New York , Pennsylvania , Delware , and Nebraska have these laws . If you spent a portion of the year physically working in CA , that would change things , but not for a 100 % telecommute situation
I doubt that there is an arrangement with any country that would allow you to transfer money out of a 401 ( k ) and roll it over to another country that is n't governed by US Tax Laws without taking a distribution . The US government wo n't let you pull out like that without taking its cut . There may be , but I 'd be surprised . Check around in the appropriate venues . If you 're making a distribution that incurs penalties , then that 's what you 're doing . If you can do so without incurring penalties , then great for you , just deposit into the vehicle of your choice in your country .
No , you can not . 401k must not be discriminatory , i.e. : you can not have different matching for different employees .
For Qualified or Safe Harbor Matching/Profit Sharing they have legal requirements over 59.5 . For everything else it 's based on the plan document what is allowed . The plan document can be ( and usually is ) more restrictive than the law .
Depends on how the money is invested within the 401k ... but in general , prices move both up and down with a long-tem bias toward up . Think of it this way : with fund shares priced lower now , you are getting shares cheaper than when you entered the plan . So this dip is actually working in your favor , as long as you are comfortable trusting that long-term view ( and trusting the funds your 401k money is going into ) . Believe me , it 's even scarier when you 're nearer your target retirement date and a 10 % dip may be six figures ... but it 's all theoretical until you actually start drawing the money back out , and you have to learn to accept some volatility as part of the trade-off for getting returns better than bonds .
I agree with QuantK the easiest way is through an investment in ETFs . The other possibilities are : Buy commodities in the spot market . i.e. you just buy the commodity you want and hold on to it . This implies that you will need to store it , which you probably do n't . Hence , the next alternative . Futures . Investing in futures is not something you should consider without doing your homework first ! Futures positions are taken on margin and are thus " bought " with leverage . Furthermore , futures contract have a maturity date . This means that you would need to " roll " your position if you want to keep exposure to the commodity . In addition you should note that spot market returns are not necessarily the same as movements in futures returns due to basis risk and differences in timing ( futures typically converge to the spot price the closer to maturity but in essence reflect price discovery over time ) . If you want to invest in commodities through taking a position in futures contracts I advise you to become familiar with at least the following concepts : roll returns ( backwardation/contango term structures ) , margin ( especially what kind of collateral your broker accepts ) and transaction costs . ETFs typically invest in commodities through one of the above stated possibilities . They either arrange storage or they make sure futures positions are rolled . If ETFs invest through futures your return typically consist of the futures return and the return on collateral ( typically some bond portfolio ) . There are also other other derivates which you can consider but in the end these are typically linked to futures returns .
Since your comment on @JoeTaxpayer 's answer says that you are still under the 2012 contribution limits if the extra money is left in your 401k account , I do not think that there is any problem for you if the money is left in the 401k account . As I understand it , your salary is $ X for 2012 of which you contribute some percentage per paycheck to your 401k account . Your contributions would have totaled $ Y for 2012 if the glitch of extra money being out into your 401k account had not occurred . In the absence of the glitch , your W-2 form would have reported $ X as gross wages , $ ( X-Y ) as taxable wages and $ Y as 401k contributions . Since an additional $ z has been put into your 401k account , but not deducted from your paycheck , your employer could do one of two things . The extra money could be withdrawn from your 401k account by your employer . If this is done , then your W-2 form will be as described above . The extra money is not withdrawn by your employer . Your W-2 form will still report $ ( X-Y ) as taxable wages , but $ ( Y + z ) as the 401k contribution and $ ( X + z ) as gross wages . Since $ ( Y + z ) is less than the maximum 2012 contribution , everything is fine . In your position , I would very much prefer the latter alternative over the former , not just because there is a larger contribution to the 401k account with no change in tax liability , but also because there is always the possibility that HR/Payroll will screw up the withdrawal of the excess contribution so that it appears as a premature withdrawal by the participant . In this case , the participant not only has to pay income tax on $ z but also a 10 % excise tax for premature withdrawal , without actually getting even a penny from that $ z taken out , which will go right back into the employer 's coffers .
My original plan was to wait for the next economic downturn and invest in index funds . These funds have historically yielded 6-7 % annually when entered at any given time , but maybe around 8-9 % annually when entered during a recession . These numbers have been adjusted for inflation . Questions or comments on this strategy ? Educate yourself as index funds are merely a strategy that could be applied to various asset classes such as US Large-cap value stocks , Emerging Market stocks , Real Estate Investment Trusts , US Health Care stocks , Short-term bonds , and many other possibilities . Could you be more specific about which funds you meant as there is some great work by Fama and French on the returns of various asset classes over time . What about a Roth IRA ? Mutual fund ? Roth IRA is a type of account and not an investment in itself , so while I think it is a good idea to have Roth IRA , I would highly advise researching the ins and outs of this before assuming you can invest in one . You do realize that index funds are just a special type of mutual fund , right ? It is also worth noting that there are a few kinds of mutual funds : Open-end , exchange-traded and closed-end . Which kind did you mean ? What should I do with my money until the market hits another recession ? Economies have recessions , markets have ups and downs . I 'd highly consider forming a real strategy rather than think , " Oh let 's toss it into an index fund until I need the money , " as that seems like a recipe for disaster . Figure out what long-term financial goals do you have in mind , how OK are you with risk as if the market goes down for more than a few years straight , are you OK with seeing those savings be cut in half or worse ?
You can claim a deduction only if all of your business is conducted from the home , i.e. your home is your principal place of business - not just if you work from home sometimes . The <URL> ( Canada Revenue Agency ) has pretty strict guidelines listed <URL> , but once you 're sure you qualify for a deduction , the next step would be to determine what portion of your home qualifies . You can not attempt to deduct your entire mortgage simply because you run your business out of your home . The portion of your mortgage and other related &amp; allowable home expense deductions has to be pro-rated to be equal to or less than the portion of your home you use for business . Simply put , if your business is operated out of a 120 sq-ft self-contained space , and your home 's total square-footage is 2400 sq-ft , you can deduct 5 % of your expenses ( 120/2 ,400 = 0.05 ) . Hope this helps !
You should include the checks you received from the company , invoices you sent , bank statements showing the deposits , and your receipts , if any , you issued to the company . You 'd be surprised to know that this is a fairly common tax fraud . You can also try and sue the company or its successor for the missing amounts , but if it has been dissolved it may be difficult . As with any non-trivial tax issue - I suggest you get a professional advice from a EA/CPA licensed in your State . You may need representation before the IRS - only EA , CPA or an Attorney may represent you in IRS proceedings ( including audit and correspondence ) .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
end question
start question
Should I try to reach the recommended credit limit utilization percentage in the 3 days given between due date and reporting ?
No . On an ongoing basis your utilization means very little . When you want to get a large loan , like a mortgage or maybe a car loan , you may want to take a look at your utilization and make sure it 's not too high . There is no utilization history and your utilization history is not considered in your credit score . Generally speaking , regardless of the date the information is actually transmitted to the credit bureaus , the numbers reported are derived from your statement balance . Utilization is WAY over scrutinized on sites like this and other credit-focused forums . You should n't be maxing your card out every month , but even if you do it does n't mean anything if you 're not currently shopping for a new credit instrument . As long as you get that ratio straightened out before you want a new credit instrument utilization should not be a concern . If you are maxing your card and paying it to zero , wait a few months to establish some history then call your bank and ask for a line increase .
The difference is that APY takes into account the effects of compounding interest while APR does not . The difference only matters when more than one interest payment is made per year , which is the case most of the time . Here is an excellent article on the differences : <URL> Here is the formula to convert a stated interest rate to APY :
For the last few years around 2,500 metric tonnes of gold have been produced each year . This is on top of existing supply of 160,000 metric tonnes . Existing yearly production is around 1.5 % of the existing supply . Charts from <URL> .
I 'm assuming that compound interest is paid monthly . In that case , the interest rate is ~ 0.9162 % per month ( i.e. an APR of 11.57 % ) . The following formula is the one you are interested in : sum _ { y = 0 } ^ 9 ( sum _ { m = 0 } ^ 11 ( 500 +50 * y ) * ( 1 + T ) ^ ( 120-12 * y-m ) ) = 149028 I did n't attempt to solve this , but instead used trial and error . The value T = 0.0091624 works nicely ; you can verify this in <URL> . Getting at APR/EAR is simply ( 1 + T ) ^ 12 - 1 .
You want to charge so that : now with a little algebra . Rounded up to $ 153.69
As a general premise : In most of the online transactions in case of dispute the benefit of doubt is given to the customer . IE if the customer refuses to pay and claims that its not his transaction , the card company reverses the charges and does not pay the merchant ( or recovers if its already paid ) . There are many types of online vendors who use a variety of methods to ensure that they are not at loss . Some of these are : Ensuring entry of 3-4 digit CVV indicating that if someone used the card , he was in possession of it . However anyone at a POS while swiping the card can make a note of this and misuse the card . Additional address/ZIP code validation . This ensure slightly better protection that for a misuse , the card number , the CVV , the address need to be known . In spite of this online merchants Factoring in the probable loss due to fraud and marking up the price of the product to that extent . Certain merchants like say Netflix is not bothered about any validation as their service involves delivering a movie to the doorstep everyday and they would know the customer much better and can easily track down errant subscribers . Plus the cost of fees is for a month of service recovered in advance . This may hold good for one time occassioanal delivery by say Amazon as the cost of tracking and getting back the goods is high . Even if the subscriber makes away with a DVD on the first go , the loss to Netflix is just the cost of DVD copy though the gain to thief may be the market price of such DVD . Similar is the case with say Norton or other virus service providers , they would simply deactivate the product code ( if paid by card and later refused ) when you go online and the purchase would be of no use . The online industry is also plagued with cases where the transactions are actually made by card owners , who after enjoying the services dispute the claim with the card providers . Certain countries like India have now mandated that all online card transactions be validated by additional password apart from card number and CVV . The password needs to be generated by contacting the merchant bank before online transactions are allowed . Of course there is still a debate if the merchant is outside India , why should he comply with the additional norm . If an card issued outside India is used in India , they may not have additional password issued by their card providers .
I 've worked on software to model both kinds of retirement accounts -- the RRSP in Canada and the 401 ( k ) in the U.S. -- and here 's what I 've learned about their major similarities and differences : How the 401 ( k ) and RRSP are similar : Both are official investment account types created by government and conferring tax advantages designed to encourage you to save for retirement : Both permit pre-tax contributions ; i.e. you can claim an income tax deduction for contributions made to the account during the year . Both enable tax-deferred investment growth . That is , any returns generated in the account are not taxed in the year returns are generated -- rather , they are taxed later upon withdrawal -- hence the " deferred " . This helps compound growth work to your advantage . Both have annual contribution limits designed to prevent you from contributing all of your income into the account . Both generally permit you to invest in a variety of investment products ( e.g. mutual funds , stocks , bonds , CDs / GICS ) -- though what options exactly depends on your plan or broker . Both have ages beyond which withdrawals or conversion to an account type requiring withdrawals is mandatory . ( Required Minimum Distribution rule in the U.S. , and RRIF accounts in Canada . ) How the 401 ( k ) and RRSP are different : 401 ( k ) accounts are offered only in conjunction with an employer via payroll deduction . Whereas , in Canada it is possible to have an individual RRSP , as well as a group RRSP from an employer , and payroll deductions are just one way to put money in . In Canada , there are also distinct employer-sponsored Defined Contribution ( DC ) pension plans which are not considered RRSPs ; I understand in the U.S. , most DC plans are 401 ( k ) - type plans . On the other hand , while there are no individual 401 ( k ) in the U.S. , there are Individual Retirement Account ( IRA ) plans , but contribution limits are less generous . 401 ( k ) accounts can optionally offer two additional contribution types : traditional post-tax contributions , and Roth post-tax contributions . Such types of contribution do not exist for RRSPs , where the only contribution type is pre-tax . However , Canada recently introduced the TFSA ( Tax Free Savings Account ) , which behaves similar to U.S. Roth-type accounts . 401 ( k ) contribution allowances are use-it-or-lose-it for the year , but in Canada the RRSP contribution allowances cumulatively carry forward . That is , if you do n't put in your allowed contribution this year , you can put in that amount next year , plus next year 's amount , etc. . Many Canadians have built up lots of unused contribution room , to a point where they could conceivably shelter very large sums in an RRSP -- a symptom of past under-saving . 401 ( k ) accounts have early withdrawal penalties where generally speaking any withdrawal before age 59 1/2 is penalized with an additional 10 % tax , on top of the regular tax due . However , in Canada , early withdrawals from an RRSP are treated no different than withdrawals made in retirement . 401 ( k ) accounts have " catch-up " contributions permitting individuals age 50 + to contribute additional funds . Canada 's RRSP has no such provision ; perhaps owing to the cumulative contribution allowance I mentioned above . 401 ( k ) accounts are subject to rules for Highly Compensated Employees ( HCE ) , which prevent some top-earners in a company from contributing the maximum if other employees do n't contribute enough . RRSPs do n't have such a requirement . There are many more differences ; e.g. inheritance rules , loans , etc. and I 'm sure they could be uncovered if you look at legislation for each in detail ( and manage not to fall asleep doing so ! ) However , I think I 've covered the most common differences above . Official reference sources : <URL> <URL>
Unless stated otherwise , these terms apply to all bonds . Par value vs purchase price The <URL> or face value of a bond refers to the value of the bond when it 's redeemed at maturity . A bond with a par value of $ 10,000 simply means that if you purchase the bond and hold it until the maturity date specified in the contract , you receive $ 10,000 . The purchase price , however , is exactly that : it 's what you paid for the bond . Bonds may sell below , at , or above par . Continuing the example from above , if you paid $ 9,800 for a bought a bond with a $ 10,000 par value , you bought the bond below par . A bond selling below par is said to be selling at a discount . For bonds selling above bar , they 're selling at a premium . If the purchase price and the par value are the same , the bond is selling at par . Call price and call date These terms apply to <URL> only , which are bond contracts that allow the issuer of the bond ( in the case of municipal bonds , the institution or agency who created the contract ) to buy back from bond holders at a given date ( the call date ) and at a given price ( the call price ) before the bond reaches maturity and pays the holder the full par value . Coupon rate Yes , the <URL> is essentially the interest paid . It 's usually represented as a percent of the par value , so if the $ 10,000 in the example above had a 5 % coupon rate , this means that it paid out 0.05 * 10,000 = $ 500 each year . Usually , this payment is made as two semi-annual payments of $ 250 . Some bonds are <URL> , which means exactly what you would think ; they do n't make any coupon payments . U.S. Treasury Bills are one example of a zero-coupon bond . All of these factors are linked , because the coupon rate , callable provisions , and par value , along with the overall economic environment , can affect the purchase price of a bond .
Mentor Millonario say 's : The banking system if not that different from the one in the U.S. . What is different is the tax rules established for Puerto Rico by the U.S. For IRA purposes its like living abroad . From IRS code : Credits and deductions . If you claim the exclusion , you can not claim any credits or deductions that are related to the excluded income . Thus , you can not claim a foreign tax credit or deduction for any foreign income tax paid on the excluded income . Nor can you claim the earned income credit if you claim the exclusion . Also , for IRA purposes , the excluded income is not considered compensation and , for figuring deductible contributions when you are covered by an employer retirement plan , the excluded income is included in your modified adjusted gross income .
So My question is if I purchased the shares on 03-08-15 then will I get the dividend ? Yes if you purchase on 3-Aug , the shares will actually get credited to your account on 5-Aug and hence you will hold the shares on 6-Aug , the record date .
It would be quite the trick for ( a ) the government to run all year and get all its revenue in April when taxes are due and ( b ) for people to actually save the right amount to be able to cut that check each year . W2 employers withhold the estimated federal and state taxes along with the payroll ( social security ) tax from each paycheck . Since the employer does n't know how many kids you have , or how much mortgage interest , etc you will take deductions for , you can submit a <URL> to adjust withholdings . The annual Form 1040 in April is to reconcile exact numbers , some people get a refund of some of what they paid in , others owe some money . If one is self-employed , they are required to pay quarterly estimated taxes . And they , too , reconcile exact numbers in April .
Usually the amount of the ESPP stocks is very small compared to the overall volume of the trading , so it should n't matter . But check if for your company it not so ( look at the stock history for the previous ESPP dates , and volumes ) .
" Cleared " means that the transaction is settled at the bank/merchant . An example would be when you pay a credit card bill , the bank will acknowledge receipt of your payment at some point . " Reconciled " means that you 've verified the account against your records . In this case , you want to verify your future dated transactions against the actual statement received from the bank/merchant .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
A " Fund " is generally speaking a collection of similar financial products , which are bundled into a single investment , so that you as an individual can buy a portion of the Fund rather than buying 50 portions of various products . e.g. a " Bond Fund " may be a collection of various corporate bonds that are bundled together . The performance of the Fund would be the aggregate of each individual item . Generally speaking Funds are like pre-packaged " diversification " . Rather than take time ( and fees ) to buy 50 different stocks on the same stock index , you could buy an " Index Fund " which represents the values of all of those stocks . A " Portfolio " is your individual package of investments . ie : the 20k you have in bonds + the 5k you have in shares , + the 50k you have in " Funds " + the 100k rental property you own . You might split the definition further buy saying " My 401 ( k ) portfolio &amp; my taxable portfolio &amp; my real estate portfolio " ( etc. ) , to denote how those items are invested . The implication of " Portfolio " is that you have considered how all of your investments work together ; ie : your 5k in stocks is not so risky , because it is only 5k out of your entire 185k portfolio , which includes some low risk bonds and funds . Another way of looking at it , is that a Fund is a special type of Portfolio . That is , a Fund is a portfolio , that someone will sell to someone else ( see Daniel 's answer below ) . For example : Imagine you had $ 5,000 invested in IBM shares , and also had $ 5,000 invested in Apple shares . Call this your portfolio . But you also want to sell your portfolio , so let 's also call it a ' fund ' . Then you sell half of your ' fund ' to a friend . So your friend ( let 's call him Maurice ) pays you $ 4,000 , to invest in your ' Fund ' . Maurice gives you $ 4k , and in return , you given him a note that says " Maurice owns 40 % of atp9 's Fund " . The following month , IBM pays you $ 100 in dividends . But , Maurice owns 40 % of those dividends . So you give him a cheque for $ 40 ( some funds automatically reinvest dividends for their clients instead of paying them out immediately ) . Then you sell your Apple shares for $ 6,000 ( a gain of $ 1,000 since you bought them ) . But Maurice owns 40 % of that 6k , so you give him $ 2,400 ( or perhaps , instead of giving him the money immediately , you reinvest it within the fund , and buy $ 6k of Microsoft shares ) . Why would you set up this Fund ? Because Maurice will pay you a fee equal to , let 's say , 1 % of his total investment . Your job is now to invest the money in the Fund , in a way that aligns with what you told Maurice when he signed the contract . ie : maybe it 's a tech fund , and you can only invest in big Tech companies . Maybe it 's an Index fund , and your investment needs to exactly match a specific portion of the New York Stock Exchange . Maybe it 's a bond fund , and you can only invest in corporate bonds . So to reiterate , a portfolio is a collection of investments ( think of an artist 's portfolio , being a collection of their work ) . Usually , people refer to their own ' portfolio ' , of personal investments . A fund is someone 's portfolio , that other people can invest in . This allows an individual investor to give some of their decision making over to a Fund manager . In addition to relying on expertise of others , this allows the investor to save on transaction costs , because they can have a well-diversified portfolio ( see what I did there ? ) while only buying into one or a few funds .
TLDR : You will probably need to move to a different employer to get the raise you want/need/deserve . Some employers , in the US , punish longevity through a number of practices . My wife worked as a nurse for about 20 years . During that time she had many employers , leveraging raises with job changes . She quit nursing about 6 years ago and was being paid $ 38/hour at the time . She had a friend that worked in the same system for 18 years . They had the same position in the same hospital that friend 's current rate of pay : $ 26/hour . You probably do n't want to be that person . Given your Stack Overflow participation , I would assume you are some type of web developer . I would recommend updating your resume , and moving for a 20 % increase or more . You 'll get it as it is a great time to be a web developer . Spending on IT tends to go in cycles , and right now budgets are very healthy for hiring new talent . While your current company might not have enough money in the budget to give you a raise , they would not hesitate hiring someone with your skills at 95K if they had an opening . Its common , but frustrating to all that are involved except the bean counters that looks at people like us as commodities . Think about this : both sides of the table agree that you deserve a 5K raise . But lets say next year only 3k is in the budget . So you are out the 5k you should have been given this year , plus the 2k that you wo n't get , plus whatever raise was fair for you next year . That is a lot of money ! Time to go ! Do n't bother on holding onto any illusions of a counter offer by your current employer . There will be too much resentment . Shake the dust off your feet and move on . Edit : Some naysayers will cite short work histories as problems for future employment . It could happen in a small number of shops , but short work histories are common in technology that recruiters rarely bat an eye . If they do , as with any objection , it is up to you to sell yourself . In Cracking the Code Interview the author cites that no one is really expecting you to stay beyond 5 years . Something like this would work just fine : " I left Acme because there were indications of poor financial health . Given the hot market at the time I was able to find a new position without the worry of pending layoffs . " If you are a contractor six month assignments are the norm . Also many technology resumes have overlapping assignments . Its what happens when someone is in demand .
I am going to try to take your questions one at a time : Why there is an investment min This is because the mutual fund company has decided to set this level , although it varies from fund to fund and fund company to fund company . It is usually dictated by the style of the investment and the fund company . Advantages of higher minimums include less record-keeping with small accounts and ensuring that you have " more serious " investors . Plus , mutual funds end up using your money to buy underlying investments , so lots of little amounts are less useful to them , likely . the buying cost is a lot more expensive than buying stocks ? Again , depends on the company and its objectives . I suppose you are less likely to be buying and selling mutual funds more often ( and they like it this way ) , so a larger fee cuts down on day trading and also helps the company make money . There are plenty of fund companies that offer their funds commission-free , however ( such as Vanguard ) . Is the investment min only for the initial buying or do I have to buy at least 10k each time when I want to add more value to it ? A mutual fund company will likely have both a minimum initial investment and a minimum additional investment , although the latter is likely much smaller . So , for example , you may have a $ 10k initial minimum , then a $ 500 minimum additional investment . Do I have to pay the same commission fee every time when I buy more of the same mutual fund ? Likely , yes . There may be exceptions on things like reinvested dividends , but check the details of the mutual fund account . These should be obviously laid out in a fees table . Why is the investment min and commission fees are waived in my 401k account ? This is due to an agreement that your employer has with the provider . Minimums are likely waived since there are a bunch of people at this employer all investing in the same funds . Commissions are waived as a part of the cost of providing the 401k to you .
A REIT is a real estate investment trust . It is a company that derives most of its gross income from and holds most of its assets in real estate investments , which , in this case , include either real property , mortgages , or both . They provide a way for investors to get broad exposure in a real estate market without going to buy a bunch of properties themselves . It also provides diversification within the real estate segment since REITs will often ( but not necessarily ) have either way more properties than an individual could get or have very large properties ( like a few resorts ) that would be too expensive for any one investor . By law , they must pay at least 90 % of their taxable income as dividends to investors , so they typically have a good dividend rate ( possibly but not necessarily ) at the expense of growth of the stock price . Some of those dividends may be tax advantaged and some will not . An MLP is a master limited partnership . These trade on the exchange like corporations , but they are not corporations . ( Although often used in common language as synonyms , corporation and company are not the same thing . Corporation is one way to organize a company under the law . ) They are partnerships , and when you buy a share you become a partner in the company . This is an alternative form of ownership to being a shareholding . In this case you are a limited partner , which means that you have limited liability as with stock . The shares may appreciate or not , just like a stock , and you can generally sell them back to the market for a capital gain or loss under the same rules as a stock . The main difference here from a practical point of view is taxes : Partnerships ( of any type ) do no pay tax - Instead their income and costs are passed to the individual partners , who must then include it on their personal returns ( Form 1040 , Schedule E ) . The partnership will send each shareholder a Schedule K-1 form at tax time . This means you may have " phantom income " that is taxable even though cash never flowed through your hands since you 'll have to account for the income of the partnership . Many partnerships mitigate this by making cash distributions during the year so that the partners do actually see the cash , but this is not required . On the other hand , if it does happen , it 's often characterized as a return of capital , which is not taxable in the year that you receive it . A return of capital reduces your cost basis in the partnership and will eventually result in a larger capital gain when you sell your shares . As with any investment , there are pros and cons to each investment type . Of the two , the MLP is probably less like a " regular " stock since getting the Schedule K-1 may require some extra work at tax time , especially if you 've never seen one before . On the other hand , that may be worth it to you if you can find one that 's appreciating in value and still returning capital at a good rate since this could be a " best of everything " situation where you defer tax and - when you eventually do pay , you pay at favorable capital gains rates - but still manage to get your cash back in hand before you sell . ( In case not clear , my comments about tax are specific to the US . No idea how this is treated elsewhere . ) By real world example , I guess you meant a few tickers in each category ? You can find whole lists online . I just did a quick search ( " list of MLP " and " list of REIT " ) , found a list , and have provided the top few off of the first list that I found . The lists were alphabetical by company name , so there 's no explicit or implicit endorsement of these particular investments . Examples of REIT : AKR AIV ARE Examples of MLP : CAFD ACMP AB
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
If you read Joel Greenblatt 's The Little Book That Beats the Market , he says : Owning two stocks eliminates 46 % of the non market risk of owning just one stock . This risk is reduced by 72 % with 4 stocks , by 81 % with 8 stocks , by 93 % with 16 stocks , by 96 % with 32 stocks , and by 99 % with 500 stocks . Conclusion : After purchasing 6-8 stocks , benefits of adding stocks to decrease risk are small . Overall market risk wo n't be eliminated merely by adding more stocks . And that 's just specific stocks . So you 're very right that allocating a 1 % share to a specific type of fund is not going to offset your other funds by much . You are correct that you can emulate the lifecycle fund by simply buying all the underlying funds , but there are two caveats : Generally , these funds are supposed to be cheaper than buying the separate funds individually . Check over your math and make sure everything is in order . Call the fund manager and tell him about your findings and see what they have to say . If you are going to emulate the lifecycle fund , be sure to stay on top of rebalancing . One advantage of buying the actual fund is that the portfolio distributions are managed for you , so if you 're going to buy separate ETFs , make sure you 're rebalancing . As for whether you need all those funds , my answer is a definite no . Consider Mark Cuban 's blog post <URL> . Although there are some highly questionable points in the article , one portion is indisputably clear : Let me translate this all for you . " I want you to invest 5pct in cash and the rest in 10 different funds about which you know absolutely nothing . I want you to make this investment knowing that even if there were 128 hours in a day and you had a year long vacation , you could not possibly begin to understand all of these products . In fact , I do n't understand them either , but because I know it sounds good and everyone is making the same kind of recommendations , we all can pretend we are smart and going to make a lot of money . Until we do n't " Standard theory says that you want to invest in low-cost funds ( like those provided by Vanguard ) , and you want to have enough variety to protect against risk . Although I ca n't give a specific allocation recommendation because I do n't know your personal circumstances , you should ideally have some in US Equities , US Fixed Income , International Equities , Commodities , of varying sizes to have adequate diversification " as defined by theory . " You can either do your own research to establish a distribution , or speak to an investment advisor to get help on what your target allocation should be .
end question
start question
Where can I find an example of a really basic family budget ?
Gail Vaz-Oxlade has a great interactive budget on her website , www.gailvazoxlade.com . If you watch Til Debt Do Us Part , this spreadsheet will automatically tell you how much to put in your " jars " each week in each category too ! Good luck .
The portfolio described in <URL> has a blend of small slices of Vanguard sector funds , such as Vanguard Pacific Stock Index ( VPACX ) . And the theory is that rebalancing across them will give you a good risk-return tradeoff . ( Caveat : I have n't read the book , only the post you link to . ) Similar ETFs are available from <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . If you want to replicate the GFP exactly , pick from them . ( If you have questions about how to match specific funds in Australia , just ask another question . ) So I think you could match it fairly exactly if you wanted to . However , I think trying to exactly replicate the Gone Fishin Portfolio in Australia would not be a good move for most people , for a few reasons : Brokerage and management fees are generally higher in Australia ( smaller market ) , so dividing your investment across ten different securities , and rebalancing , is going to be somewhat more expensive . If you have a " middle-class-sized " portfolio of somewhere in the tens of thousands to low millions of dollars , you 're cutting it into fairly small slices to manually allocate 5 % to various sectors . To keep brokerage costs low you probably want to buy each ETF only once every one-two years or so . You also need to keep track of the tax consequences of each of them . If you are earning and spending Australian dollars , and looking at the portfolio in Australian dollars , a lot of those assets are going to move together as the Australian dollar moves , regardless of changes in the underlying assets . So there is effectively less diversification than you would have in the US . The post does n't mention the GFP 's approach to tax . I expect they do consider it , but it 's not going to be directly applicable to Australia . If you are more interested in implementing the general approach of GFP rather than the specific details , what I would recommend is : get a low-cost ( sub 0.3 % pa ) indexed superannuation fund such as <URL> or <URL> put your taxable savings into a <URL> keep some money in either a mortgage offset account ( if you have a mortgage ) or an online savings account The Vanguard and superannuation diversified funds have a very similar internal split to the GFP with a mix of local , first-world and emerging market shares , bonds , and property trusts . This is pretty much fire-and-forget : contribute every month and they will take care of rebalancing , spreading across asset classes , and tax calculations . By my calculations the cost is very similar , the diversification is very similar , and it 's much easier . The only thing they do n't generally cover is a precious metals allocation , and if you want that , just put 5 % of your money into the <URL> ETF , or something similar .
No , you can not generally deduct these expenses . These are investigatory expenses that you made before acquiring the property . Had you acquired it - they would be added to the basis as part of the closing costs , but since you actually have not purchased an asset - you have nothing to add to the basis of . This has been the settled law after a Tax Court decision since 1931 .
You 're talking about <URL> . The wiki article goes into the <URL> . Here 's the gist : Modern portfolio theory ( MPT ) is a theory of finance that attempts to maximize portfolio expected return for a given amount of portfolio risk , or equivalently minimize risk for a given level of expected return , by carefully choosing the proportions of various assets . At the most basic level , you either a ) pick a level of risk ( standard deviation of your whole portfolio ) that you 're ok with and find the maximum return you can achieve while not exceeding your risk level , or b ) pick a level of expected return that you want and minimize risk ( again , the standard deviation of your portfolio ) . You do n't maximize both moments at once . The techniques behind actually solving them in all but the most trivial cases ( portfolios of two or three assets are trivial cases ) are basically <URL> because to be realistic , you might have a portfolio that a ) does n't allow short sales for all instruments , and/or b ) has some securities that ca n't be held in fractional amounts ( like ETF 's or bonds ) . Then there is n't a closed form solution and you need computational techniques like mixed integer quadratic programming Plenty of firms and people use these techniques , even in their most basic form . Also your terms are a bit strange : It has correlation table p11 , p12 , ... pij , pnn for i and j running from 1 to n This is usually called the covariance matrix . I want to maximize 2 variables . Namely the expected return and the additive inverse of the standard deviation of the mixed investments . Like I said above you do n't maximize two moments ( return and inverse of risk ) . I realize that you 're trying to minimize risk by maximizing " negative risk " so to speak but since risk and return are inherently a tradeoff you ca n't achieve the best of both worlds . Maybe I should point out that although the above sounds nice , and , theoretically , it 's sound , as one of the comments points out , it 's harder to apply in practice . For example it 's easy to calculate a covariance matrix between the returns of two or more assets , but in the simplest case of modern portfolio theory , the assumption is that those covariances do n't change over your time horizon . Also coming up with a realistic measure of your level of risk can be tricky . For example you may be ok with a standard deviation of 20 % in the positive direction but only be ok with a standard deviation of 5 % in the negative direction . Basically in your head , the distribution of returns you want probably has negative <URL> : <URL> because on the whole you want more positive returns than negative returns . Like I said this can get complicated because then you start minimizing other forms of risk like <URL> , for example , and then modern portfolio theory does n't necessarily give you closed form solutions anymore . Any actively managed fund that applies this in practice ( since obviously a completely passive fund will just replicate the index and not try to minimize risk or anything like that ) will probably be using something like the above , or at least something that 's more complicated than the basic undergrad portfolio optimization that I talked about above . We 'll quickly get beyond what I know at this rate , so maybe I should stop there .
I 'm a retired stockbroker/Registered Investment Advisor . My initial discussions with prospects never had a fee . Restricted stock is unsaleable without specific permission from the issuing company , and typically involves time specifc periods when stock can be sold and/or amounts of stock that can be sold . Not for DIY . Financial planners may be able to assist you , if they are conversant in restricted stock , though that 's not a common situation for most clients . Any stockbroker at a major firm ( Merrill Lynch , UBS , Royal Bank of Canada , Morgan Stanley , JP Morgan , etc. ) will be knowledgeable and advise you ( w/o charge ) how to trade the stock . Always talk to more than one firm , and do n't be in a hurry . If you feel comfortable with the discussion , you can pursue a deeper relationship . In my professional experience , clients valued service , accessibility , knowledge . Price was way down on the list ; many of my clients were not wealthy people - they just needed help navigating a very confusing ( and necessary ) part of their lives . Good luck .
Your corporation would file a corporate income tax return on an annual basis . One single month of no revenue does n't mean much in that annual scheme of things . Total annual revenue and total annual expenses are what impact the results . In other words , yes , your corporation can book revenues in ( say ) 11 of 12 months of the year but still incur expenses in all months . Many seasonal businesses operate this way and it is perfectly normal . You could even just have , say , one super-awesome month and spend money the rest of the year . Heck , you could even have zero revenue but still incur expenses -- startups often work like that at first . ( You 'd need investment funding , personal credit , a loan , or retained earnings from earlier profitable periods to do that , of course . ) As long as your corporation has a reasonable expectation of a profit and the expenses your corporation incurs are valid business expenses , then yes , you ought to be able to deduct those expenses from your revenue when figuring taxes owed , regardless of whether the expenses were incurred at the same approximate time as revenue was booked -- as long as the expense was n't the acquisition of a depreciable asset . Some things your company would buy -- such as the computer in your example -- would not be fully deductible in the year the expense is incurred . <URL> expenses are deducted over time according to a schedule for the kind of property . The amount of depreciation expense you can claim for such property each year is known as <URL> . A qualified professional accountant can help you understand this . One last thing : You wrote " write off " . That is not the same as " deduct " . However , you are forgiven , because many people say " write off " when they actually mean " deduct " ( for tax purposes ) . " Write off " , rather , is a different accounting term , meaning where you mark down the value of an asset ( e.g. a bad loan that will never be repaid ) to zero ; in effect , you are recognizing it is now a worthless asset . There can be a tax benefit to a write-off , but what you are asking about are clearly expense deductions and not write-offs . They are not the same thing , and the next time you hear somebody using " write off " when they mean " deduction " , please correct them .
I traded futures for a brief period in school using the BrokersXpress platform ( now part of OptionsXpress , which is in turn now part of Charles Schwab ) . They had a virtual trading platform , and apparently <URL> , and it was excellent . Since my main account was enabled for futures , this carried over to the virtual account , so I could trade a whole range of futures , options , stocks , etc. . I spoke with OptionsXpress , and you do n't need to fund your acount to use the virtual trading platform . However , they will cancel your account after an arbitrary period of time if you do n't log in every few days . According to their customer service , there is no inactivity fee on your main account if you do n't fund it and make no trades . I also used <URL> for a class and despite finding the occasional bug or website performance issue , it provided a good experience . I received a discount because I used it through an educational institution , and customer service was quite good ( probably for the same reason ) , but I do n't know if those same benefits would apply to an individual signing up for it . I signed up for <URL> about seven years ago when I was in secondary school , and it 's completely free . Unfortunately , you get what you pay for , and the interface was poorly designed and slow . Furthermore , at that time , there were no restrictions that limited the number of shares you could buy to the number of outstanding shares , so you could buy as many as you could afford , even if you exceeded the number that physically existed . While this is n't an issue for large companies , it meant you could earn a killing trading highly illiquid pink sheet stocks because you could purchase billions of shares of companies with only a few thousand shares actually outstanding . I do n't know if these issues have been corrected or not , but at the time , I and several other users took advantage of these oversights to rack up hundreds of trillions of dollars in a matter of days , so if you want a realistic simulation , this is n't it . Investopedia also has a <URL> that I 've heard positive things about , although I have n't used it personally .
Unless they 're the actual employers , the I-9 is none of their business . Your employer must verify your eligibility for employment on the first day of your employment , i.e. : when you find a job you 'll have to fill I-9 anyway . The only reason I can think for them to do it is to verify that you 're eligible for employment before they waste any time on searching for a job for you . I 'm not sure if they 're legally allowed to ask for your status , so maybe that 's their way of working around that . I do n't think they can require you to fill I-9 , and in fact I 'm not sure if its even legal for them to obtain that information without actually being your employers . IMHO , that is , consult with an attorney if you want a proper legal advice .
Unfortunately , It would be very unusual if you were able to roll a 401k out of your current employer . Details are plan specific , so you should check with your plan administrator .
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ( SIFMA ) publishes these and other relevant data on their <URL> , in the " Treasury &amp; Agency " section . The <URL> contains annual and monthly data with bins for varying maturities . These data only go back as far as January 2001 ( in most cases ) . SIFMA also publishes <URL> with monthly data for bills , notes , bonds , etc. going back as far as January 1980 . Most of this information comes from the <URL> , so that 's another source of specific information that you could aggregate yourself . Somewhere I have a parser for the historical data ( since the Treasury does n't provide it directly ; it 's only available as daily text files ) . I 'll post it if I can find it . It 's buried somewhere at home , I think .
You can not carry bills over to the next year . You can only get reimbursement from your FSA for amounts incurred in the period the FSA covers , so if your FSA covers calendar year - the next year 's FSA wo n't be able to provide reimbursement for the previous year bill . Note that asking the doctor to split the bill and bill you on different days wo n't work either because you incur the cost on the day of the surgery . Misreporting to overcome that limitation is considered insurance fraud ( a felony ) . If this is not an option , then what other options could I have to cover the entire surgery with my FSA account ? None .
Get another envelope for " items purchased online . " When you make a purchase online , pull out the equivalent amount of money from the proper envelope ( household , gifts , entertainment , etc. ) and put that money into the " items purchased online " envelope . ( The amount grows as you purchase things , which is opposite of the other envelopes , which get spent down as you purchase things . ) Then , the next time you fund your envelopes , withdraw the difference of what you have in your " items purchased online " envelope , and then add that to what 's in the " items purchased online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as you normally do . Example : Let 's say you buy $ 25 in DVDs from Amazon and $ 85 in clothing from Kohls.com . You 'd take $ 25 out of your Entertainment envelope , and $ 85 from your Clothing envelope , and put that $ 110 in your " items purchased online " envelope . ( The rest are cash purchases . ) If you fund your envelopes with $ 500 each period , then you 'd withdraw $ 390 ( $ 500 - $ 110 ) , empty the " online " envelope , and fund your envelopes as usual . Now your " online " envelope is zero again , and you rinse and repeat .
Moody 's is now Mergent Online . It 's no longer being printed , and must be accessed digitally . In order to browse the database , check with your local public library or university to see if you can get access . ( A University will probably require you to visit for access ) . Another good tool is Value Line Reports . They are printed information sheets on public companies that are updated regularly , and are convenient for browsing and for comparing securities . Again , check your local libraries . A lot of the public information you may be looking for can be found on Yahoo Finance , for free , from home . Yahoo finance , will give financial information , ratios , news , filings , analysis , all in one place .
The Find window does n't have the Charge Amount field in it It 's the " Value " field . <URL>
While this is a localized question that will change over time , nerdwallet.com tracks what they think are the best <URL> The deal with the prepaid cards is they shift around all the time , with who is the best at any given time being something you must shop for . So , here are the ways to shop for a prepaid card Look for the fees Monthly fees Transactions fees ATM Fees Fees to purchase the card Fess to reload the value on the card Balance inquiry fees Bill pay fees Inactivity fees ( which should tell you this is n't a great deal ) Look for limits ATM withdrawal limits Daily transaction limits Which ATMs you can use How to you put money on the card Will it accept direct deposits ? Is there a fee for that ? Other Gotchas Can you use it where you want to use it ? Will the card report to credit reporting agencies ?
If you 're a US citizen/resident - you pay taxes on your worldwide income regardless of where you live . The logic is that Americans generally do n't agree to the view that there 's more than one country in the world . If you 're non-US person , not physically present in the US , and provide contract work for a US employer - you generally do n't pay taxes in the US . The logic is that the US does n't actually have any jurisdiction over that money , you did n't earn it in the US . That said , your employer might withheld tax and remit it to the IRS , and you 'll have to chase them for refund . If you receive income from the US rental property or dividends from a US company - you pay income tax to the US on that income , and then bargain with your home tax authority on refunds of the difference between what you paid in the US and what you should have paid at home . You can also file non-resident tax return in the US to claim what you have paid in excess . The logic is that the money sourced in the US should be taxed in the US . You earned that money in the US . There are additional rules to more specific situation , and there are also bilateral treaties between countries ( including a US-Canadian treaty ) that supersede national laws . Bottom line , not only that each country has its own laws , there are also different laws for different situations , and if some of the international treaties apply to you - it further complicates the situation . If something is not clear - get a professional advice form a tax accountant licensed in the relevant jurisdictions ( in your case - any of the US states , and the Canadian province where you live ) .
Starting a budget can be very overwhelming . The first step is to find the format that works best for you ! Formats vary and include biweekly , weekly , monthly , or annually . I usually suggest either bi-weekly or monthly , because creating an annual budget can get a little overwhelming . There are many different ways you can do a budget , but the formula is the same for all : Income -- Expenses = Bottom Line Start with your income . This income will include any income that is definite . Any side jobs or money given to you that is not regular should not be added in these calculations , and should just be considered extra money that goes into your savings account . If your paycheck changes constantly , try taking the average of your last 6 months to accurately calculate your income . Remember it is always better to calculate this on the lower side if you are not sure . Again , any extra money can be put into your savings . Once you have your income calculated , move on to your expenses . Typically there are two separate areas for this . The first section is for the day-to-day living expenses . This includes anything from your rent and utilities to your food . The second area is the one people tend to get stuck on because they forget to add in purchases that do not happen all the time . These are items such as gifts , school tuition , books , clothes , and medical expenses . Though you do not need these items every month , it is helpful to put away a little bit each month for these expenses so that when they do come around you have the money already saved and in an account to use . Try to also include a spot in your budget for pocket money . This is the money you will keep on you to pay for things like beverages , snacks , and those items that were forgotten in your normal grocery shopping trips . The last section is your monthly debts . These are your mortgages , loans , and credit cards . Having these in a separate section helps to allow you to see those debts more clearly and separate them out to help understand where you are . These are the debts you should continually work on to pay off each month . If you have a positive bottom line , try adding a little more to your monthly payments ! Once you have clearly identified your income and expenses you finally have your bottom line . Contrary to popular belief , this number should be zero . The only time you should have excess in the budget is if your paycheck was more than originally calculated , or if you were given money . In this case put the extras in your savings or pay down some of your debt . Keeping this number as close to zero as possible will allow you to be able to use your money as efficiently as possible ! Here 's a tip ! Use budgetsketch.com to map out your bills ! Though the paper budget is excellent as well , this site allows you to work with your budget and change it constantly to match your paychecks . It works on a week-by-week basis , rather than a monthly basis , and is completely free !
Extra contribution above your limit will be <URL> until you withdraw it ( unless you make the withdrawal before the closest Tax Day ) , in addition to the ( ordinary ) income tax on all the gains . The limits are for the contributions , not earnings . What you earn inside the account does n't affect your contribution limits .
Property sold at profit is taxed at capital gains rate ( if you held it for more than a year , which you have based on your previous question ) . Thus deferring salary wo n't change the taxable amount or the tax rate on the property . It may save you the 3 % difference on the salary , but I do n't know how significant can that be . The 25 % depreciation recapture rate ( or whatever the current percentage is ) is preset by your depreciation and can not be changed , so you 'll have to pay that first . Whatever is left above it is capital gains and will be taxed at discounted rates ( 20 % IIRC ) . You need to make sure that you deduct everything , and capitalize everything else ( all the non-deductible expenses and losses with regards to the property ) . For example , if you remodeled - its added to your basis ( reduces the gains ) . If you did significant improvements and changes - the same . If you installed new appliances and carpets - they 're depreciated faster ( you can appropriate part of the sale proceeds to these and thus reduce the actual property related gain ) . Also , you need to see what gain you have on the land - the land can not be depreciated , so all the gain on it is capital gain . Your CPA will help you investigating these , and maybe other ways to reduce your tax bill . Do make sure to have proper documentation and proofs for all your claims , do n't make things up and do n't allow your CPA " cut corners " . It may cost you dearly on audit .
It 's not a reason to buy a home , but it is a nice plum that in effect subsidizes your loan in the early years when you pay alot of interest . EDIT : Depending on the market that you 're in , things like mortgage interest , taxes and insurance are already priced into your rent . Renting lets you avoid the downside risks associated with owning property -- but you also lose the potential upside . The buy/rent decision is based on the following : Your life . ( When you 're 23 , a house means you 're " tied down " . When you 're 33 , it 's " stability " ) Your income/financial condition . The market ( for both rentals and purchases ) The market is a huge factor here . I live in a small city ( Albany , NY ) with a very tight rental market . Renting a 2 bedroom apartment costs like $ 1,300-1 ,600 and is difficult to find . But a nice 3-bedroom house in a great neighborhood goes for $ 150-170k in the city and $ 180-200k in the burbs . Obviously if you live in the Bay Area , where an empty lot in the hood goes for $ 750k , ymmv .
end question
start question
Why do people invest in mutual fund rather than directly buying shares ?
Buying the right shares gives higher return . Buying the wrong ones gives worse return , possibly negative . The usual recommendation , even if you have a pro advising you , is to diversify most of your investments to reduce the risk , even though that may reduce the possible gain . A mutual fund is diversification-in-a-can . It requires little to no active maintenance . Yes , you pay a management fee , but you are n't paying per-transaction fees every time you adjust your holdings , and the management costs can be quite reasonable if you pick the right funds ; minimal in the case of computer-managed ( index ) funds . If you actively enjoy playing with stocks and bonds and are willing/able to accept your failures and less-than-great choices as part of the game , and if you can convince yourself that you will do better this way , go for it . For those of us who just want to deposit out money , watch it grow , and maybe rebalance once a year if that , index funds are a perfectly good choice . I spend at least 8 hours a day working for my money ; the rest of the time , I want my money to work for me . Risk and reward tend to be proportional to each other ; when they are n't , market prices tend to move to correct that . You need to decide how much risk you 're comfortable with , and how much time and effort and money you 're willing to spend managing that risk . Personally , I am perfectly happy with the better-than-market-rate-of-return I 'm getting , and I do n't have any conviction that I could do better if I was more involved . Your milage will vary . If folks did n't disagree , there would n't be a market .
At your age , I do n't think its a bad idea to invest entirely in stocks . The concern with stocks is their volatility , and at 40 + years from retirement , volatility does not concern you . Just remember that if you ever want to call upon your 401 ( k ) for anything other than retirement , such as a down payment on a home ( which is a qualified distribution that is not subject to early distribution penalties ) , then you should reconsider your retirement allocations . I would not invest 100 % into stocks if I knew I were going to buy a house in five years and needed that money for a down payment . If your truly saving strictly for a retirement that could occur forty years in the future , first good for you , and second , put it all in an index fund . An S&amp;P index has a ridiculously low expense ratio , and with so many years away from retirement , it gives you an immense amount of flexibility to choose what to do with those funds as your retirement date approaches closer every year .
It is a must in most folks ' portfolios . If you invest in <URL> ETFs/funds , you 'll have a decent amount of healthcare . If you invest in actively managed value , blend , and growth mutual funds , you 'll also get healthcare . If you 're rolling your own portfolio ( in the US ) , you might consider starting with a general purpose health company ( e.g. J&amp;J ) , then maybe add a large pharma company ( e.g. Pfizer , Merck , etc ) , then top off with some more specialized/focused companies . Of course , you do n't want to put all of your portfolio in healthcare alone . There are other sectors that also have good long-term outlooks ( energy &amp; tech , as well ) . EDIT : Added link to Morningstar portfolio analysis for SPX .
Yes . I heard back from a couple brokerages that gave detailed responses . Specifically : In a Margin account , there are no SEC trade settlement rules , which means there is no risk of any free ride violations . The SEC has a FAQ page on <URL> , which states that it applies specifically to cash accounts . This led me to dig up the text on <URL> which gives the " free-riding " rule in § 220.8 ( c ) , which is titled " 90 day freeze " . § 220.8 is the section on cash accounts . Nothing in the sections on margin accounts mentions such a settlement restriction . From the <URL> , the margin agreement implicitly covers settlement . " Buying Power " does n't seem to be a Regulation T thing , but it 's something that the brokerages that I 've seen use to state how much purchasing power a client has . Given the response from the brokerage , above , and my reading of Regulation T and the relevant Wikipedia page , proceeds from the sale of any security in a margin account are available immediately for reinvestment . Settlement is covered implicitly by margin ; i.e. it does n't detract from buying power . Additionally , I have personally been making these types of trades over the last year . In a sub - $ 25K margin account , proceeds are immediately available . The only thing I still have to look out for is running into the day-trading rules .
The fund should be reporting returns net of expenses , so your interpretation is right ; it made something like 0.42 % ( which sounds plausible , based on current yields on short-term securities ) , and the 0.05 % is what 's left after expenses . I 've never seen a regular mutual fund report raw returns before expenses . If one does , the my personal opinion would be that they 're trying to snooker you , as that number is n't actually representative of anybody 's actual returns . If you look carefully , you should be able to find a table that reports several kinds of adjusted returns for the fund : Returns before taxes ( but after expenses ) . Loosely speaking , this is the return you would have gotten if you held the fund in a tax-sheltered account like an IRA . Returns after taxes on distributions . Any interest or dividends paid out by the fund will have taxes due . This figure should tell you how your account balance would have grown over time , if you held the fund in a taxable account . Returns after taxes on sale of shares . When you sell your shares in the fund , you will owe taxes on the amount by which the shares have appreciated since you bought them . Therefore , this figure represents what you would have actually realized had you bought and held the shares for the specified amount of time ( typically 1 , 3 , 5 , or 10 years ) . A money market mutual fund probably wo n't report this number because they manage their distributions to keep their share value at exactly $ 1 . As to what happens if a fund ca n't earn enough returns to cover its expenses , in that case the value of the fund shares will decrease . This happens from time to time with riskier funds . It should n't happen with a money market fund because both the returns and the expenses are fairly predictable , so the fund managers should be able to avoid it , unless they get caught up in a major crisis like the 2008 banking crisis . In ordinary times , a money market fund managers who could n't keep expenses below income would find themselves looking for a new job fairly quickly . Finally , for what it 's worth , 0.37 % is a really high expense ratio for a money market fund . If you were to shop around , you could easily find comparable funds with expenses less than half that .
I do n't believe you can do that . <URL> Finally , certain types of property are specifically excluded from Section 1031 treatment . Section 1031 does not apply to exchanges of : Inventory or stock in trade Stocks , bonds , or notes Other securities or debt Partnership interests Certificates of trust I highlighted the relevant items for emphasis .
The math depends on your average bill , days before it 's due , and interest you 'd earn . Say you have a $ 2000 bill each month . At 1 % , there 's an annual $ 20 or 40 cents per week you 'd save by delaying the payment . If you pay on line and can hit the due date dead on , no reason to pay sooner . But if you risk the mail being late , the late fee and interest will negate the savings on a hundred months of last minute payments . Hardly worth the risk , IMHO . Edit - to clarify , the delayed payment with the above numbers saves the 40 cents or about $ 5/yr . scale it up with higher average balances or with a higher return on your savings account .
All mutual funds are not created equal ; some invest in bonds while others in equities . Some highlight different sectors or have an international scope . Regardless of the mutual fund here are some general reasons why you might want to avoid them : They are expensive . Mutual funds regularly charge between 1-3 % in yearly fees . Sometimes even more . So that means if the fund increases in value by 5 % in one year and the annual fee is 3 % , you only net a 2 % increase . Another example , if the fund only increases by 1 % and the annual fee is 2 % , you 're actually losing 1 % of your money . Mutual funds are not priced continuously throughout the day . Unlike stocks , ETFs , and other securities that are priced constantly during the trading day , mutual funds are only priced once a day ( at the end of the day ) . This means that is impossible to day trade with mutual funds . Because of this , the investment time horizon must be longer than other securities that are constantly priced . There are alternatives ! ETFs ( exchange traded funds ) have become increasingly popular over the past decade . They are cheaper than mutual funds by sometimes a factor 10 . So a mutual fund may charge an annual fee of 3 % , while an ETF may only charge a 0.3 % annual fee . Like stocks , they are priced constantly during the trading day . This means that they can be used for day trading . For example , people used SPY ( tracks the S&amp;P 500 ) and GLD ( tracks the price of gold ) to easily bet on daily moves in price . ETFs also allow you to invest in commodities or currencies without having to transact in those markets directly . So to summarize , there is nothing wrong with mutual funds , but there are better alternatives . For the reasons listed above , I would try to investment in an ETF before a mutual fund ( given that they have similar investment characteristics ) . Here 's the section of the Wikipedia article on ETFs explaining their advantages : <URL>
The reason I do n't know of any banks who would offer this to you ( even if you held the investment account with their bank ) is that there is no upside to the bank . It is a good idea for you , but what would they have to gain from this arrangement ? The reason banks require a down payment is underwriting quality . If you can afford a significant down payment , they know that there is a significantly lower chance that you will default . However , if you were to provide an investment account as collateral , you would receive all the upside , and any downside would reduce their collateral as a percent of the amount loaned . This sort of idea could potentially work along the lines of a margin call ( ie you have to provide additional capital if your asset value drops ) , but this would have the effective of leveraging the bank 's risk , when their objective is to lower their risk through requiring a down payment . I do n't see a reason why the bank would take on the risk that you would need to provide additional capital down the road with no upside for them . Additionally , many banks have backed away from the kinds of zero-down-payment and negative-amortization-ARM loans that got them ( or the people they sold them to ) in trouble over the last few years in an effort to reduce how much risk they take on . I think that in theory , you 'd have to offer a lot more benefit to the bank , and that in practice it 's probably a non-starter right now .
You only got 75 shares , so your basis is the fair market value of the stock as of the grant date times the number of shares you got : $ 20 * 75 . Functionally , it 's the same thing as if your employer did this : Paid you $ 2,000 cash Withheld $ 500 of that cash for taxes , and recorded that withholding on your W-2 Immediately forced you to buy company stock with the remaining $ 1,500 As such , the basis in that stock is $ 1,500 ( $ 20 * 75 ) . The other 25 shares are n't yours and were n't ever yours , so they are n't part of your basis ( for net issuance ; if they were sell to cover , then the end result would be pretty similar , but there 'd be another transaction involved , but we wo n't go there ) . To put it another way , suppose your employer paid you a $ 2000 bonus , leaving you with a $ 1500 check after tax withholding . Being a prudent person and not wishing to blow your bonus on luxury goods , you invest that $ 1500 in a well-researched investment . You would n't doubt that your cost basis in that investment at $ 1500 .
All else being equal , No The interest on your debt is quite high and is probably not tax deductable . Any earnings on your investments would be taxed at about 30 % based on your income . To positively gear these you would need a return of about 19.5 % . The only investment I know that returns this is a roulette table but the risk profile is rather high . Renegotiate the interest rate - it is way too high , Pay the debt off as soon as you possibly can . Get proper financial advice before you considerer gearing for investing - it increases returns and risk .
If you buy and hold a mutual fund there are three areas on which you are subject to taxes : Dividends Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains At the risk of being overly political there is often a debate over the marginal rate of for dividends and long-term capital gains . Conservatives are attempting to hold the rate at 15 % where progressives are attempting to increase the rate to your top marginal rate . I 'll leave the nuances of the argument for another post . The important part is , right now , those are taxed at 15 % . The consensus is that short-term capital gains should be taxed at your top marginal rate . According to the rhetoric having short term capital gains ( even if held for 9 months ) makes you a " day-trader " and you should be punished . You will receive a statement from your mutual fund that outlines what amounts are dividend , long and short term capital gains . You can also be hit with capital gains once you redeem your mutual funds . Depending on the length you held your shares will determine if they are long or short term capital gains . So there is an added benefit to doing what you are seeking . As long as the current political climate exists , you will pay far less taxes on some portion of what you earn in a mutual fund .
And I messaged my broker who responded : Thank you for your enquiry . Irish domiciled ETFs on the LSE are stamp exempt so you do not have to pay the 1 % duty . ( previously I had called the and the lady on the phone said I have to pay it ) Also , I found this page which lists ETFs as exceptions for which stamp duty is not payable : <URL> So basically while I think I would have to pay stamp duty if I would want to buy , say , Aer Lingus Group shares , ETFs are an exception and exempt .
My understanding is that the traditional mutual funds use part of the expense ratio for advertising of the mutual fund to increase the number of shareholders . I do n't think ETF 's are advertised as heavily or directly to potential investors . Also , the statistics could be skewed because it seems like a lot of ETFs do not have active portfolio management and simply track a particular investment index . This would reduce the overhead expense of an investment research team to investigate and select the investments for the fund .
It has little to do with money or finance . It 's basic neuroscience . When we get money , our brains release dopamine ( read Your Money and Your Brain ) , and receiving dividends is " getting money . " It feels good , so we 're more likely to do it again . What you often see are rationalizations because the above explanation sounds ... irrational , so many people want to make their behavior look more rational . Ceteris paribus a solid growth stock is as good as a solid company that pays dividends . In value-investing terms , dividend paying stocks may appear to give you an advantage in that you can keep the dividends in cash and buy when the price of the security is low ( " underpriced " ) . However , as you realize , you could just sell the growth stock at certain prices and the effect would be the same , assuming you 're using a free brokerage like Robin Hood . You can easily sell just a portion of the shares periodically to get a " stream of cash " like dividends . That presents no problem whatsoever , so this can not be the explanation to why some people think it is " smart " to be a dividend investor . Yes , if you 're using a brokerage like Robin Hood ( there may be others , but I think this is the only one right now ) , then you are right on .
First of all , the # 1 reason NOT to buy shares in a US-domiciled ETF is that you lose too much money on converting your Canadian dollars into US dollars in order to buy it , and again converting back when you sell . So unless you have a source of USD income , or are comfortable using Norbert 's Gambit , you should probably instead buy a Canadian ETF that holds US stocks , such as VUN or XUU . Those two are even broader than the S&amp;P 500 index , but that 's not a bad thing . If you can cheaply obtain USD , then you 'd be better off with VTI over SPY , because it 's MER is 4 basis points lower and has broader coverage of the US market . Now to answer your question , there are a few differences in the ways foreign equity is taxed compared to Canadian equities . The biggest difference is that dividends from Canadian companies gets favorable tax treatment , so you 'll pay less to the CRA than for dividends on US companies . But if you 're holding the ETF inside a TFSA , RRSP , or RESP then it is sheltered from all Canadian tax , regardless of where the ETF is domiciled or what country 's stocks are being held in it . A smaller difference with foreign equity is that foreign governments will apply a tax on dividend yields , called withholding tax , which varies from country to country . In the US the rate is 15 % ( for foreign investors who fill out a W-8BEN form ) . This tax is not charged when you hold a US-domiciled ETF in an RRSP . And if you are going to hold the stocks in a taxable account ( which you should only do if you 've already maxed out your TFSA and RRSP ) , then you can claim a foreign tax credit on your tax return that compensates you for the US withholding tax . <URL> by PWL Capital does a good job of explaining it and lists popular ETFs at the bottom showing the effect of the tax . I 'd also like to address the question asked in the topic , which is whether or not it 's a good idea to buy US equities . The answer is that it 's a good idea to diversify your investment portfolio across many countries . So yes , buy US equity ETFs ( either Canadian or US domiciled , depending on what currency you can get ) and also buy ETFs that hold Canadian equity , and some that hold international equity . And do n't just buy equities unless you 're willing to take big risks with your money . Most people will buy bond ETFs as well to protect themselves in case of market crashes . If this concept of diversification is new to you , maybe you should consider reading a little more on the topic of index investing . <URL> is great resource for learning , and has recommendations for ETFs and some model portofilos .
He was most likely talking about <URL> ' mutual fund called <URL> . It lists January 1 , 1934 as its inception date , which is just over 78 years ago . As shown at the link above , it lists its cumulative annualized returns as of December 31 , 2011 to be 11.97 % ( not taking any loads into account ) . It does appear to be a relatively popular fund , with over 3.5 million shareholder accounts and over $ 50 billion in net assets . The fund is targeted primarily at American large-cap equities , and is actively managed . Commensurate with that , its expenses are higher than index funds ( the actual expense ratio and/or loads depend upon the share class that you choose ; the above link shows information for class A shares , which carry a somewhat hefty front-end load ) ; it 's up to you to choose between a higher-cost , actively-managed fund ( and hope that the managers are good at picking stocks ) versus a low-cost indexing approach promoted by companies like Vanguard . You 'll find people on both sides of that fence . However , as JoeTaxpayer already pointed out , the average return of the market over the same time period was very similar , or even better ( I 'm not sure exactly how the calculator he referenced arrived at the number ; the S&amp;P 500 did n't exist in its current form until 1957 ) , so it 's not clear that the management of this fund has added value from a total return standpoint . Depending upon your risk appetite , however , it may be worth looking a bit deeper to compare the fund 's volatility with that of the overall market ; a similar return with lower volatility might be desirable .
Firstly , I think you need to separate your question into two parts : Which currency should I hold my money in Which country should I hold my money in If you are Chinese , live in China and intend to stay in China for most of your life then the default answer to question 1 should be Renminbi . Question 2 is not as important , you can hold USD in almost any country in the world . Any investment you hold has risk , which may include market risk , credit risk , liquidity risk , inflation risk etc. . Holding USD will expose you to exchange rate fluctuations as well . If the Renminbi rises in value against the dollar your returns in USD will be reduced by the same amount ( remember that for currency fluctuations you have to multiply the percentages , <URL> ) . The first thing you probably want to do is find out exactly what the assets are in the 理财 you have invested in . The fact that there is a ' risk level ' ( even if it is only 2 ) would suggest to me that the fund is investing in some combination of bonds and stocks which means that your returns are not guaranteed and could make a loss . Interest rates on deposit accounts are mandated by the government in China , and the current 12 month deposit rate on RMB is 3 % . To earn over 3 % , GEB must be investing your assets in something else ( I 'm guessing bonds ) . Bear in mind that 1.5 years is a very short amount of time in investments , so do n't assume this return will continue ! I 'm afraid I 've only been studying Chinese for a year , so I ca n't really help you much with the link you 've sent through - you may want to check if there is any guaranteed minimum return , which can be the case in more complex structured products . Ultimately you will need to pick an investment which you feel gives you the best combination of risk and return for your situation , there are a huge amount of options to choose between . The 4-5 % you are earning right now is not a huge risk premium on the 3 % you could earn in China from a time deposit , but in the current environment you may struggle to beat it without taking on more risk . Before considering that though - understand how much risk you already have with GEB .
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 50 1/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 50 1/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
<URL> might answer your question if US based . In the US , what counts is what shows on the bill . I 've run $ 20K through a card with a $ 10K limit , but still ended the month under $ 2K by making extra payments . As long as you stay ahead of the limit by making mid-cycle payments , I see no issue with this strategy . If you keep running $ 30K/mo through a card with a $ 10K limit , the bank will eventually catch this and raise your limit as you will have proven you are more credit worthy .
end question
start question
Can I make a graph of savings in Quicken ?
I found a way to do this , but it 's slightly backwards . Quicken does not allow you to make a graph of just your income , probably because that would be a fairly boring graph for most people . But it does allow you to do a graph of your expenses . Doing so , while including income categories , will produce the graph I want , but with negative numbers ( savings is negative spending ) . Go to Reports - > Reports and Graph Center in the main menu . In the Quicken Standard Reports section , go to Spending by Category Click the Customize button . On the Customize Spending by Category window , on the Categories tab , add all Income and Expense categories ( but no Bank categories ) . Click Show Graph . Set the Column to Month . This will switch it from a pie chart to a bar graph This will show a bar graph of overall spending , counting income as Negative Spending . So , having negative bars is good in this case .
The problem is that there have been many changes to how savings bonds are purchased and interest is set . With no ability to predict the rate for the entire life of the bond the value at 30 years will be impossible to calculate . For <URL> What interest will I get if I buy an EE Bond now ? 0.20 % annual interest rate for EE Bonds issued between May 1 , 2013 and October 31 , 2013 . EE Bonds issued after May 2005 earn interest for up to 30 years . They earn a fixed rate of interest . For the first 20 years , EE bonds earn the same fixed rate that was set when the bond was issued . We may change the rate or the way an EE Bond earns interest for the last 10 years of the bond 's 30-year life . If we make a change , we have to do it before that 10-year period starts . ( This is different from the type of interest that I Bonds earn . Comparing I Bonds to EE Bonds . ) When will my paper bond be worth its full value ? EE Bonds continue to earn interest for up to 30 years . Electronic bonds are sold at face value ( not half of face value ) . They start to earn interest right away on the full face value . Treasury guarantees that for an electronic EE Bond with a June 2003 or later issue date , after 20 years , the redemption ( cash-in ) value will be at least twice the purchase price of the bond . If the redemption ( cash-in ) value is not at least twice the purchase price of the electronic bond as a result of applying the fixed rate of interest for those 20 years , Treasury will make a one-time adjustment at the 20 year anniversary of the bond 's issue date to make up the difference . <URL> EE Bonds issued May 1997 -- April 2005 : Interest rate For the six-month rate periods that start in the months from May 1 , 2013 through October 31 , 2013 , the annual interest rate that applies to EE Bonds with issue dates from May 1997 through April 2005 is 0.68 % . EE Bonds issued from May 1997 through April 2005 earn a variable rate of interest . Treasury determines the rate each May 1 and November 1 and applies that rate for six-month rate periods that start in the next six months . Again , with no ability to predict the rate for the entire life of the bond the value at 30 years will be impossible to calculate .
You would have to do the specific math with your specific situation to be certain , but - generally speaking it would be smarter to use extra money to pay down the principle faster on the original loan . Your ability to refinance in the future at a more favorable rate is an unknowable uncertainty , subject to a number of conditions ( only some of which you can control ) . But what is almost always a complete certainty is that paying off a debt is , on net , better than putting the same money into a low-yield savings account .
You did not state which country you were referring to , so I 'm going to assume Canada . Obviously , the standard approach if you accidentally rip a $ 100 bill in half would be to tape the two halves together . Failing that , though , the Bank of Canada will still accept damaged bills . A torn bill consisting of more than three-fifths of the note is worth full value . A bill is worth half if between 40 % and 60 % of the bill remains intact . It is worth nothing if less than this remains intact . This information comes from <URL> and <URL> ( The Great Canadian Trivia Book by Ray and Kearney ) . In your example , each half would be worth $ 50 . You would not be able to profit from this approach . Indeed , I know of no country where you could profit from this approach , for obvious reasons .
All data for a single adult in tax year 2010 . Roth IRA Full contribution allowed for AGI under $ 105K Partial contribution allowed for AGI between $ 105K and $ 120K No contribution allowed for AGI over $ 120K 401K IRS allows up to $ 16,500 but varies based on employer and plan details . Roth 401k IRS allows up to $ 16,500 , but varies based on employer and plan details . Traditional IRA and your employer offers a 401k Phased out at $ 66,000 . Traditional IRA and your employer does NOT offer a 401k No income/AGI limit . Your full IRA contribution ( up to $ 5K ) can be made and deducted from your taxes similar to a 401k . So , here are your options . If you have a 401k at work , you could max that out . If you make close to $ 120K , you could reduce your AGI enough to contribute to a Roth IRA . If you do not have a 401k at work , you could contribute to a Traditional IRA and deduct the $ 5K from your AGI similar to how a 401k works . Other than that , I think you are looking at investing outside of a retirement plan which means more flexibility , but no tax advantage .
Usually , you take this to your credit card issuer . I do n't know what the Argentinian laws are on the matter , but in all the places I do know what the laws are - they 're the same . You dispute the charge with your credit card issuer claiming that the product is not as advertised . The issuer will contact the merchant account provider of the company you bought from and transmit your complaint to them . The company will have to respond , and in the end your credit card issuer will have to decide whether they agree that your claim is valid , or not . If they side with you , they issue a charge back and refund your money ( the merchant account provider for that company will charge their account ) . Since you did in fact receive a product , you 'll have to show why you think it is not as advertised , so get as much proofs as you can - screenshots , descriptions , ads that you relied upon , etc. . This is called " charge-back " process and is a pretty standard and similar procedure with both Visa and Mastercard .
You have heard the old adage " Buy low , sell high " , right ? That sounds so obvious that you 'd have to wonder why they would ever bother coining such an expression . It should rank up there with " Do n't walk in front of a moving car " on the Duh scale of advice . Well , your question demonstrates exactly why it is n't quite so obvious in the real world and that people need to be reminded of it . So , in your example , the stock prices are currently low ( relative to what they have been ) . So per that adage , do you sell or buy when prices are low ? Hint : It is n't sell . Yes . Your gut is going to tell you the exact opposite thanks to the fact that our brains are unfortunately wired to make us susceptible to the <URL> . When the market has undergone a big drop is the WORST time to stop contributing ( buying stocks ) . This example might help get your brain and gut to agree a little more easily : If you were talking about any other non-investment commodity , cars for instance . Your question equates to . . I really need a car , but the prices have been dropping like crazy lately . Maybe I should wait until the car dealers start raising their prices again before I buy one . Dollar Cost Averaging As littleadv suggested , if you have an automatic payroll deduction for your retirement account , you are getting the benefit of <URL> . Because you are investing the same amount on a scheduled interval , you are buying more shares when they are cheap and fewer when they are expensive . It is like an automatic buy low strategy is built into the account . The alternative , which you are implying , is a <URL> . Under this strategy , instead of investing regularly you try to get in and out of investments right before they go up/drop . There are two MAJOR flaws with this approach : 1 ) Your brain will work against you ( see above ) and encourage you to do the exact opposite of what you should be doing . 2 ) Unless you are clairvoyant , this strategy is n't much better than gambling . If you are lucky it can work , but because of # 1 , the odds are stacked against you .
What the automation mostly does is make short-term trading that much more difficult . Day trading is a zero-sum game , so if they win more , everyone else wins less . Long term trading ( years to decades ) is a positive-sum game ; the market as a whole tends to move upward for fairly obvious reasons ( at its basis it 's still investing , which in turn is based on lending , and as long as folks make fairly rational decisions about how much return they demand for their investment and the companies are mostly producing profits there will be a share of the profit coming back to the investors as dividends or increased share value or both . Day-to-day churn in individual stocks gets averaged out by diversification and time , and by the assumption that if you 've waited that long you can wait a bit longer if necessary for jitters to settle out . Time periods between those will partake of some mix of the two .
Frequently neighboring states reach an agreement that allow only the state where you live to levy taxes on income . The state where you earn that income does n't tax you , and does n't even require you to file any forms . These agreements are done by specific states , and they generally share a border . But , you will still end up counting all the income you receive as income earned in your home state . If you live in the state with the lower tax rate that makes you very happy , because you will save money . Even if you do n't save money you save time because you do n't have to fill out tax forms for both states . If there is no agreement between your two states , then generally you will only count the income where it is earned . Of course you will only be taxed once , and the other state will either ignore it , or give you a credit for the income tax paid to the other state . In some states local jurisdiction : cities , towns , counties also have income taxes . If they do they will be taxing you on all your income that is taxed by your state .
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
Your premise is false . When you withdraw money from a Tax Free Savings Account ( TFSA ) , there is no tax due . Yes , you can read that again : <URL> . They are labeled " tax free " for a good reason ! After-tax money is deposited , and then from that point forward , no tax , no tax , no tax . :-) On a " normal " , non-registered investment or savings account with no special treatment , your investment earnings will be taxed whenever gains are realized or income received ( e.g. dividends or interest ) . You will necessarily have less in a normal non-registered investment or savings account compared to a TFSA , as long as the rate of return was positive , i.e. growing . Perhaps you were thinking not of comparing a regular investment account to a TFSA , but rather to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan ( RRSP ) ? In the case of an RRSP , there is an up-front tax deduction , then earnings grow tax-deferred , and then on withdrawal , income tax is paid at regular rates . Even then , with RRSPs , if your marginal tax rate remains the same over time ( not necessarily a reasonable assumption , but let 's go with it ) then you should still realize more after-tax income from your RRSP than from a normal non-registered investment or savings account . ( Though , there 's likely an exception case when most income came as qualified dividends and the capital itself has n't appreciated . )
Yes , you can certainly keep it in a savings account until you spend it . You 'll get much less interest than you will be paying on the loan , but it will be better than nothing . However , you may want to ask if you can use the loan flexibly instead - i.e. only " draw down " the money you need when you need it , and not start paying interest until that happens . That would save you a lot more money . Note that the ISA limit is currently # 5,760 and the limit is on total deposits so you wo n't be able to reuse the amount later in the tax year . Since that ends on April 5th that probably wo n't be an issue for you .
The S&amp;P / ASX 300 is rebalanced every six months , with changes taking effect on the third Friday of March and September . From a PDF under <URL>
Almost any financial institution has the technical ability to do this ( simply called sweeps , auto sweeps , or deposit sweeps ) ; the issue you face is finding an institution that is willing to do it for you . I think you will have the most luck at your primary financial institution where you currently keep the majority of your banking relationship . You will have better luck at small-town banks and credit unions . The mega banks will likely not waver from their established policies . Deposit sweeps are common for business accounts . They are usually tied to a savings account , which is usually held within the same institution , however this is not a requirement . The sweep can send money to any US bank if you can provide the routing number and account number . The sweep will establish a peg balance , or floor balance , on the checking account . At the end of the day , any amount above the peg is swept into the savings account automatically . I doubt you will find what you 're asking for within an online banking system . You will likely have to go into a branch and speak with a personal banker . Explain to them you want to establish a sweep on your checking account and want to send the funds to another financial institution . You will have better luck asking for a peg of $ 100 , or some other small amount . They may not take your request seriously if you want to completely empty the checking account to zero .
As an NRI , you are still liable to pay taxes on certain incomes earned in India , like the interest on Savings accounts / rent received from property / capital gains on shares / etc. . It is advisable to file a NIL return in India . The forms are same as one you fill for normal returns . You just have to declare the right source of income and show zero taxes [ if within the exempt bracket ] . There are quite a few online services including <URL> As Dilip has mentioned in comments , US taxes on your global income , hence it would be advisable to declare the interest income in India to the IRS . The Double tax avoidance treaty would help you avoid being taxed twice , however you would still pay the max rate of tax .
This is quite possibly a tactic to attract new clients . . ICICI is one of the banks with a small presence in Canada . There are also banks like Tangerine and PC Financial that are aggressively trying to get new clients to switch over from the big 5 banks . At the time of writing , for a limited time , PC Financial is paying 2.5 % interest on savings accounts versus 1.4 % for a 1 year GIC .
<URL> is available at the Treasury direct website . I do n't think these get CUSIPs since they are not traded in secondary market .
Your account is your account , hers is hers . The fact that you file taxes jointly does n't change that . The " I " in IRA stands for Individual . You can not merge them . There are certain conditions when you can withdraw your IRA penalty-free , check <URL> for some pointers .
You do n't have to make the repairs , if they 're just cosmetic . The insurance company does n't care if your house looks good or not . On the other hand , if the repairs are structurally necessary to prevent water damage to the house , not making them may result in the company raising your rate or not renewing the policy due to the increased risk . You can try asking your agent if you can get a ruling on that now , before deciding whether to spend the money . And of course if you do n't do it , they may not count this damage toward your deductible for future damage this year .
All the gory details are available <URL> . More specifically your personal limit will be listed on you last tax assessment notice , that you would have received last April-ish when you filed last year 's taxes . As a first approximation , your situation may differ , if you have never contributed anything , your limit is likely $ 15,000 ( as the program has been running three years as of 2011 ) .
end question
start question
24 % tax on first pay in the UK ?
The back pay will explain the high rate . You are being taxed on a month one basis . <URL> says W1 ( week 1 ) and M1 ( month 1 ) are emergency tax codes . This means your tax is based only on what you are paid in the current pay period , not the whole year . These codes are sometimes known as ' non-cumulative ' . Thus the tax is calculated as if you were getting the amount you got this month for every month in the year . So compare 12 times the amount with the tax allowances to see where you get taxed at the higher rate . ( or divide the allowances by 12 ) When your records have been consolidated the emergency code is removed and the amount you pay will be adjusted to the correct level and this will include a refund if necessary Doing a calculation at annual rates Gross salary of # 68,500 first # 11,000 at 0 next # 32,000 at 20 % = # 6,400 next # 25,500 at 40 % = # 10,200 So net tax of # 16,600 a rate of 24.23 % So you received about # 5,708 in one month
What you refer to as " cumulative " is normally called compounding . Note that while I know your example is fictitious , but 2 % per month is totally beyond the realms of possibility - 2 % per year is the right order of magnitude . Usually interest rates are quoted as annual equivalent rates ( AER ) , which in effect means that they are compounded annually . Also , typically for ISAs interest will be paid annually so you wo n't even see individual monthly interest payments . So the amount paid in the first year might be 2 % of the total balance , and then the amount paid in the second year might be another 2 % of that new balance . So if you replace " month " by " year " in your question then that 's roughly what you should expect to see . For other accounts , particularly current accounts , interest might be paid and compounded monthly , but the interest rate quoted will still be an AER . If you kept the same balance in the account for an entire year , then you would end up receiving the total interest quoted ( e.g. 2 % ) but each month you would actually get a rate that 's calculated to produce the same result .
If you 're a cash based tax payer ( which you most likely are ) , you can not do so . You report the wages in the year you receive them . You can not back-date earnings for your tax benefit .
Generally , I would say that you should pay it off if you have the money available . Why pay interest if you have the money ? That is , of course , if your money can earn you more than the interest you pay ( which can happen if you got a very low APR for your car loan , but then you probably have excellent credit already and should n't care about the history of the loan on your report ) . Re the 7 years vs 2 years - to the best of my knowledge its not true , it will stay 7 years even if its closed during the first year .
When you add points , a break-even date comes into play . That date varies depending on the rate and number of points . As an approximate example , having one point at those rates would have a break-even point of about 5 years . At that time , the amount you save with the lower rate makes up for the extra cash you paid for points . After that , you are saving money . If you do n't plan on having the loan that long , the points are not worth it . Also , you need to calculate the break-even date based on your own parameters . I suggest searching for an online calculator or spreadsheet that supports point calculations . You may also be able to deduct 1/30th of your points every year . Ask you accountant about that .
This is the way it 's supposed to work : taxable pay is the entire amount that might be subject to tax . Your personal allowance will be taken off as part of calculating the amount of tax due on that . The two might diverge if you divert some of your gross pay to non-taxable benefits such as pension contributions or childcare vouchers , or conversely if you have taxable non-cash benefits like medical insurance . That 's why they are typically listed separately .
There are several things to consider with this plan . Most low percent for x months cards or offers have a penalty interest rate if you do n't completely pay it all off on time . In some cases that will mean that they could hit you with all the interest they could have charged you with , just at the moment you thought you had finished paying off the debt . They can also have a penalty rate if one of the payments is late . There can be a fee charged by the IRS to even use the card . From the IRS page <URL> , the fee is 1.87 % to 2.25 % . So you may have to do a cash advance from the card to the bank account before sending the money to the IRS to avoid this fee . If you do use the cash advance feature of the card , make sure the fee for that is n't too high . Do n't use the card for anything else until the IRS debt is paid off . Otherwise additional purchases will not get the grace period , and could incur interest charges from the day of the purchase .
Found the problem , the actual numbers used are for the annual , not for semi-monthly , so multiplying my gross by 24 and calculating that way , then dividing the final tax by 24 solved the problem .
Basically , yes . That does n't mean that it 's easy to do . The government provides a dividend tax credit since an individual takes on more risk to invest in dividend-paying corporations rather than trading their human capital for an income . Thus , for the most part , $ 1 earned from dividends is taxed much less than $ 1 earned from income or interest . Finally , note that foreign dividends are not eligible for the dividend tax credit , and are not preferentially taxed .
When I left the UK four years ago , free banking is still an option and I 'm pretty sure it still is . Therefore , you have chosen to have a bank account with a 5.00 / month charge . In return for this charge , you will be eligible to receive certain benefits . For example ; reduced borrowing costs , discounted mortgage rates , free overdraft on small amounts , " rewards " for paying household bills by direct debit , and things of this sort . Amongst these benefits may be preferential savings rates . However , from HMRC 's point of view it will be the extra perks you are paying for with your monthly charge . You have chosen to pay for the account and HMRC is not interested in how you choose to spend your money , only in the money you earn . While I agree with you that it does have an element of unfairness , the problem is how would you divide the cost amongst the various benefits .
Yes , you will need to pay capital gains tax in MA for that transaction . Here 's how " <URL> " is defined in MA . It short , it follows the Federal definitions for most cases , including yours . Note that MA follows the Federal rules with regards to the <URL> ( exclusion of gains on the sale of principal residence ) .
Just to get the ball rolling , here 's an answer : it wo n't affect you in the slightest . The pound happened to be tumbling anyway . ( If you read " in the papers " that Brexit is " making the pound fall " , that 's as valuable as anything else you 've ever read in the papers . ) Currencies go up and down drastically all the time , and there 's nothing you can do about it . We by fluke once bought a house in Australia when that currency was very low ; over the next couple years the currency basically doubled ( I mean per the USD ) and we happened to sell it ; we made a 1/2 million measured in USD . Just a fluke . I 've had the opposite happen on other occasions over the decades . But ... Currency changes mean absolutely nothing if you 're in that country . The example from ( 2 ) was only relevant because we happened to be moving in and out of Aus . My various Australian friends did n't even notice that their dollar went from .5 to 1 in terms of USD ( how could it matter to them ? ) All sorts of things drastically affect the general economy of a given country . ( Indeed , note that a falling currency is often seen as a very good thing for a given nation 's economy : conspiracy theorists in the states are forever complaining that ) Nobody has the slightest clue if " Brexit " will be good bad or indifferent for the UK . Anything could happen . It could be the beginning of an incredible period of growth for the UK ( after all , why does Brussels not want your country to leave - goodwill ? ) and your house could triple in value in a year . Or , your house price could tumble to half in a year . Nobody has the slightest clue , whatsoever about the effects on the " economy " of a country going forward , of various inputs .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
Short Answer : You 're going to end up paying taxes on it . Despite the home being your primary residence , you do n't meet the ownership test , and it is n't noted that you have had a change in employment , health , or other unforeseen circumstances that are " forcing " you to sell . Otherwise , you could qualify for a reduced maximum exclusion that might allow you to walk away without owing taxes , or with a reduced tax bill . You ca n't even do a 1031 exchange to re-invest into a new primary residence . You should check with a tax professional to see what adjustments you can make to the cost basis of the property to minimize your reported net profits . EDIT : Ownership and Use Tests During the 5-year period prior to the sale , you must have : Owned the house for at least 2 years , and lived in the house as your main home for at least 2 years . These periods do not necessarily have to coincide ( You do n't to live in it as your main house for 2 consecutive years , just 2 years worth of time of the last 5 ) .
Many lenders in the US do permit additional payments to be made against the principal . Those will reduce how much you actually owe , which reduces the total interest you will owe over the duration of the loan as well as shortening its duration . It is not uncommon for people to take a 30 year mortgage so they have the option of paying slowly , but to make the additional payments to shorten it to 20 or 15 years ... at a total cost not too much more than the shorter loan would have cost . Not all lenders/loans will let you do this . If yours does n't , your only option to reduce total cost of the loan is to refinance . Note that you may need to explicitly say you want the extra applied to principal , or they may count it as just prepaying future installment payments the loan .
I 'd interpret it as " Net Worth " reached 1M where " net worth " = assets - liabilities .
I gift my daughter stock worth $ 1000 . No tax issue . She sells it for $ 2000 , and has a taxable gain of $ 1000 that shows up on her return . Yes , you need to find out the date of the gift , as that is the date you value the fund for cost basis . The $ 3500 is n't a concern , as the gift seems to have been given well before that . It 's a long term capital gain when you sell it . And , in a delightfully annoying aspect of our code , the dividends get added to basis each year , as you were paying tax on the dividend whether or not you actually received it . Depending on the level of dividends , your basis may very well be as high as the $ 6500 current value . ( pls ask if anything here needs clarification )
I think I understand what you 're trying to achieve . You just want to see how it " feels " to own a share , right ? To go through the process of buying and holding , and eventually selling , be it at a loss or at a gain . Frankly , my primary advice is : Just do it on paper ! Just decide , for whatever reason , which stocks to buy , in what amount , subtract 1 % for commissions ( I 'm intentionally staying on the higher side here ) , and keep track of the price changes daily . Instead of doing it on mere paper , some brokers offer you a demo account where you can practice your paper trading in the same way you would use a live account . As far as I know , Interactive Brokers and Saxo Bank offer such demo accounts , go look around on their web pages . The problem about doing it for real is that many of the better brokers , such as the two I mentioned , have relatively high minimum funding limits . You need to send a few thousand pounds to your brokerage account before you can even use it . Of course , you do n't need to invest it all , but still , the cash has to be there . Especially for some younger and inexperienced investors , this can seduce them to gambling most of their money away . Which is why I would not advise you to actually invest in this way . It will be expensive but if it 's just for trying it on one share , use your local principal bank for the trade . Hope this gets you started !
No , you only pay tax on money you earned while in the state in question . Even then generally there are exclusions if you made only a small amount . ( Generally earning less than $ 400 or $ 500 , depending on the state , relieves you a having to file or pay taxes in a state . ) Do n't want to pay any state income tax ? There are seven states with no state income tax . They are Alaska , Florida , Nevada , South Dakota , Texas , Washington and Wyoming . Yes , I am a CPA .
I 'm a little confused on the use of the property today . Is this place going to be a personal residence for you for now and become a rental later ( after the mortgage is paid off ) ? It does make a difference . If you can buy the house and a 100 % LTV loan would cost less than 125 % of comparable rent ... then buy the house , put as little of your own cash into it as possible and stretch the terms as long as possible . Scott W is correct on a number of counts . The " cost " of the mortgage is the after tax cost of the payments and when that money is put to work in a well-managed portfolio , it should do better over the long haul . Do n't try for big gains because doing so adds to the risk that you 'll end up worse off . If you borrow money at an after-tax cost of 4 % and make 6 % after taxes ... you end up ahead and build wealth . A vast majority of the wealthiest people use this arbitrage to continue to build wealth . They have plenty of money to pay off mortgages , but choose not to . $ 200,000 at 2 % is an extra $ 4000 per year . Compounded at a 7 % rate ... it adds up to $ 180k after 20 years ... not exactly chump change . Money in an investment account is accessible when you need it . Money in home equity is not , has a zero rate of return ( before inflation ) and is not accessible except through another loan at the bank 's whim . If you lose your job and your home is close to paid off but is n't yet , you could have a serious liquidity issue . NOW ... if a 100 % mortgage would cost MORE than 125 % of comparable rent , then there should be no deal . You are looking at a crappy investment . It is cheaper and better just to rent . I do n't care if prices are going up right now . Prices move around . Just because Canada has n't seen the value drops like in the US so far does n't mean it ca n't happen in the future . If comparable rents do n't validate the price with a good margin for profit for an investor , then prices are frothy and can not be trusted and you should lower your monthly costs by renting rather than buying . That $ 350 per month you could save in " rent " adds up just as much as the $ 4000 per year in arbitrage . For rentals , you should only pull the trigger when you can do the purchase without leverage and STILL get a 10 % CAP rate or higher ( rate of return after taxes , insurance and other fixed costs ) . That way if the rental rates drop ( and again that is quite possible ) , you would lose some of your profit but not all of it . If you leverage the property , there is a high probability that you could wind up losing money as rents fall and you have to cover the mortgage out of nonexistent cash flow . I know somebody is going to say , " But John , 10 % CAP on rental real estate ? That 's just not possible around here . " That may be the case . It IS possible somewhere . I have clients buying property in Arizona , New Mexico , Alberta , Michigan and even California who are finding 10 % CAP rate properties . They do exist . They just are n't everywhere . If you want to add leverage to the rental picture to improve the return , then do so understanding the risks . He who lives by the leverage sword , dies by the leverage sword . Down here in the US , the real estate market is littered with corpses of people who thought they could handle that leverage sword . It is a gory , ugly mess .
end question
start question
Is it worth trying to find a better minimum down payment for a first time home buyer ?
It 's worthwhile to try and find a better minimum down-payment . When I bought my home , I got an FHA loan , which drastically reduced the minimum down-payment required ( I think the minimum is 3 % under FHA ) . Be aware that any down-payment percentage under 20 % means that you 'll have to pay for private mortgage insurance ( PMI ) as part of your monthly mortgage . Here 's <URL> of it . Part of the challenge you 're experiencing may be that banks are only now exercising the due diligence with borrowers for mortgages that they should have been all along . I hope you 're successful in finding the right payment . Getting a mortgage to reduce your spending on housing relative to rent is a wise move . In addition to fixing your monthly costs at a consistent level ( unlike rent , which can rise for reasons you do n't control ) , the mortgage interest deduction makes for a rather helpful tax benefit .
" Minimum investment " is what you need to put into the account to open it . They may charge you maintenance fees if you fall below some amount , but once you 're in you 're in . They 'll be more than happy to take their management fee . :)
Whether your financial status is considered " OK " depends on your aspirations . You are n't spending more than you earn and have no debt . That puts you in the category of OK in my book , but the information in your post indicates that you would benefit from some financial advice -- 100 grand sounds like a lot of money to have in a bank unless you are on the verge of spending it . Financial advisors come in various shapes and sizes . Many will charge you a lot for what turns out to be helpful advice in the first meeting , but very little value-added thereafter . Some do n't have the best incentives ( they may be incentivized to encourage you to put your money into certain funds , for example ) . There are many financial advisors ( of sorts ) that you have access to that wo n't cost you anything . For example , if you have a 401 ( k ) at work , I bet there is a representative from the plan administrator that will meet with you for free . If you open a brokerage account or IRA at any place ( Fidelity , Vanguard , etc. ) you can easily talk with one of their reps and get all sorts of advice . My personal take is to meet with anyone who will meet with me for free , but not to pay anyone for this service . It 's too easy to get good advice and paying for it does n't guarantee that you get better advice . Your financial situation will depend primarily on a few things you have not mentioned here . For example , How much are you setting aside for retirement and what are your retirement goals ? This is something lots of people can give you advice on , but we do n't know what market returns will be going forward so we do n't really know . One bit of advice that may benefit you is how to set aside money for retirement in the most tax advantaged way . How much do you feel that you need saved up for large expenses ? Thinking of starting a family ? How many months worth of income are you comfortable having set aside ? What is your tolerance of risk ? If you put your money in risky assets , you may make more , but you may also actually lose money . Those are the questions a financial advisor will ask about . Once you have his/her advice -- and preferrably after talking to a few advisors -- you can make your own decision . Basically , your options are : Keep saving in banks or other safe assets ( make sure you are using the highest interest-rate paying bank you can find ) Put additional money into an IRA or other retirement vehicle in order to save on taxes Open a ( normal , taxable ) brokerage account and start buying financial assets . Buy real assets , like real estate , gold1 , collectibles , guns1 , etc. . Rules of thumb : Save only what makes sense to save in banks given your expected needs for cash . Put a lot in tax advantaged accounts ( do n't give Uncle Sam any gifts ) . Then look at financial and real investments . There are a number of free resources on the internet . For example <URL> . Or you can hit up the forums at <URL> . Those guys give and receive financial advice as a hobby . They are n't professionals , but you can get a lot of varying ideas and make up your own mind , which to me is better than ( just ) asking a professional . BTW , regarding the ESPP : these plans often give you a discount on stock and can therefore be a good idea . Just be sure you do n't hold the stock longer than you need to . It 's generally a bad idea to concentrate your wealth in any single investment , especially one highly correlated with your background risk ( i.e. , if the company does poorly you will already be worse off because you may lose your job or see fewer advancement opportunities . No need to add losses in your savings to that ) . 1 Please note : I am neither advocating nor discouraging buying guns , gold , or other controversial real assets . I 'm just giving examples of items some people buy as part of their wealth-preservation strategy .
I think the right question you should ask yourself about is : Can i work at home ? is it possible ? do i have a calm , private place at home to work from ? what will be the motivation while working from ? If you got answers to these questions , you will find if you can get money from home or not , because any place you can do work from will give you money , just work !
If you 're a bit into the loan , then they 're probably hoping that you 'll take longer to pay off the loan . Is there a fee for refinancing the loan ? If so , be sure to take that into account . A smart way to approach it ( assuming that the fees are low or zero ) would be to continue making the same payment you had been before the refinance . Then you 'll end your loan ahead of schedule . ( This assumes that there 's no prepayment penalty . )
That is correct . If you used to own a house but have since sold it , or stopped using it as your primary residence more than three years ago , you would qualify as a " first-time homebuyer " under those criteria .
In general , no , not in a strict monetary sense . ( As @MrChrister noted in a comment . ) The primary exception to this , for me , would be in the case of a DIY renovation and a house-flip . Given an outdated house in a good neighbourhood , and spending a reasonable amount on a selected set of renovations could make the house saleable to a different target audience , which might be willing to pay more than the dollar cost ( including your labour ) of the renovations themselves .
It is a very bad idea in almost all circumstances to borrow/withdraw from an IRA ( or other retirement account ) for a down payment on a house and I would only suggest it as a last resort . Even as a last resort it is a bad idea , and I 'd suggest you are n't ready to buy a house until you have enough non-retirement money to do the deal . In your case you have money in savings , you should absolutely do that . If you do n't feel comfortable using your emergency fund , you need to keep saving until you can afford to buy a house . Your retirement fund is n't a piggy bank for when you need money now , it is a payment you make to keep a decent lifestyle later in life . When you are retired your options for alternate income streams will be much more limited . The biggest hidden cost is the opportunity cost of not having that money working for you . Your final retirement balance is very likely ( when done correctly ) going to be mostly comprised of the return on your investment more so than the money you put in . While you are young your greatest asset is time for that money to grow , do n't throw that away when you have viable options ! The other problem , if you are talking about an employer plan ( 401K/Roth ) is that if you lose your job you will have 60-90 days to pay back the loan or it will be considered a distribution and subject to taxes plus a 10 % early withdrawal penalty . This happened to a bunch of my friends from work when our company got bought by another company forcing them to close the old 401K plan and transfer to the new one . Short version : Do n't touch retirement money for non-retirement things unless it is a life/death emergency and you have no other options .
Technical Analysis in general is something to be cognizant of , I do n't use a majority of studies and consider them a waste of time . I also use quantitative analysis more so than technical analysis , and prefer the insight it gives into the market . The markets are more about predicting other people 's behavior , psychology . So if you are trading an equity that you know retail traders love , retail traders use technical analysis and you can use their fabled channel reversals and support levels against them , as examples . Technical analysis is an extremely broad subject . So I suggest getting familiar , but if your historical pricing charts are covered in various studies , I would say you are doing it wrong . A more objective criticism of technical analysis is that many of the studies were created in the 1980s or earlier . Edges in the market do not typically last more than a few weeks . On the other side of that realization , some technical analysis works if everyone also thinks it will work , if everyone 's charts say buy when the stock reaches the $ 90 price level and everyone does , the then stock will go higher . But the market makers and the actions of the futures markets and the actions of options traders , can undermine the collective decisions of retail traders using technical analysis .
As long as you live in the house ( its your primary residence ) , you must pay $ 500 a year , no skipping . Once you sell , or rent out - you must repay in full the remaining amount . <URL> .
The essence of your question is whether it 's worth 1000 to you to spread the payments over half a year . The longer payment plan is just a loan and buying the loan costs you more money . The question is whether you think the loan is a good price . I suspect it 's over-priced . The classic financial analysis would be whether you could get a better return on the loan ( opportunity costs ) . But we are talking about what are presumably not terribly big sums of money , so it may make more sense to analyze this amount of money in more personalized terms . In that case , remember to consider the convenience : is it significantly easier to budget with the 6-month plan ? Watch out for other costs to the loan , such as late penalties and other loan fees . If you find the periodic payments convenient ( or you have a short-horizon , high-yield investment ) , then the 6-month loan might work . Otherwise , if you can afford it , it makes more sense to buy the phone upfront .
Since you say you are a student , perhaps you should look carefully at the requirements for contributing to an IRA , whether Traditional or Roth . Unless Congress changed the law recently , one has to have earned income to contribute to an IRA . So if you were a teaching or research asssistant receiving W-2 wages while completing your Master 's degree , you are eligible , but if you had a fellowship you are not eligible ( unless you had other income , whether W-2 wages or self-employment income reported on Schedule C ) . The amount that one can contribute is the smaller of your earned income and $ 5000 ( $ 6000 for 50 and older people ) .
The general answer is : " it depends on how long you want to live there " . Here is a good calculator to figure it out : <URL> Basically , if you plan to move in a few years , then renting makes more sense . It is a lot easier to move from an apartment when your lease is up versus selling a house , which can be subject to fluctuations in the real-estate market . As an example , during the real estate bubble , a lot of " young professional " types bought condos and town homes instead of renting . Now these people are married with kids , need to move somewhere bigger , but they ca n't get rid of their old place because they ca n't sell it for what they still owe . If these people had rented for a few years , they would be in a better position financially . ( Many people fell for the mantra " If you are renting , you are throwing your money away " , without looking at the long-term implications . ) However , your question is a little unique , because you mentioned renting for the rest of your life , and putting the savings into an investment , which is a cool idea . ( Thinking outside the box , I like it . ) I 'm going to assume you mean " rent the same place for many years " versus " moving around the country every few years " . If you are staying in one place for a long time , I am going to say that buying a house is probably a better option . Here 's why : With a mortgage , at some point you stop sending a check every month . With rent , the payments never stop . At the end of the mortgage , you have an asset that is worth a lot of money ( your house ) . You can sell it and travel the world , give it to your kids , etc. . ( EDIT : With the rent + invest approach , you would have your investment portfolio as a sizable asset . It is open to discussion which one would come out ahead . ) With a mortgage , your payments are a fixed amount ( unless you have an ARM ) . Inflation drives prices up over time , but your mortgage payment stays the same . In fact , inflation helps the homeowner by making the last mortgage payment " cheaper " than the first one . Rent prices tend to keep pace with inflation . Your landlord will probably increase the rent periodically . There are tax advantages to buying a house ( in the US anyway ) . Your mortgage interest is a tax deduction . There are also tax credits for certain home improvements ( e.g. installing an energy efficient A/C ) . You ca n't take advantage of these when you rent . Over the long term , home prices do go up ( population is increasing , but there is a finite amount of land ) . I am not saying the house is a good " investment " , but its value normally wo n't evaporate over 30 years like some other assets would . In terms of inflation-adjusted dollars , your house should maintain similar " value " over the years , as long as you stay on top of the upkeep ( and your neighborhood does n't become run-down ) . With a mortgage , you are paying interest to a bank , which some would consider to be a " black hole " just like rent . However , you can reduce the money you pay in interest by making extra mortgage payments . Making 1-2 extra payments at the start of your mortgage can save a huge sum of money over the life of the loan . So what about investing ? Let 's look at some numbers : Investing in the Dow Jones Industrial Average would give you ~ 9 % per year , with a lot of volatility ( <URL> ) . Mortgage rates are hovering at about 5 % right now . ( <URL> ) Seems like a good idea to invest , instead of taking out a mortgage , right ? Now , add in an inflation rate of ~ 3 % ( <URL> ) Inflation erodes the effective stock market return , but it helps your mortgage payment by effectively making it cost less over time . Next think about taxes . That 9 % stock market return is taxable income ( which eats into your effective return ) , whereas the mortgage interest is a tax deduction . Inflation and taxes pretty much negate higher rate of return for the stock investment . Additionally , you have the inflationary impacts of a rent payment that increases over time . So , based on the above , I say that buying a house is the way to go ( as long as you plan to live in the same place for several years ) . However , if you could find a better investment than the Dow , or if mortgage interest rates change drastically , things could tip in another direction . Addendum : CrimsonX brought up a good point about the costs of owning a house ( upkeep and property taxes ) , which I did n't mention above . However , I do n't think they change my answer . If you rent , you are still paying those costs . They are just hidden from you . Your landlord pays the contractor or the tax man , and then you pay the landlord as part of your rent .
I 'd suggest you put only 20 % down if you qualify for the 80 % amount of the mortgage . Live in the house a year and see what expenses really are . Then if your non-Ret accounts are still being funded to your liking , start prepaying the mortgage if you wish . It 's great to start with a house that 's only 50 % mortgaged , but if any life change happens to you , it may be tough to borrow it back . Far easier to just take your time and not make a decision you may regret . You do n't give much detail about your retirement savings , but I 'd suggest that I 'd rather have a large mortgage and fund my retirement accounts to the maximum than to have a paid house and start the retirement account at age 35 . Some choose that option .
I believe it 's not only legal , but correct and required . A 1099 is how a business reports payments to others , and they 're required by the IRS to send them for payments of $ 600 or more ( for miscalleneous payments like this ) . The payment is an expense to the landlord and income to you , and the 1099 is how that 's documented ( although note that if they do n't send you a 1099 , it 's still income to you and you still need to report it as such ) . It 's similar to getting a 1099-INT for interest payments or a 1099-DIV for dividend payments . You 'll get a 1099-MISC for a miscellaneous payment . If you were an employee they 'd send you a W-2 , not a 1099 .
Most participants will win nothing , so your expected winnings are almost zero . You could donate the equipment to a local high school or college . It would wipe out all the income , and you would end up getting nothing , but you would owe no taxes . It would be easy to do , and you would end up with a nice thank you letter from the school , and maybe your name on a plaque on a wall .
Your taxes are only slightly more complex than previous years . Therefore if you were comfortable doing your taxes using software last year , you should n't have any problems doing them this year . Both the software and professional should use how you answer a few basic questions , and the information on your paperwork , to guide you though your options . They will calculate the different approaches and present you with the options . One thing that you will need is a social security number for the child in order to claim them as a dependent . So If you have n't started the <URL> you should do so now .
It appears that there is some kind of a state-sponsored program in IL , not sure about the details . It is not a tax credit , though . Read about it at the <URL> . First-time homebuyers in Boone , Cook , DeKalb , Fulton , Kane , Marion , McHenry , St. Clair , Will or Winnebago counties can get $ 7,500 in down payment assistance with a competitive interest rate for a secure , 30-year fixed rate mortgage . 1STHomeIllinois is tailored for first-time homebuyers , Veterans , or anyone who has n't owned a home in the last three years living in one of the above 10 counties . The Federal tax credit was indeed only for 2008-2010 .
The Roth IRA is worth it . My initial reaction - there are no " fees and stuff " and your colleagues do n't know what they are talking about . That said it depends on your IRA provider . You will setup the Roth IRA with a bank , credit union or brokerage . If they charge something , go elsewhere - another bank , Vanguard , etc. . Remember an IRA is different from a 401k . An IRA is also just a label , not an account . The vehicle/account/place you put your money can be a CD , money market account or mutual fund . You could put $ 1000 into an IRA CD and $ 1000 into an IRA mutual fund . Next year you can do something different with a different bank . You could hold those two accounts with two different banks even . There is a lot of flexibility and it 's all your own choice . The amount you are legally <URL> to put into an IRA ( Traditional and/or Roth ) is capped each year by whichever is lower : $ 5000 ( though the amount may increase in future years ) Amount you earn ( taxable income ) So if you only earn $ 4000 after taxes in a year , then you can only put $ 4000 max into a Roth IRA . I 've mentioned two different types of IRA ; if that is confusing and you do n't feel like researching/reading further then just choose a Roth IRA . Congrats on saving early !
Your question is meaningless as it is , because you do n't tell us if you 're likely to be in a higher bracket when you retire , or lower . However , I would argue that neither would be as beneficial for you as a Solo 401K account , as the limits for 401K contributions are much higher than IRA ( Roth or not Roth ) . There are plenty of questions on the topic on the right side of the screen , under " Related " , check them out .
end question
start question
Can a credit card minimum payment be less than the interest ?
In the past , it was certainly possible for the minimum payment to be less than the interest . This situation was known as " negative amortization . " According to CreditCards.com , this practice has been banned in the US . If you make the minimum payment , it must cover the interest + a portion going towards the principal . <URL>
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
BlackJack 's answer is technically correct : government credit ratings are independent of corporate credit ratings . The rating should reflect the borrower 's ability to repay its obligations . One reason the book you read may have stated that corporate credit ratings can not be better than the government 's credit rating is that the government , unlike the corporation , can steal ( or in government parlance " tax " ) from anywhere or anyone . So if a government finds itself in financial difficulty it could simply take the cash from corporations or people with high credit ratings by a variety of methods : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or simply <URL> . This increases the risk of doing business in a country with an over-extended government . Over extended governments do not die gracefully . They only die when there is nothing left to steal .
As is so often the case , there is an asterisk next to that 2.5 % interest offer . It leads you to a footnote which says : Savings Interest Rate Offer of 2.5 % is available between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 on all net new deposits made between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 to a maximum of $ 250,000.00 per Account registration . You only earn 2.5 % interest on deposits made during those three months . Also , on the full offer info page , it says : During the Offer Period , the Bank will calculate Additional Interest on eligible net new deposits and : All interest payments are ineligible for the purposes of calculating Additional Interest and will not be calculated for the purposes of determining eligible daily balances . In other words , any interest paid into an Applicable Account , including Additional Interest , will not be treated as a new deposit for subsequently calculating Additional Interest payments . I could n't totally parse out all the details of the offer from their legalese , but what it sounds like is you will earn 2.5 % interest on money that you deposit into the account during those three months . Any interest you accrue during that time will not count as a deposit in this sense , and so will not earn 2.5 % compounded returns . The " During the Offer Period " qualification also makes it sound like this extra interest will only be paid during the three months ( presumably at a 2.5 % annualized rate , but I ca n't see where it actually says this ) . So essentially you are getting a one-time bonus for making deposits during a specific three-month period . The account does n't really earn 2.5 % interest in the normal sense . The long-term interest rate will be what it normally is for their savings accounts , which <URL> says is 1.05 % .
Yes , you can pay off your credit card as early as you like , even before the closing date . If you do this , you 'll see this payment on your next statement , and the amount due will be adjusted accordingly . And as long as you pay the entire statement balance by the statement due date , you wo n't be charged any interest . I do n't know anything about your particular bank , but in general , yes , you can use online bill pay services to pay your credit card . Your credit card company probably also has a mechanism on their website for paying your bill electronically .
I would put down 12 % and pay PMI . Either way , you are taking out a loan , with payments against 88 % of the value of the home . I assume the mortgage note would be either 15 or 30 years and the 401k loan would be less ( 5 ? 10 ? ) . If you take out an 88 % mortgage loan and pay it off at the same pace you would have paid the 401k loan , you 'll be down to 80 % LTV quickly and PMI will stop . If the housing market rebounds and your house appreciates , you 'll be at 80 % LTV quickly . If you change jobs/lose jobs your mortgage will be unaffected . PMI is an easily quantifiable risk that is worth paying in this case . Contrasted with the 401k loan , the job loss/job change risk is great . It is n't just if you lose your job . Maybe you 'll find a great opportunity with a great company that has a 401k plan that does n't allow loans . Will you forgo taking that job because of your 401k loan ?
If you were making that large of a payment ( via a cashiers check or other withdrawal means from a cash account ) to a credit card , would the payment generate a Cash Transaction Report ? Probably , yes . If it does require the bank to make a CTR , then is there any harm in that or anything to be concerned about ( like that transaction appearing suspicious , personal reporting implications , etc. ) ? Are there any other reasons why one might want to make sure payments to a credit card are broken up made * in amounts smaller than $ 10K ? You should be concerned if you can not explain the source of the money ( legally ... ) . If you withdrew cash from your own account and paid your credit card with it , in case of questions asked you can show the account statement with the matching withdrawal , and you 're done . The point in this report is to point at people who move around large amounts of cash . Usually , people pay credit cards with checks or ACH transactions , but if you want cash - it 's your right , as long as the cash was obtained legally . But if you 're paying your credit cards off with the cash you got as a bribe or by selling cocaine on the streets , then you should be worried . By the way , breaking into smaller payments may not save you from being reported to the money laundering detection agencies . The report is per transaction , not per payment , so if the credit card statement is $ 11K and you pay $ 5K and $ 6K - the transaction is still $ 11K . Also , the bank can file a report even if it is not required ( it was clarified in the other answer to the same question you 're referring to ) , if the clerk thinks the transaction is suspicious . This leaves the decision on filing a report solely on the banks " common sense " and internal policies which you do n't know . So even paying $ 10 in cash may trigger a report if the bank suspects wrongdoing .
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
There are 3 entities in a credit card transaction ; The Merchant Bank/Acquiring bank that provides the POS to the Merchant where you buy / swipe your card . This bank is the one that acquires the funds at the end of transaction . The Card Network [ Visa/Master/etc ] The Issuing Bank [ the Bank that issues you a credit card ] Typically when you swipe for 100 , the merchant only gets around 97.5 . The 2.5 is divided amongst the 3 entities , roughly around 0.5 for the Merchant Bank , around 0.5 for the Card Network and a lions share to Issuing Bank of around 1.5 The reason Issuing Bank gets large share is because they take the risk and provide the credit to customer . Typically the Issuing Bank would pay the Merchant bank via the Card Network the money in couple of days . So the Merchant Bank is not out of funds . The Issuing Bank on the other hand would have given you a credit of say 10 to 50 days depending on when you made the transaction and when the payment is due . On an average 30 days of credit . So roughly the Acquiring Bank is lending money at the rate of 18 % . It is from this money the Issuing Bank would give out rewards , which is typically less than 1 % . Also in cases where say Merchant Bank and the Issuing Bank are same , Bank would make money on both the legs of transaction and hence launch co-branded cards with better rewards . The above numbers are illustrative and actual practices vary from Bank to Bank to card Network to Country Related question at <URL>
Its based on demand and supply and what Bank think the future rates would be . Today Banks in India have a liquidity crunch as the Repo Rates by Reserve Bank of India [ Central Bank ] are high . Bank want to encourage more people to deposit money and hence are offering higher rates . Banks also believe that once the Inflation is under control , the Central Bank would ease the repo rates . This is likely to happen in a years time . Hence Banks one year down want to lower the Fixed Deposit rates . So essentially they would be at loss if they give higher rates for longer periods . So they are offering the highest rates for a period of year which motivates more people to invest for a year , even if they want to stay invested for long .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
Some credit card companies , like Citi , offer the ability to auto-generate a one time use credit card number linked to your card . This site has more details : <URL> Otherwise , sticking to trusted , mainstream sites is your best bet . The Amazons of the world ( probably ) have more oversight on their employees . But really , it is a crap shoot . Once you send your information over the Internet , you do not have any real guarantee of what is happening to it .
For Chase I can confirm that it 's $ 500 during the first three months . Typically the clock starts running on that three months the day you are approved , not the day you activate the card . Also with Chase , the credit occurs in whichever month the criteria is met . Some banks wait until the initial period is exhausted to determine whether bonus criteria was met then issue the credit or points or whatever . Generally these sign up bonuses refer to an initial time period of three to six months , not a monthly minimum spend in each month .
No , you only pay tax on money you earned while in the state in question . Even then generally there are exclusions if you made only a small amount . ( Generally earning less than $ 400 or $ 500 , depending on the state , relieves you a having to file or pay taxes in a state . ) Do n't want to pay any state income tax ? There are seven states with no state income tax . They are Alaska , Florida , Nevada , South Dakota , Texas , Washington and Wyoming . Yes , I am a CPA .
Do you still enjoy living in your home ? Can you afford the mortgage payments ? Is there a reason for you to move , such as a relocation for work , or your third kid is on the way and your current house is already crowded with two ? Those questions are more important than " Is my home worth more than what I owe on it " . Ultimately , it 's your home . You probably chose it for more than just its price , and those qualities should still make it valuable to you in some way beyond the monetary value which goes up and down with the market . You have a few options : Walk away . This would make sense if you do n't want to live there anyway , or if you really ca n't afford it ( lost your job , etc. ) You will destroy your credit rating by taking this route . Talk with your bank . If you can afford your payments and everything , they are n't likely to give you anything , but if you have a good relationship with them , maybe they will . It 's worth a try . Stay in your home long enough that your head is above water again . You 're paying down your mortgage , and home values track inflation over the long term . Eventually those curves will cross . This may be ten years out , but if you enjoy living there and it 's still the " right home for you " , why not stay ?
You 'll have to call your credit card issuer and ask them . Generally , credit cards do n't do bank transfers , since its not a bank account per se . But it may be in some cases that there 's an underlying bank account over which your credit card is managed , and then they might be able to do something like that . But we wo n't know , only your card issuer will .
I see three options , none of them ideal : Walk away from the mortgage and be willing to endure the consequences of a lousy credit record for 7 years . Take out an unsecured personal loan so you can make a lump sum payment at closing to pay off the balance . You 'll have to pay it back with interest , so this is expensive too . If you are selling because you need to relocate , you could consider retaining ownership and renting out the house . Obviously this is n't an option if you just want to get out of home ownership . And if you 're moving away , you 'll have to hire local management to deal with tenants , you may not be able to get enough in rent to cover your costs , etc. . But it could be a way to avoid a new loan or a default .
Yes . In my legendary blog article <URL> I mention how I had a card with a 10 % cash rebate , but only for 90 days . I bought $ 50,000 in debit cards in less than 90 days even though the card limit was $ 10,000 , by doing what you suggested , paying mid-cycle , freeing up the credit , then going back for more . The cards were for $ 500 and had a 1 % fee . A total cost of $ 50,500 and $ 5050 cash back . We used them up over the next 18 months or so .
One reason that a bond can be significantly less than face value is because people are seeking better investments elsewhere , so for example if a bond does n't mature for another 10 years , that 20 % increase in face value is n't very attractive when compared to say leaving your money in the stock market for 10 years . Another reason could be that the credit-worthiness of the issuer has collapsed and people expect that there is a fairly good chance they are not going to make the payment . This could be what you would see if for example it was a one year time until maturity , but it has a value of 40 % of the face value . There is a risk , because they can simply not pay . For example people who bought Greek bonds .
The preapproval is the bank stating that they will loan you up to A with a down-payment of B for Y years at R rate . If you do n't ned all the money that is great they will still give you the loan . You can keep the down-payment thew some amount of money or the same percentage of the purchase price whichever you want . For example : Preapproval of $ 200,000 and a down-payment of $ 50,000 ( 20 % ) allows you to buy a house for $ 250,000 . But you find one for $ 240,000 , you can either : get a loan for $ 190,000 with a down-payment of $ 50,000 . or get a loan for $ 192,000 and a down-payment of $ 48,000 . Neither of these needs a new pre-approval . In both cases your monthly payment will be lower than the original loan was expected to be . If you want to change to $ 200K for the loan and $ 40K for the down payment . or in other words decrease the percentage of down-payment ; you might run into an issue that the bank does n't think you have enough of your own money in the deal . Or you may now require PMI where you did n't previously . In this case they will need to re-approve you . Now if the price goes up the bank could require more money down , or may need to re-evaluate the loan .
end question
start question
Are higher closing costs worth a shorter mortgage term , if I 'm making extra payments in either case ?
The math is pretty easy . Closing costs are nearly identical , noise . Take the lower rate , and just keep up the prepayments . Unless you got rates flipped , but either way , the term here is irrelevant , you want the lower rate , period . Edit - 5.125 % $ 132K PMT of $ 1020 , leads to a remaining time of 15yrs , 9 mo. . Please confirm your current numbers are correct . One caution - looking at your numbers , $ 1020 payment now , 15 yr payment $ 981 , you might be tempted to see a $ 39 difference and calculate a near 24 month break even . Which of course is nonsense . If you went out to 30 years and saw a payment closer to $ 630 , almost $ 400/mo less , a 2 mo breakeven is the same nonsense . Principal payments do n't count , your cost of money is the interest you pay . On $ 132K , 1.125 % ( savings ) is $ 1485 . Your breakeven is about 8 months , even if the term were 10 years and the payment far higher than what you pay now . Other discussions of breakeven focus on cash flow , but you 've made it clear that 's not your concern , nor should it be if you can pay $ 1000/mo extra principal .
Finding statistics is exceedingly hard , because the majority of traders lose money . That is , not only they do n't " beat the markets " , not only they do n't " beat the benchmark " ( S&amp;P 500 being used a lot as reference ) : they just lose money . Finding exact numbers , quality statistics and so on is very difficult . Finding recent ones , is almost impossible . With enormous effort I have found two references that might help make an idea . One is very recent , Forex " centered " and has been prepared by a large finance group for the the Europen Central Bank ( ECB ) . It 's available on their website , at an <URL> . The document is stated to be confidential , but its download location has been disclosed to the public by CNBC . I ca n't post CNBC 's link because I have just joined this Stack Exchange portal so I do n't have enough reputation . You can find it by looking for their article about FXCM Forex broker debacle due to the Swiss Central Bank removing the EUR/CHF peg at 1.20 . The second is a 2009-ish paper about <URL> published by Oxford University Press and talks about stocks . Both documents focus on retail traders . I strongly suggest you to immediately save those documents because they tend to disappear after a while . We had a fantastic and complete statistics report made by a group of German Banks in 2011 ... they pulled it off in 2012 .
Your title question , Who could afford a higher premium who could n't afford a higher monthly payment ? , contrasts premium with monthly payment , but those are the same thing . In the body of your question , you list monthly payment and deductible , which is entirely different . The deductible is paid only if you need that much medical care in any one year . Most years a person in good health pays little because of the deductible . Thus , the higher deductible options offer catastrophic health insurance without giving much in the way of reimbursement for regular medical expenses . Note - the original question has been edited since .
Over the past five years , QFVOX has returned 13.67 % , compared to the index fund SPY that has returned 50.39 % . SEVAX has lost 23.96 % . AKREX has returned 81.82 % . In two of your three examples , you would have done much better in an index fund with a very low expense ratio as suggested . While one can never , as you see , make a generalization , in almost every case , most investors will do better , and often much better , with an index fund with a low expense ratio . My source was Google Finance . <URL>
As recommended by littleadv , I searched online for lists of banks in both my state and the state where the will was probated . The first one I tried , PNC Bank , was a winner . They offered estate accounts , online banking , mobile deposit , and have local branches that are open on Saturday .
A good explanation from the Wikipedia article on <URL> : Points , sometimes also called a " discount point " , are a form of pre-paid interest . One point > equals one percent of the loan amount . By charging a borrower points , a lender effectively > increases the yield on the loan above the amount of the stated interest rate . Borrowers can > offer to pay a lender points as a method to reduce the interest rate on the loan , thus > obtaining a lower monthly payment in exchange for this up-front payment . For each point > purchased , the loan rate is typically reduced by 1/8 % ( 0.125 ) . To know whether or not paying points for a mortgage is a good idea for you , you can use one of many online calculators . I like the <URL> ( see calculators 10-11 ) . There 's a payback period associated with this prepayment -- if you sell or refinance your mortgage before the payback period , you lose money on the investment of points . If you keep your mortgage past the payback period , you save money from the lower interest rate .
As is so often the case , there is an asterisk next to that 2.5 % interest offer . It leads you to a footnote which says : Savings Interest Rate Offer of 2.5 % is available between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 on all net new deposits made between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 to a maximum of $ 250,000.00 per Account registration . You only earn 2.5 % interest on deposits made during those three months . Also , on the full offer info page , it says : During the Offer Period , the Bank will calculate Additional Interest on eligible net new deposits and : All interest payments are ineligible for the purposes of calculating Additional Interest and will not be calculated for the purposes of determining eligible daily balances . In other words , any interest paid into an Applicable Account , including Additional Interest , will not be treated as a new deposit for subsequently calculating Additional Interest payments . I could n't totally parse out all the details of the offer from their legalese , but what it sounds like is you will earn 2.5 % interest on money that you deposit into the account during those three months . Any interest you accrue during that time will not count as a deposit in this sense , and so will not earn 2.5 % compounded returns . The " During the Offer Period " qualification also makes it sound like this extra interest will only be paid during the three months ( presumably at a 2.5 % annualized rate , but I ca n't see where it actually says this ) . So essentially you are getting a one-time bonus for making deposits during a specific three-month period . The account does n't really earn 2.5 % interest in the normal sense . The long-term interest rate will be what it normally is for their savings accounts , which <URL> says is 1.05 % .
Are there any known laws explicitly allowing or preventing this behavior ? It 's not the laws , it 's what 's in the note - the mortgage contract . I read my mortgage contracts very carefully to ensure that there 's no prepayment penalty and that extra funds are applied to the principal . However , it does n't have to be like that , and in older mortgages - many times it 's not like that . Banks do n't have to allow things that are not explicitly agreed upon in the contract . To the best of my knowledge there 's no law requiring banks to allow what your friend wants .
No , in the vast majority of cases . ( I +1 with littleadv but I wanted to add another idea ) If you happen to have a reason to suspect somebody you know will be attempting to steal your identity as a means of revenge , having a monitoring service might provide you peace of mind . ( Or you know you have been exposed via other criminal activity ) You can also get free monitoring from Credit Karma ( which is run by Transunion I think ) . It wo n't be all inclusive as it is only one agency , but I do n't see the harm . But the best solution for almost everybody is to <URL> . Freezing your credit will prevent the most harmful shenanigans that a credit monitoring service will only be able to tell you about after the fact . Freezing is typically cheaper as well . You ca n't have credit opened in your name you do n't know about , so monitoring your existing statements and a freeze will keep you as protected as any service I know of .
Disclosure - I love Jack Bogle . Jack basically invented the index fund , and as a result , let the common investor have an opportunity to choose a long term return of ( S&amp;P -.05 % ) instead of losing nearly 2 % that many funds in that day charged . The use of index investing has saved investors many billions of dollars . The 1 % round trip , total cost to buy/sell , was common . Fees for trading have since dropped . I happen to use Schwab who charges $ 9 for a trade . On $ 100,000 , this is not .5 % ( $ 500 ) but less than .01 % . I think it 's safe to say that billion dollar mutual funds are paying even less for trades that I do . I believe Jack 's example here is a combination of old data and hyperbole . The cost is not so much for the trades , per se , but for the people managing the fund . An index fund has a manager of course , but it 's pretty much run by a computer .
Yes the company can still pay dividends even if they are n't making a profit . 1 ) If the firm has been around , it might have made profits in the past years , which it might be still carrying ( check for retained earnings in the financial statements ) . 2 ) Some firms in the past have had taken up debt to return the money to shareholders as dividends . 3 ) It might sell a part of it 's assets and return the gain as dividends . 4 ) They might be bought by some other firm , which returns cash to shareholders to keep them happy . It pays to keep an eye on the financial statements of the company to check how much liquid money they might be carrying around to pay shareholders as dividends . They can stop paying dividends whenever they want . Apple did n't pay a dividend while Steve Jobs was around , even though they were making billions in profits . Many companies do n't pay dividends because they find it more beneficial to continue investing in their business rather than returning money to shareholders .
The insurance company is must assume you do have a preexisting condition you are unaware of . The reason for that is that Affordable Care Act precludes the Insurance company from denying coverage of them if you do . Insurance companies are businesses . They are in business to make money ( unless you have a nonprofit insurer ) . They can not do that if you can buy insurance only when you need for them to pay out . So even though you may not have a preexisting condition , they are precluded from requiring an examination that would detect the most expensive preexisting conditions ( hidden cancers , neurological , autoimmune disorders ) . So the companies must do what takes business sense and either deny you coverage or charge a rate that covers the risk they would be forced to take . In your question on travel there was a response that suggested you get international health insurance instead of travel health insurance that would be considered credible coverage . You are trying to save money which on a personal level is a good idea . However that is against the societal and business need that you maintain health coverage during your healthy times to cover the costs of those who need expensive treatment . So you will be monetarily penalized should you choose to reenter the society of insured people . Once you have paid the higher rate for up to 18 months you should be able to get a better policy for people who have had continuous coverage . Alternately you may be lucky enough to start working for a company that provides health insurance with out requiring continuous coverage .
You need to look at the numbers when you 're ready to transact . What your crossover is worth now , what the truck will lease for then , what financing deals may or may not be available will all change . I 'm not sure why you 've already decided you will lease the truck , perhaps you 're planning to take advantage of some kind of business write off . I would personally never put anything down on a lease , though I have argued with people on here about that particular decision . The reality is you need to look at the numbers . Some banks will adjust the interest you pay on your lease to account for your down payment , some do n't . Consider a $ 9,000 lease , $ 250 per month for 36 months . Consider you pay $ 1,000 up front as a down payment . Example 1 : $ 1,000 lowers the amount due on the lease to $ 8,000 lowering your monthly payment to $ 222.22 from $ 250 , the downpayment has accomplished nothing . Over the 36 months you will have still paid the same $ 9,000 . Example 2 : $ 1,000 up front changes the amount owed and other fees generally applicable to a lease ( gap insurance etc ) and your payment drops to $ 215 , your total over the lease is now $ 8,740 ( $ 1,000 down and $ 7,740 in payments ) . You need to look at the numbers . In general if you know you will be purchasing the truck at the end of the lease it 's more financially advantageous to just purchase it from the start .
Oh , do n't expect us to take sides , we love both our parents the same ! As to the pragmatic decision making - simple math . The disagreement is whether to pay off the HELOC or to invest into the mutual fund instead . Well , check the yield of the fund , compare to the costs of keeping the HELOC balance , and see which one makes more sense . Just compare the expected payments and gains for each of the scenarios and you 'll get your answer .
US income tax works this way : it is a marginal tax , i.e. the tax is calculated from each additional dollar of income , according to the following rule : there 's a number of " brackets " , and once you income is in certain bracket , the additional dollars are taxed according to this bracket , until you have enough income to go to higher bracket . Current brackets are , for single person : <URL> This means that if you earned $ 150000 , you are in 28 % bracket , and so you 'll pay 28 % income tax , or 1400 , on additional 5000 of income . If you earned only $ 50000 , you would be in 25 % bracket , so you would pay only 1250 . In fact , it 's more complicated since you can take various deductions before your income is considered for the purpose of taxation , and it can take you to different tax bracket sometimes , if you are close to the margin , so if you want to know the real tax , you better use some specialized software or talk to an accountant . But for the purpose of quick explanation , that 's how it works .
For a while I tried shopping multiple grocery stores , checking fliers each week from three different stores and then making the trip to all three stores to save ten cents on each item . After a couple months , I decided it just was n't worth it . So , I picked my favorite store . I shop once a week , after reviewing the flier and making a list . I clip <URL> and try to only buy what 's on my list . ( I confess that coupons sometimes get me to buy a brand or item I would n't have otherwise ... it 's my weakness ! ) The biggest place that we save money though , is by paying attention to meat prices . I know that chicken and pork go on sale for $ 1.99 / lb every 4 to 6 weeks at my grocery store . When it does , I buy a enough to last until the next sale , and freeze it in single-meal portions . Steak and fish are special treats , but on the rare occasion that they 're less than $ 4/lb , I 'll buy those . We also try to limit our meat consumption to every-other-day . It 's not worth it for me to obsess over the price of ketchup that I buy twice a year , but on expensive items like meat , and items we use daily , I become familiar with their regular prices and sale prices , and buy extra when it 's on sale . If , like me , you do n't have room in your brain to keep track of the prices of everything , stick with the things you spend the most on , either because they 're expensive , or you buy a lot .
You should fund the 401 ( k ) and get the 4 % matching because it 's free money . When you leave the US , patience is a virtue to get the money penalty-free : Rollover to an IRA . Take " <URL> " for 5 years or until age 59 1/2 , whichever is longer , to avoid the 10 % penalty . A long payout time for someone starting out , but penalty-free . Or you can take the 10 % penalty and take out the money all at once . You 'll still owe income tax in either case , something to keep in mind if an early withdrawal would put you into a higher tax bracket . Also see this article : <URL> Another thing to keep in mind is that you never know what might happen -- you could fall in love with the US ( or someone in the US , [ smiley face ] ) , apply for residency , decide to stay a long time , and that 401 ( k ) with the 4 % matching might turn out to have been a very nice thing when you retire .
If you receive a 1099-MISC from YouTube , that tells you what they stated to the IRS and leads into most tax preparation software guided interviews or wizards as a topic for you to enter . Whether or not you have a 1099-MISC , this <URL> is pertinent to your question . You could probably elect to report the income as a royalty on your copyrighted work of art on Schedule E , but see this note : " In most cases you report royalties in Part I of Schedule E ( Form 1040 ) . However , if you ... are in business as a self-employed writer , inventor , artist , etc. , report your income and expenses on Schedule C or Schedule C-EZ ( Form 1040 ) . " Whether reporting on Schedule E or C is more correct or better for your specific circumstances is beyond the advice you should take from strangers on the internet based on a general question - however , know that there are potentially several paths for you . Note that this is revenue from a business , so if you paid for equipment or services that are 100 % dedicated to your YouTubing ( PC , webcam , upgraded broadband , video editing software , vehicle miles to a shoot , props , etc. ) then these are a combination of depreciable capital investments and expenses you can report against the income , reducing the taxes you may owe . If the equipment/services are used for business and personal use , there are further <URL> as to estimating the split . These apply whether you report on Sch . E , Sch . C , or Sch C-EZ . Quote : " Self-Employment Income It is a common misconception that if a taxpayer does not receive a Form 1099-MISC or if the income is under $ 600 per payer , the income is not taxable . There is no minimum amount that a taxpayer may exclude from gross income . All income earned through the taxpayer 's business , as an independent contractor or from informal side jobs is self-employment income , which is fully taxable and must be reported on Form 1040 . Use Form 1040 , Schedule C , Profit or Loss from Business , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) to report income and expenses . Taxpayers will also need to prepare Form 1040 Schedule SE for self-employment taxes if the net profit exceeds $ 400 for a year . Do not report this income on Form 1040 Line 21 as Other Income . Independent contractors must report all income as taxable , even if it is less than $ 600 . Even if the client does not issue a Form 1099-MISC , the income , whatever the amount , is still reportable by the taxpayer . Fees received for babysitting , housecleaning and lawn cutting are all examples of taxable income , even if each client paid less than $ 600 for the year . Someone who repairs computers in his or her spare time needs to report all monies earned as self-employment income even if no one person paid more than $ 600 for repairs . "
One risk with any investment denominated in foreign currency is the exchange rate risk . Specifically , if the value of your local currency increases relative to the Australian Dollar , then it has the potential to reduce , eliminate , or even give you a negative return on your investment unless you plan to keep the proceeds in Australian currency . Of course , this could work to your advantage to and enhance your return if your local currency gets weaker relative to the foreign currency .
is it worth it ? That is for you to judge . The risks are having it blowup in your face , and you having to pay a penalty , or go to jail . The issue is how you keep it secret , and who you keep it secret from . If you have money in a secret account and keep it hidden even though you : file your taxes ; have to file for bankruptcy ; get divorced ; apply for financial aid ; You are taking a big risk . If the knowledge of the contents of the secret stash would cause a judge or government agency to make a different decision , you could face penalties ranging from monetary to jail time . The government could also decide that they need to determine the source of the funds . They may want to know if the money was " earned " through illegal means . They will want to determine if the funds should haven taxed not just on the interest but if the original income tax was ever collected . If the amounts are large enough the taxing authority and police will have a lot of fun pulling apart your entire financial history . Oh and the lawyers you pay to keep you out of jail will also have their fun . why do some people do it ? They are greedy ; or paranoid ; or they do n't trust others ; or they are criminals .
end question
start question
When someone retires is their Social Security check amount set forever ?
<URL> are applied each year . If inflation is low , the benefits may not change . There may be <URL> that continue past his death . There may be attempts to <URL> or limit Social Security . Or there may not be . ( Definite case of " if you do n't vote ... " ) But yes , in principle , that 's the general idea . ( Websearch will find many sites offering advice on how to optimize your Social Security benefits . One that looks good to me -- though I 'm not an expert by ANY means -- is the <URL> posted on PBS News Hour 's website .
Now that you have a Social Security Number , if you want Bank of America to start reporting to your credit report so that you can establish a credit history , you 'll need to contact Bank of America and ask them to attach your Social Security Number to your account . It might be easiest to do this in person : bring your Social Security card into a Bank of America branch and see if they can help you . Some sources online for more reading : UScreditcardguide.com : <URL> ( Read " Conclusions " section at the end . ) Quora.com : <URL> Dreamact.info forum : <URL>
Yes , they are within their rights to do so . The dollar limit of $ 18,000 ( in 2015 ) and percentage limit of 100 % are the maximum an employer can allow an employee to contribute , but the employer can set a lower limit . <URL> says : Contribution limits refer to the legal IRS limitations . Some companies cap 401 ( k ) contributions at amounts lower than official IRS contribution limits . There are numerous reasons a company would enforce such limitations , like cost , accounting or an outdated plan document . In theory an employer can set a lower percentage and/or lower absolute dollar limit . In practice I 've seen the former but never the latter . Depending on your employer 's reason for setting the lower limit , you may be able to convince them to raise it .
Among possible sources of error : What is the nominal interest rate and compounding period ? What is the effective interest rate per payment period ? Does the lender take into account the different number of days in the months , in amortizing a monthly payment mortgage ? Has the lender added any fees or costs to the principal amount ? Some lenders insist on paying property taxes ( since the city gets first crack at the property ahead of any lender ) , or fire insurance premiums ( since it 's their collateral that could burn down )
In Australia , banks use 3 main criteria to assess your mortgage application . Your Credit History - they will generally knock back an application if the applicant has a history of defaulting on loans and other payments . You would pose too high of a risk . Your current Net Income ( after tax ) - used to assess whether you are able to make the monthly mortgage repayments . If you are getting rental income the banks will only count about 75 % of your net rent to allow for when the property is vacant ( between tenants ) . Your Equity in the property - generally to avoid paying LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) you would need a minimum of 20 % of your own funds as a down-payment/deposit so that the LVR ( Loan to Value Ratio ) is not more that 80 % . If you are going for a Low Doc Loan ( where you only have to sign a Statutory Declaration regarding your income and not provide the supporting documentation to prove it ) you will generally require a maximum LVR of 60 % ( i.e. 40 % down-payment/deposit ) . Please Note : In some areas where there has been an over supply of apartments built , the bank might require you to have a lower LVR , closer to 60 % , where you are buying a unit in such an area . So as long as you have an ok credit history ( you have not defaulted on any loans or payments ) , the extra savings could be used to increase your equity in the property and thus reduce or eliminate the payment of any LMI , or help you to get a Low Doc Loan if you are self employed , have an inconsistent income stream , or where documentation for proof of income is limited . Summing up , the savings in the bank will provide you with the biggest benefit in this case .
Many of these products are similar in nature and often depend on the issuing bank . Cashier 's Check Are checks signed and guaranteed by the bank . This means the funds are coming from the bank instead of your account -- which usually means they immediately take the money from your account . This is usually the most secure of the options and usually does n't have many restrictions . Certified Check Are checks signed by the customer , certified by the bank that you have enough funds and that your signature is genuine . Usually , but not always - the bank will set aside the funds . Bank Draft Similar to a certified check but the bank will set aside the funds until the bank draft is used . Generally used in transactions involving larger sums . Money order It 's a payment order similar to a certified check ; however , it needs to be prepaid . Also money orders may have maximum face values allowed .
In regards to your question about Social Security being taxable income , yes - Social Security distributions are currently considered taxable income . That was n't the case for decades , but what Congress giveth , Congress can taketh away . According to IRS tax tip 2010-31 ( http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=179091,00.html ) : Add one-half of the total Social Security benefits you receive to all your other income , including any tax exempt interest and other exclusions from income . " If that is higher than the following ( 2009 ) base amounts , some of your benefits may be taxable : · $ 32,000 for married couples filing jointly . · $ 25,000 for single , separated , head of household , widow w / dependent child · $ 0 for married filing separately So if you 're single , you 'd have to keep your 401k + traditional IRA distributions + 1/2 social security distributions under $ 25k to avoid the social security adding to your taxable income In 2010 , the 15 % tax bracket stops at $ 34k for single filers .
It seems to me the coupon is semiannual . You pay $ 105.10 , and get a coupon of $ 5.62 in June along with your $ 100 . So , you ' lost ' $ 5.10 , for a net .52 , or .95 % .
Just looking at the production cost would n't be anywhere near enough , but I think you are looking at " fundamental analysis " . With fundamental analysis you try to estimate the actual value of a company , compare it to share prices , and buy shares where the fundamental value is higher than the share price , assuming that the market will eventually figure out that the shares are worth more , and then the share price goes up . With " technical analysis " you do n't care what the company is worth , you just look at how the share prices has moved in the past and predict future share prices from that .
I actually had to go to the bank today and so I decided to ask . The answer I was given is that a check is a legal document ( a promise to pay ) . In order to get your money from the bank , you need to sign the check over to them . By endorsing the check you are attesting to the fact that you have transferred said document to them and they can draw on that account .
Dheer 's explanation is pretty good in the general case for a nominal APR , but the APR figure quoted for a mortgage in the US has a slightly different meaning as specified by the Truth In Lending Act . The APR for a mortgage includes both the base interest rate for the mortgage , but also accounts for certain fees and any points ( pre-paid interest ) included . This allows you to make an apples-to-apples comparison between mortgage quotes . For example , you might see a mortgage quote for 3.85 % and another for 4.125 % . Obviously the 3.85 % looks better on the surface , but it might require you to pay an extra $ 2,000 up front in pre-paid points to get that rate , while the 4.125 % mortgage does not require any up-front points to be paid . Now it 's not quite so clear which one is the better deal . If you were to look at the APR for those two quotes though , the $ 2,000 fee on the first mortgage would be taken into account and amortized over the life of the mortgage , giving you a more accurate picture of the real cost .
Apples and oranges . The stock market requires a tiny bit of your time . Perhaps a lot if you are interested in individual stocks , and pouring through company annual reports , but close to none if you have a mix of super low cost ETFs or index fund . The real estate investing you propose is , at some point , a serious time commitment . Unless you use a management company to handle incoming calls and to dispatch repair people . But that 's a cost that will eat into your potential profits . If you plan to do this ' for real , ' I suggest using the 401 ( k ) , but then having the option to take loans from it . The ability to write a check for $ 50K is pretty valuable when buying real estate . When you run the numbers , this will benefit you long term . Edit - on re-reading your question <URL> , I withdraw my answer above . You overestimated the return you will get , the actual return will likely be negative . It does n't take too many years of your one per year strategy to wipe you out . Per your comment below , if bought right , rentals can be a great long term investment . Glad you did n't buy the loser .
There are two ways to handle this . The first is that the better brokers , such as Charles Schwab , will produce summaries of your gains and losses ( using historical cost information ) , as well as your trades , on a monthly and annual basis . These summaries are " ready made " for the IRS . More brokers will provide these summaries come 2011 . The second is that if you are a " frequent trader " ( see IRS rulings for what constitutes one ) , then they 'll allow you to use the net worth method of accounting . That is , you take the account balance at the end of the year , subtract the beginning balance , adjust the value up for withdrawals and down for infusions , and the summary is your gain or loss . A third way is to do all your trading in say , an IRA , which is taxed on distribution , not on stock sales .
Although I am not a tax professional , and in this case you would be better off with a professional advice , my understanding ( at least of Arizona , New York and California individual tax regulations that I 've been dealing with ) is that you only pay taxes in the state in which you 're domiciled . Lottery winnings are payed by States/State-run corporations and as such sourced to the State that pays it . Buying a ticket in SC links you to the lottery run in that State , even if you live in another . You 'll be claiming your winnings in SC , not in NC , and the winnings will be sourced to SC , not NC . As such SC will be taxing them . NC will be taxing them as well , since you 're NC resident .
To give up your Social Security number , you would probably have to renounce your citizenship , since merely leaving the United States , becoming a permanent expatriate , etc. would n't be enough . Paying Social Security taxes is mandatory , however . Even if your income exceeds the means testing limits , you are still required to pay Social security ( FICA ) taxes on the income that falls beneath it . That being said , there are several groups that are exempt from paying Social Security taxes , based on what I can scrounge up through online searching . College students who work under the Federal Work Study program . <URL> State or local government workers ( like teachers , city workers , police , firefighters , etc. ) hired before March 31 , 1986 and who participate in their employers ' alternative retirement systems . Self-employed workers with with yearly net earnings less than $ 400 Ministers , members of certain religious orders , and Christian Science practitioners may file <URL> to exempt themselves from self-employment taxes , including FICA taxes . The picture is more complicated than this , however ( see below ) . All members of certain religious groups , like the Amish , Mennonites , etc. . <URL> Election workers earning $ 1,000 or less a year . Minor children with earnings from household work but for whom household work is not their principal occupation . If you are n't part of one of these groups or you joined them after already being enrolled in the Social Security system ( i.e. paid FICA taxes , etc. ) , you do n't have to take Social Security payments , but you are not exempt from FICA payroll taxes . This means that you ca n't simply become Amish and be exempt if you 've already paid into the system . Many of these answers were listed <URL> , but the only stated source is " Wikipedia , " so take it with a grain of salt . I 've tried to provide other sources where I could . Ministers/religious officials I mentioned that the situation with ministers and/or religious officials is more complicated . Among other things , these officials need to certify that they are religiously opposed to receiving public insurance benefits and they have to file by a certain deadline soon after earning a certain amount as a minister . <URL> , if you file this exemption and choose/chose to revoke it later on , e.g. by filing IRS Form 2031 , during the short time windows when this is possible , you 're no longer eligible to file for another exemption . Once you revoke your exemption , you wo n't get another one . Also note that this opt-out only applies to income earned as part of your ministry . For non-ministerial income , you 're still required to pay FICA taxes even if you follow the procedure ( s ) above . If you do opt-out Clearly , opting out of the Social Security is n't easy , or even feasible , for many people , but if you are outside the system , common sense dictates that you should insure yourself against risks that would usually be covered , at least in part , by Social Security . Dave Ramsey maintains a <URL> that he recommends ministers and religious officials who opt out of the Social Security system should purchase , but the rationale applies to anyone who is n't part of the system . Term life insurance that covers 10x your annual income . Normally , your spouse or dependents will receive a <URL> upon your death , but if you opt-out , your family does n't have this option . Since the death benefit is a pittance ( $ 255 ) , however , you may want life insurance regardless of your participation in Social Security . Long-term disability insurance . If you become disabled , you wo n't receive disability benefits , so you 'll may want insurance to cover this risk . Long-term care insurance . Similar to disability insurance , you may want additional income to cover you in case you require long-term care , and <URL> is n't enough . Other retirement savings . If you 're not going to be paying money into Social Security , it makes sense to invest that money in some form of tax-advantaged or tax-sheltered retirement account to ensure that you still have some income in retirement . You wo n't be receiving Social Security checks , but you 'll still need income . Depending on your circumstances , it 's may be a good idea to invest in some or all of these instruments anyway ( especially tax-advantaged/tax-sheltered retirement accounts ) , because Social Security does n't cover 100 % of the risks you 'll face , but that decision is highly specific to each person/family .
When shopping for a mortgage , you get a grace period where all credit pulls related to mortgage shopping in 14 days only count as one credit pull . Having other banks pull your credit to get a quote should not additionally affect your credit because you just had a bank pull your credit for the first quote .
<URL> . At the start of 1945 , a good portion of the male population of the United States was in the armed forces . As the war ended , they came home . Nine months later , there was an uncommonly large number of pregnancies and a population surge . In 2008 , the first of those babies became eligible for Social Security retirement ( at the age of 62 ) . The Baby Boom ended in 1964 , so many are still in their peak earning years . Older people generally make more money in real terms than they did when younger , so the last years before retirement are the best . Under current rules , the last of the baby boomers will be eligible for retirement in 2026 and will have to take Social Security by 2035 . The ratio of workers to retirees is expected to drop from around three to one down to around two to one . Also note that while the fund has n't actually fallen since the 1982 changes , from 1999 to 2009 , it increased by more than $ 100 billion every year . In the last few years , it has increased by as little as $ 25.586 billion ( in 2015 ) . It bounced back a bit in 2016 , but another recession would likely push it into the negative . And even without a recession , it will likely go negative within ten years . In a comment you said : That article says that increasing the tax to 14.4 % would save it . But it was higher than that when I retired . This is untrue . The tax is currently ( and has been since the eighties ) 6.2 % on the individual and 6.2 % on the employer for a total of 12.4 % . You may be counting Medicare as well , which is an additional 1.45 % on both for most people . That 's a total of 15.3 % for both Social Security and Medicare . That starts with the first dollar of income , no deductions . The proposed increase to 7.2 % on both payers would make the combined total 17.3 % .
I think about as close as you 're going to get is to use a personal PayPal account , and set up a reminder to yourself to log in and send the money . ( Because , as you said , setting up a recurring payment is a business account thing . ) From <URL> : Sending money -- Personal payments : It 's free within the U.S. to send money to family and friends when you use only your PayPal balance or bank account , or a combination of their PayPal balance and bank account . ... Receiving money -- Personal payments : It 's free to receive money from friends or family in the U.S. when they send the money from the PayPal website using only their PayPal balance or their bank account , or a combination of their PayPal balance and bank account . You can automate the reminder to yourself with any of the gazillion task managers out there : Google Calendar , MS Outlook , Todoist , Remember the Milk , etc. .
I 'd suggest you run a credit check on the new tenant . If you reject based on this , they have little to argue as this is an objective number . It 's no guarantee , but a high credit score says a lot . Edit - I added a chart in response to your last comment . You can be as choosy as you wish , the request for credit check is to weed out the potential disasters more than to find a golden 800 score . I agree with Rob , a 650-700 cutoff would give you the top 1/2 - 1/3 of potential applicants .
If you 're looking for a quick answer about variable annuities , jump down to the Summary and Citations/Resources sections below . My answer is mostly specific to the US . I 'll try to give an overview of variable annuities and some of the benefits and drawbacks to them , since they 're both heavily marketed and highly complex . The answer is pretty long because VA 's are complex investment vehicles , but I wanted to give as thorough answer as possible . I gleaned much of the information from the <URL> and added points that were n't covered sufficiently . I hope other members can give detailed answers about other forms of annuities . Overview In their simplest form , annuities normally have two <URL> : The accumulation phase - The customer ( you ) deposits money into the account The distribution/payout phase - The insurance company pays the customer until the death of the person ( s ) ( " annuitants " ) listed in the contract . <URL> as : An insurance contract in which , at the end of the accumulation stage , the insurance company guarantees a minimum payment [ to the customer ] . The remaining income payments can vary depending on the performance of the managed portfolio . The managed portfolio usually invests in a mixture of mutual funds , but variable annuities differ from mutual funds in a standard brokerage account or other investment vehicles , like IRA 's , 401K 's , etc. , in several ways . ( Much of the following information is summarized from the SEC 's <URL> on variable annuities . ) Since variable annuities allow you to receive periodic payments for either the rest of your life or the rest of a designated person 's life , they protect you against the possibility that , after you retire , you outlive your assets , e.g. your IRA , 401K , etc. . Many variable annuities come with a death benefit . If you die before the beginning of the distribution phase , your designated beneficiary is guaranteed to receive a specific amount . This amount is typically at least the amount of your purchase payments . Your beneficiary may even profit financially if , at the time of your death , your account value is less than the amount guaranteed by the insurance company . Some annuities offer a " stepped-up death benefit , " in which the death benefit is greater than the amount of the payments . However , additional fees will most likely apply ( see below ) . Variable annuities are tax-deferred investment vehicles , so you pay no taxes on the income or investment/capital gains from your annuity until you withdraw your money . However , when you withdraw money out of a variable annuity , you are taxed on the earnings at ordinary income tax rates rather than the lower capital gains rates . In general , the benefits of tax deferral will outweigh the costs of a variable annuity only if you hold it as a long-term investment to meet retirement and other long-range goals , and even then , this might not be the case . The third point , especially the part I emphasized , is extremely important . The SEC page gives the following warning , and I think it 's best if I quote it in its entirety ( and obviously , that anyone interested in a variable annuity reads it completely ) : Caution ! Other investment vehicles , such as IRAs and employer-sponsored 401 ( k ) plans , also may provide you with tax-deferred growth and other tax advantages . For most investors , it will be advantageous to make the maximum allowable contributions to IRAs and 401 ( k ) plans before investing in a variable annuity . In addition , if you are investing in a variable annuity through a tax-advantaged retirement plan ( such as a 401 ( k ) plan or IRA ) , you will get no additional tax advantage from the variable annuity . Under these circumstances , consider buying a variable annuity only if it makes sense because of the annuity 's other features , such as lifetime income payments and death benefit protection . The tax rules that apply to variable annuities can be complicated -- before investing , you may want to consult a tax adviser about the tax consequences to you of investing in a variable annuity . Remember : Variable annuities are designed to be long-term investments , to meet retirement and other long-range goals . Variable annuities are not suitable for meeting short-term goals because substantial taxes and insurance company charges may apply if you withdraw your money early . Variable annuities also involve investment risks , just as mutual funds do . If you invest in a variable annuity through a retirement plan , not only will not receive any additional tax benefit , but the fees and charges will probably add up to provide you less benefit than had you invested in similar mutual funds in your retirement plan directly . Charges and Fees Variable annuities often come with various charges and fees that decrease the overall return on the investment and may potentially make them unsuitable investments for some people . Surrender charges - If you withdraw money from a variable annuity
end question
start question
Why have U.S. bank interest rates been so low for the past few years ?
These rates are so low because the cost of money is so low . Specifically , two rates are near zero . The <URL> , which is " the interest rate charged to commercial banks and other depository institutions on loans they receive from their regional Federal Reserve Bank 's lending facility -- the <URL> . " The <URL> , which is the rate banks pay when they trade balances with each other through the Federal Reserve . Banks want to profit on the loans they make , like mortgage loans . To do so , they try to maximize the difference between the rates they charge on mortgages and other loans ( revenue ) , and the rates they pay savings account holders , the Federal Reserve or other banks to obtain funds ( expenses ) . This means that the rates they offer to pay are as close to these rates as possible . As the charts shows , both rates have been cut significantly since the start of the recession , either through open market operations ( the federal funds rate ) or directly ( the discount rate ) . The discount rate is <URL> . In most cases , the federal funds rate is lower than the discount rate , in order to encourage banks to lend money to each other instead of borrowing it from the Fed . In the past , however , there have been rare instances where the federal funds rate has exceeded the discount rate , and it 's been cheaper for banks to borrow money directly from the Fed than from each other .
A title such as " 5 % Treasury Gilt 2020 " expresses the nominal yield . In other words , 5 % is the yield you will receive if you are able to buy the Gilt at the nominal ( issue ) price of GBP100 . Of course , you will not be able to buy such a Gilt in today 's market for the nominal price of GBP100 . It will be trading at a considerable premium and therefore , if you hold it until maturity you will realise a capital loss to offset the relatively high income you have received . Here is an example . The " 8 % June 2021 Gilt " has a coupon of 8 % . To purchase a GBP100 nominal Gilt in today 's market will cost you GBP135 .89 . Thus , you will pay 135.89 to receive GBP8 .00 income annually . This represents a 5.88 % yield ( 8/135 .89 = 5.88 % ) . That sounds pretty good . However , if you hold the Gilt until maturity you will only receive GBP100 on redemption and therefore you will experience a capital loss GBP35 .89 on each Gilt purchased . When this capital loss is taken into account it means that the 5.88 % yield you are receiving as income will be offset by the capital loss so that you have earned the equivalent of 0.757 % annually . You can of course sell the Gilt before its 2021 maturity date , however as the maturity date gets closer the market price will get closer to the GBP100 nominal value and you will again face a capital loss . There 's no free ride in the markets . 5 year Gilts currently have a redemption yield of about 0.75 % , while 10 year Gilts currently have a redemption yield of about 1.15 % . You may also wish to note that buying Gilts in the open market requires a minimum purchase of GBP10 ,000 nominal value . However , you can purchase small Gilt holdings through the post office .
No one is quite sure what happened ( yet ) . Speculation includes : Automatic trades gone wild Typo by a trader ( Rumor is that a trader at Citigroup hit " B " for Billion instead of " M " for Million ) Straight up computer glitch The interesting thing is that Procter &amp; Gamble stock got hammered , as did Accenture . Both of which are fairly stable companies , that did n't make any major announcements , and are n't really connected to the current financial instability in Greece . So , there is no reason for there stock prices to have gone crazy like that . This points to some kind of screw up , and not a regular market force . <URL> Edit # 1 : One thing that can contribute to an event like this is automatic selling triggered by <URL> . Say someone at Citi makes a mistake and sells too much of a stock . That drives the stock price below a certain threshold . Computers that were pre-programmed to sell at that point start doing their job . Now the price goes even lower . More stop-loss orders get triggered . Things start to snowball . Since it 's all done by computer these days something like this can happen in seconds . All the humans are left scratching their heads . ( No idea if that 's what actually happened . ) Edit # 2 : IEEE Spectrum has a pretty concise <URL> . It also includes some links to follow . Edit # 3 ( 05/14/2010 ) : <URL> that a trader at Waddell &amp; Reed triggered all of this , but not through any wrongdoing . Edit # 4 ( 05/18/2010 ) : <URL> The House Financial Services Subcommittee investigated , but <URL> I think at this point , people have pretty much <URL> trying to figure out what happened . Edit # 5 ( 07/14/2010 ) : <URL> I 'm giving up . :-)
You must mean the current debt ceiling debacle . The meaning of it is : US government is constantly borrowing money ( by issuing treasury bonds ) and constantly repaying some of the bonds that come to maturity , and also has other obligations it has to meet by law all the time - such as Social Security checks , bonds interest , federal employees ' salaries and pensions , etc. . By law , total amount of money that can be borrowed at the same time is capped . That means , there can be situation where the government needs to borrow money to pay , say , interest on existing bonds , but can not , since the limit is reached . Such situation is called a default , since the government promised to pay the interest , but is unable to do so . That does not mean the government has no money at all and will completely collapse or could n't raise money on the market if it were permitted by law to do so ( currently , the market is completely willing to buy the debt issued by US government , and with interest that is not very high , though of course that may change ) . It also does not mean the economy ceases to function , dollars cease to have value or banks instantly go bankrupt . But if the government breaks its promises to investors , it has various consequences such as raising the costs of borrowing in the future . Breaking promises to other people - like Social Security recipients - would also look bad and probably hurt many of them . Going back to your bank account , most probably nothing would happen to the money you store there . Even if the bank had invested 100 % of the money in US treasury bonds ( which does n't really happen ) they still can be sold on the open market , even if with some discount in the event of credit rating downgrade , so most probably your account would not be affected . As stated in another answer , even if the fallout of all these calamities causes a bank to fail , there 's FDIC and if your money is under insured maximums you 'll be getting your money back . But if your bank is one of the big ones , nothing of the sort would happen anyway - as we have seen in the past years , government would do practically anything to not allow any big bank failures .
Generally the number of shares of a U.S. exchange-listed stock which have been shorted are tracked by the exchange and reported monthly . This number is usually known as the open short interest . You may also see a <URL> , which is the short interest divided by the average daily volume for the stock . The short interest is available on some general stock data sites , such as Yahoo Finance ( under Key Statistics ) and dailyfinance.com ( also on a Key Statistics subpage for the stock ) .
Taxes are a tool for achieving social policy goals . While Americans consider " Socialism " to be a curse , the US is in fact quite socialistic . Mostly towards corporations , but sometimes even the normal people , not only the " Corporation are people , my friend " ( M. Romney ) get some discounts . The tax deduction on mortgage interest comes as a tool to encourage Americans to own their homes . It is important , socially , for people to own their home to be independent , and in general contributes to the stability of the society . As anything , when taken to the extreme , it in fact achieves exactly the opposite , as we 've seen in 2008 , but when balanced - works well . Capital gain is taxed in the US , because it is income . Generally , any income is taxed . However , gain sourced from the sale of primary residence is excluded , up to a certain ( quite large ) amount from this tax ( if lived in the residence long enough - 3 of the last 5 years prior to sale ) . This , again , to encourage Americans to upgrade their houses and make it easier for Americans to relocate when needed ( sell one house and buy another without losing cash on taxes ) . As to " asset producing income " - that is true in the US as well . You can not deduct your personal expenses , in general . Mortgage interest on primary residence is a notable exception , because it serves a social cause . Similarly , medical expenses are allowed as a deduction , if they 're above certain limit , and many other things ( for example - if a US person totals his car , and insurance does n't cover the loss - it is tax deductible , above certain limit , the higher the income - the higher the limit ) . These are purely social policy breaks . Socialism , something Americans like to have , and love to hate . Many " anti-socialists " in the US are in fact taking advantage of these specific tax breaks the most , because for rich folks these are limited or non-existent ( mortgage interest limited up to 1 million , medical expenses are allowed only above certain percentage of income , etc ) .
To get the quarterly effective interest rate , the quoted interest rate should be divided by four thus . To get the annual effective interest rate , the effective quarterly interest rate should be indexed , added to , and taken the fourth power thus : To get the total return , the effective annual interest rate should be indexed , added to , and taken to the fifth power thus : Relationship between the effective annual and compounded interest rate The spread between the APR &amp; EAR is proportional to compounding frequency and to the APR. . The EAR will always be greater in magnitude than the APR and will always have the same direction because of the nature of the formula : Because the EAR is a geometric representation of the interest rate while the APR is the arithmetic representation . <URL> Change in terminology In the US , the APR is fast becoming interpreted as the EAR because EAR disclosure is now mandatory for most products , but this has not historically been the case and probably still is n't the case everywhere else . Effective from compound rates Compounded annual rates are usually the effective rates multiplied by the number of compounding periods . Historically , arithmetic averages were preferred over their more accurate geometric counterparts because of ease of calculation . When interest rates are small and calculators expensive , this is sufficiently accurate . This explains the strange math behind compound rates , which the US has more or less abandoned . Now that anyone can buy a pocket calculator for next to nothing , it pays to be more precise with interest rate calculation especially at near-0 rates since a 0.1 % error while paying 1 % is a possible 10 % increase in debt costs .
It depends on the contract terms of your specific GIC or term deposit . Some GICs and deposits are fixed rate , which offer a guaranteed interest rate , and some are floating rate or interest-linked , where the interest rate varies according to some benchmark that periodically changes , such as the bank 's prime rate . Each of fixed or floating could be better than the other under circumstances which become evident in hindsight . If you buy a fixed rate GIC , you are taking a risk locking up your money at that rate . If rates were to rise to higher than your fixed rate , you would n't be able to take advantage of the higher rate until your term is up , unless your GIC is redeemable . If you buy a floating rate GIC , you are taking the risk that your money might have been better invested at a higher fixed rate , should floating rates remain lower over the investment 's term , unless your GIC is redeemable . So , you should also understand whether your GIC is locked in for the entire term , or whether it may be redeemable , and under what conditions , and whether any penalties may apply if you do redeem early . Typically , non-redeemable GICs offer higher interest rates than redeemable GICs .
While the US hosts most of the world 's innovative startups , its own financial and banking systems are very slow to change . The infrastructure exists , however the ACH transfers are not wide-spread between individuals . Banks much prefer the option of bill-pay ( i.e. : as you said , mailing a check , something in other countries people would n't even think of ) , than letting you do it yourself . Why ? Because they can . There 's no real competition over consumers , and the consumers themselves are not educated or sophisticated . Thus , the banks are comfortable with the lack of innovation - since as long as they are all lacking innovation - consumers wo n't demand it because they wo n't even know things are possible . And it is definitely cheaper for the banks not to innovate and keep your money for a week while the bill-pay check is en route , than try and develop new things . In other countries , the regulator would step up and force banks to develop new infrastructure and widen the options , but in the US regulation is considered a bad thing , and people are easily swayed , being uneducated and uninformed , by the corporations to support politicians who act against their ( people 's ) best interest in protecting the corporations and reducing and limiting the regulators even further .
<URL> : Vanguard is unusual among mutual-fund companies since it is owned by the funds themselves . In this structure , each fund contributes a set amount of capital towards shared management , marketing , and distribution services . In other words , the company is owned entirely by the shareholders of the funds in the company . The result is that Vanguard usually has the lowest cost index funds .
Yes , it 's been a rocky year . If your 401 ( k ) is diversified ( as it should be ) it should generally follow inflation and industry averages ( except outperforming them slightly in the longterm ) . For example , take a look at the Dow Jones Industrial Average : <URL> it 's down by 5 % over the past 6 months . ... so I 'd be worried if your 401 ( k ) did increase in value over the past year , because that would mean it is n't diversified . My own 401 ( k ) is down -8 % compared to 2 years ago . My personal opinion is the market will not improve much ( if at all ) over the coming year either .
If you 're a cash based tax payer ( which you most likely are ) , you can not do so . You report the wages in the year you receive them . You can not back-date earnings for your tax benefit .
We tried to negotiate the price for some but the sellers were always firm . We ended buying one in a dealership with warranty within the same price and mileage range . Why people are selling cars in Craigslist for much above the kbb prices cars that are not even worth that ? Apparently they are able to get those prices . If they were n't , they 'd compromise eventually . Look for older advertisements where people may be feeling more desperate . If you ca n't find them , then that means that the car is selling . They 're right about the prices ; Kelley Blue Book ( KBB ) is wrong . It 's interesting that the dealership has n't caught up yet . If the used car market on Craigslist is robust , it should carry over eventually . I would expect dealership prices to be noticeably higher on average . The warranty if nothing else . Perhaps Craigslist has too good a reputation . People are buying there even though they 'd be better off with a dealer . Easy enough to fix . Go to a dealer and offer to sell cars for them ( for commission ) . Advertise on Craigslist . Buyers should prefer warrantied cars over non-warrantied cars at the same price . With cars selling like hot cakes , the dealer will increase prices . KBB will adjust their numbers . Auction was n't a good option since we needed the car quickly and quality there varies and we do n't really know how to deal in auctions . I would n't recommend buying a car at auction unless you plan to buy a lot of cars . The quality is all over the place . You can get a great deal , but you are just as likely to get a lemon . If you buy a lot of cars , it will even out over time . But if you just need one , you can get royally screwed . Auctions are designed for buyers who are constantly processing cars . If one is a lemon , they can make it up on the next one . The low prices at auction are a sort of reverse insurance . They charge less because they ca n't guarantee quality . So let the dealers buy at auction and fix up the cars with a warranty . Because they do it often , it works out in the long run for them . For an individual buying one car , I would n't recommend it . Too much risk with too few options for mitigation . I realize this is just reinforcing what you already thought . I just do n't want other people to start diving into auctions without understanding how they work . Yes , cars can be cheaper there . But the reason is that auctions sell anything , including cars that the seller is dumping because they are lemons . In bulk , the risk is manageable . Individually , it is n't . You may get lucky , or you may get a turkey that costs you more than it benefits you .
It depends on what you paid for , but usually audit support is an unrelated engagement to the return preparation . If the accountant made a professional mistake , you can request correction and compensation from that accountant , other than that any accountant can help you with audit regardless of who prepared the return . The original accountant would probably be better informed about why you reported each number on the return and how it was calculated , but if you kept all the docs , it can be recalculated again . That 's what happens in the audit anyway .
Nearly every country has its own exchange because so many countries have their own currency , and currency permeates every part of an exchange 's business . Generally , an exchange will support transaction and settlement only in local currency . Securities ( except those that explicitly enable FX trading ) are denominated and will trade in a single currency -- you can only buy a share of IBM in U.S. dollars . Securities trading always seeks to be a clean , frictionless , scalable process , and adding cross-currency translation to the mix would just complicate things . So it 's one exchange , one currency . In most countries , citizens and even businesses are largely restricted to having bank accounts in local currency . There are various political reasons for this , but there it is : it is difficult or impossible to open a domestic bank account in a foreign-denominated currency . A public company headquartered in a given country will be required to publish financial statements in local currency , will be more likely to do business with the local citizenry and businesses in that currency , and so will likely look for investors from that same pool -- which generally means listing in local currency , which means on an exchange in that country . There are exceptions , of course . Big multinationals do business all over the world , and many seek investors all over the world as well . Mechanisms have been created to permit this ( American Depositary Receipts or ADRs , for example ) . But once again , cross-currency translation makes things more complicated , so ADRs and their like are only practical for very big international players . As to why there may be many exchanges in a single country , IMO Nick R has it right . Read " Flash Boys " ; many market makers profit from trading between exchanges , and so have an interest in there being many of them . And in the U.S. , regulators have expressed an interest in " innovation " in the exchange space , and so permit them . There is also an argument to be made against having a single " Too Big To Fail " exchange just like the argument for banks , but I would n't call that a " reason " for the current state of affairs .
A 2.5 % fee is standard , and you 're not likely to avoid a transaction fee when withdrawing cash from an ATM . You 'd do better to get foreign currency before leaving the US , or to use a credit card abroad . Capital One has a credit card with no fee on foreign-currency purchases , for example . Another option is to open a bank account in the foreign currency , if you go to a particular country often enough to make it worthwhile .
I think that the reason is the same one that is driving the costs of undergraduate degrees . There is no incentive to provide competitive costs because Economic inflation is pushing this up just like everything else . Anyone that wants that degree or doctorate needs to go to an accredited school ( same for undergrad ) . Financial aid and private loans ( even at horrible rates ) are widely available and are not given out with proper credit risk analysis . I will admit that I 'm from the school of thought that financial aid is partially to blame because it subsidizes the true costs and alters the supply and demand that is at work in all markets . I think that if the costs were allowed to reflect the supply and demand without subsidization through heavy financial aid , they would push demand down and stabilize the costs . I also think that eventually the costs would begin to fall to reflect the loss in revenue from people not going to school , and then the system would balance itself . That 's the beauty of a true free market , whether you believe that the actual supply or actual demand is ethically right , it does reflect the true costs .
Because US bonds have had the prior impression of absolute invincibility and safety that has helped the dollar become the world 's reserve currency and the United States borrow essentially at will . For the people that care what S&amp;P says , the aura of invincibility is broken and it is conceivable , in SOME universe , for the US to default on its debt . This is of little practical importance on its own , but it 's yet another signpost on the road to Chinese or European economic hegemony .
Yes , your realtor is a moron . ( I am a realtor , and sorry you have such a bad one ) Every industry has its good and bad . You really should find a new realtor , a good one . You know the 1031 exchange is for rental property only . And that saving $ 2000 is n't worth staying in the house to complete the two years required occupancy .
If you want your bank to pay $ 1 to a beneficiary Bob , then the service ( no matter how implemented ) needs to result in Bob 's bank saying to Bob " Hey , I owe you $ 1 " . The usual way how this is done consists of two parts - your bank needs to somehow tell Bob 's bank " hey guys , do us a favor and please give Bob $ 1 with a message from the sender " , and your bank needs to convince the other bank that they 'll pay for ( cover ) that . This is the main source for the delays in international payments - there are thousands of banks , and most of possible pairs have no legal contact between themselves whatsoever , no bilateral agreements , no trust and no reasonable enforcement mechanism for small claims . If I 'm Bob 's bank , then a random bank from anywhere from Switzerland to Nigeria can send me an instruction " give Bob $ 1 , we 'll make it up for you " , the SWIFT network is a common way of doing this . However , most likely I 'm going to give Bob the money only after I receive the funds somehow , which means that they have given the money to some institution I work with . For payments within a single country , it often is a centralized exchange or a central bank , and the payment speed is then determined by the details of that particular single payment network - e.g. UK Faster Payments or the various systems used in USA . For international payments , it may require a chain of multiple intermediaries ( correspondent banks ) - for example , a payment of $ 1mm from Kazakhstan to China will likely involve the Kazakhstan bank asking their main correspondent in USA ( some major bank such as Chase JPMorgan ) to give the money to the relevant chinese bank 's correspondent in USA ( say , Citi ) to then give the money to that chinese bank to then give the money to the actual recipient . Each of those steps can happen because those entities have bilateral agreements , trust and accounts with each other ; and each of those steps generally takes time and verification . If you want all payments to happen instantly , then you need all institutions to join a single binding payment system . It 's not as easy as it sounds , as it is a nightmare of jurisdiction - for example , if you 'd want me ( as Bob 's bank ) to credit Bob instantly , then the system needs to provide solid guarantees that I would get paid even if ( a ) the payer institution changes its mind , made a mistake or intentional fraud ; ( b ) the payer institution goes insolvent ; ( c ) the system provider gets insolvent . Providing such guarantees is expensive , they need to be backed by multi-billion capital , and they 're unrealistic to enforce across jurisdictions ( e.g. would an Iranian bank get recourse if some funds got blocked because of USA sanctions ) . The biggest such project as far as I know is SEPA , across most of Europe . Visa and MasterCard networks perform the same function - a merchant gets paid by the CC network even if the payer ca n't pay his CC bill or the paying bank goes insolvent .
end question
start question
What is the best credit card for a college undergrad to get ?
You should start with a credit card with lower underwriting standards . A gasoline card or department store card is a good example . Make modest purchases and pay them off early or on time in full . I 'm assuming that you 're not leaving out things like late rent payments , judgements , defaulted loans , etc. . Do that for a few months , and sign up for a card marketed towards students . I 'd personally recommend an American Express card with no annual fee .
It depends completely on the nature of the takeover . When a business is bought , the new owner takes on the obligations of the prior owner , the debts do n't just go away . When a business files for bankruptcy , its debts may get discharged , and gift card holders can easily be the first ones to get nothing back . A case in point was Sharper Image who stopped honoring gift cards even while the doors were open as they filed for bankruptcy .
The signature actually harks back to the days before every business checked every transaction online . When charge cards were introduced modems did n't exist . Nowadays , stolen credit cards are usually reported within 24 hours and the card wo n't work . Businesses that face low fraud rates do n't bother checking . They probably figure that a certain percentage of charges get charged back because the cardholder claims that they did n't make them , and the credit card company usually just passes the cost on to the merchant , so it 's really the merchant who should be worried about fraud since he or she is going to pay for it . The real question for the merchant is whether checking signatures actually reduces charge backs . If the credit card is stolen , how hard would it be for thieves to practice the signature on the card a few times until they can reproduce it well enough to fool someone ? Businesses that face high fraud rates are often more careful . In New York City , try buying some Nikes on 34th Street , and you 'll get your signature checked , your driver 's license checked , and they 'll call up your 5th grade social studies teacher .
Anyone can apply for a credit card , however not everyone is granted a credit card . For the Bank to issue you a credit card , they need an assurance that you will be able to repay . Each bank has different norms apart from credit score , they also see your source of income [ generally its easy if you are salaried / difficult if you are not ] . Some bank also grant credit card if you hold a good amount as Fixed Deposits or PPF . So in short there are multiple eligibility criteria 's , for example : - Salary is above X amount to get a credit limit of Y . Additionally there may be a number of years of service . - Certain amount of Fixed Deposits or PPF 's or other investments . - Tax Returns show a good amount of income and tax paid . The easiest way to get a basic card is to apply to the Bank where you have a savings account .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
She can apply for her own card as well . So long as her credit is ok and she can be approved on her own score , it should n't be an issue . Keep in mind , most airline cards have an annual fee , $ 80 or so , which is why we decided to get the card in my name and I could always get tickets in any family member name . A card in her name will get you the new bonus ( maybe 20,000 miles ? ) but after a year , the fee kicks in .
The <URL> state the following : Credit Bureau Reporting . We may report information about your account to credit bureaus . Late payments , missed payments , or other defaults on your account may be shown in your credit report . The card is issued by Synchrony Bank . Generally , store cards do report to credit bureaus , so I see no reason why this one would not .
10 years in some states in the US . Also , items do n't ever leave your credit report , but time will improve your credit score . Repair the damage ? First find the damage . In the US you are entitled by law to a credit report from each of the bureaus once a year . Some folks get them all at once , some people get one every four months . <URL> Please do n't pay for a credit report . Anybody who advertises will be the ones selling you a report and they are basically stealing . You have a pretty good chance of finding errors in your report . You will have to dispute them with the reporting bureaus . Be prepared for a few months of registered letters and lots of phone calls to get your report cleaned up and accurate . Then , Know how credit works . Know your score . I have used credit.com for free to get an estimated score . It also cover # 1 with some nice info on how credit is calculated . Pay down debt , do n't acquire more Do n't cancel your credit lines that are paid down . Cut up the cards , never use the accounts again , but do n't close them . Once you are debt free , if you use credit wisely that does n't hurt . Pay for stuff with credit cards but always always always pay them off at the end of each month . Time is the best way to fix your ills . Use credit properly for a nice long time and your score will improve . Do n't use credit counseling : All they do is bargin for lower payments . You can do this yourself . Do n't use credit protection services : They do n't do anything you ca n't do yourself for free . ( Read some consumer credit web pages to learn your rights ) EXAMPLE I ran across this tale , which is pretty well written , very clear and mentions a lot of the steps and details I never knew . <URL>
You want to charge so that : now with a little algebra . Rounded up to $ 153.69
Can he use an existing credit card in his name for all his business expenses , or does that pierce the corporate veil ? That would be a question to a lawyer , since there 's no definitive answer but rather circumstantial . Generally it is safer to separate the finances completely than to try and guess what the court would rule if it comes to that . It is not hard to get a separate card for a LLC ( especially if it is a sole proprietorship ) . We are going to buy a house soon , so I do n't want any extra inquiries . I guess it depends on the bank and the type of card . My Citi business card does n't show up on my personal credit report .
Here in the UK it 's certainly possible . We call it stoozing . The basic steps are Get a credit card with a long 0 % period for purchases and a savings account with as high a rate as possible . Do your regular shopping on the credit card , make minimum payments each month Put the money you would normally spend on your regular shopping into the high rate savings account instead . At the end of the 0 % period either pay the card off in full or get a suitable card and do a balance transfer . Get a new spending card ( may be the same one as the balance transfer card but you often get better deals with seperate cards ) . <URL> I guess people get away with this because the number of people with the skills/diligance to do it right and who can be bothered with the hassle is fairly small .
Why not just get another credit card and transfer the balance ? Many of them will give you special perks like x months of no interest for doing so . Also , once you call to actually cancel the card you will see for sure whether they really have any power to negotiate rates . From their perspective 15 % APR is more than 0 % APR which is what they 'd get if they lose your business .
Yes , in fact I used this method for my travels to the UK . You can get one <URL> , and you can even get it on the spot in some of their locations .
Some features to be aware of are : Annual fee ( or lack thereof ) Payment network ( Visa/MasterCard/American Express/Discover/etc . ) Cash back/rewards rate ( i.e. , how much cash/rewards points you get per dollar charged ) Interest rate Foreign transaction fee Extra benefits ( e.g. , free FICO score , " purchase protection " where you can get a refund in certain circumstances , etc. ) Credit score requirements ( i.e. , how good your credit must be to obtain the card ) How you prioritize these features will depend on your specific circumstances . For instance , if your credit score is poor , you may have to choose among cards you can get with that score , and not have much choice on other dimensions . If you frequently travel abroad , a low or zero foreign transaction fee may be important ; if you never do , it probably does n't matter . If you always pay the balance in full , interest rate is less important than it is if you carry a balance . If you frequently travel by air , an airline card may be useful to you ; if you do n't , you may prefer some other kind of rewards , or cash back . Cards differ along numerous dimensions , especially in the " extra benefits " area , which is often the most difficult area to assess , because in many cases you ca n't get a full description of these extra benefits until after you get the card . A lot of the choice depends on your personal preferences ( e.g. , whether you want airline miles , rewards points of some sort , or cash back ) . Lower fees and interest rates are always better , but it 's up to you to decide if a higher fee of some sort outweighs the accompanying benefits ( e.g. , a better rewards rate ) . A useful site for finding good offers is <URL> .
Only real downside is that pulling your score may slightly reduced your score . So you might just want to ask them for an estimate , assuming an excellent score ; that 'll be close enough for now . The time to get pre-approved is when your actually ready to start shopping for a house .
Credit Cards There are quite a few statistics on this subject . <URL> - This might be a good starting point . The Federal Reserve reports that credit cards are used more than 20 billion times a year in the U.S. , with the total value of these transactions at about $ 1.9 trillion . Based on the number of transactions and the number of credit card holders , the average card holder uses a credit card 119 times a year , for transactions averaging $ 88 apiece . This comes to an average annual total of about $ 10,500 in credit card purchases . <URL> CardWeb reported that in the last year , the average size of credit card transaction tops $ 100 for the first time . 2003 's average of $ 101.64 is 1.9 % higher than last year 's $ 99.76 and represents 16 % increase in 10 years . <URL> At the end of 2009 the average purchase made with Visa or MasterCard Credit Cards was $ 82.56 , a number lower than previous years , where the average was slightly over $ 100 . You can order more recent reports on this figure from CardData . The indexcreditcards.com article might have some useful strategies for calculating these statistics , like combining the Federal Reserve data ( for example , from <URL> ) with Census and industry estimates . That 's probably the best place to start for recent data that should n't cost anything ( or if it does , the cost should n't be prohibitive ) . <URL> looks like it compiles the information you need too , but according to their site , subscriptions start at $ 1,495.00 . If you need this data for research purposes , citing a website is n't sufficient , but assuming you describe how to came up with your statistics , combining data sets in the way mentioned above should work . Debit Cards For similar information relating to debit cards , the <URL> also has information about that , since they work with payment processing networks . There were approximately 46.7 billion debit card transactions in 2011 , with a value of more than $ 1.8 trillion . This was a 24 percent increase from the number of transactions in 2009 ( 37.6 billion ) and a 27 percent increase from the value of transactions in 2009 ( $ 1.4 trillion ) . Signature debit transactions represented about 63 percent of transaction volume and 61 percent of transaction value in 2011 ; the remainder were PIN debit transactions . mainstreet.com also cites <URL> which finds that " the average debit card transaction amount in 2010 was $ 71 . " This is n't a random sample because it only represents data on mint.com users . Intuitively , I can think of reasons for why users of mint.com would spend either more or less than the population as a whole , but I 'm not sure which is true . Keep in mind , though , that debit card transactions <URL> as Electronic Fund Transfers , which could complicate the picture . I have n't researched payment processing networks extensively , so I ca n't make a statement on that one way or another .
This is just my opinion , but paying an annual fee for a credit card these days is simply not worth it . Also , if you are just going for the airline miles , I 'd suggest a cash back card is a better choice . Cash is much more fungible between airlines , and they ca n't jack with your rewards by limiting the number of award seats or the number of miles/surcharges for using frequent flier miles on tickets .
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
Many people who do transfer a balance from one credit card to another have no clue as to what is going on and how credit cards work . If you transfer a balance from one credit card to another , you are charged a fee of anywhere from 3 % upwards ( subject to a minimum of $ 10 or so ) up front . If Credit Card A has balance $ 1000 and you transfer it to Credit Card B which is offering no interest for a year on the transferred balance , you owe Credit Card B $ 1050 ( say ) . In most cases , that $ 50 has to be paid off as part of the following month 's bill . If you are carrying a revolving balance on Credit Card B , that $ 50 will typically be charged interest from the day of the transfer . Your monthly bill will not ( necessarily ) include that $ 1000 you owe for one year or six months or whatever the transfer agreement you accepted says . If you tend to pay anything less ( even a penny ) than full payment of each month 's bill on Credit Card B , your partial payment will be applied to that $ 1000 first , and anything left over will be applied to the monthly balance . In short , if you do n't pay in full each month , that $ 1000 will not be " yours " for a year ; you may end up paying $ 50 interest for borrowing $ 1000 for just one or two months , and the rest of your balance is the gift that keeps on giving as the credit card company likes to say . UPDATE : This has changed slightly in the United States . Any amount paid over the minimum amount due is charged to the higher-interest balances . So in this case , if you had $ 1000 at a 0 % promotional rate and a regular balance of $ 500 , and the minimum payment was $ 100 , and you paid $ 150 , $ 100 would pay down the promotional balance , and the extra $ 50 would pay down the regular balance . About the only way to make the deal work in your favor is to Transfer money only if you have paid the full amount due on the last two statements before the date of the transfer and are not carrying a revolving balance . Check your monthly statements to make sure they show Finance Charge of 0.00 . Many people have never seen such a sight and are unaware that this can be observed in nature . Make sure that you pay each month 's bill in full ( not the minimum monthly payment due ) each month for a whole year after that . Make sure that the bill containing that $ 1000 ( coming out a year after the transfer date ) is also paid in full . Very many credit-card users do not have the financial discipline to go through with this program . That is why credit card companies love to push transfer balances on consumers : the whole thing is a cash cow for them where they in effect get to charge usurious rates of interest without running afoul of the law . $ 50 interest for a one-year loan of $ 1000 is pretty high at current rates ; $ 50 interest for a two or three month loan where the customer does not even notice the screwing he is getting is called laughing all the way to the bank . See also the answers to <URL>
In the short run , its better you get a credit card from India . Generally most cards issued in India can be used internationally . Use this for initial few months in the US till you get a credit card in US .
end question
start question
Growing Annuity - How do I find the growth rate of a growing annuity ?
You can understand the solution like this : The first year 's savings , compounded at 5 % for three years are : The second year 's savings , increased by % , compounded for two years are : The third year 's savings , increased again by % , with one year 's growth at 5 % are : You can solve the total for by using the <URL> : <URL> <URL> To solve this type of calculation in the general case The summation of the above calculation can be written like so : <URL> This is the general form . It can be used for a calculation over any number of years : <URL> The general form can be converted to a formula for by <URL> : <URL> The equation can not be expressed as a formula for but it can be used to solve for by plotting or using a solver . <URL> Using Excel 's solver add-in . <URL>
When determining if you should refinance , you need to figure out how long it will take to make up the closing costs from interest saved under the new loan . At 4.5 % you are currently paying approx . $ 586 in interest each month . At 3.25 % you would be paying approx . $ 423 to begin with . So , the first month , you will save about $ 160 in interest . The amount of interest paid each month will change based on how much principal you apply to the loan . However , you will be around $ 160/mo in interest savings for the first several months . This would mean you break even point would be around 6 months . I would recommend the refinance to 3.25 % assuming the $ 800 figure for closing costs is accurate . You will save several thousand dollars in interest payments over the next 5 years if you do refinance .
In general , things to look for are : How high is is the account 's rate of return ? How easy is it to access your money ? Things to look out for : Minimum monthly amounts to put into checking accounts , or you 'll be dinged with a monthly fee Large expense ratios in " mutual funds " you invest into , or $ 5 + dollar expenses when investing in mutual funds . I 'd recommend two places : Find a high interest HSA savings account . For example , <URL> currently offers 1.5 % to members without direct deposit , 2.5 % to members with $ 500 direct deposit in a checking account . EDIT : SFCU has dropped their rates substantially and is not a recommended bank for this purpose . For longer term investments , consider <URL> which have Vanguard Admiral funds . Realize this is a bit more risky if you 're depositing/withdrawing money often , but it can pay off assuming the stock/bond market has a higher rate of return . This is , however , risky , as many people mention that you should not plan on having " growth " in a mutual fund like this unless you keep and hold money there for 3 or more years . Additionally , the customer service of Fulton Bank is awesome . I 'd recommend reading up on HSA 's in this <URL> .
Let 's say we have an investment with a 12 % gross rate , compounded monthly . We invest a million pounds . That works out to a 1 % rate per month . So after twelve months of compounding , we have a number that is 12.682503 % higher than the original . So we might say that our AER is 12.7 % . If we had simply multiplied our original amount by 1.127 , we would have almost gotten the right answer . Note that your actual bank may handle rounding differently . Also , 12 % is clearly a ridiculous interest rate . I picked it for easy division and multiplication , not realism . Similarly , compounding is more likely to be daily than monthly . But I 'm way too lazy to write out 366 lines of investment numbers . And of course I do n't actually have a million pounds to invest . I just did n't want to round off after just a couple digits . Any taxes would have been paid out of a separate account or perhaps this is some kind of tax free account . Again , purely for convenience .
There is a lot of interesting information that can be found in a fund 's prospectus . I have found it very helpful to read books on the issue , one I just finished was " The Boglehead 's Guide to Investing " which speaks mostly on mutual and index funds . Actively managed funds mean that someone is choosing which stocks to buy and which to sell . If they think a stock will be " hot " then they buy it . Research has shown that people can not predict the stock market , which is why many people suggest index based funds . An index fund generally tracks a group of companies . Example : an index fund of the S&amp;P 500 will try to mimic the returns that the S&amp;P 500 has . Overall , managed funds are more expensive than index funds because the fund manager must be paid to manage it . Also , there is generally more buying and selling so that also increases the tax amount you would owe . What I am planning on doing is opening a Roth IRA with Vanguard , as their funds have incredibly low fees ( 0.2 % on many ) . One of the most important things you do before you buy is to figure out your target allocation ( % of stocks vs % of bonds ) . Once you figure that out then you can start narrowing down the funds that you wish to invest in .
This is only a rule of thumb . Peter Lynch popularized it ; the ratio PE/growth is often called the <URL> . At best it 's a very rough guideline . It completely ignores the balance sheet . It makes no distinction between accounting earnings and cash flow . It does n't consider qualitative characteristics like management competence . I could fill up this page with other caveats . I 'm not saying that it 's wrong , only that it 's grossly incomplete . For a 10 second eyeball valuation of growth stocks , it 's fine . But that 's the extent of its usefulness .
There can be Federal estate tax as well as State estate tax due on an estate , but it is not of direct concern to you . Estate taxes are paid by the estate of the decedent , not by the beneficiaries , and so you do not owe any estate tax . As a matter of fact , most estates in the US do not pay Federal estate tax at all because only the amount that exceeds the Federal exemption ( $ 5.5 M ) is taxable , and most estates are smaller . State estate taxes might be a different matter because while many states exempt exactly what the Federal Government does , others exempt different ( usually smaller ) amounts . But in any case , estate taxes are not of concern to you except insofar as what you inherit is reduced because the estate had to pay estate tax before distributing the inheritances . As JoeTaxpayer 's answer says more succinctly , what you inherit is net of estate tax , if any . What you receive as an inheritance is not taxable income to you either . If you receive stock shares or other property , your basis is the value of the property when you inherit it . Thus , if you sell at a later time , you will have to pay taxes only on the increase in the value of the property from the time you inherit it . The increase in value from the time the decedent acquired the property till the date of death is not taxable income to you . Exceptions to all these favorable rules to you is the treatment of Traditional IRAs , 401ks , pension plans etc that you inherit that contain money on which the decedent never paid income tax . Distributions from such inherited accounts are ( mostly ) taxable income to you ; any part of post-tax money such as nondeductible contributions to Traditional IRAs that is included in the distribution is tax-free . Annuities present another source of complications . For annuities within IRAs , even the IRS throws up its hands at explaining things to mere mortals who are foolhardy enough to delve into Pub 950 , saying in effect , talk to your tax advisor . For other annuities , questions arise such as is this a tax-deferred annuity and whether it was purchased with pre-tax money or with post-tax money , etc. . One thing that you should check out is whether it is beneficial to take a lump sum distribution or just collect the money as it is distributed in monthly , quarterly , semi-annual , or annual payments . Annuities in particular have heavy surrender charges if they are terminated early and the money taken as a lump sum instead of over time as the insurance company issuing the annuity had planned on happening . So , taking a lump sum would mean more income tax immediately due not just on the lump sum but because the increase in AGI might reduce deductions for medical expenses as well as reduce the overall amount of itemized deductions that can be claimed , increase taxability of social security benefits , etc. . You say that you have these angles sussed out , and so I will merely re-iterate Beware the surrender charges .
In the academic sense , an annuity is payable annually for a term of years and a perpetuity is payable annually forever . An annuity has an end date and a perpetuity does not . Many commonly seen annuities are structured to pay until death of the recipient , which for the issuer can be averaged and anticipated using actuarial tables ( i.e. the anticipated average number of years for the aggregate is known , even though individual payees may live longer or shorter lives ) . This is still analyzed as an annuity for a term of years . An annuity may be payable upon retirement , but there 's no financial reason you could n't delay a perpetuity by a term of years . You 'd value it as a perpetuity , but discount it for the future value based on the retirement date . I do n't believe anybody does this currently . You could also index a perpetuity , but of course that would raise its cost to purchase at the front end . Tax treatment of annuities can be favorable to the extent that insurance rules are more favorable than one might expect . But the payment of interest is generally ordinary income under IRC § 61 , whether it is payable every year or for a term of years . The last difference you list is the actual rule . Perpetuities are payable forever , so do not cease with death . An annuity that ceases with death is payable only for a term of years ( even though the term may not be known ahead of time for any individual annuitant ) . A perpetuity continues paying , so it 's just a stream of income . Of course , perpetuities could be called back by the issuer in exchange for some value ( possibly a cash settlement sum or determined by a formula ) , which terminates the perpetuity obligation . But the mathematical valuation is still based on the idea of endless payment . <URL> : <URL> :
They use an amortization table like can be found <URL> . The Forumula is not that complex where : A = payment Amount per period P = initial Principal ( loan amount ) r = interest rate per period n = total number of payments or periods You will need to add 50 to the A to account for the payment fee amount though .
You 're talking about <URL> . The wiki article goes into the <URL> . Here 's the gist : Modern portfolio theory ( MPT ) is a theory of finance that attempts to maximize portfolio expected return for a given amount of portfolio risk , or equivalently minimize risk for a given level of expected return , by carefully choosing the proportions of various assets . At the most basic level , you either a ) pick a level of risk ( standard deviation of your whole portfolio ) that you 're ok with and find the maximum return you can achieve while not exceeding your risk level , or b ) pick a level of expected return that you want and minimize risk ( again , the standard deviation of your portfolio ) . You do n't maximize both moments at once . The techniques behind actually solving them in all but the most trivial cases ( portfolios of two or three assets are trivial cases ) are basically <URL> because to be realistic , you might have a portfolio that a ) does n't allow short sales for all instruments , and/or b ) has some securities that ca n't be held in fractional amounts ( like ETF 's or bonds ) . Then there is n't a closed form solution and you need computational techniques like mixed integer quadratic programming Plenty of firms and people use these techniques , even in their most basic form . Also your terms are a bit strange : It has correlation table p11 , p12 , ... pij , pnn for i and j running from 1 to n This is usually called the covariance matrix . I want to maximize 2 variables . Namely the expected return and the additive inverse of the standard deviation of the mixed investments . Like I said above you do n't maximize two moments ( return and inverse of risk ) . I realize that you 're trying to minimize risk by maximizing " negative risk " so to speak but since risk and return are inherently a tradeoff you ca n't achieve the best of both worlds . Maybe I should point out that although the above sounds nice , and , theoretically , it 's sound , as one of the comments points out , it 's harder to apply in practice . For example it 's easy to calculate a covariance matrix between the returns of two or more assets , but in the simplest case of modern portfolio theory , the assumption is that those covariances do n't change over your time horizon . Also coming up with a realistic measure of your level of risk can be tricky . For example you may be ok with a standard deviation of 20 % in the positive direction but only be ok with a standard deviation of 5 % in the negative direction . Basically in your head , the distribution of returns you want probably has negative <URL> : <URL> because on the whole you want more positive returns than negative returns . Like I said this can get complicated because then you start minimizing other forms of risk like <URL> , for example , and then modern portfolio theory does n't necessarily give you closed form solutions anymore . Any actively managed fund that applies this in practice ( since obviously a completely passive fund will just replicate the index and not try to minimize risk or anything like that ) will probably be using something like the above , or at least something that 's more complicated than the basic undergrad portfolio optimization that I talked about above . We 'll quickly get beyond what I know at this rate , so maybe I should stop there .
This answer is provided mostly to answer your question " what is it ? " A variable annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company . The insurance company takes a bunch of money up front as a lump sum , and will pay you some money yearly - like earning interest . ( In this case , they will probably be paying you the money into the account itself ) . How much they return is , as the name suggests , variable . It can be anything , depending on what the contract says . Mostly , there will be some formula based on the stock market - frequently , the performance of the Standard &amp; Poors 500 Index . There will typically be some minimum returns and maximum returns - if the stock market tanks , your annuity will not lose a ton of value , but if the stock market goes up a lot in one year ( as it frequently does ) , you will not gain a lot of value either . If you are going to be in the market for a long amount of time ( decades , e.g. " a few years out of college " and then a little ) , it makes a lot more sense to invest in the stock market directly . This is essentially what the insurance company is going to do , except you can cut out the middleman . You can get a lot more money that way . You are essentially paying the insurance company to take on some stock market risk for you - you are buying some safety . Buying safety like this is expensive . Variable annuities are the right investment for a few people in a few circumstances - mostly , if you 're near retirement , it 's one way to have an option for a " safe " investment , for a portion ( but not all ) of your portfolio . Maybe . Depending on the specifics , a lot . If you are under , like , 50 or so ? Almost certainly a terrible investment which will gradually waste your money ( by not growing it as fast as it deserves to be grown ) . Since you want to transfer it to Vanguard , you can probably call Vanguard , ask to open a Roth IRA , and request assistance rolling it over from the place it is held now . There should be no legal restrictions or tax consequences from transferring the money from one Roth IRA account to another .
It 's simply supply and demand . First , demand : If you 're an importer trying to buy from overseas , you 'll need foreign currency , maybe Euros . Or if you want to make a trip to Europe you 'll need to buy Euros . Or if you 're a speculator and think the USD will fall in value , you 'll probably buy Euros . Unless there 's someone willing to sell you Euros for dollars , you ca n't get any . There are millions of people trying to exchange currency all over the world . If more want to buy USD , than that demand will positively influence the price of the USD ( as measured in Euros ) . If more people want to buy Euros , well , vice versa . There are so many of these transactions globally , and the number of people and the nature of these transactions change so continuously , that the prices ( exchange rates ) for these currencies fluctuate continuously and smoothly . Demand is also impacted by what people want to buy and how much they want to buy it . If people generally want to invest their savings in stocks instead of dollars , i.e. , if lots of people are attempting to buy stocks ( by exchanging their dollars for stock ) , then the demand for the dollar is lower and the demand for stocks is higher . When the stock market crashes , you 'll often see a spike in the exchange rate for the dollar , because people are trying to exchange stocks for dollars ( this represents a lot of demand for dollars ) . Then there 's " Supply : " It may seem like there are a fixed number of bills out there , or that supply only changes when Bernanke prints money , but there 's actually a lot more to it than that . If you 're coming from Europe and want to buy some USD from the bank , well , how much USD does the bank " have " and what does it mean for them to have money ? The bank gets money from depositors , or from lenders . If one person puts money in a deposit account , and then the bank borrows that money from the account and lends it to a home buyer in the form of a mortgage , the same dollar is being used by two people . The home buyer might use that money to hire a carpenter , and the carpenter might put the dollar back into a bank account , and the same dollar might get lent out again . In economics this is called the " multiplier effect . " The full supply of money being used ends up becoming harder to calculate with this kind of debt and re-lending . Since money is something used and needed for conducting of transactions , the number of transactions being conducted ( sometimes on credit ) affects the " supply " of money . Demand and supply blur a bit when you consider people who hoard cash . If I fear the stock market , I might keep all my money in dollars . This takes cash away from companies who could invest it , takes the cash out of the pool of money being used for transactions , and leaves it waiting under my mattress . You could think of my hoarding as a type of demand for currency , or you could think of it as a reduction in the supply of currency available to conduct transactions . The full picture can be a bit more complicated , if you look at every way currencies are used globally , with swaps and various exchange contracts and futures , but this gives the basic story of where prices come from , that they are not set by some price fixer but are driven by market forces . The bank just facilitates transactions . If the last price ( exchange rate ) is 1.2 Dollars per Euro , and the bank gets more requests to buy USD for Euros than Euros for USD , it adjusts the rate downwards until the buying pressure is even . If the USD gets more expensive , at some point fewer people will want to buy it ( or want to buy products from the US that cost USD ) . The bank maintains a spread ( like buy for 1.19 and sell for 1.21 ) so it can take a profit . You should think of currency like any other commodity , and consider purchases for currency as a form of barter . The value of currency is merely a convention , but it works . The currency is needed in transactions , so it maintains value in this global market of bartering goods/services and other currencies . As supply and demand for this and other commodities/goods/services fluctuate , so does the quantity of any particular currency necessary to conduct any of these transactions . A official " basket of goods " and the price of those goods is used to determine consumer price indexes / inflation etc. . The official price of this particular basket of goods is not a fundamental driver of exchange rates on a day to day basis .
Gail Vaz-Oxlade has a great interactive budget on her website , www.gailvazoxlade.com . If you watch Til Debt Do Us Part , this spreadsheet will automatically tell you how much to put in your " jars " each week in each category too ! Good luck .
That 's the Total Return for the last 12 months . There was a dividend of $ 0.63 on December 22 , 2014 , causing the price to drop about $ 0.63 . If you reinvest that dividend at that time , that $ 0.63 will continue to grow till now . Use proper tools to look at Total Return : <URL> You would not see the gap down in December when using this tool , and the 1y Total Return on the chart clearly says ~ 16 %
You setup a self-directed solo 401k by paying a one time fee for a company to setup a trust , name you the sole trustee , and file it with the IRS . None of these companies offer TPA because it opens them up to profit leaching liability . After you have your trust setup , you can open a brokerage account or several with any of the big names you want ( Vanguard , Fidelity , Ameritrade , etc ) , or just use the money to flip houses , do P2P lending , whatever , the world is your investment oyster . If the company has recurring fees you need to ask what is going on because if they are n't offering TPA services , then what the heck could they be charging you for ? I did see one company , I think it was IRA Financial Group , that had the option of having a CPA do TPA for you for a recurring fee , but I would pass on that . The IRS administration requirements are typically just the 5500-EZ that you have to file as a hard copy by July 31 if your investments are worth more than $ 250k , on December 31 . Yes , you have to get the actual form from the IRS , write on it with a pen and mail it to them every year , barbaric . You can either have your accountant do it or do it yourself . If you 're below $ 250k just google solo 401k rule change two or three times a year and do n't try to launder money . If anything , the rules will loosen with time , I do n't imagine the Republican Congress cracking down on small business owners any time soon .
I think you are mixing up forward looking statements with the actual results . The funds objective The fund invests primarily in stocks that tend to offer current dividends . It focuses on high-quality companies that have prospects for long-term total returns as a result of their ability to grow earnings and their willingness to increase dividends over time Obviously in 1993 quite a few companies paid the dividends and hence VDIGX was able to give dividends . Over the period of years in some years its given more and in some years less . For example the Year 2000 it gave $ 1.26 , 1999 it gave $ 1.71 and in 1998 it gave $ 1.87 The current economic conditions are such that companies are not making huge profts and the one 's that are making prefer not to distribute dividends and hold on to cash as it would help survive the current economic conditions . So just to clarify this particular funds objective is to invest in companies that would give dividends which is then passed on to fund holders . This fund does not sell appreciated stocks to convert it into dividends .
The interest rate is 13.5 % The Reserve Bank of India has made it mandatory to quote all variable loans as " Base Rate + Spread " . The Reserve Bank has given a guideline / formula to calculate the Base Rate . All loans should be above Base Rate . Currently the Base Rate for SBI is at 10 % . So you are getting a variable rate of Interest . If the base rate changes from 10 to 11 % , your interest will become 14.5 % . If the base rate goes down from 10 to 9 % , you rate will become 12.5 % . If you make monthly re-payments on time throughout the loan duration , then you will get a discount of 1 % in the rate of interest .
Because an equity option can be constructed at essentially any price by two willing counterparties on an exchange , there are not enough ISINs to represent the entire ( i.e. infinite ) option chain for even a single stock on a single expiration date . As a result , ISINs are not generated for each individual possible options contract . Instead the ISIN is used only to refer to the " underlying " symbol , and a separate formula is used to refer to the specific option contract for that symbol : So that code you pasted is not an ISIN but rather the standard US equity option naming scheme that you need to provide in addition to the ISIN when talking to your broker . Note that ISINs and formulas for referring to option contracts in other countries can behave quite differently . Also , there are many countries and markets that do n't need ISINs because the products in question only exist on a single exchange . In those cases the exchange is pretty much free to make up whatever ID scheme it wants . P.S. . Now I 'm curious how option chains are identified for strike prices above $ 99,999 . I looked up the only stock I can think of that trades above that price ( <URL> ) , but it does n't seem to have an option chain ( or at least Google does n't show it ) ...
Interest would be calculated as where A = ending amount , P = principal , r = rate , n = number of times compounded per T , t = time rate is over ( usually year ) . So solving for P where A = 116971.41 , r = .06 , n = 365 , t = 90/365 ( so nt = 90 ) would give you You should end up with a number just over $ 115,250 .
A few days ago they launched Fannie Mae Guaranteed Multifamily Structures ( <URL> ) but who knows ? It 's a penny stock now . Google Finance is pretty good at marking news right on the chart for a particular stock . That 's how I tracked that piece of news down . Ca n't say that it precipitated a lot of people buying the stock , but Google Finance is n't a bad place to start looking .
end question
start question
Whether H1 B Non Immigrant visa holders are allowed to purchase Home in the US ?
Your immigration status is irrelevant . I 've purchased multiple homes in the US while being on multiple statuses , and no-one cared . The only place where it does matter is the bank , if you 're taking a mortgage . Banks generally want a significant horizon of commitment , and that includes your commitment to being in the US . Some banks wo n't allow mortgages for H1b statues , others will . You 'll need to shop around if you need a loan .
I found <URL> at CNN Money , that lists 5 viable alternatives to Paypal , namely : Digital River 2checkout . com Alertpay TrialPay E-Junkie I would suggest looking for unbiased sources like CNN rather than searching for alternatives and happening upon the merchant 's sites themselves . Hope this helps !
If you 're not a recognized non-profit organization then your income is taxable as earned income , or hobby income , depending on the circumstances . Some would say it may be classified as a " gift " , but I would argue that to be a dangerous proposition , and would advise against it .
In the US there 's no significant difference between what a business can deduct and what an individual can deduct . However , you can only deduct what is an expense to produce income . Businesses are allowed to write off salaries , but individuals ca n't write off what they pay their gardener or maid ( at least in the US ) If you 're a sole proprietor in the business of managing properties - you can definitely deduct payments to gardeners or maids . Business paying for a gardener on a private property not related to producing the income ( like CEO 's daughter 's house ) can not deduct that expense for tax purposes ( although it is still recorded in the business accounting books as an expense - with no tax benefit ) . Businesses are allowed to deduct utility expenses as overhead , individuals can not Same thing exactly . I can deduct utility expenses for my rental property , but not for my primary residence . Food , shelter , clothing and medical care are fundamental human needs , but we still pay for them with after-tax money , and pay additional sales tax . Only interest ( and not principal ) on a mortgage is deductible in the US , which is great for people who take out mortgages ( and helps banks get more business , I 'm sure ) , but you 're out of luck if you pay cash for your house , or are renting . Sales taxes are deductible . You can deduct sales taxes you paid during the year if you itemize your deduction . You can chose - you either deduct the sales taxes or the State income taxes , whatever is more beneficial for you . BTW in many states food and medicine are exempt from sales tax . Medical expenses are deductible if they 're significant compared to your total income . You can deduct medical expenses in excess of 10 % of your AGI . With the ACA kicking in - I do n't see how would people even get to that . If your AGI is low you get subsidies for insurance , and the insurance keeps your expenses capped . For self-employed and employed , insurance premiums are pre-tax ( i.e. : not even added to your AGI ) . Principle for mortgage is not deductible because it is not an expense - it is equity . You own an asset , do n't you ? You do get the standard deduction , even if your itemized ( real ) deductions are less - business do n't get that . You also get an exemption amount ( for your basic living needs ) , which businesses do n't get . You can argue about the amounts - but it is there . In some States ( like California ) renters get tax breaks for renting , depending on the AGI . CA renters credit is phasing out at AGI of about $ 60K , which is pretty high .
After talking to two CPAs it seems like managing it using an imprest system is the best idea . The base characteristic of an imprest system is that a fixed amount is reserved and later replenished as it runs low . This replenishment will come from another account source , e.g. , petty cash will be replenished by cashing a cheque drawn on a bank account . Petty cash imprest system allows only the replenishment of the spend made . So , if you start the month with $ 100 in your petty cash float and spend $ 90 of that cash in the month , an amount of $ 90 will be then placed in your petty cash float to bring the balance of your petty cash float back to $ 100 . The replenishment is credited to the primary cash account , usually a bank account ( Dr - Petty Cash a/c , Cr - Bank a/c ) and the debits will go to the respective expense accounts , based on the petty cash receipt dockets ( Dr - Expense a/c , Cr - Petty Cash a/c ) . In a non imprest system where a fixed amount is issued every month , e.g. , $ 100 every time cash is required , there is no incentive to ensure all money issued has been documented because when money is all spent a check for a fixed amount is issued . It is much more difficult to reconcile a non imprest system as you never know how much exactly should be in the float . In an imprest system the amount requested is documented , the documentation being the petty cash dockets and their associated receipts or invoices . So at all times you can check how much should be left in the petty cash float by deducting the amount spent from the opening petty cash float .
The value of the car is only of interest if there is an intention to sell it aqain . I would make the following calculation : Add up the costs of the repairs and maintenance that you expect for your car if you intent to sell the car , subtract from that the amount you will achieve at the time of sale Divide the result by the time ( number of years or number of months ) you believe you will use the car ( until wrecking it , or selling it ) This gives you the costs per time period that the car really costs you . Now do the same with a new ( used ) car you intend to buy instead of this car . With the new car you also need to add the costs of buying it ( sales price , plus any interests and fees if you finance it ) . If the old car costs you less than the new car , keep it , otherwise get the new car .
Here 's a start at a high level : Actual ownership . Pros : You actually take delivery and possess the item . Cons : Transaction costs are higher , there may not be a liquid market , you need cash and you need to secure the stuff somewhere . Ownership through a trust , Mutual Fund or ETF . ( Example : GLD , CEF ) Pros : You do n't need to take delivery , transaction costs are lower , you can buy on margin . Cons : It is a " paper " product , many of these funds are ETNs , which carry credit risks , and you are subject to risk of the brokerage or trust/ETF operator failing or otherwise not meeting obligations . Indirect exposure via equities . ( ie . Buy an oil/gold company ) Pros : You get exposure to equity price changes without owning the commodity . You yield a premium from well-managed companies , and often get dividends . Cons : Conversely , you can lose money due to a companies management being poor , irrespective of commodity prices . ( ie . BP ) You can offset that risk with ETFs or mutual funds ( ie . VMW ) Futures and options . Pros : You can make alot of money and use leverage to maximize your investment . Cons : You are forced to look at the commodity 's price over relatively short periods of time . You can easily lose everything and more . These markets are volatile . I have a few friends who have made a killing on GLD , and write options to make money off of the investment without incurring the capital gains penalties for selling . That 's a little out of my comfort zone though .
In my experience , this choice is entirely up to the bank itself . There was a time when , given my mothers ATM card I could go to the bank and pull money for her , but the bank has since changed their rules and now they only will allow people listed on the account to access it , card or no card . If the bank is aware of who you are and knows that your friend is not you , they may be skeptical of allowing your friend to withdraw any money , or they might not care , it 's at their discretion . If they do not know who either of you are , if your friend has the card and information needed , that will likely be sufficient , unless they ask for identification .
The fact that you got your check does n't mean you 're not going to be audited . It just means that your return was properly filed and accepted . Audit notices usually start to appear at about half a year after returns are filed , and come as late as 3 years after . In fact , your tax return can be audited many years after you filed it , if the information on it affects a future year tax liability ( for example - depreciation deduction , passive activity , NOL , capital losses , foreign tax credits , and many other things that can stretch into the future ) .
They will not open an account if you come in wanting to open an account for a third party . Your sister will have to do it herself . Assuming she has a SSN and credit history to verify her identity , she 'll easily be able to do it online , and use whatever address she wants to send mail to ( she can have separate mailing and residence addresses ) . There are also Israeli institutions who provide investment accounts to Israelis with ability to trade in the US . That might be easier for her than having an account in the US and filing tax returns in Israel every year . Unless she evades taxes in Israel , that is ...
The rules are quite different . There is no special home purchase penalty-free withdrawal . In the case that your account has been open for five years , you can withdraw the principal ( but not the earnings ) without penalty . You may want to talk to a professional for further details . The real question is : why do you want to borrow against your future to finance your present ? Your down payment funds should come from another source than your retirement . Retirement funds should only be touched in the direst financial straights .
The short answer is that it probably does n't matter if you select Visa or MasterCard . Both offer <URL> ( and in Europe , too ) and are widely accepted . The longer answer is that Visa and MasterCard are separate payment networks . While most merchants that accept one will accept both , that is not always the case , and there are some differences , see this <URL> for details .
Generally speaking , if the expense is a repair ( e.g. replaced broken window pane , fixed leaky roof ) , you can deduct it in the year paid . If it is a capital expense ( e.g. bathroom remodel , new air conditioning unit ) , it is added to the cost basis of the property , thus lowering the amount of capital gain ( and hence the capital gains tax paid ) when you sell the property . Certain items can be depreciated over various time spans ( shorter for things like appliances , longer for improvements such as room additions ) . The rules are quite complex , so you should definitely consult a tax adviser .
That is correct . If you used to own a house but have since sold it , or stopped using it as your primary residence more than three years ago , you would qualify as a " first-time homebuyer " under those criteria .
I suspect @SpehroPefhany is correct and that your bank will cash a check from the US Department of the Treasury . Especially since they 're the same ones who guarantee the U.S. Dollar . They may hold the funds until the check clears , but I think you 'll have good luck going through your bank . Of course , fees and exchange rate are a factor . Consider browsing the IRS and US Treasury Department websites for suggestions/FAQs . I suggest you line up a way to cash it , and make sure there 's enough left after fees and exchange rate and postage to get the check that the whole process is worth it , all before you ask it to be shipped to you . If there 's no way to do it through your bank , through a money exchange business ( those at the airport come to mind ) or through your government ( postal bank ? ) , and the check is enough that you 're willing to go through some trouble , then you should look into assigning power of attorney for this purpose . I do n't know if it is possible , but it might be worth looking into . Look for US based banks in your area .
Yes it is legal , in fact according to <URL> , foreign investors are the largest holders of UK shares ( as of 2008 ) . Investors from outside the UK owned 41.5 per cent of shares listed on the London Stock Exchange at the end of 2008 , up from 40.0 per cent at end of 2006 , according to the latest Office for National Statistics report on share ownership .
It 's the same result either way . Say the bills are $ 600 , and you are reimbursed $ 400 . You 'd be able to write off $ 400 as part of the utilities that are common expenses , but then claim the $ 400 as income . I 'd stick with that , and have contemporaneous records supporting all cash flow . You also can take 2/3 of any other maintenance costs that most homeowners ca n't . Like snow removal , lawn care , etc. .
Excellent question , though any why question can be challenging to answer because it depends on the financial products in question . At least , I have n't seen many target date retirement funds that include a high percent of foreign stocks , so below explains the ones I 've seen which are primarily US stocks . The United States ( before the last twenty years ) has been seen as a country of stability . This is not true anymore , and it 's difficult for my generation to understand because we grew up in the U.S.A being challenged ( and tend to think that China and India have always been powers ) , but when we read investors , like Benjamin Graham ( who had significant influence with Warren Buffett ) , we can see this bias - the U.S.A to them is stable , and other countries are " risky . " Again , with the national debt and the political game in our current time , it does not feel this way . But that bias is often reflect in financial instruments . The US Dollar is still the reserve currency , though it 's influence is declining and I would expect it to decline . Contrary to my view ( because I could be wrong here ) is Mish , who argues that no one wants to have the reserve currency because having a reserve currency brings disadvantages ( see here : <URL> ; I present this to show that my view could be wrong ) . Finally , there tends to be the " go with what you know . " Many of these funds are managed by U.S. citizens , so they tend to have a U.S. bias and feel more comfortable investing their money " at home " ( in fact a famous mutual fund manager , Peter Lynch , had a similar mentality - buy the company behind the stock and what company do we tend to know best ? The ones around us . ) . One final note , I 'm not saying this mentality is correct , just what the attitude is like . I think you may find that younger mutual fund managers tend to include more foreign stocks , as they 've seen that different world .
In the United States there are 3 main types of cards . ATM cards . They are used at cash machines , and are linked to your bank account . The only requirement is a bank account . There is no credit check needed . Debit cards . They can be used at cash machines . These are linked to a bank account . No credit check is needed . The big difference is that they carry the logo of a credit card . They can be used at any vendor that is connected to that credit card network . Credit card . They are not linked to a bank account . They can be used at a cash machine but that is considered a cash advance , and can carry fees and rates different from a credit transaction . Most of the time they are used at stores and online . The customer is billed once a month . A credit check is required . There are organizations that push a credit card with their branding . They are n't a bank so they partner with a bank to offer the card . In the US many colleges and professional sports teams will market a credit card with the team or universities colors and logo . The bank handles the details and the team/university gets a flat fee or a portion of the fees . Many even have annual fees . They market to people who want to show their favorite team colors on their credit card , and are willing to pay extra . Some of these branded cards do come with extra perks : Free shipping , discounts on tickets , being able to buy tickets earlier . There are 4 other types of cards that have limited usage : Gift cards : They can either be general and have a logo like a credit card . Some are rechargeable . They are n't linked to a bank account . Others can only be used at one store . You ca n't turn the value into cash . Some have monthly fees . Local debit cards . Used on college campuses and in the nearest town . the limited usage area makes parents feel better . Store credit cards . Can only be used at that store . A third party bank handles the details . They are generally used to tap into store rewards , or to lock in loyalty . Payroll cards . Used by some companies to pay employees . Some do it only for those without bank accounts . Other for all employees . They can be a pain for some employees to use . What makes it confusing is that large business can actually turn a portion of the corporation into a bank . Walmart has been doing this , and so have casinos .
Make sure your spouse qualifies as a first-time homebuyer as well , if you are married and buying the property together . Each of you may take $ 10,000 from your traditional IRAs . Source : Link in your question - <URL>
end question
start question
Ongoing things to do and read to improve knowledge of finance ?
I 'm another programmer , I guess we all just like complicated things , or got here via stackoverflow . Obligatory tedious but accurate point : Investing is not personal finance , in fact it 's maybe one of the less important parts of it . See this answer : <URL> Obligatory warning for software developer type minds : getting into investing because it 's complicated and therefore fun is a really awful idea from a financial perspective . Or see behavioral finance research on how analytical/professional/creative type people are often terrible at investing , while even-tempered practical people are better . The thing with investing is that inaction is better than action , tried and true is better than creative , and simple is better than complicated . So if you 're like me and many programmers and like creative , complicated action - not good for the wallet . You 've been warned . That said . :-) Stuff I read In general I hate reading too much financial information because I think it makes me take ill-advised actions . The actions I most need to take have to do with my career and my spending patterns . So I try to focus on reading about software development , for example . Or I answer questions on this site , which at least might help someone out , and I enjoy writing . For basic financial news and research , I prefer <URL> , especially if you get the premium version . The writing has more depth , it 's often from qualified financial analysts , and with the paid version you get data and analysis on thousands of funds and stocks , instead of a small number as with Motley Fool newsletters . I do n't follow Morningstar regularly anymore , instead I use it for research when I need to pick funds in a 401k or whatever . Another caveat on Morningstar is that the " star ratings " on funds are dumb . Look at the Analyst Picks and the analyst writeups instead . I just flipped through my RSS reader and I have 20-30 finance-related blogs in there collecting unread posts . It looks like the only one I regularly read is <URL> which is sort of random . But I find David Merkel very thoughtful and interesting . He 's also a conservative without being a partisan hack , and posts frequently . I read the weekly market comment at <URL> as well . Most weeks it says the market is overvalued , so that 's predictable , but the interesting part is the rationale and the other ideas he talks about . I read a lot of software-related blogs and there 's some bleed into finance , especially from the VC world ; blogs like <URL> or <URL> or whatever . Anyway I spend most of my reading time on career-related stuff and I think this is also the correct decision from a financial perspective . If you were a doctor , you 'd be better off reading about doctoring , too . I read finance-related books fairly often , I guess there are other threads listing ideas on that front . I prefer books about principles rather than a barrage of daily financial news and questionable ideas . Other than that , I keep up with headlines , just reading the paper every day including business-related topics is good enough . If there 's some big event in the financial markets , it 'll show up in the regular paper . Take a class I initially learned about finance by reading a pile of books and alongside that taking the <URL> and the first <URL> . Both are probably equivalent to about a college semester worth of work , but you can plow through them in a couple months each if you focus . You can just do the class ( and take the exam if you like ) , without having to go on and actually get the work experience and the certifications . I did n't go on to do that . This sounds like a crazy thing to do , and it kind of is , but I think it 's also sort of crazy to expect to be competent on a topic without taking some courses or otherwise getting pretty deep into the material . If you 're a normal person and do n't have time to take finance courses , you 're likely better off either keeping it super-simple , or else outsourcing if you can find the right advisor : <URL> When it 's inevitably complex ( e.g. as you approach retirement ) then an advisor is best . My mom is retiring soon and I found her a professional , for example . I like having a lot of knowledge myself , because it 's just the only way I could feel comfortable . So for sure I understand other people wanting to have it too . But what I 'd share from the other side is that once you have it , the conclusion is that you do n't have enough knowledge ( or time ) to do anything fancy anyway , and that the simple answers are fine . Check out <URL> Investing for fun is n't investing for profit Many people recommend Motley Fool ( I see two on this question already ! ) . The site is n't evil , but the problem ( in my opinion ) is that it promotes an attitude toward and a style of investing that is n't objectively justifiable for practical reasons . Essentially I do n't think optimizing for making money and optimizing for having fun coexist very well . If investing is your chosen hobby rather than fishing or knitting , then Motley F
I would recommend reading Intelligent Investor first . It was written slightly more recently ( 1949 ) than Security Analysis ( 1934 ) . More important is that a <URL> * of Intelligent Investor was published . The preface and appendix were written by Warren Buffett . Intelligent Investor is more practical as an introduction for a novice . You may decide not to read Security Analysis at all , as it seems more like an academic text or professional 's guide i.e. for accounting . Benjamin Graham 's Intelligent Investor remains relevant . It is used , successfully , as a guide for value investing , despite the hysteria of market sentiment and day-to-day variations , even extreme volatility . For example , I just read a nice <URL> extolled in Intelligent Investor a few weeks ago . It was written in the context of current markets , which is amazing , to be so applicable , despite the passage of decades . For reference , you might want to glance at <URL> ( published in March 2010 ! ) of the original 1934 edition of Security Analysis . * The URL links to a one-paragraph summary by . It does not link to a book sales website !
I am not an accountant , however , I believe the following to be true : You would normally pay the tax , although either person can pay it . ref : <URL> The way I understand it , you only owe tax if your COST BASIS is greater than the current tax free allowable amount ( which is $ 13,000 in 2011 per person you are gifting to ) . For appreciated property , you only owe tax on the cost basis of the property . The receiver will end up paying taxes on the appreciation later . This is a good way to shift money to people in a lower income tax bracket . You can transfer your existing shares . You can transfer them to any account including a retirement account . However , this would be considered part of their IRA contribution for that year . The cost basis for the receiver will be the same cost basis that you have . That will transfer to the person you are giving the gift to . ref : <URL> However , if there is a loss or federal gift tax is paid it can affect your cost basis . <URL> . No , gifts are not normally deductible , whether they are cash or not . Donations to 501 ( c ) 3 type organizations are deductible . ref : <URL>
It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without having to ask your customers how rich they are , and you get the benefit of finding out additional information like their address , email etc. . The principle is similar to coupons on cereal boxes , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who are cash rich/time poor are less likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joe Spolsky <URL> about this and various other pricing mechanisms a while back , I like to reference the article every few weeks . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retired and living off of social security , $ 7 an hour sounds pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch getting paid $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice things about piece-of-junk Internet companies , working for $ 7 an hour is a joke , and you 're not going to clip coupons . Heck , in one hour you could issue " buy " recommendations on ten piece-of-junk Internet companies ! So coupons are a way for consumer products companies to charge two different prices and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebates are pretty much the same as coupons , with some other twists like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct marketed to in the future .
Be precise : If you are off by coins , how can you be sure that you only made a typo and did n't miss a transaction ? To start off , I would strongly you find a way to be precise . It does n't matter so much in the accounting , but the habit of doing a thorough job will pay off in other dividends down the line . Good books mean you will understand where you money really went Understanding where your money went , helps you create a trustworthy budget , Having a trustworthy budget will tell you where you need to spend less to achieve a goal Having realistic goals means you can achieve them predictably And getting real results is a positive feedback loop that will help you continue budgeting . Basically , do the pennies now . Tryout some free online software to save the headache of data entry . But ... ... Since my primary goal is to get you to do the budgeting , and if you really hate the coins , just be consistent in how you fudge the debits and the credits . Always round down to the nearest whole in income , and always round up on expenses . You wo n't overspend this way , and your back account should have a little bit of padding because you will assume less money in and more money out . Honestly , I do tracking in both Quicken and Mint.com , so the transaction size is no big deal to me . If I did it all in Excel , I would round to whole notes . You did n't tag your question with a country , so I do n't know if or similar is available to you .
In regards to your 1st question , if you are a US resident ( according to IRS rules ) and you have any foreign bank accounts , then you need to file a <URL> for every year in which any of these accounts has more than $ 10,000 . This is the way that IRS keeps track of substantial amounts of money kept by US residents in foreign accounts .
First thing I 'd say is do n't start with investing . The foundation of solid finances is cash flow . Making more than you spend , reliably ; knowing where your money goes ; having a system that works for you to make sure you make more than you spend . Until you have that , your focus may as well be on getting there , because you ca n't fix much else about your finances until you fix this . A number you want to know is your percentage of income saved , and a good goal for that is about 15 % , with 10-12 % going to retirement savings and the rest to shorter-term goals and emergency fund and so forth . ( Of course the right percentage here depends on your goals and situation , but for most people this is a kind of minimum savings rate to be in good shape . ) Focus on your savings rate . This is your profitability , if you view yourself as a business . If it 's crappy or negative , your finances will be a mess . Two ways to improve it are to spend less or to improve your earnings power . Doing both is even better . The book <URL> is good for showing how to obsessively focus on cash flow , even though you may not share their zeal for early retirement . A simpler exercise than what they recommend : take 3 months of your checking and credit card statements , go through each expenditure and put them in a spreadsheet column , SUM ( ) that column . Then add up 3 months of after-tax paychecks . Divide both numbers by three and compare . ( The 3 months is to average out your spending , which probably varies a lot by month . ) After positive cash flow and savings rate , the next thing I 'd go through is insurance . Risk management for what you have . This can include checking you have all the important insurance coverages ( homeowner 's / renter 's , auto , potentially umbrella , term life , disability , and of course health insurance , are some highlights ) ; and also adjusting all your policies to be most cost-effective , which usually means raising the deductible if you have a good emergency fund . Often you can raise the deductible on policies you have , and use the savings to add more catastrophe coverage ( such as term life if you did n't have it , or boosting the liability protection on your homeowner 's , or whatever ) . Remember , cover catastrophes as cheaply and comprehensively as possible , but do n't worry about reimbursement for non-catastrophic expenses . I like this book , <URL> , because it covers all the main personal finance topics , not just investing ; and because it is smart and simple . All the main stuff to think about is in the one book and the advice is solid and uncomplicated . Investing can truly be dead easy ; most people would be fine with this advice : buy a single low-expense-ratio balanced fund or target-date retirement fund in your tax-advantaged retirement account ( 401k or IRA ) ; keep putting money into it every month , at least 10 % of income ; leave it alone . " Leave it alone " means do n't lower your savings rate , leave your money in the fund no matter what happens , and do n't take out a loan from the 401k . find a good yield on a savings account or money-market fund from a reputable , convenient institution , and put your savings for pre-retirement goals ( house , car , emergencies ) in there . ... there is no 3 . seriously , anything else you read is just micro-optimizing , or often undermining , the above plan , which is already fine for almost everyone even though it involves only two simple financial products ( an all-in-one retirement fund and a cash account that earns some interest ) . Honestly , I do micro-optimize and undermine my investing , and I 'm guessing most people on this forum do . But it 's not something I could defend objectively as a good use of time . It probably is necessary to do some reading to feel financially literate and confident in an investment plan , but the reading is n't really because a good plan is complicated , it 's more to understand all the complicated things that you do n't need to do , since that 's how you 'll know not to do them . ;-) Especially when salespeople and publications and TV are telling you over and over and over that you need to know a bunch of crap and do a bunch of things . People who have a profitable " business of me " are the ones who end up with a lot of money . Not people who spend a lot of time screwing with investments . ( People who get rich investing invest professionally - as their " business of me " - they do n't goof around with their 401k after work . ) Financial security is all about your savings rate , i.e. your personal profitability . No shortcuts , other than lotteries and rich uncles .
For stock splits , let 's say stock XYZ closed at 100 on February 5 . Then on February 6 , it undergoes a 2-for-1 split and closes the day at 51 . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 51 on Feb 6 , but all of the closing prices for the previous days will be divided by 2 . So for Feb 5 , it will say the closing price was 50 instead of 100 . For dividends , let 's say stock ABC closed at 200 on December 18 . Then on December 19 , the stock increases in price by $ 2 but it pays out a $ 1 dividend . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 200 on Dec 18 and 201 on Dec 19 . Yahoo adjusts the closing price for Dec 19 to factor in the dividend .
If the bulk of the worth is in the metal , it matters little which local buyer you use . The price of the metal is based on the weight . So take it to a couple of places and get consensus on what it weighs . Then you are negotiating on the percent of the full worth they will give you . They have to give you less then full value so they make a profit . Try different types of places : jewelers who make their own jewelery , jewelers who do n't make their own jewelery , pawn shops , and popup " we buy gold " places . Because you are trying to find the best price for an item that has no stable price point , once you find a person to sell to you are just waiting for the moment you believe the gold has it a local high . If you wait too long you may have to resurvey the buyers to see if the situation has changed . I would not suggest ones where you have to mail in the item to get it appraised : there are risks in shipping , and the time lag involved will tend to lock you in to completing the transaction , even if you are not 100 % comfortable with the price .
A couple of points . You may be able to re-sell the bond after the first year , but you wo n't be guaranteed all your money back : it will still be worth the same in 30 years , but it may not be worth the same tomorrow . If interest rates rise , the price of a new 30-year bond will fall . Since your 29-years-left bond is almost equivalent , you should expect that its face value will also fall . The 30-year bond is the most vulnerable to interest rate risk , since it is so long-term : a little difference in rate will change things a lot after thirty years . Note also that interest rates are at or near historic lows ; they have very little room to fall and a lot of room to rise . Your brokerage , bank , or credit union can help you re-sell your Treasury bonds . You may wish to investigate the process and any fees involved . They will probably be willing to tell you all about it . I can not meaningfully comment on the spreads involved . The Treasury itself may also provide some tools ; visit <URL> and learn more . You may also wish to consider consider a bond mutual fund or ETF . They can be bought or sold like stocks , which may be a more comfortable and convenient process for some people . Note that the interest rate risk in these funds is different than for a bond , because they are continually reinvesting ; the risk does not fall as the bond gets closer to maturity . Read the prospectus .
<URL> is a well known rating service that measures the financial stability of Insurance companies and other financial providers . They issue a score that works kind of like a corporate credit score for each company using the following system . Secure A + + , A + ( Superior ) B , B - ( Fair ) A , A - ( Excellent ) C++ , C + ( Marginal ) B + + , B + ( Good ) Vulnerable C , C - ( Weak ) D ( Poor ) E ( Under Regulatory Supervision ) F ( In Liquidation ) S ( Suspended ) In most cases , there really is no good reason to get insurance from a company with less than an A + + rating , at least according to financial guru Clark Howard . It is worth mentioning that I do n't think this scoring system accounts for how hard it is to file a claim or whether they tend to reject them unfairly . It mostly tells you how likely they think the company is likely to be ABLE to pay claims based on how financially stable they are . Note : They require registration to see the info , but it is free as far as I know .
<URL> is one alternative . If you want the raw data in CSV format , you can use " Export " feature under
There are several factors here . Firstly , there 's opportunity cost , i.e. what you would get with the money elsewhere . If you have higher interest opportunities ( investing , paying down debt ) elsewhere , you could be paying that down instead . There 's also domino effects : by reducing your liquid savings to or below the minimum , you ca n't move any of it into tax advantaged retirement accounts earning higher interest . Then there 's the insurance costs . You are required to buy extra insurance to protect your lender . You should factor in the extra insurance you would buy vs the insurance required . Given that you can buy the car yourself , catastrophic insurance may not be necessary , or you may prefer a higher deductible than your lender will allow . If you 're not sufficiently capitalized , you may need gap insurance to cover when your car depreciates faster than your loan is paid down . A 30 percent payment should be enough to not need it though . Finally , there 's some value in having options . If you have the loan and the cash , you can likely pay it off without penalty . But it will be harder to get the loan if you do n't finance it . Maybe you can take out a loan against the car later , but I have n't looked into the fees that might incur . If it 's any help , I 'm in the last stretch of a 3 year car loan . At the time paying in cash was n't an option , and having done it I recognize that it 's more complicated than it seems .
In short - if you ca n't get the job without incorporating , then incorporate ! Some clients will require you to be incorporated ( which is why I did it 10 years ago ) . Essentially , for them , it 's a way of distancing themselves from you to ensure they are not responsible for any monies if you do n't pay your taxes . For you , there is also this idea of distancing company assets from your personal assets . If they are not requiring you to incorporate , you can simply act as a sole proprietorship . A good place to start reading up could be the sites below ( for Canada/Ontario ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> When I registered , I simply bought a book at Grand &amp; Toy , with all the required forms for Ontario . These forms would also be available at a local Government service centre . You walk in , give the government money , and shortly thereafter you are incorporated . There are a number of others things that are required ( having a minutes book , writing resolutions , creating shares , setting up a bank account , etc ) - all discussed in the guide For Ontario you can start here : <URL> At a high level , there are some costs for being incorporated , and some tax savings . At a minimum , costs would include : Incorporation costs - from memory this is a few hundred dollars Name Search around $ 50 ( you are not required to pick a name , and can simply use the numbered company from the incorporation , so this is optional ) Bank Account in the business 's name ( RBC is good for new companies as they have the lowest charges currently - see <URL> forums for a more indepth discussion . You may need the help of an account to help set things up , but it 's quite easy to maintain all the records , etc that are required . Some other minor things I enjoy are writing myself expense cheques so that I get money back immediately ( and effectively only pay 60 % of the cost after writing it off in the company ) . I can decide how much to pay myself and push income from year to year .
If you charge clients outside of province , you do n't need to collect PST , and if outside of Canada , you do n't need to collect GST . <URL> : Generally , GST/HST registrants must charge and account for the GST on taxable supplies ( other than zero-rated supplies ) of property and services made in Canada . However , where GST/HST registrants make taxable supplies ( other than zero-rated supplies ) in Canada , and those supplies are made in a participating province , they must charge and account for the HST instead of the GST . PS : I think you should consult with Canada Revenue anyway . From my experience : I had sole proprietorship in Quebec , when I had clients from Ontario , I collected only GST , when I had clients in US , I did n't collect taxes at all .
You should not have a problem by filing electronically , IF the pension plan distribution you received was from a pre-tax 401-k type plan , and you rolled all of it into another company 's similar pre-tax type pension plan OR rolled it all into a simple IRA within the IRS specified period of time , which I do n't recall . As long as there are no tax implications to the pension plan distribution , you 'll just need to make sure and keep your tax forms with a paper copy of your electronic return . The yearly wage statement will indicate that you received a pension plan distribution , and if you had no withholding from it because of the rollover , that will be indicated . Similarly , you 'll receive a statement from whomever is now the custodian for your distribution , and that will give you documentation should you ever need to present it to the IRS . There are many special cases , however , which I do not cover e.g. if you did keep some amount of the distribution , or if some was taxable and some was not , and so on .
If I had a business and was able to claim a feature , I would . It 's simple marketing . If in fact , opting out helped your score , the site would promote that feature . Soft pulls for prescreened offers are not counted . No more than my constant peek at my score through Credit Karma . Opt out , if you wish . The benefit of course is less mail , which saves trees . Less risk of identity theft , someone can take the application and try to forge from there . Less risk of an infected paper cut opening this mail ( do n't ask . ) I am a compulsive mail shredder , so I peek and these and shred . A year ago I received an offer of $ 30,000 zero interest , max transfer fee $ 50 . I sent the entire sum to my 5 % mortgage . Now I refinanced and paying that back . It saved me $ 1500 over the year . Too much trouble for some , but how long does it take to make $ 1500 ? For 40 % of this country 's families , that 's a week 's pay . The monthly extra bill did n't bother me . This last paragraph is an anecdote , not so much addressing question . I did that first .
Even without seeing your score or other detail , the obvious thing you are lacking is time . Five years is n't very long . High credit scores take a lot of history . It is n't just what is in your history that counts , but also how long that history is . Getting on the right track is good , but there is a distance to go on it too .
You should look into a <URL> : A home equity line of credit ( often called HELOC and pronounced HEE-lock ) is a loan in which the lender agrees to lend a maximum amount within an agreed period ( called a term ) , where the collateral is the borrower 's equity in his/her house . Because a home often is a consumer 's most valuable asset , many homeowners use home equity credit lines only for major items , such as education , home improvements , or medical bills , and choose not to use them for day-to-day expenses .
If you 're a bit into the loan , then they 're probably hoping that you 'll take longer to pay off the loan . Is there a fee for refinancing the loan ? If so , be sure to take that into account . A smart way to approach it ( assuming that the fees are low or zero ) would be to continue making the same payment you had been before the refinance . Then you 'll end your loan ahead of schedule . ( This assumes that there 's no prepayment penalty . )
end question
start question
Can a gift be re-gifted before a Chapter 7 Bankruptcy ?
California bankruptcy law requires disclosure of any gift made by the person declaring bankruptcy in the past 12 months , and any asset transfers in the past 2 years ( with a couple of minor exceptions ) . This would most certainly include the car , if it is regifted back to you . Such a claim would likely be considered fraudulent , though this would be a matter for the lawyers and bankruptcy trustee in question . There 's a blog which you may wish to check out , the California Bankruptcy Blog , which has a specific entry on <URL> . Now , there is a specific exemption for automobiles , but only up to a <URL> . Legally , I believe there 's nothing you can do here . If the $ 10K was a loan , it will be discharged in bankruptcy . If it was a gift , it 'll have to be declared and the car will have to be sold . If regifted or transferred , it must be declared and will likely ( but not definitely ) be determined as an invalid disposal of assets . Either you or your family member will have to discuss this with a bankruptcy lawyer . I 'm sorry your generous act is likely to get tangled up here . :(
Call the CBOE , the Chicago Board of Options Exchange I 've requested options on several IPOs in the past . You mainly have to convince them that there is a market for them ( or they wo n't be inclined to provide liquidity ) . The CBOE could talk to the company in question to help convince them , or the CBOE will just tell you when the options will begin trading . Oh yeah , sometimes they 'll ask you who you work for , just try to avoid that question , they do n't like to talk to individual/retail investors .
There are several reasons it is not recommended to trade stocks pre - or post-market , meaning outside of RTH ( regular trading hours ) . Liquidity is very low compared to RTH Fills of market orders can be way off your ordered price ( = possibly higher slippage than in RTH ) because of low Liquidity If you use a leveraged account , pre - and post-market margins are significantly higher than during RTH Since your question is not very detailed I have to assume you trade with a time horizon of at least more than a day , meaning you do not trade intra-day . If this is true , all of the above points are a non-issue for you and a different set of points becomes important . Enter and exit trades during post-market or enter and exit trades at market open , using orders you enter one day before in the post-market session - those orders will be executed automatically or enter trades via Limit and Stop Limit Orders exclusively As a general rule , using ( 3 ) is the safest regardless of what and how you trade because you get price guarantee in trade for execution guarantee . In the case of mid to longer term trading ( 1 week + ) any of those points is viable , depending on how you want to do things , what your style is and what is the most comfortable for you . A few remarks though : ( 2 ) are market orders , so if the open is quite the ride and you are in the back of the execution queue , you can get significant slippage . ( 1 ) may require ( live ) data of the post-market session , which is often not easy to come by for the entire US stock universe . Depending on your physical execution method ( phone , fax , online ) , you may lack accurate information of the post-market . If you want to execute orders based on RTH and only want to do that after hours because of personal schedule constraints , this is not really important . Personally I would always recommend ( 3 ) , independent of the use case because it allows you more control over your orders and their fills . TL ; DR : If you are trading long-term it does not really matter . If you go down to the intra-day level of holding time , it becomes relevant .
Paying off your student loan before buying a house is certainly a great risk reduction move for you . It will lower your debt to income ratio allowing your mortgage approval to go easier and it will free up more of your dollars to pay for the many miscellaneous projects that come with buying a house . I think that if you are considering paying off your student loan before buying a house that means that your student loans are an amount you can fathom paying off and that you are motivated to be rid of your student loan debt . Go for it and pay off your student loan .
I would suggest to buy your own printer , and calculate the cost for a page including the wear to the printer . Then either deduce these printing expenses , or ask the charity to reimburse you . This is not much different than when you would go to a copyshop , those easily charge 10-30c per page , with your own printer you can probably get it around 5-10c per page , including paper , toner , drum , and amortization . The advantage is that when you do use the printer for other purposes , you wont get into any problems with who owns the printer or deductions .
<URL> is an excellent article on the 7-Day yield and how to calculate the interest you would receive . So if you invested $ 1000 for 30 days : ( 0.0001 * $ 1000 ) / 365 ~ = $ 0.000274 per day . Multiply by 30 days to yield $ 0.008 in interest .
No , but it is certainly a possibility . the efficient market hypothesis would say that this means that the market perceives the present value of all future earning as negative . These earnings might take the form of a writedown of assets at some point . ( Companies carry a goodwill asset that is generally imaginary . They book that asset when they buy companies for more than they are worth . ) It would be as if PRUN was a stock tracking my life . If I bought my house in 2006 for $ 1 million cash . I might have a book value of $ 1 million . However , PRUN might trade at $ 500k because the market knows that my asset is n't really worth $ 1 million and at some point my earnings will take a hit to reflect that . It might also mean that future " real " earnings " ie actual profit and loss on sales " are going to be negative . This would mean bankruptcy is more likely .
The <URL> looked at ' safe ' withdrawal rates from retirement portfolios . They found it was safe to withdraw 4 % of a portfolio consisting of stocks and bonds . I can not immediately find exactly what specific investment allocations they used , but note that they found a portfolio consisting largely of stocks would allow for the withdrawal of 3 % - 4 % and still keep up with inflation . In this case , if you are able to fund $ 30,000 , the study claims it would be safe to withdraw $ 900 - $ 1200 a year ( that is , pay out as scholarships ) while allowing the scholarship to grow sufficiently to cover inflation , and that this should work in perpetuity . My guess is that they invest such scholarship funds in a fairly aggressive portfolio . Most likely , they choose something along these lines : 70 - 80 % stocks and 20 - 30 % bonds . This is probably more risky than you 'd want to take , but should give higher returns than a more conservative portfolio of perhaps 50 - 60 % stocks , 40 - 50 % bonds , over the long term . Just a regular , interest-bearing savings account is n't going to be enough . They almost never even keep up with inflation . Yes , if the stock market or the bond market takes a hit , the investment will suffer . But over the long term , it should more than recover the lost capital . Such scholarships care far more about the very long term and can weather a few years of bad returns . This is roughly similar to retirement planning . If you expect to be retired for , say , 10 years , you wo n't worry too much about pulling out your retirement funds . But it 's quite possible to retire early ( say , at 40 ) and plan for an infinite retirement . You just need a lot more money to do so . $ 3 million , invested appropriately , should allow you to pull out approximately $ 90,000 a year ( adjusted upward for inflation ) forever . I leave the specifics of how to come up with $ 3 million as an exercise for the reader . :) As an aside , there 's a Memorial and Traffic Safety Fund which ( kindly and gently ) solicited a $ 10,000 donation after my wife was killed in a motor vehicle accident . That would have provided annual donations in her name , in perpetuity . This shows you do n't need $ 30,000 to set up a scholarship or a fund . I chose to go another way , but it was an option I seriously considered . Edit : The Trinity study actually only looked at a 30 year withdrawal period . So long as the investment was n't exhausted within 30 years , it was considered a success . The Trinity study has also been criticised when it comes to retirement . Nevertheless , there 's some withdrawal rate at which point your investment is expected to last forever . It just may be slightly smaller than 3-4 % per year .
It will either appear as a new revolving account or not appear at all until you use it . The main impact will likely be the initial hard-pull when you apply , and it will wear off in several months .
You do n't have to wait . If you sell your shares now , your gain can be considered a capital gain for income tax purposes . Unlike in the United States , Canada does not distinguish between short-term vs. long-term gains where you 'd pay different rates on each type of gain . Whether you buy and sell a stock within minutes or buy and sell over years , any gain you make on a stock can generally be considered a capital gain . I said generally because there is an exception : If you are deemed by CRA to be trading professionally -- that is , if you make a living buying and selling stocks frequently -- then you could be considered doing day trading as a business and have your gains instead taxed as regular income ( but you 'd also be able to claim additional deductions . ) Anyway , as long as your primary source of income is n't from trading , this is n't likely to be a problem . Here are some good articles on these subjects : Jamie Golombek 's National Post article : <URL> . Million Dollar Journey 's blog post : <URL> . The Canadian Tax Resource blog post : <URL> .
The estate tax laws change almost year to year , so an explanation of bypass trust is probably in order . For this example , assume a $ 1 million estate exemption . If a couple has $ 2 million in assets , you 'd think they can pass it along with no estate tax . But when the husband dies , and the wife has $ 2M in assets , on her death , the excess million is subject to estate tax . Enter the bypass trust . On hubby 's death , the maximum exemption amount ( here , the million ) goes into the trust . The wife is permitted limited withdrawal , usually just interest , but the principal is out of her estate . Now , to answer the question , no , the annual limit does n't apply , but as the trust is not irrevocable , the lifetime limit does n't come in to play . Often , these trusts are worded so the limit in effect the year you die is the amount that funds the trust . Else , one might need an attorney visit every year .
If you go to a grocery store and purchase retail gift cards along with other products , and you pay with a credit card , your credit card company generally does not know what you spent the money on ; they do n't get an itemized receipt . * If this is the case with your rewards card , then yes , you would get the cashback reward on the gift cards , because all the credit card company knows is that you spent $ 100 at the grocery store ; they do n't know ( or care , really ) that $ 50 of it was for an Olive Garden gift card . This , of course , should be fairly easy to test . Buy the gift card , wait for your statement , and see if they included the purchase when calculating your rewards . * Note : I do n't have an American Express card , but from some quick googling I see that it is possible that American Express does actually receive itemized billing details on your purchases from some merchants . If your grocery store is sending this data to AmEx , it is possible that the gift cards could be excluded from rewards . But again , I suggest you just test it out and see .
So , there is no way I ( or anyone ) can provide an exact answer . Policies for approval are somewhat obfuscated by the companies and also change widely on the market and by company . But as a general statement , employment and income are largely self reported and your credit score is good . I think 30 days after hire would be more than enough . At this point in your life they are more interested in the consumer loyalty of a gainful employed young person than the small chance you might lose your job or lie about your income . They might not give you a high limit , but I suspect it would be approved if applied . And it is probably best to establish your larger limit sooner rather than later .
If your current pay is sufficient to support the debt , it would be better to apply for the loan now , with more of a job history . Sufficient depends on the lender , but generally you need a debt-to-income ratio of 36 % or less . Income means income and debt means all debt including the new car loan , mortgage , credit cards , student loans , etc. . If you need the new , higher income to meet the debt-to-income ratio , you 'll have to wait and take your chances .
There is no maximum . The only stipulation other than contribution limits is that you must take withdrawals at age 70 1/2 .
If you 're a cash based tax payer ( which you most likely are ) , you can not do so . You report the wages in the year you receive them . You can not back-date earnings for your tax benefit .
Any institution that issues checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the passive side . Any institution that clears checks and is connected to the ACH system can be the originating side . Not any institution that can be - in fact is . Your credit union does n't provide this service because they do n't want to . It costs them money to implement and support it , but they do n't see the required benefit to justify it . They can . My credit union does that .
Yes . If I own a call , an American call option can be exercised at my wish . A European call can only be exercised at expiration , by the way . Your broker does n't give you anything but a current quote for a given strike price . There are a number of good option related questions here . A bit of searching and reading will help you understand the process .
A medical expense is only a qualified medical expense eligible for an HSA distribution if it is not reimbursed by insurance . If you know that you will be reimbursed , do not pay for it through your HSA . Think of it this way : you can only be reimbursed for a medical expense once . Either you get reimbursed by your insurance , or you get reimbursed by your HSA , but not both . If you pay for the expense with your HSA and are later reimbursed , you need to return the money to your HSA through a <URL> . This is not considered a contribution , but you need to make sure to tell your HSA provider that it is a mistaken distribution repayment and not a contribution , so that it gets accounted for correctly .
No . Ca n't understand why would you even think about it . The only thing to consider is the early sales fee , if its a NTF fund . Capital gains in the IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all , so there 's no difference whether you hold it more than a year or not .
end question
start question
Stayed outside USA for 2 months : Does that reduce the taxes ?
Neither TurboTax nor H&amp;R Block are intended for Non-Resident filers . You should continue using GLACIER if you have access to it , or talk to a professional tax preparer ( EA/CPA licensed in your State or a properly accredited tax preparer ) who 's experienced with foreigners filing NR returns . Knowing how many days you were in or out of the country is not enough , your immigration status matters , and also your citizenship . During the first 5 years , most students are considered non-residents if they 're in F1/J1 status and the days of their presence while in that status do n't count . For citizens of some countries , this period is not limited , due to the tax treaty , and the days of their presence do n't count even after the 5 years , as long as they 're in J1/F1 status . If you are considered resident in the US for the whole year - you do not get any " rebate " for the days you were out of country .
At exactly 105K you can take a deduction of 13/20 * 5500 = $ 3575 each and the rest ( $ 1925 ) as a Roth deposit . No need to have non-deducted money , when you can just make use of both flavors of IRA .
You may have originally mis-read , or the information you read was misleading and has since been corrected . Rather than the usual places , I went to look at the Ontario provincial budget , i.e. the " horse 's mouth " on provincial money matters . ( Actually , the budget implementation bill would have been more authoritative , but IANAL . ) Anyway , looks like the " 30 % Off Ontario Tuition grant " , introduced at the beginning of 2012 , does not apply if the student attends an institution outside of Ontario . It seems to have been that way since the outset . Here 's a portion of a page I grabbed from the <URL> : Notice the highlighted parts . In particular : [ ... ] for students enrolled in college diploma or certificate programs at publicly funded Ontario institutions . [ ... ] Perhaps where confusion may have arisen : the 30 % tuition grant is administered as part of OSAP ( Ontario Student Assistance Program ) , and OSAP loans are available to students who attend post-secondary school outside of the province ( at a qualified institution ) .
This question brings back memories . Short answer : get the three car garage ! It 's the best $ 5k you 'll ever spend . Long answer : I bought my house many years ago , new construction , and made a choice to get the model with the 2-car garage instead of the one with the 3-car garage across the street because the price difference was $ 15k . The houses were otherwise identical . My thinking at the time : " No way I 'm spending $ 15k for a garage spot ! " Oh , the regrets I have today ! I envy my neighbors with the extra garage space . Yes , I only have two cars , but storage space is tight , my workbench is impossible to use without backing the car out to the driveway , and I wish I had spent the money . There will be another driver in the house in a few years and I do n't have the option of garaging a third car . How I wish I could go back in time and slap some sense into my younger self . For $ 5k , I think it 's a no-brainer . In 10 + years , my guess is that the houses with the 3-car garage will have appreciated much more than $ 5k in value than the houses with just 2-car garages . Like I said , I have regrets .
The target breach has nothing to do with identity data and everything to do with credit/debit card numbers and security codes being skimmed . The only cards that are at risk are cards that you have used to make purchases at that store during the times that they were vulnerable . I will leave it to others to discuss recovery from identity information leaks , and I will focus specifically on the electronic skimming attack . These attacks have been known for a while and have been reported on a local level concerning gas stations and poor security on their card readers at gas pumps . When a user would scan their debit cards and enter the pin number , the skimmer would take that data and make ATM withdrawals . Target is a victim here too , we 'll have to wait to find out if they were negligent or not . No matter how you choose to transact your purchases , there will always be some risk with the method . This info applies to transactions inside the US . Cash If you make all your purchases with cash you will probably tend to carry it in larger quantities than if you make the majority of your purchases with a card . When you misplace your wallet you ca n't cancel your federal reserve notes and minimize the loss as you can with plastic . One advantage is that you do n't have to go over your card statements looking for mistakes each month if everything is paid in cash . Cash is generally accepted everywhere so it is good to have some on hand for emergencies . I usually carry between $ 20 - $ 40 with me everywhere . I used to keep an additional $ 200 hidden in my car , but now I keep it in an emergency backpack in my house with a 72 hour supply of food , water , and other emergency essentials . I have that money in a large variety of denominations because I do n't expect anyone to have change ( or to admit to having change ) during an emergency . ATM cards These cards generally require you to enter a pin so that it is unlikely for anyone to be able to withdraw cash without your knowledge . They are vulnerable to the skimming attacks where a new ATM card is created from the information stolen by a transaction on a compromised system . Banks do n't always indemnify you against losses through ATM withdrawals , so you could lose a very large amount of money if you are a victim of these attacks . I regard ATM cards to be an unacceptably high risk . I only resort to ATM withdrawals if I have no other payment options and my usual $ 20 is n't enough for what I need . ( I 've used one once in the last 3 years . ) Debit cards Debit cards are a combination of an ATM/credit cards . They can be used for ATM/debit transaction and require a pin and have the same pros and cons as the ATM card above . They additionally provide the convenience of being usable on a credit card network ( usually Visa in my experience ) but instead of having a credit limit the money is directly withdrawn from a deposit account at your banking institution . They do n't always come with the same guarantees as credit cards even when performing " credit " network transactions . Another plus is that you have the convenience of a credit card but less temptation to go into debt if you have no credit line associated with the card . Credit cards I could write for pages , but I 'm going to try to keep it brief . Credit cards are very safe with anti-fraud measures built-in and limited liability for the user . They are also very lucrative to the issuer not only because they get a percentage of every transaction , but also because people like to hold high balances and pay high interest rates on those balances . Credit cards have a lot of gimmicks to attract users who would otherwise stick with cash or an ATM card . Some of these include a percentage of cash back on purchases or airline miles , or baggage fees waived , and other various schemes to instill both loyalty in a customer and incentive to use their card instead of one of the many others in your wallet . These rewards are worth taking if you have the discipline to pay your balances in full each month and stick to a budget that you have planned in advance . I do the majority of my purchases on one rewards card and I pay the balance in full . I also discuss major purchases with my wife at the beginning of each month , so I do n't fall victim to a lot of impulse buys -- but those can hit you no matter the payment method if you do n't have a spending plan . Having a large open balance on a credit card may make it easier to do so , so that 's an argument against credit cards if you have a weakness for impulse shopping . On a related note , do n't take pictures of your card and share it through instagram/twitter . <URL>
No not deductible . But - If you work more than one job , you run the risk of having too much SS withheld . Each employer does n't know what the others pays you . Tax time reconciles this . And much thanks to Dilip for the following clarification - Not only does each employer not know what the others pays you , but even if you tell him , he will not care . He is required to withhold Social Security tax on the wages he pays you ( and send in an equal amount as his contribution ) regardless of what anyone else pays you . If the sum of your taxable wages from all employers exceed the maximum wages subject to Social Security , the excess withholding is credited towards the income tax due ( and thus reduces the amount to be paid or increases the refund you are owed ) but the employer 's ( excess ) contribution that he sent in is not returned to him ... Also , there is no such things as excess Medicare tax having been withheld because there is no maximum wage beyond which Medicare tax does not apply .
The lowest cost way to trade on an exchange is to trade directly on the exchange . I ca n't speak to the LSE , but in the US , there is a mandated firewall between the individual and the exchange , the broker ; therefore , in the US , one would have to start a business and become a broker . If that process is too costly , the broker or trade platform that permits individuals to trade with the lowest commissions is the next lowest .
Its based on demand and supply and what Bank think the future rates would be . Today Banks in India have a liquidity crunch as the Repo Rates by Reserve Bank of India [ Central Bank ] are high . Bank want to encourage more people to deposit money and hence are offering higher rates . Banks also believe that once the Inflation is under control , the Central Bank would ease the repo rates . This is likely to happen in a years time . Hence Banks one year down want to lower the Fixed Deposit rates . So essentially they would be at loss if they give higher rates for longer periods . So they are offering the highest rates for a period of year which motivates more people to invest for a year , even if they want to stay invested for long .
Sec . 132 refers to 26 USC § 132 . Title 26 of the USC ( United States Code ) is what is commonly referred to as the " US Tax Code " . Note the US - this is the United States federal law , not the New Jersey law . State tax law does n't have to be the exact copy of the Federal law , and in most cases it is in fact not . In your case , New Jersey does n't conform to the Federal benefit in that that for State taxes this benefit does n't exist . As the result , your wages for State Tax purposes are not the same as your wages for Federal tax purposes .
Benefits : As <URL> mentions , this is literally a savings account that you can use for <URL> , with no time limitation ( unlike an FSA where you must use the money by the end of the year ) The tax benefits for can be large . if you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket and your state charges you an additional 7 % taxes in your income bracket , if you put $ 3,000 into an HSA in a year , $ 3000 will be knocked off your AGI for taxes and so you 'll owe 32 % * $ 3000 = $ 960 less money in taxes come tax day ( assuming you do n't adjust your witholdings ) . If your employer offers it , you can put money in your HSA just like a 401k - PRE tax . That means you get the tax savings of putting money in an HSA over the year instead of in a lump sum at the end of the year . If you 're well off and healthy , this is a great investment vehicle . You can put money into a <URL> or a <URL> Premiums are often lower for HSA 's than other types of insurance . Often preventative coverage is completely covered ( doctors visits , immunizations etc ) . Costs : By law HSA 's must have a high deductible - $ 1200 for singles or $ 2,400 for families according to <URL> . From what I 've seen of HSA 's , you 're on the hook for any drugs you buy until your deductible is met . Depending on how many drugs you are on this could get costly . It can take time to find a good HSA account that gives you a good return at a reasonable cost . Check out investment vehicle links above for some good options IMO . If you or someone in your family gets injured or goes to the ER/hospital a lot , you 'll chew right through your deductible . It takes time to manage the inflow/outflow of money into and out of your HSA . You have ultimate flexibility and the ultimate responsibility of proving to the IRS ( if they audit you ) that you used the money for qualified medical expenses . Tax laws changing makes the viability of these accounts uncertain . Perhaps something that is allowable as a qualified medical expense now , will not be considered a qualified medical expense later - like over the counter drugs next year , due to some stupid changes ( in my opinion ) . <URL> : However , beginning in early 2011 you will no longer be able to pay for OTC ( over the counter ) medications with HSA dollars Notes : I 've found it easiest to pay for expenses through a credit card and then keep track of those which are reimbursable in a spreadsheet , and take a HSA withdrawl to cover my expenses . Other options include paying for large health care expenditures ( e.g. getting LASIK ) directly out of your HSA . State income taxes may or may not exclude HSA 's You have to make sure when you use healthcare that you bill it to your insurance , otherwise it isnt counted as part of your deductible ( even if you are fully responsible for the bill ) . A general thought - HSA 's fit the classical model of " insurance " , which is , to insure against very bad things happening ( car accident , cancer etc ) . You 're on the hook for the first $ X ,000 ( the deductible ) for that year , but typically everything after is covered by the insurer . HSA 's are good if you actually investigate the costs associated with healthcare - do n't go to an ER if urgent care will do , or if you do n't need to go to urgent care , forego it .
QE2 will mean that there are about $ 500 billion dollars in existence which were n't there before . These dollars will all be competing with the existing dollars for real goods and services , so each dollar will be worth a little less , and prices will rise a little . This is inflation . You can probably expect 1.5 % -2 % annual inflation for the US dollar over the next several years ( <URL> in the aggregate , anyway ) . This is in terms of US-based goods and services . QE2 will also reduce the amount of other currencies you can get for the same dollar amount . The extent to which this will occur is less clear , in part because other currencies are also considering quantitative easing . Your long-term savings should probably not be in cash anyway , because of the low returns ; this will probably affect you far more than the impact of quantitative easing . As for your savings which do remain in cash , what you should do with them depends on how you plan to dispose of them . The value of a currency is usually pretty stable in terms of the local economy 's output of goods and services - it 's the value in international trade which tends to fluctuate wildly . If you keep your savings in the same currency you plan to spend them in , they should be able to maintain their value decently well in the intermediate term .
It depends on what the " true " reason for the trip is . If you decide to deduct the trip as a business expense , then during an audit you will be asked why you had to go there . If there was nothing accomplished via the travel ( that is , you worked from the hotel , met with no clients , visited no tradeshows , etc ) then the expense is unlikely to be allowed . Yes , on a business trip you can do sightseeing if you wish ( though you ca n't deduct any sightseeing specific expenses , like admission to a tourist attraction ) , but if you are just working while on vacation , then the trip itself is not deductible , since there was no business benefit to traveling in the first place .
It depends on what you paid for , but usually audit support is an unrelated engagement to the return preparation . If the accountant made a professional mistake , you can request correction and compensation from that accountant , other than that any accountant can help you with audit regardless of who prepared the return . The original accountant would probably be better informed about why you reported each number on the return and how it was calculated , but if you kept all the docs , it can be recalculated again . That 's what happens in the audit anyway .
SMLLC is disregarded in the US for tax purposes , so whether you operate under LLC or as a self proprietor ( i.e. : without any legal entity other that your own person ) - it does n't matter . Some States have additional requirements for LLC - check PA tax laws on that . In CA for example , LLC on its own costs $ 800/year just to exist . Your $ 1K will be applied towards your total income whether you 're operating as LLC or not and will be taxed by the US Government in exactly the same fashion ( unless you elect to treat your LLC as an S-Corp , but for $ 1k it is definitely not advised ) .
Taxes are a tool for achieving social policy goals . While Americans consider " Socialism " to be a curse , the US is in fact quite socialistic . Mostly towards corporations , but sometimes even the normal people , not only the " Corporation are people , my friend " ( M. Romney ) get some discounts . The tax deduction on mortgage interest comes as a tool to encourage Americans to own their homes . It is important , socially , for people to own their home to be independent , and in general contributes to the stability of the society . As anything , when taken to the extreme , it in fact achieves exactly the opposite , as we 've seen in 2008 , but when balanced - works well . Capital gain is taxed in the US , because it is income . Generally , any income is taxed . However , gain sourced from the sale of primary residence is excluded , up to a certain ( quite large ) amount from this tax ( if lived in the residence long enough - 3 of the last 5 years prior to sale ) . This , again , to encourage Americans to upgrade their houses and make it easier for Americans to relocate when needed ( sell one house and buy another without losing cash on taxes ) . As to " asset producing income " - that is true in the US as well . You can not deduct your personal expenses , in general . Mortgage interest on primary residence is a notable exception , because it serves a social cause . Similarly , medical expenses are allowed as a deduction , if they 're above certain limit , and many other things ( for example - if a US person totals his car , and insurance does n't cover the loss - it is tax deductible , above certain limit , the higher the income - the higher the limit ) . These are purely social policy breaks . Socialism , something Americans like to have , and love to hate . Many " anti-socialists " in the US are in fact taking advantage of these specific tax breaks the most , because for rich folks these are limited or non-existent ( mortgage interest limited up to 1 million , medical expenses are allowed only above certain percentage of income , etc ) .
Sometimes you may want to be in a position long term but are worried about short term volatility and the price going against you in that period . You do n't want to sell and re-buy back later as this may trigger a capital gain . Plus you do n't know the extent of the price drop or when it will start recovering , so an alternative is to hedge against any potential short term weakness in prices but still reap the long term gains without triggering any intermittent capital gains .
If $ X is the amount saved as of the beginning of the time period , $ Y is the amount contributed at fixed intervals of time ( once a month , once a quarter , once a year , whatever ) , and the contribution is made at the end of the interval and during each such interval , the earnings on the account are 100z % for that time period , then , at the end of the first interval , the account will have $ X ( 1 + z ) + Y in it at the end of the second interval , the account will have $ ( X ( 1 + z ) + Y ) ( 1 + z ) + Y = X ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y in it at the end of the third interval , the account will have $ ( X ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y ) ( 1 + z ) + Y = X ( 1 + z ) ^ 3 + Y ( 1 + z ) ^ 2 + Y ( 1 + z ) + Y in it money.SE does not support MathJax and so additional math gets messier , but some people may have recognized the calculations as being the same as what is called <URL> for evaluating a polynomial . The polynomial in question is a polynomial with variable t given by Xt ^ n + Yt ^ { n-1 } + Yt ^ { n-2 } + ... + Yt + Y and it is evaluated at t = 1 + z. Note that if the periodic contributions are variable instead of being fixed , this is easily accommodated by changing the appropriate coefficient of the polynomial . On the other hand , for fixed contributions , the polynomial in question can be expressed Xt ^ n + Y ( t ^ n - 1 ) / ( t-1 ) which , when evaluated as t = 1 + z gives X ( 1 + z ) ^ n + Y ( ( 1 + z ) ^ n-1 ) / z as the amount that one will have after n time intervals have elapsed .
From the <URL> this image answers the question . The above is meant as an explanation of the numbering system , as described by Zacks , not a personal endorsement or comment of any kind regarding the system success .
Neither TurboTax nor H&amp;R Block are intended for Non-Resident filers . You should continue using GLACIER if you have access to it , or talk to a professional tax preparer ( EA/CPA licensed in your State or a properly accredited tax preparer ) who 's experienced with foreigners filing NR returns . Knowing how many days you were in or out of the country is not enough , your immigration status matters , and also your citizenship . During the first 5 years , most students are considered non-residents if they 're in F1/J1 status and the days of their presence while in that status do n't count . For citizens of some countries , this period is not limited , due to the tax treaty , and the days of their presence do n't count even after the 5 years , as long as they 're in J1/F1 status . If you are considered resident in the US for the whole year - you do not get any " rebate " for the days you were out of country .
No . As a rule , the dividends you see in the distribution table are what you 'll receive before paying any taxes . Tax rates differ between <URL> and unqualified/ordinary dividends , so the distribution ca n't include taxes because tax rates may differ between investors . In my case I hold it in an Israeli account but the tax treaty between our countries still specifies 25 % withheld tax This is another example of why tax rates differ between investors . If I hold SPY too , my tax rate will be very different because I do n't hold it in an account like yours , so the listed dividend could n't include taxes .
end question
start question
What 's the best way to deal with the market swings ?
Change your daily routine so that you do not look at the market . Since this is rather hard to do , at first you should just spend sometime everyday noting : where , when , and how you were looking at the market . After just watching yourself for a bit ( a few weeks or more ) then figure out what else you could do instead . This " else " will have to be as " enjoyable " as watching the market .
First you must understand your <URL> ( Tax Bracket ) The exemptions you claim are like saying to your employer " tax me on $ 4050 less , or more " for each change up or down of 1 exemption . Say you look at the table ( <URL> ) and see you are in the 15 % bracket . And your refund is $ 2000 . 2000 / .15 is $ 13,333 . So you want that $ 13K to not be taxed . Raising exemptions by 3 ( 3x4050 = 12,150 ) will get you close . $ 1822 closer to your goal . For what it 's worth , you can read through the instructions for the W4 , of course . But this answer skips through the details and gets you to your goal . One point to note , since the exemption is in whole numbers , and $ 4050 is it , you will get close , + / - $ 608 if in the 15 % bracket , but to get dead on , you 'd need a mid year adjustment . Not worth it . A refund of under $ 608 should be enough for a 15 % er . ( $ 1012 for a 25 % er ) If you ready want to nail the taxes to a closer accuracy , you can use the line requesting additional dollars be withheld . <URL> Most W4 discussions miss this point . The exact number withheld by your employer comes from an IRS document known as Circular E , but retrieved as <URL> . It will help you confirm the validity of my dirty shortcut method . What I do recommend is that you use a quick online tax calculator to do a dry run of you return , early in the year . If you see your withholding is off in either direction , best to adjust as soon as possible . ( The numbers here now reflect 2016 's $ 4050 exemption , recent question on Money.SE have linked to this one , prompting me to update for 2016 )
Yes , there is a way to step-up contributions now , you just have to ask your FSA vendor ( in our case , after thinking about it for a month they realized they could n't think of a reason to prevent it ) . From the FSA vendor : [ the FSA vendor ] advised that [ my wife can be allowed ] to accelerate her dependent care deductions prior to going out on leave up to the $ 5,000 household limit ( or $ 2,500 if married filing separate tax returns ) . Her dependent care FSA election will need to be used for daycare expenses incurred before or after her leave of absence . Daycare expenses incurred while she is out on leave are not eligible . Please see the pre-pay options in the attached Election Change form .
First off , I highly recommend the book <URL> . The basics of personal finance and money management are pretty straightforward , and this book does a great job with it . It is very light reading , and it really geared for the young person starting their career . It is n't the most current book ( pre real-estate boom ) , but the recommendations in the book are still sound . ( update 8/28/2012 : New edition of the book came out . ) Now , with that out of the way , there 's really two kinds of " investing " to think about : Retirement ( 401k , IRA , SIMPLE , etc ) Non-Retirement ( Brokerage account , investing in individual stocks , day trading , etc ) For most individuals , it is best to take care of # 1 first . Most people should n't even think about # 2 until they have fully funded their retirement accounts , established an emergency fund , and gotten their debt under control . There are lots of financial incentives for retirement investing , both from your employer , and the government . All the more reason to take care of # 1 before # 2 ! Your employer probably offers some kind of 401k ( or equivalent , like a 403b ) with a company-provided match . This is a potential 100 % return on your investment after the vesting period . No investment you make on your own will ever match that . Additionally , there are tax advantages to contributing to the 401k . ( The money you contribute does n't count as taxable income . ) The best way to start investing is to learn about your employer 's retirement plan , and contribute enough to fully utilize the employer matching . Beyond this , there are also Individual Retirement Accounts ( IRAs ) you can open to contribute money to on your own . You should open one of these and start contributing , but only after you have fully utilized the employer matching with the 401k . The IRA wo n't give you that 100 % ROI that the 401k will . Keep in mind that retirement investments are pretty much " walled off " from your day-to-day financial life . Money that goes into a retirement account generally ca n't be touched until retirement age , unless you want to pay lots of taxes and penalties . You generally do n't want to put the money for your house down payment into a retirement account . One other thing to note : Your 401K and your IRA is an account that you put money into . Just because the money is sitting in the account does n't necessarily mean it is invested . You put the money into this account , and then you use this money for investments . How you invest the retirement money is a topic unto itself . <URL> If you want to ask questions about retirement portfolios , it is probably worth posting a new question .
Assuming the rates are the same , and they will remain the same , and assuming that there is no real difference between the loans . Then by the simplest math it does n't make difference in the approach to paying the loan . If the loans worked more like credit cards , where there is a minimum payment of x % of the balance of y $ whichever is greater , and if the goal was to stretch a fixed amount of money over 4 accounts then paying off the smallest balance first makes sense . It allows the minimum payment for that account to be applied to the other accounts . If they had different rates the higher rate could make the most sense . That leaves only 2 reasons to pick an unbalanced approach to paying off the loans : psychology and logistics . Getting rid of one loan quickly makes you feel better , even though it does n't make you any closer to being debt free . If one of the loans is with a separate lender then it cuts down on the amount of transactions in your bank account and email , or snail mail . I have heard horror stories of people who left school unsure of how many loans they had , only to discover they forgot about one until it went to collections . They key to your question is that the loans are essentially the same , if they were n't then the math becomes more complex because it depends on the rate and balances .
Several , actually : Maintenance costs . As landlord , you are liable for maintaining the basic systems of the dwelling - structure , electrical , plumbing , HVAC . On top of that , you typically also have to maintain anything that comes with the space , so if you 're including appliances like a W/D or fridge , if they crap out you could spend a months ' rent or more replacing them . You are also required to keep the property up to city codes as far as groundskeeping unless you specifically assign those responsibilities to your tenant ( and in some states you are not allowed to do so , and in many cases renters expect groundskeeping to come out of their rent one way or the other ) . Failure to do these things can put you in danger of giving your tenant a free out on the lease contract , and even expose you to civil and criminal penalties if you 're running a real slum . Escrow payments . The combination of property tax and homeowner 's insurance usually doubles the monthly housing payment over principal and interest , and that 's if you got a mortgage for 20 % down . Also , because this is not your primary residence , it 's ineligible for Homestead Act exemptions ( where available ; states like Texas are considering extending Homestead exemptions to landlords , with the expectation it will trickle down to renters ) , however mortgage interest and state taxes do count as " rental expenses " and can be deducted on Schedule C as ordinary business expenses offsetting revenues . Income tax . The money you make in rent on this property is taxable as self-employment income tax ; you 're effectively running a sole proprietorship real-estate management company , so not only does any profit ( you are allowed to deduct maintenance and administrative costs from the rent revenues ) get added to whatever you make in salary at your day job , you 're also liable for the full employee and employer portions of Medicare/Medicaid/SS taxes . You are , however , also allowed to depreciate the property over its expected life and deduct depreciation ; the life of a house is pretty long , and if you depreciate more than the house 's actual loss of value , you take a huge hit if/when you sell because any amount of the sale price above the depreciated price of the house is a capital gain ( though , it can work to your advantage by depreciating the maximum allowable to reduce ordinary income , then paying lower capital gains rates on the sale ) . Legal costs . The rental agreement typically has to be drafted by a lawyer in order to avoid things that can cause the entire contract to be thrown out ( though there are boilerplate contracts available from state landlords ' associations ) . This will cost you a few hundred dollars up front and to update it every few years . It is deductible as an ordinary expense . Advertising . Putting up a " For Rent " sign out front is typically just the tip of the iceberg . Online and print ads , an ad agency , these things cost money . It 's deductible as an ordinary expense . Add this all up and you may end up losing money in the first year you rent the property , when legal , advertising , initial maintenance/purchases to get the place tenant-ready , etc are first spent ; deduct it properly and it 'll save you some taxes , but you better have the nest egg to cover these things on top of everything your lender will expect you to bring to closing ( assuming you do n't have $ 100k + lying around to buy the house in cash ) .
When you pay monthly , you 're making 12 payments / year . Assuming you have a payment of $ 1000/mo , that 's $ 12,000 / year that you 're paying for your mortgage . When you opt for bi-weekly , they 're saying that you can pay half of your mortgage ( $ 500 ) bi-weekly ( can be configured to align with your paycheck ) . Since there are ~ 26 bi-weekly periods in a year , you 're making 26 * $ 500 = $ 13,000 in mortgage payments each year . Some of these companies charge a fee for you to utilize this service . The main concept behind this is that people are horrible at budgeting on their own , so when $ 500 is immediately taken from your paycheck , you 'll be able to budget around what 's left and be able to make that extra payment each year without thinking about it or realizing it .
I prefer TaxAct . I find it simpler to use and more helpful in helping answer the questionnaire . I have a fairly complex tax return and it handles it just fine .
If you 're investing for the long term your best strategy is going to be a buy-and-hold strategy , or even just buying a few index funds in several major asset classes and forgetting about it . Following " market conditions " is about as useful to the long term trader as checking the weather in Anchorage , Alaska every day ( assuming that you do n't live in Anchorage , Alaska ) . Let me suggest treating yourself to a subscription to <URL> and read it once a week . You 'll learn a lot more about investing , economics , and world trends , and you wo n't be completely in the dark if there are major structural changes in the world ( like gigantic housing bubbles ) that you might want to know about .
See the <URL> ( # 3 ) . Go to <URL> and look up rates so you know what to punch in to those calculators .
Whenever a website mentions Hypothetical Growth of $ 100 , $ 1,000 , or $ 10,000 , it assumes that that investor himself will reinvest the dividend . This is true whether you look at Morningstar or Financial Times . Unless the website does not have dividend data , e.g. Google Finance . If you want to compare the account value after withdrawing dividends : Since the Income class pays dividends annually , there will be 1 jumps per year . For example , the 2013 dividend payment : and the 2014 dividend payment :
Payoneer and PayPal both allow you to connect your bank account to withdraw funds , that is likely your best option
If your returns match the market , that means their rate of return is the same as the market in question . If your returns beat the market , that means their rate of return is higher . There 's no one ' market ' , mind you . I invest in mutual funds that track the <URL> ( which is , very roughly , the U.S. stock market ) , that track the Canadian stock market , that track the international stock market , and which track the Canadian bond market . In general , you should be deeply dubious of any advertised investment option that promises to beat the market . It 's certainly possible to do so . If you buy a single stock , for example , that stock may go up by 40 % over the course of a year while the market may go up by 5 % . However , you are likely taking on substantially more risk . So there 's a very good chance ( likely , a greater chance ) that the investment would go down , losing you money .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
Before investing , absolutely follow the advice in <URL> 's answer . There is no safe investment ( unless you count your mattress , and even there you could find moths , theives , or simple inflation taking a chunk out of your change ) . There is only maximizing your reward for a given level of risk - and there is always risk . <URL> should be enshrined somewhere on the Q&amp;A site for its comprehensive list of sources for information on <URL> . The <URL> is also going to have tons of good information for you . To answer your question on what slice of the pie is devoted to what , you can check out some <URL> given by U. S. experts for U. S. investors - these should be convertible into Australian funds . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Another portfolio that is , like all those above , loosely based on <URL> for maximizing reward for a given level of risk is the <URL> . A common denominator amongst these portfolios is that they emphasize index funds over mutual funds for their long-term performance and preference <URL> ( yearly rebalancing is a common suggestion as the maximum level of involvement ) over active management . You can see more <URL> .
It will depend somewhat on the rules where the company is formed , and perhaps how much you 're talking about investing . I do n't know about Canada , but when I 've formed businesses in the U.S. , I 've been advised to invest some of the money as an equity investment , and the bulk of the remainder as a loan . You say " more shares " , so it sounds like you 've already invested some money and need to inject another round . If you make a loan to the company , make sure everything is done at arm 's length -- you 'll need to wear the hat of the Company Management and sign a contract with yourself , use a market-based interest rate , and make sure the company is paying you back with interest . An alternative which may work if you expect cash flow soon is to pay for certain expenses personally and then submit an expense report to the company , which will pay you back . Overall , a quick consultation with your accountant should be a relatively inexpensive way to get the best answer for your specific circumstances .
In Canada there is : <URL> A search engine that allows you to tailor your requirements . <URL> This one uses a grid approach for all features of travel cards . <URL> Allows you to pick based on category . Even after the initial comparisons you may still need to dig deeper to understand the rules and reward criteria . The information provided by the card carrier does not always allow you to do a similar comparison of the value of the rewards points . I find that I still need to create my own spreadsheet to calculate how much a point is worth before I can take into account the other factors ( type of reward I want , spending habits , annual fees , etc. ) .
Short answer Get a buy-to-let mortgage from another lender . Once that 's done , arrange to port the current residential mortgage to the new property . Longer answer I asked [ Santander ] if I could get a new BTL mortgage product for my current house to continue renting it out , then move my current mortgage onto a new house . They said no , I have to sell the house . It 's possible that Santander said that because they do n't generally offer BTL mortgages . Start by <URL> . Because of the potential complications of dealing with two mortgages and two banks , you may want to use a mortgage broker . I 've had good experiences with <URL> , but others are available . Even if you pick your own mortgage , it 's useful to have someone else to harrass the banks for you . Note that brokers do charge for their services . Once you have actually applied for the BTL and have received the mortgage offer , then contact Santander to port your existing mortgage . Although in theory you will be moving an existing mortgage , in practise it 's treated as if you were applying for a brand new one ( albeit with the old terms and rate ) , so you 'll have to go through the whole process again . The important thing with regard to the BTL is to show that your rental property is not a liability . So long as , with the BTL mortgage , it 's not going to make a loss , Santander are likely to ignore it altogether . If that all works , you then arrange with your solicitor for completion on the two properties to happen simultaneously . Re " keeping it in the family " : note that some BTL mortgages specifically prohibit you from letting your property to family members . Source : me ! I 've previously done exactly what I describe above . EDIT : Regarding potentially selling or gifting to family : if doing this for a number that is well below market rate , there could be potential tax implications ; you would need to consult an accountant and/or solicitor . There are other options ; for example , if you wanted a family member to share responsibility for the BTL mortgage , you could change ownership of the property so that you own it as <URL> with unequal shares , with your relative owning a nominal share ( e.g. 1 % , or # 1 ) . Again , this is something to discuss with your solicitor before applying for the BTL .
The simplest was is to just divide your total dividends for the year by your starting capital for that year . For example , if you start with $ 100000 in capital and earn $ 5000 in dividends during the year your dividend yield for that year would be 5 % . Even if you have n't fully invested your total capital during the year it is still available to be invested and the total should be used for the calculation . Once the year has ended you will have a new balance for you capital , which is the value you should use in the following year . An alternative to this calculation is to use your average capital for the year , add your starting and ending capital values and divide by 2 . You may want to use this method if you trade often during the year instead of buying all your investments only at the start of the year . Also , another thing to consider is whether you include the dividends as additions to your capital or if you withdrawal dividends when they are paid for your own cashflow . If you reinvest your dividends , then they should be included as part of your capital .
outstanding shares are the shares ( regular shares ) that are still tradable in the market , where the firm in question is listed . The term is primarily used to distinguish from shares held in treasury ( treasury stock ) , which have been bought back ( buybacks ) from the market and are n't currently tradable in the market . <URL> .
end question
start question
Is debt almost always the cause of crashes and recessions ?
While debt increases the likelihood and magnitude of a crash , speculation , excess supply and other market factors can result in crashes without requiring excessive debt . <URL> The <URL> . There were debt related issues for some companies and the run ups in stock prices were increased by leveraged traders , but the actual crash was the result of failures of start up companies to produce profits . While all tech stocks fell together , sound companies with products and profits survive today . As for recessions , they are simply periods of time with decreased economic activity . <URL> . In summary , debt is simply a magnifier . It can increase profits just as easily as can increase losses . The real problems with crashes and recessions are often related to unfounded faith in increasing value and unexpected changes in demand .
In the case of Wells Fargo , I believe that free trading is linked to your overall banking relationship with the firm . So if you have a checking account with a balance of $ X , or a total relationship with the bank ( " relationship " is usually defined as loan balances + deposit balances ) over a certain amount , they give you a plum like free stock trades . The theory behind this approach is that banks want to be a one-stop shop for you . The idea is that they can market the banks products to you over a period of years ( lowering customer acquisition cost ) and offer you a level of convenience that allows them to charge a premium for services . For example , many people will pay a rate or fee premium on a mortgage or car loan so that they can do all of their business in one place . In other cases , free trading is linked to marketing campaigns by funds . Charles Schwab started this with the " no transaction fee " mutual fund store many years ago -- transaction fees are actually paid for by the mutual funds who pay for placement in the program . " Free ETF trade " programs are similar .
While they are generally analogous , they have different objectives . According to <URL> " the performance definition of the FICO risk score ( its stated design objective ) is to predict the likelihood that a consumer will go 90 days past due or worse in the subsequent 24 months after the score has been calculated . " Meanwhile debt ratings revolve around the entity 's perceived ability to meet its financial obligations . Debt rating emphasizes that the score is on the underlying security ( bond ) , which is purchased by investors . It is also a matter of semantics . Both Investopedia and Wikipedia consider credit rating to be an umbrella term which encompasses the credit worthiness of individuals and large entities . Both also view to mean and to refer to an individual 's credit rating . It 's also a question of practicality . They need to have different names to differentiate them . It would be odd to think of investing in most individual 's debt . So , it makes sense that the rating of such debt would have a different name . ( Bear in mind that securitized mortgage and credit card debt are aggregated , not sold on an individual basis . )
Nope , do n't do it . Basic math shows this ... as you pay down your HELOC , you will pay less and less interest , eventually you will have it paid off . Look at what your RRSP will be worth even using a low rate of return over the next 20 or 30 years . It will likely show that it would really cost you a LOT more if you cashed in .
This will probably require some explanation from you on the source of the money and the reasons for the transaction . Cash transactions over $ 10k will be reported by the bank ( in this case ) on a <URL> . Keep in mind , mere breaking the transaction into multiple smaller ones in order to avoid the CTR is on its own a criminal offense . Just deposit what you want to deposit , and report what 's needed to be reported . Note that if you 're a US tax resident - these foreign bank accounts must have been reported already to <URL> , if not - you should expect a very nasty audit with the IRS .
A couple of points . You may be able to re-sell the bond after the first year , but you wo n't be guaranteed all your money back : it will still be worth the same in 30 years , but it may not be worth the same tomorrow . If interest rates rise , the price of a new 30-year bond will fall . Since your 29-years-left bond is almost equivalent , you should expect that its face value will also fall . The 30-year bond is the most vulnerable to interest rate risk , since it is so long-term : a little difference in rate will change things a lot after thirty years . Note also that interest rates are at or near historic lows ; they have very little room to fall and a lot of room to rise . Your brokerage , bank , or credit union can help you re-sell your Treasury bonds . You may wish to investigate the process and any fees involved . They will probably be willing to tell you all about it . I can not meaningfully comment on the spreads involved . The Treasury itself may also provide some tools ; visit <URL> and learn more . You may also wish to consider consider a bond mutual fund or ETF . They can be bought or sold like stocks , which may be a more comfortable and convenient process for some people . Note that the interest rate risk in these funds is different than for a bond , because they are continually reinvesting ; the risk does not fall as the bond gets closer to maturity . Read the prospectus .
There is no benefit in life insurance as such ( ie , death insurance . ) There is a great deal of value in other types though : total and permanent disability insurance , trauma insurance ( a lump sum for a major medical event ) , and income protection insurance ( cover against a temporary but disabling medical condition ) . If you do n't have that , you should get it right now . This is about the most important insurance you can carry . Being unable to work for the rest of your life has a far larger impact than having , say , your car stolen . ... If , later on , you acquire dependents , and you feel you ought to have life insurance , then you will have a relationship with a life insurance company , and maybe they will let you upgrade from income/TPD to income/TPD/life without too much fuss or requalification . Some do ; whether yours would I do n't know . But at least you have a toe in the door with them , in a way that is infinitely more immediately useful than getting life insurance that you do n't actually need .
Unsecured debt , like credit card debt , will be paid by the estate . If not enough money exists in the estate ( including selling property/etc . ) to satisfy the debts , then the debt will be cancelled - it is not continued on to the heirs/etc . However , if you have a joint card ( with a spouse , parent , child , etc. ) , both holders of that card may be separately liable - meaning if one dies , the other will be liable for the debt if the first 's estate does n't pay it off . As far as if a charge posts after the death - likely depends on if it was fraudulently used . If the person owning the card made the purchase and timing just was off , then it 'll be just as if they paid beforehand . But , if the creditor can prove that someone else authorized the charge other than the decedent/cardholder , then that is a fraudulent act and could be met with criminal penalties as well as a civil lawsuit . See <URL> for more information .
Property taxes , where they exist , are generally levied by cities , counties and other local-level administrative bodies like MUDs , and are the primary source of revenue at these levels of government . These taxes pay the lion 's share of the expenses for basic services provided by a city or county : Local road maintenance/signs/lights Utilities infrastructure ( water/wastewater/trash are typically city-administered ; electrical and telecom it handled more directly by providers but government has a hand in it ) Local first responders ( police/fire/EMS ) Local government offices ( courts , county clerk , commissioner , animal control ) Mass transit subsidies ( lowers the ticket price to encourage ridership by making everyone pay a little from their other taxes whether they ride or not ) Municipal facilities ( parks , pools , etc ) Public schools and interscholastic facilities ( teachers ' salaries , building maintenance/upkeep , administration , athletic facilities ) There are federal dollars , other revenue sources ( State lottery revenues often go toward public schools for instance ) , and " usage fees " ( vehicle registration , utility bills , toll roads ) at play as well , but a lot of that money covers larger-scale infrastructure development ( freeways/interstates ) and specialized " earmarks " ( political backscratching involving this bridge or that dam in a Congresscritter 's home district , a few national initiatives from the President 's budget like first-responder technology upgrades for improved disaster/terrorism readiness ) . Property taxes are the main funding for the day-to-day government operations at the most visible level to the average resident . The theory behind using a property tax instead of some other form of taxation ( like income ) is that the value of the property and the quality of services provided to the resident ( s ) of that property are interrelated ; the property is valuable in part because the infrastructure is well-maintained and nearby schools/hospitals are good , and by the same token , affluent residents expect high-quality services . Property taxes are also easier to levy , because most of the work can be done by the tax assessor ; monitor recent sale prices , do drive-bys through neighborhoods , come up with a number and send the resident the bill . That 's opposed to sales taxes which businesses operating in the jurisdiction have to calculate , collect and turn over , or income taxes which require residents to fill out paperwork to calculate how much they owe . The justification is eminent domain . It 's very simple ; when you buy land in the U.S. and a State thereof , you are still a citizen and/or resident of that State and the U.S. , and subject to their laws . You 're not creating your own country when you buy a house . As such , the government charges you for the facilities and services they provide in your area and your State , which are then your privilege to use . Obviously roads are n't free ; a one-mile stretch behind my house is costing the county $ 15 million to expand it from 2-lane to 4-lane . Here 's the kicker ; you 've already been paying these taxes . You think your landlord 's just going to take the property taxes for the whole apartment complex on the chin ? He 's out to make money , and doing that requires charging a sufficient amount to cover costs , including taxes he incurs . You just never see " allocated property taxes " as an item on your rent statement , just like you do n't see " allocated landowner mortgage " , " allocated facilities maintenance " , " allocated gross margin " etc. . You know you 're getting shafted , paying someone else 's financing with a little extra on the side to boot . That 's why you want a house . Unfortunately , not being able to pay these taxes is a grim reality for some people , old and young , and government generally does n't go easy on delinquent homeowners . After medical bills and mortgage delinquency , property tax delinquency is the number three reason for bankruptcy , and only a mortgage or property tax delinquency can cause your home to be seized and sold . Well that and using it for criminal enterprise , but unless you 're running a meth lab in your half-million-dollar home or financing it with coke money I would n't worry about that score . Retirement planners figure property taxes into cost of living , and they do often advise a downgrade from the 2-story house you raised your children in to something smaller ( for many reasons , including lower taxes ) . There really is n't a way to structure a completely " pay-as-you-go " metropolitan area , and you would n't want to live in it if there were . Imagine every strip of asphalt in the county being a toll road where your transponder ( TollTag , EZ-Pass , etc ) or license plate was scanned and you were billed at each intersection . In addition to being a huge invasion of privacy , the cost to maintain this network ( and your cost to use it ) would skyrocket . Imagine 911 asking for a credit card number before dispatching police , fire or EMS ( Ambulance services already do bill on a per -
Payables It 's very clever , the way you have invented a " payables account " for yourself , and that 's very good technique , using more descriptive accounts for clearer reporting . A payables account is indeed a liability as you 've booked . It 's a recognition of future outflows that have not been paid yet to properly account for accrued net worth . As long as the final payments are booked as expenses and credit away the payables account , they are properly booked . However , as a warning , while increased complexity brings increased resolution , it also introduced a higher probability of error , so I suggest creating a " balancing account " to use when the accounts do n't make sense . 0 balance It should be noted that the payables account only temporarily has a 0 balance and frequently has a positive balance . The only account that should technically be kept to 0 is the balancing account .
When a stock is going to become public there 's a level of analysis required to figure out the range of IPO price that makes sense . For a company that 's somewhat mature , and has a sector to compare it to , you can come up with a range that would be pretty close . For the recent linkedin , it 's tougher to price a somewhat unique company , running at a loss , in a market rich with cash looking for the next great deal . If one gives this any thought , an opening price that 's so far above the IPO price represents a failure of the underwriters to price it correctly . It means the original owners just sold theirvshares for far less than the market thought they were worth on day one . The day of IPO the stock opens similar to how any stock would open at 9:30 , there are bids and asks and a price at which supply ( the ask ) and demand ( bid ) balance . For this IPO , it would appear that there were enough buyers to push the price to twice the anticipated open and it 's maintained that level since . It 's possible to have a different system in which a Dutch auction is used to make the shares public , in theory this can work , it 's just not used commonly .
TFSA is a misnomer . It is not a Savings Account , but a registered Savings Plan . For example , My TFSA is in mutual funds , so there is no interest as such . I make my earnings through share value growth , and dividends . If you want a guaranteed return , then you put it in GICs . You can put TFSA funds in a savings account ( which is essentially keeping it in cash ) , in which case the rate would fluctuate just like your regular savings account . However , I believe the best strategy is RRSPs should be stable and secure , and TFSA 's should be higher risk/higher reward , giving you the tax free benefit on the bulk of your earnings .
The traditional role of a stockbroker is to arrange for the buying and selling of stock by finding buyers and sellers at an agreed upon price . The broker does not purchase the stock for himself but merely arranges for the stock to be traded . A trader is one who purchases stock with the hope of selling it for a gain . The trader will use a broker to help with the purchase and sale of a stock .
Before filing your first business tax return , you will need to choose a taxation method , either corporation or partnership . If you choose a partnership , then it 's moot - your business income flows through to your personal taxes via form K-1 . Also , regardless of your taxation method , you should consult a legal expert , since having your business pay off your personal debt would almost always be counted as income to you , and may cause you to lose the personal liability protections provided by the LLC ( aka " piercing the corporate veil " ) . Having a single-member LLC with no employees , you have to be very careful how you manage the finances of the business . Any commingling of personal and business could jeopardize your protections .
This does not seem , to me , to be a very good indication regarding the risk of the person not paying their balances off . If you do not have a source of income then how are you going to repay your debt . Not to mention there is recource for creditors to garnish wages . That is not possible if you have no income . The risk assessment is about the ability of the creditor to recover any moneys loaned and costs and still make a profit . For example , students have their parents pay them some pocket money to cover for expenses , or a person might be working sporadically on consulting gigs that do not have a fixed monthly or yearly component . Most credit card companies that are willing to issue to college students will allow you to include money from your parents in your income . Credit card companies are looking for customers that will carry a balance and incur fees but be able to pay them . These companies do not make money off of fees and interest that they do not collect . As such , sporatic work increases risk . Is it possible for people to get approved for unsecured credit cards if they do n't hold ( or have not held for some time ) a job at the time of application ? I was able to while I was in college . Though I did have a part time job . If you can show that you have the ability to pay you can usually get a credit card if you do not have bad credit . It will probably be high interest and have alot of fees some of them you will have to pay upfront . But what you probably mean to ask is " Is it possible to get a no cost unsecured credit card with out a reliable source of income ? " The answer to that is : probably not . Even the ones that look like they are free probably have hidden fees .
You must mean the current debt ceiling debacle . The meaning of it is : US government is constantly borrowing money ( by issuing treasury bonds ) and constantly repaying some of the bonds that come to maturity , and also has other obligations it has to meet by law all the time - such as Social Security checks , bonds interest , federal employees ' salaries and pensions , etc. . By law , total amount of money that can be borrowed at the same time is capped . That means , there can be situation where the government needs to borrow money to pay , say , interest on existing bonds , but can not , since the limit is reached . Such situation is called a default , since the government promised to pay the interest , but is unable to do so . That does not mean the government has no money at all and will completely collapse or could n't raise money on the market if it were permitted by law to do so ( currently , the market is completely willing to buy the debt issued by US government , and with interest that is not very high , though of course that may change ) . It also does not mean the economy ceases to function , dollars cease to have value or banks instantly go bankrupt . But if the government breaks its promises to investors , it has various consequences such as raising the costs of borrowing in the future . Breaking promises to other people - like Social Security recipients - would also look bad and probably hurt many of them . Going back to your bank account , most probably nothing would happen to the money you store there . Even if the bank had invested 100 % of the money in US treasury bonds ( which does n't really happen ) they still can be sold on the open market , even if with some discount in the event of credit rating downgrade , so most probably your account would not be affected . As stated in another answer , even if the fallout of all these calamities causes a bank to fail , there 's FDIC and if your money is under insured maximums you 'll be getting your money back . But if your bank is one of the big ones , nothing of the sort would happen anyway - as we have seen in the past years , government would do practically anything to not allow any big bank failures .
Here is another way to look at it . Does this debt enable you to buy more car than you can really afford , or more car than you need ? If so , it 's bad debt . Let 's say you do n't have the price of a new car , but you can buy a used car with the cash you have . You will have to repair the car occasionally , but this is generally a lot less than the payments on a new car . The value of your time may make sitting around waiting while your car is repaired very expensive ( if , like me , you can earn money in fine grained amounts anywhere between 0 and 80 hours a week , and you do n't get paid when you 're at the mechanic 's ) in which case it 's possible to argue that buying the new car saves you money overall . Debt incurred to save money overall can be good : compare your interest payments to the money you save . If you 're ahead , great - and the fun or joy or showoff potential of your new car is simply gravy . Now let 's say you can afford a $ 10,000 car cash - there are new cars out there at this price - but you want a $ 30,000 car and you can afford the payments on it . If there was no such thing as borrowing you would n't be able to get the larger/flashier car , and some people suggest that this is bad debt because it is helping you to waste your money . You may be getting some benefit ( such as being able to get to a job that 's not served by public transit , or being able to buy a cheaper house that is further from your job , or saving time every day ) from the first $ 10,000 of expense , but the remaining $ 20,000 is purely for fun or for showing off and should n't be spent . Certainly not by getting into debt . Well , that 's a philosophical position , and it 's one that may well lead to a secure retirement . Think about that and you may decide not to borrow and to buy the cheaper car . Finally , let 's say the cash you have on hand is enough to pay for the car you want , and you 're just trying to decide whether you should take their cheap loan or not . Generally , if you do n't take the cheap loan you can push the price down . So before you decide that you can earn more interest elsewhere than you 're paying here , make sure you 're not paying $ 500 more for the car than you need to . Since your loan is from a bank rather than the car dealership , this may not apply . In addition to the money your cash could earn , consider also liquidity . If you need to repair something on your house , or deal with other emergency expenditures , and your money is all locked up in your car , you may have to borrow at a much higher rate ( as much as 20 % if you go to credit cards and ca n't get it paid off the same month ) which will wipe out all this careful math about how you should just buy the car and not pay that 1.5 % interest . More important than whether you borrow or not is not buying too much car . If the loan is letting you talk yourself into the more expensive car , I 'd say it 's a bad thing . Otherwise , it probably is n't .
The term self-directed generally refers to RRSP accounts where the account holder has not only the ability to determine a basic investment asset mix ( such as can be accomplished even with a limited selection of mutual funds ) but , more specifically , the self-directed account holder has a much wider choice of financial instruments beyond mutual funds , GICs , and/or cash savings . A self-directed RRSP generally permits the account holder to also invest or trade directly in financial instruments such as : bonds ( including governments and corporates ) , public company stocks/shares/unit trusts listed on a stock exchange , exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ) , purchasing call and put options , writing covered call options , ... or even holding a mortgage on a property . Those kinds of instruments are not typically available in a non-self-directed mutual fund or bank RRSP . Typical mutual fund or bank RRSPs offer you only their choice of products -- often with higher fees attached . Related resources : <URL> <URL>
Note : I have never heard of this company before this question was asked . These are my thoughts based on a quick review of their website . It seems that Motor Club of America is a roadside assistance service company , similar to AAA . It is ridiculously expensive : $ 20 per month for their " Total Security " plan , or $ 240 per year . This is about double what the highest level of AAA membership costs . As you noticed , they recruit people to sell their Total Security plan in a Multilevel Marketing type scheme . Your Facebook friends and acquaintances that " swear by it " are simply being paid to do so . It 's nothing more than that . Their job is to fill up your Facebook feed with a sales pitch for an overpriced product . Of course , you do n't need to be told this , but selling overpriced products to your friends is not the best way to make money or to keep your friends .
Other answers have pointed out the mathematics behind this " notion " , as you put it -- and I hope the explanations were helpful -- while failing to answer with a potential strategy ( save for duffbeer703 ) . Here it is : The way you take advantage of swings in the market ( to generalize ) is to : invest more cash in the market before the up moves , and remove cash from the market before the down moves . As you 've seen , if you start with $ 100K fully invested , with the market dropping 50 % first and then gaining 50 % from there while remaining fully invested , then you 're down $ 25K . But what if you were to add $ 100K when you are down ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 25K after the 50 % gain . Next , consider the opposite ordering of the moves : the market gaining 50 % first , then dropping 50 % . Similarly , with the $ 100K fully invested , you end up down $ 25K . But what if you take half your stake out at the top ? Then you are ahead of the game by $ 12.5 K. Or you could be ahead the full gain if you sell everything at the top . Of course , this " buy low , sell high " or " market timing " strategy is easier to describe than actually perform , and the market is n't likely to deliver X % gains followed by X % losses ( or vice versa ) consistently . . it is more temperamental than that . In fact it often goes exactly where you did n't expect it : down when you are fully invested , and up when you are n't . But , successful trading is the way to take advantage of moves in the market that would otherwise do damage to a fully-invested portfolio ... " successful " being the highly elusive secret ingredient .
end question
start question
Can you re-contribute withdrawn Roth IRA contributions ?
This is a question that you want to make sure with a tax expert . It appears based on the IRS documents that you can do so . The question is will the confusing set of documents slow the IRS computers and delay your refund . If you recontribute to a new account , I would even select a new custodian , within the 60 day window this should not be a big deal . If you go beyond the 60 day window it should be fine , just a little more complex to sort out . You should contribute the original amount plus the earnings from the original investment ; Otherwise the earnings from the first account will be taxed . I would also fund the second account by the end of the calendar year to clearly mark the 2nd contribution and one for this year . You normally have until April 15th to contribute to an IRA , but doing so this year will help make sure all the paperwork matches . Please talk with a professional before making the second contribution if you will be beyond the 60 day window .
This is essentially a question about timing the market , which is pretty much doomed . The problem is that most investments do n't just go up as if they paid interest regularly . They fluctuate . If you put $ 6000 into stocks at the beginning of the year and the stocks go up you feel good . If they go down you kick yourself for not holding off . So pick a strategy that matches your cash flow and do n't pay attention to the short-term swings .
Yes , a contribution to a Traditional IRA is an <URL> assuming you meet the requirements <URL> , so you do n't have to itemize to receive it . You only get a deduction for a Traditional IRA ; Roth IRAs are after-tax .
There is a penalty for the excess deposit , 6 % per year until it 's removed . I agree , it seems small , but send in the form , take care of it , and put it behind you . Easy enough .
Sorry , it appears not , according to <URL> : ... and the election to make Roth 401 ( k ) contributions ( these are after-tax contributions ) is irrevocable . <URL> says the same thing . PS , do n't complain too loudly , given the reason for the problem . :)
Every part of the tax law serves a purpose beside raising income . It tries to encourage some behaviors while discouraging others . IRAs and Roth IRAs can be used to save for retirement . They can either save you tax money now , or later . While congress does want people to save for retirement they do n't see a need to provide another tax break for the ' rich ' . The tax break is to encourage people to save , but it is easier for somebody on the upper end of the pay scale to maximize their savings . Limiting some tax breaks also allows them to control the size of the tax break .
Do you have a current employer with a 401 ( k ) ? If so , and if the fees are low AND the ability to borrow half the balance is important to you , consider a transfer . I do n't recommend a transfer/conversion to a Roth . The best way to proceed is to transfer to an IRA and decide from there if and how much to convert to Roth . I do n't know your current income , tax bracket , or balance that might get converted . A total conversion runs the risk of costing more in taxes than leaving it to grow in the traditional IRA . On the other hand , a methodical partial conversion can ' fill your bracket ' each year , and potentially avoid higher rates down the road . A conversion is not good or bad , in and of itself . One can only tell for a given individual whether it 's right for them . Edit - Understand , this topic can be the subject of a book . In fact , there are many books that cover Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs . Every option can lead to a lengthy discussion , which is fine , as there are option that work for some , but not others . For example , if one has 18 % credit card debt and a payment so high they ca n't afford new 401 ( k ) deposits and miss the matching employer contribution , the 401 ( k ) loan at about 4 % currently can free up their high CC payment to allow for these deposits . If this were the case , then even my warning of " low fees " needs to be closely evaluated . Given how many people owe money at these high rates , this situation is far from a contrived example . I 'll agree that the advice for most should still be to transfer to the traditional IRA , and consider whether a partial conversion makes sense . It 's worth adding here , you can withdraw from your employer 's 401 ( k ) upon separation at 55 or older with no penalty . To avoid the penalty in the IRA requires a <URL> , which can be tricky .
Yes , depending <URL> . You generally can make a tax-free withdrawal of contributions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax return for the year in which you made them . This means that even if you are under age 59 1/2 , the 10 % additional tax may not apply . These distributions are explained in <URL> I believe any growth is subject to the <URL> : The 10 % additional tax on distributions made before you reach age 59 1/2 does not apply to these tax-free withdrawals of your contributions . However , the distribution of interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329 and , unless the distribution qualifies as an exception to the age 59 1/2 rule , it will be subject to this tax .
In general the answer is yes , you can pay it off early . However , check the terms of your lease for a " prepayment penalty . " They are becoming less common , but if you have such terms in your lease , you might incur a fee for paying early . Even then , if the prepayment penalty is less than the interest you would otherwise pay , it would still be worth it . Paying off loans is a positive thing for your credit . It wo n't negatively impact your credit to prepay .
According to <URL> : Your eligibility to claim a deduction for your Traditional IRA contribution on your federal tax return depends on whether you are an active participant of an employer-sponsored plan in the year to which your deduction applies . If neither you nor your spouse is an active participant , you may deduct your full contribution for the year , up to the contribution limit . [ further down the page ] If you are eligible to make salary-deferral contributions but elect not to , you are not considered an active participant for that year . This should probably be qualified by nothing that the <URL> also says you are considered " covered " by a retirement plan if " any contributions or forfeitures were allocated to your account " . In other words , if your employer 's plan involves them putting money into your account on their own ( regardless of your own contributions ) , then you are covered . This is an interesting question that I have seen asked many times but never seen definitively answered by a truly authoritative source ( i.e. , the IRS or a tax attorney ) . The above is the clearest info I could find .
The rules are quite different . There is no special home purchase penalty-free withdrawal . In the case that your account has been open for five years , you can withdraw the principal ( but not the earnings ) without penalty . You may want to talk to a professional for further details . The real question is : why do you want to borrow against your future to finance your present ? Your down payment funds should come from another source than your retirement . Retirement funds should only be touched in the direst financial straights .
Unfortunately you have to take the deduction in the proper tax year . Your 2015 contribution , even if made in 2016 impacts the taxes you file in April 2016 . The logic allows taxpayers to decide how much to contribute into a IRA or Roth IRA after all the other calculations have been done . Some people are near the cutoffs and ca n't know what makes sense or what is allowed until all the numbers are in . This following suggestion may seem counter-intuitive ; but if you are in a very low tax bracket this year , and expect to be in a very high bracket next year you might consider a Roth IRA for your 2015 contribution . For the low level of taxes you will pay on that $ 5500 now , you can pull all the gains out tax free when you retire , which may be decades from now .
You can not fund an IRA with securities -- you can only contribute cash to the IRA . This renders your question moot .
Yes , you can still make a 2013 Roth IRA contribution before the tax filing deadline . But be sure to check the income limitations for making Roth IRA contributions . High earners ( defined differently for different filing status ) are not permitted to make Roth IRA contributions . If you are expecting to get a refund on your 2013 tax return , you can even file early and use the refund toward your 2013 Roth IRA contribution . Note that Roth IRA contributions are not declared on your income tax return and so it is not necessary to file an amended return after making the Roth contribution ( see this <URL> , pointed out by @JoeTaxpayer , for details on how the IRS knows that you have made a Roth IRA contribution ) . Indeed , if the refund does not come in time and you choose to not make a Roth IRA contribution for 2013 after all ( or decide to make a reduced contribution ) , no paperwork needs to be done by you . You can also make Traditional IRA contributions after filing your tax return but before the deadline , and use the tax refund from the 2013 tax return towards the 2013 IRA contributions . However , if the tax refund is not received in time , and you choose to reduce your 2013 Traditional IRA contribution ( or not make it at all ) , then an amended return is required ( and you owe tax or will get a reduced refund ) because you have already declared that you will be making a Traditional IRA contribution ( and deducted that amount ) when you filed your income tax return early and computed that you overpaid and will be getting a refund .
Yes . You can make contributions to all three . However , you might not be able to deduct all of your contribution to the Traditional IRA and the Simple IRA . Being able to take a tax deduction for a contribution to your Traditional IRA depends on your modified adjusted gross income your tax-filing status whether or not you are considered an active participant in your employer-sponsored retirement plan Employer sponsored plans include profit-sharing plans , 401 ( k ) plans and Simple IRAs , which is what you mentioned . If the " Retirement Plan Box " on your Form W-2 is checked , then you are an active participant . If you are an active participant , you can take a tax deduction for a percentage amount , up to 100 % , of your contribution , depending on your income and filing status . You can definitely contribute to a Roth IRA too . However , according to the <URL> : Contributions to a traditional IRA reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA . There is a <URL> in Publication 509 from the IRS that lets you figure how the Roth IRA contribution will affect your traditional IRA contribution limit . NOTE This assumes you are making contributions to all three accounts , the Traditional , Simple and Roth IRA 's in the same tax year .
Your max contribution to your Roth IRA and your traditional IRA share the same cap , so if you are maxing your Roth IRA you can not have a traditional one as well . I would put the additional into your 401k or perhaps a 529 if you have any kids .
Your contributions must come from " compensation " . Quoting <URL> on IRAs , " Generally , compensation is what you earn from working . " So it is unlikely that your stock sale proceeds , if they 're your sole source of income , can be used to fund your IRA . If you do have W-2 income , or self employment income , you can use the proceeds of a stock sale to fund an IRA . The IRS does n't care where the exact dollars that go into the IRA come from , only that you earned ( from working ) at least as much as you contributed .
You are missing something very significant . The money in a traditional IRA ( specifically , a deductible traditional IRA ; there is not really any reason to keep a nondeductible traditional IRA anymore ) is pre-tax . That means when you pay tax on it when you take it out , you are paying tax on it for the first time . If you take ordinary money to invest it in stocks , and then pay capital gains tax on it when you take it out , that is post-tax money to begin with -- meaning that you have already paid ( income ) tax on it once . Then you have to pay tax again on the time-value growth of that money ( i.e. that growth is earned from money that is already taxed ) . That means you are effectively paying tax twice on part of that money . If that does n't make sense to you , and you think that interest , capital gains , etc. is the first time you 're paying tax on the money because it 's growth , then you have a very simplistic view of money . There 's something called time value of money , which means that a certain amount of money is equivalent to a greater amount of money in the future . If you invest $ 100 now and end up with $ 150 in the future , that $ 150 in the future is effectively the same money as the $ 100 now . Let 's consider a few examples . Let 's say you have $ 1000 of pre-tax income you want to invest and withdraw a certain period of time later in retirement . Let 's say you have an investment that grows 100 % over this period of time . And let 's say that your tax rate now and in the future is 25 % ( and for simplicity , assume that all income is taxed at that rate instead of the tax bracket system ) . And capital gains tax is 15 % . Put it in a Traditional IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 grows to $ 2000 , you pay 25 % taxes , end up with $ 1500 Take it in your paycheck , and then invest it in the stock , and withdraw it at the end : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax to $ 750 , the investment grows to $ 1500 , but then you pay capital gains tax of 15 % x $ 750 = $ 112.50 . You end up with $ 1387.50 Put it in a Roth IRA and withdraw it : $ 1000 , you pay 25 % income tax on it to $ 750 ; it then grows to $ 1500 ; you pay no taxes on that You see a few things : Traditional IRA and Roth IRA are equivalent if the tax rates are the same . This is because , in both cases , you pay tax one time on the money ( the only difference between paying tax now and later is the tax rate ) . It does n't matter that you 're paying tax only on the principal for the Roth and on the principal plus earnings for Traditional , because the principal now is equivalent to the principal plus earnings in the future . And you also see that investing money outside fares worse than both of them . That is because you are paying tax on the money once plus some more . When you compare it against the Roth IRA , the disadvantage is obvious -- in both cases you pay income tax on the principal , but for Roth IRA you pay nothing on the earnings , whereas for the outside stock , you pay some tax on the earnings . What may be less obvious is it is equally disadvantageous compared to a Traditional IRA ; Traditional and Roth IRA are equivalent in this comparison . 401 ( k ) s and IRAs have a fundamental tax benefit compared to normal money investment , because they allow money to be taxed only one time . No matter how low the capital gains tax rate it , it is still worse because it is a tax on time-value growth from money that is already taxed .
If you have the cash on hand to pay the tax on the amount you are transferring I recommend moving to a Roth IRA An IRA is tax-deferred . You put in pretax contributions in to an IRA , and you are taxed on that money ( your contributions and interest earned ) when you withdraw it at retirement , age 59 1/2 . The idea being that you will be taking less out per year in your retirement years , putting you into a lower tax bracket . The major problem is most people draw out as much or more a year in their retirement years than when they were working . A Roth IRA grows tax free You put after tax contributions into a Roth IRA , you have paid taxes on the contributions , and you are never taxed on the growth . When you draw the money out at retirement you do n't pay any income taxes on that money . Let me give you an example : For this example we will use the following information for both scenario : You are in the 25 % fed tax bracket Your mutual fund investment will average 12 % a year . You will invest from age 25 to age 65 . We will invest $ 400 per month for a total of $ 4800 . The current maximum is $ 5000 if you are under 50 years old Roth IRA $ 400 dollars after taxes is $ 300 Invest $ 300 a month , at age 65 you have 3,529,432 You owe no taxes on this money , it does n't matter how much you take out a year . IRA $ 400 dollars a month is taken pretax out of your paycheck . Invest $ 400 per month , at age 65 you have $ 4,705,909 You owe taxes of 25 % as you draw that out for at total tax of 1,176,477 4,705,909 - 1,176,477 = 3,529,432 cash in your pocket The problem is if you draw out more than $ 82,400 ( current 2010 filing single ) per year you will be pushed to a higher tax bracket and take more of your money away . If you decide to buy a vacation home and you take out $ 250,000 to pay for it , that 's counted as income for that year any you will be in the 33 % tax bracket . Even if you can keep yourself to a low income the government forces your hand and makes you draw out more money at age 70 , based on their tables , forcing you into a higher tax bracket
You can convert additional amounts from Traditional IRA to Roth IRA as often as you want . What there is a limit on , is " reconversion " -- if you convert to Roth IRA , then recharacterize it back to Traditional IRA ( undoing the conversion ) , then you are restricted from " re-converting " that money to Roth IRA again in the 30 days after the recharacterization or during the same tax year as the original conversion .
end question
start question
Class action settlement reached for former stock holders . Is it worth the hassle to participate ?
The deadline for submitting a claim was September 4th , 2016 - therefore you are no longer eligible . That being said , you probably did not miss much . <URL> you can expect to be paid about 14 cents per share , on claims exceeding $ 10 ( below $ 10 you do n't get paid ) . Read the settlement notice for more info .
Get your jewelery appraised . ( Do n't let whoever does the appraisal be the same person whom you would sell it to . ) Logically jewelery must be worthy more than the raw gold that makes it up because somebody took the time to design patterns and do specialty craft to the metal .
There are multiple answers here which discuss credit scoring criteria . A good score does n't require that you pay interest on a loan . I like that you 're thinking about this so far in advance . A credit inquiry does impact your score for 2 years . I refinanced my mortgage in November 2011 , and the result was nearly $ 5000 less interest per year . Along with that , came a ding to my report , it fades overtime , and falls off after the second year . I do recommend finding the cards that you plan to use for a long time . ( again , other posts here discuss ideal cards ) For me , it was a card that gives 2 % to my daughter 's 529 college account . For you , a different cash back card might be better . Either way , enough available credit so you do n't get a bill representing more than 19 % of the total credit lines . Then pay in full . Do n't apply for any new credit starting 25 months prior to house hunting . And plan to put 20 % down . Average age of accounts helps your score , so constantly opening new accounts and cancelling old is bad . A few related answers help provide a greater understanding of credit scoring - <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
If by " Company Stock " you mean " stock in the company I work for " then absolutely sell your stock . It is too big a risk to have your investments tied into the same company that is also providing your salary . If you mean stock as in general investments , I like to look at it this way . If you have $ 25,000 stock and a $ 100,000 mortgage you ask this question : If I had a $ 75,000 mortgage would I borrow an additional $ 25,000 against my house to invest in the stock market ? If the answer is yes , then you are taking a risk consistent with your tolerance for risk . If you answer no , then your tolerance for risk says you 'd be happier paying down your mortgage .
An article linked from <URL> has some great advice , which I think are good rules of thumb . Do n't file a small claim . A claim should be at least $ 200 beyond your deductible before you file , and quite possibly further . Stick with one company . They are more likely to forgive than if you switch companies constantly . If your Homeowners and Auto insurance are through the same provider , they are less likely to want to lose you business Keep your home safe , such that you are less likely to need insurance claims . Put in burglary protection , trim trees , etc. . Also , at least my insurance gives a premium price for those who have n't filed a claim in 5 or more years for homeowners or rental insurance . See if you have a similar discount , will loose it , and guess how much that will cost you over 5 years . My rule of thumb : Your premium might go up quite a bit , possibly as much as triple , especially for a large claim . But , it is certainly worth it if you are going to get more than triple your premium through your claim . The worst case : Mortgage mandated insurance , which will be about triple your current cost .
My knee-jerk reaction was " no , they are not worth it " , but I took a little time to look up what some of the trusted names in consumer electronics reviews had to say about extended warranties/service contracts . A <URL> writer said that your decision should consider the price of the service contract relative to the price of the item you 're buying , as well as the amount of hassle you 're willing to endure , should something go wrong . <URL> believes that the warranties that come with your products are almost always enough , and they say that electronics and appliances are so well-built nowadays , the likelihood of you needing extra service before you upgrade are slim-to-none . And the folks over at <URL> offer the same maybe-yes-maybe-no advice as the cnet guys : depends on your appetite for risk and the options available to you . So I would suggest that the answer be " no " most of the time , but consider it anyway .
It depends if you are with a direct market access provider or a market maker . With direct market access you are basically trading based on the liquidity of the under security . With a market maker the provider will try to match the liquidity of the underlying in most cases , but may differ from one provider to another .
It is legal and is a common practice . Hotels take your credit/debit card information in case there are additional charges ( incidentals ) billed to you during your stay , or to ensure you pay if you did n't pre-pay . Every hotel does it . If they just swiped it - the information is in the computer , but they still keep it . You might see a pending charge from the hotel on your account . It is an " authorization " , not a real charge . You should make sure they cancel it when you leave as to not hold funds on your account tied up unnecessarily . As to your concerns - when you leave , request to take that note from the reception after you 've paid your bill . Debit card transactions without a swiped card and typed-in PIN are considered credit card transactions ( except that they 're charged to your account immediately ) and enjoy the same fraud protections . So unless you 've given them your PIN as well ( which you should never do ) , you 're OK .
Securities clearing and settlement is a complex topic - you can start by browsing <URL> , and ( given sufficient quantities of masochism and strong coffee ) progress to <URL> . You 're correct - modern trade settlement systems are electronic and heavily streamlined . However , you 're never going to see people hand over assets until they 're sure that payment has cleared - given current payment systems , that means the fastest settlement time is going to be the next business day ( so-called T +1 settlement ) , which is what 's seen for heavily standardized instruments like standard options and government debt securities . Stocks present bigger obstacles . First , the seller has to locate the asset being sold &amp; make sure they have clear title to it ... which is tougher than it might seem , given the layers of abstraction/virtualization involved in the chain of ownership &amp; custody , complicated in particular by " rehypothecation " involved in stock borrowing/lending for short sales ... especially since stock borrow/lending record-keeping tends to be somewhat slipshod ( cf. periodic uproar about " naked shorting " and " failure to deliver " ) . Second , the seller has to determine what exactly it is that they have sold ... which , again , can be tougher than it might seem . You see , stocks are subject to all kinds of corporate actions ( e.g. cash distributions , spin-offs , splits , liquidations , delistings ... ) A particular topic of keen interest is who exactly is entitled to large cash distributions - the buyer or the seller ? Depending on the cutoff date ( the " ex-dividend date " ) , the seller may need to deliver to the buyer just the shares of stock , or the shares plus a big chunk of cash - a significant difference in settlement . Determining the precise ex-dividend date ( and so what exactly are the assets to be settled ) can sometimes be very difficult ... it 's usually T-2 , except in the case of large distributions , which are usually T +1 , unless the regulatory authority has neglected to declare an ex-dividend date , in which case it defaults to standard DTC payment policy ( i.e. T-2 ) ... I 've been involved in a few situations where the brokers involved were clueless , and full settlement of " due bills " for cash distributions to the buyer took several months of hard arguing . So yeah , the brokers want a little time to get their records in order and settle the trade correctly .
No , but it is certainly a possibility . the efficient market hypothesis would say that this means that the market perceives the present value of all future earning as negative . These earnings might take the form of a writedown of assets at some point . ( Companies carry a goodwill asset that is generally imaginary . They book that asset when they buy companies for more than they are worth . ) It would be as if PRUN was a stock tracking my life . If I bought my house in 2006 for $ 1 million cash . I might have a book value of $ 1 million . However , PRUN might trade at $ 500k because the market knows that my asset is n't really worth $ 1 million and at some point my earnings will take a hit to reflect that . It might also mean that future " real " earnings " ie actual profit and loss on sales " are going to be negative . This would mean bankruptcy is more likely .
Most participants will win nothing , so your expected winnings are almost zero . You could donate the equipment to a local high school or college . It would wipe out all the income , and you would end up getting nothing , but you would owe no taxes . It would be easy to do , and you would end up with a nice thank you letter from the school , and maybe your name on a plaque on a wall .
If all of the following conditions are satisfied : Your utilization is consistently high due to a very low limit relative to your monthly expenditures You pay your balance every month Your income and score is high enough to warrant a credit limit increase There are no errors in your credit files Then applying for a credit limit increase will most likely result in an increase in your score , because the high utilization will have a greater impact than a single hard inquiry that the limit increase request will generate . But if your current score and reported income is not high enough to warrant an increase , the hard inquiry will lower your score slightly . The issue here is whether the creditor thinks you could handle a higher limit , and this is significantly related to what annual income you have reported to them , as well as any other debts that they might see in your credit files . A good history of timely payment on their own account is also a factor , but not the only one . With respect to discrepancies in the scores , note that CreditKarma reports TransUnion and Equifax credit files and scores , which are based on the VantageScore 3.0 model ; Experian uses FICO . These different scoring models should be in the same ballpark but it is not unusual for there to be variations . Also , different agencies may report different information -- for example , hard inquiries are generated on different files because a given creditor may request your file from one agency and not the others . On a personal note , I myself was once in a similar situation . I distrusted credit offers ( after having been burned by predatory lenders years ago ) , and the only card I had was issued by my bank , with a very low limit . I used it constantly , but always paid it off . Eventually I realized that I was not doing myself any favors : My utilization was all over the map because it depended on whether I had just paid off the balance before the creditor reported it to the agencies I was not taking advantage of card offers with rewards , which I rightfully earned by not carrying a balance Limiting myself to a single card was risky since it is a single point of failure ; if it were lost or stolen , the inconvenience would be substantial . So , I applied for a few lines of credit , and increased my total limit by a factor of about 30 , dropping my utilization from nearly 100 % each month to less than 3 % .
The shareholders have a claim on the profits , but they may prefer that claim to be exercised in ways other than dividend payments . For example , they may want the company to invest all of its profits in growth , or they may want it to buy back shares to increase the value of the remaining shares , especially since dividends are generally taxed as income while an increase in the share price is generally taxed as a capital gain , and capital gains are often taxed at a lower rate than income .
tl ; dr : Because you have been aggressively paying off your mortgage , you do n't have much time left on your mortgage . If you continue to pay off your mortgage at this rate , it will most likely not be worth it for you to refinance . When evaluating a refinance , you need to calculate the payback time . This is the time it will take for the money you are saving on interest with your new rate to make up for the cost of refinancing ( closing costs ) . Here is your original amortization schedule for your current mortgage ( monthly payment of $ 910 , total interest cost $ 41,800 ) : ( <URL> ) However , you have been paying early . ( Nice ! ) If you were to make the normal $ 910 monthly payment from here on out and not pay anything early anymore , your mortgage will end on March 2021 , which is 5 years early . ( <URL> ) If you continue to pay early at the rate that you have been paying ( I estimate that you have been paying an extra $ 675 per month ) , your mortgage will end on September 2018 , three years from today . ( total interest cost : $ 19,900 ; interest between now and the end : $ 3,200 ) ( <URL> ) If you are planning on continuing to pay off your mortgage at the rate that you have been paying , this does n't give you a whole lot of time to get your closing costs back in saved interest . Let 's assume that you are planning on paying off your mortgage at the same rate that you have been paying it . Closing costs and interest rates can vary , but for the sake of discussion , let 's say that you can refinance today for 3.125 % , and the closing costs will be $ 2000 . The normal amortization schedule for your new , 15 year mortgage would look like this : ( $ 370 monthly payment , $ 13,500 total interest ) ( <URL> ) At the rate you 've been paying ( about $ 1585 per month ) , if you continue this after you refinance , your mortgage will be done about 3 years from now . ( $ 2,500 total interest ) ( <URL> ) Looking at your two options , if you do not refinance , you will be paying about $ 3,200 in interest before your mortgage is paid off . If you refinance now , you 'll be paying about $ 2,500 in interest , a difference of $ 700 . It is very unlikely that you will be able to refinance for less than $ 700 in closing costs , so I would say that it is not worth it for you to refinance .
A lot of whether or not using those types of cards is worth it depends on how you use your credit card . If you use your credit card very often and pay it off in full each month , then often these cards can be great for you . If you often leave a balance on the card then a card with a lower interest rate would be better to focus on . I personally would not use any points card that had any actual fees with it . They already typically have a below average interest rate as it is . For us , we very rarely use our credit card . For utilities we use e-checks and for most other things we use a cash budgeting system . As a result , for us the lower interest credit cards are more important since we rarely would gain any worthwhile amounts of points for use .
You report it as an expense against the 1099 income when you do your taxes . You will only be taxed on the amount after the lawyers fees ( but if it cost you more in lawyers fees than you recover in damages , the loss is not deductible ) . Be sure to keep documentation of the lawyers bill and the contract . Compensatory damages are generally not taxable at all . You can see <URL> for more information on that .
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
The only " smallest amount " issue , as far as I know , is that some of these funds or their brokers may require a minimum initial investment to justify their effort in setting up the account . I believe my funds required that I start them with somewhere between one and five thousand dollars . Other than that , gains ( or loses , in a bad period ) from a fund are directly proportional to the amount of money you have invested in that fund . It 's just that 8 % of $ 500 is a much less impressive absolute number that 8 % of $ 500,000 ... But the way you get the $ 500,000 is a combination of ongoing deposits and compound interest over a decade or three .
First , forget about your credit rating . That will come back once you 're out of default and back on your feet . Keep in mind that the write-off is considered taxable income , so you 'll be owing the IRS and your State ( if its an income tax state ) money on that . I do n't think that you can ignore the second question . If you 're going to end up robbing Peter to pay Paul , I do n't see the point of trading an unsecured , dischargeable debt for another debt and a non-dischargeable IRS obligation . If you ca n't make payments on $ 17k , you ca n't make payments on $ 12k either . Note that when the IRS does n't get paid , they seize assets from your accounts and garnish your wages , and charge hefty fees for the privilege . If I were in your situation and had the ability to make payments , I would try to get written agreements from the unsecured creditors to do the following : Take you out of default status and get rid of penalty interest . ( ie . start paying 15 % instead of the 30 % or more that you are paying now ) Commit to making a specific payment . Freeze your credit limit to prevent the accrual of new fees . You have a very short window to make this deal with BoA . If they are ready to cut you a 30 % deal , the next step will be selling it to collections . If I were unable to get those types of settlements or make the payments , I 'd immediately start looking into bankruptcy and getting on with my life . A Chapter 13 bankruptcy will stop the accrual of interest and penalties , stop the collection calls and leave you with $ 0 debt in 36 months . If you go this route , try to keep one credit line that you 've had for a few years ( like a store credit card ) open ... this will make things easier later on .
There may be a specific IRS-required deadline which might or might not have been violated in your case . but the main delay usually is from the employer 's end . The 401k administrator has to receive verification that employment has terminated before the funds can be distributed , and this can take some time because some people get two weeks salary in lieu of notice etc. . In your case , because of the merger/acquisition , there may be legal questions as to whether one employment was terminated and another begun ( and so you can roll over the funds in the old 401k into an IRA ) or whether the terms of the merger/acquisition are such that the assets of the old 401k plan get rolled over into the existing 401k plan of the new employer . In short , while " effectively let go from the old company and re-hired as new employees at the acquiring company " might be what it appears from the outside , legally it might be something different , and everybody is waiting till the lawyers figure out the details , and does not want to allow rollovers etc until the dust has settled .
end question
start question
What to do with old company 's 401k ?
I suggest rolling it over to the 401 ( k ) with your new employer . Particularly if they match any percentage of your contribution , it would be in your interest to take as much of that money as possible . When it comes to borrowing money from your 401 ( k ) , it looks like the issues AbraCadaver mentioned only apply if you do n't pay back the money ( <URL> ) . The reasonable argument against taking money out of your 401 ( k ) to buy a home is that it leaves a dent in your retirement nest egg ( and its earning power ) during key earning years . On the plus side for borrowing from your 401 ( k ) , it 's very low interest -- and it 's interest you 're paying back to yourself over a 5-year period . At its current value , the most you could borrow from your 401 ( k ) is $ 35K . If you 're fortunate in where you live , that could be most or all of the downpayment . In my own experience , my wife borrowed against her 401 ( k ) balance for the earnest money when we purchased a new home . Fortunately for us , an investor snapped up my previous home within 4 days of us listing it , so she was able to pay back her loan in full right away .
I suggest rolling it over to the 401 ( k ) with your new employer . Particularly if they match any percentage of your contribution , it would be in your interest to take as much of that money as possible . When it comes to borrowing money from your 401 ( k ) , it looks like the issues AbraCadaver mentioned only apply if you do n't pay back the money ( <URL> ) . The reasonable argument against taking money out of your 401 ( k ) to buy a home is that it leaves a dent in your retirement nest egg ( and its earning power ) during key earning years . On the plus side for borrowing from your 401 ( k ) , it 's very low interest -- and it 's interest you 're paying back to yourself over a 5-year period . At its current value , the most you could borrow from your 401 ( k ) is $ 35K . If you 're fortunate in where you live , that could be most or all of the downpayment . In my own experience , my wife borrowed against her 401 ( k ) balance for the earnest money when we purchased a new home . Fortunately for us , an investor snapped up my previous home within 4 days of us listing it , so she was able to pay back her loan in full right away .
One common type of account is called a <URL> account . Under this type of account , the money is held in the child 's name for tax purposes , but the account is under control of a custodian until the child reaches a legal age . When you set up the account , the amount you put in is considered a gift to the child . The first consideration is the gift tax , which is paid by the giver . You can give him up to $ 14,000 per year and not have to pay any gift tax on the gift . Above that amount in a year , and there are lifetime exclusions that apply to avoid the tax . Your nephew , as the gift recipient , never has to pay income/gift tax on the gift . Any mutual fund company should be able to set up a UTMA account . They will need the child 's Social Security number , because the funds will belong to him , and he will be receiving tax statements each year on the earnings . You also need to identify the custodian . You could name yourself as the custodian , or you may want to select one of the child 's parents . The custodian has complete control of the funds , but is legally required to manage the money in the child 's interest . The custodian may choose to continue to invest , or may choose to withdraw the money to pay for something for the child ( college tuition , for example ) . Once the child reaches the age of majority , the money is completely under his control for any purpose . He could spend it on college , on rent , or he could put it all on red at the roulette table . The age of majority varies in each state , but in Washington State ( where I see from your profile that you are located ) , the age is generally 21 . The child is the owner of the fund for tax purposes . Depending on how much you give him and how much it earns , he might need to <URL> . If he earns enough , he 'll be subject to the <URL> , which means that his investment income above a certain amount will be taxed at his parents ' tax rate . You 'll want to make a note of the value of the mutual funds when you bought them , because <URL> for capital gains tax purposes when he sells the funds . ( The gift does not reset the cost basis . ) One other consideration that should be mentioned is that , because the money is in the child 's name , it can count against him for need-based financial aid purposes . Other types of accounts , such as the 529 plans , have tax benefits that the UTMA does not , but they generally require that the money be spent on college .
A quick search via google shows that some 401K programs are refunding money to the employees if the cost of running the program were lower than originally estimated . Here is one such explanation : As was communicated in the plan transition guide in September 2012 , the University of Washington has negotiated a fee credit from Fidelity . Beginning in January 2013 , a credit was allocated to participants who invest in mutual funds for which Fidelity receives revenue to offset administrative costs . ( See Appendix ) . Revenue credits are commonly negotiated for and given to plan sponsors in order to help them offset plan expenses . Rather than keep this credit , however , the UW has chosen to reallocate it back to the participants who actually hold the funds . Any credit allocated to your account will appear on your quarterly benefits statement and will be invested in the fund to which the credit relates , and allocated proportionally to the sources associated with such fund for each Participant .
If you can get a rate of savings that is higher than your debt , you save . If you ca n't then you pay off your debt . That makes the most of the money you have . Also to think about : what are you goals ? Do you want to own a home , start a family , further your education , move to a new town ? All of these you would need to save up for . If you can do these large transactions in cash you will be better off . If it were me I would do what I think is a parroting of Dave Ramsay 's advice Pay off credit cards and other unsecured debt . Save up several months of living expenses as cash . Put that in an accessible place and earn a bit on it . Contribute 100 % to a retirement account . ( If you start now , you can achieve amazing things when you retire ) Pay off that low interest debt Invest a little for fun Save up for a big purchase Enjoy your extra money . Congratulations by the way . It is n't easy to do what you have accomplished and you will lead a simpler life if you do n't have to worry about money everyday .
There are a few factors at play here . Depending on the bank that has offered you the card there are different types of overdraft protection that may have been set up . Typically , if they attempt to run the card with no money , if one of these is in play , you will be spared any overdraft fees by the transaction charging to a designated overdraft account , usually savings , or by the transaction failing due to insufficient funds . If you know the transaction went through , and you know there were not enough funds in the account to cover the transactions , then you have a few options . If you have overdraft protection that auto charges insufficient funds charges to a separate account , then you have nothing to worry about . If you do not , most banks offer a grace period where you have until the end of the day to zero out your account , that is to say pay the overdraft amount and bring your balance to at least $ 0 . If this is a charge that occurred in the past , and you have already been charged an overdraft fee , there may still be hope . I can not speak for all banks , but I know that Chase Bank offers a once per year overdraft forgiveness , where they will get rid of the charges if you agree to bring the account out of the negative . There is a chance other banks will do the same if you call their customer service .
JoeTaxpayer 's answer is dead on ... but let me give my own two cents with a little bit of math . Otherwise , I personally find that people talking about diversified portfolios tends to be full of buzzwords . Let 's say that Buffett 's investments are $ 10 million . He would like to earn ≥ 7 % this year , or $ 700,000 . He can invest that money in coca-cola / / underwear , which might return : Or he can invest in " genius moves " that will make headlines : ( like <URL> ) , which might return : And he makes plays for the long haul based on the expected value of the investments . So if he splits it 50/50 ... ( $ 5 million / $ 5 million ) , then his expected value is 822,250 : By diversifying , he does reduce the expected value of the portfolio ... ( He is not giving $ 10 M the chance to turn into $ 1.5 million or $ 2 million for him ! ) . The expected value of that shock-and-awe portfolio with all $ 10 million invested in it is $ 1.2 M. By taking less risk ... for less reward ... his expected return is lower . But his risk is lower too . Scale this example back up into the $ 100 million or billion range that Buffett invests in and that extra margin makes the difference . In the context of your original article , the lower-risk ' cake and underwear ' investments let Buffett go big on the things that will make 20 % + returns on billions of dollars , without completely destroying his investment capital when things take a turn for the worse .
You can employ a hedging strategy using short selling , put options , or other methods that will partially neutralize your exposure to the overall market . e.g. . You could short sell a market-wide index such as the S&amp;P 500 , while going long ( buying ) the company you are interested in . Investopedia has a nice primer on this : <URL> Also , see this related question here : <URL>
<URL> covers this . Rollovers to Roth IRAs . You can roll over distributions directly from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) to a Roth IRA . You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan ( other than a designated Roth account ) that you would have had to include in income if you had not rolled them over into a Roth IRA . However , special rules apply for any amounts rolled over in 2010 . See How to treat 2010 Roth IRA rollovers , later . You do not include in gross income any part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a return of contributions to the plan that were taxable to you when paid . In addition , the 10 % tax on early distributions does not apply . Any amount rolled over into a Roth IRA is subject to the same rules for converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA . For more information , see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1 of Publication 590 . How to report . Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on Form 1040 , line 16a ; Form 1040A , line 12a ; or Form 1040NR , line 17a . This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R . From this amount , subtract any contributions ( usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R ) that were taxable to you when made . Enter the remaining amount , even if zero , on Form 1040 , line 16b ; Form 1040A , line 12b ; or Form 1040NR , line 17b . The 1099R should come from the organization that had the original 401K , only they would know what would go in each box on the form 1099-R .
If you 're paying class 1 NI via PAYE then there is no benefit in voluntarily paying class 2 as well . Your class 1 contributions get you everything that class 2 does ( and more - class 1 builds up an entitlement to contributions-based JSA which class 2 does not ) . The warning on the SA form is aimed at people whose only or main income comes from self-employment .
I did receive TurboTax 's automatically generated confirmation of successfully completing tax filing electronically the day I did my tax on their web site . About 24 to 48 hours after you push the button at TurboTax the IRS should either confirm or reject the initial check of the tax documents . You should return to the TurboTax website to make sure the IRS has accepted the reutrn . Next review either the confirmation you received when you pushed the button or the information at the TurboTax site . It should specify when the money would be withdrawn . You were given options regarding payment method and date you want to make the payment . Many people who finish their tax paperwork early , but owe money wait until the last day to submit . Now it is possible to submit paperwork early but specify a date just before the deadline . Print out or even better save an electronic copy of the information at the TurboTax website . I have no idea how long it takes the IRS to actually pull the money from an account , once the day you specified has occurred . You have to plan as if the withdraw will happen on the exact date , but with millions of tax payers making transactions it may be delayed by a day or two .
There are certain allowable reasons to withdraw money from a 401K . The desire to free your money from a " bad " plan is not one of them . A rollover is a special type of withdrawal that is only available after one leaves their current employer . So as long as you stay with your current company , you can not rollover . [ Exception : if you are over age 59.5 ] One option is to talk to HR , see if they can get a expansion of offerings . You might have some suggestions for mutual funds that you would like to see . The smaller the company the more likely you will have success here . That being said , there is some research to support having few choices . Too many choices intimidates people . It 's quite popular to have " target funds " That is funds that target a certain retirement year . Being that I will be 50 in 2016 , I should invest in either a 2030 or 2035 fund . These are a collection of funds that rebalances the investment as they age . The closer one gets to retirement the more goes into bonds and less into stocks . However , I think such rebalancing is not as smart as the experts say . IMHO is almost always better off heavily invested in equity funds . So this becomes a second option . Invest in a Target fund that is meant for younger people . In my case I would put into a 2060 or even 2065 target . As JoeTaxpayer pointed out , even in a plan that has high fees and poor choices one is often better off contributing up to the match . Then one would go outside and contribute to an individual ROTH or IRA ( income restrictions may apply ) , then back into the 401K until the desired amount is invested . You could always move on to a different employer and ask some really good questions about their 401K . Which leads me back to talking with HR . With the current technology shortage , making a few tweaks to the 401K , is a very cheap way to make their employees happy . If you can score a 1099 contracting gig , you can do a SEP which allows up to a whopping 53K per year . No match but with typically higher pay , sometimes overtime , and a high contribution limit you can easily make up for it .
You can rollover money from a 401 ( k ) to Traditional IRA and back to a 401 ( k ) . There are likely account closure fees associated with this , so it 's not completely free . As long as you 're rolling from one tax deferred account to another there are no penalties . The IRS has a <URL> showing what accounts can roll where . Note , starting next year , you can only do one IRA rollover per year . The IRS has <URL> . One additional comment - on the concept of your money being " locked " into an IRA . Generally you have far more options with an IRA than a 401 ( k ) . If you go with a large , low cost provider like Vanguard you 're likely to be much better off than in a small company 401 ( k ) that only offers costly funds that are likely selected primarily to benefit the administrator of the plan . Choose your IRA provider and the investments with them wisely , and leave that money there for a very long time .
Options : Buy Vanguard Bond Funds that are tax free for wherever you live . Put the money into the highest yield savings account you can find ( for amounts over 5k this is probably going to be 1.25 % ) Put the money into the highest yield CD you can find . ( personally I did the first and it is working well ) .
If you can afford it , Yes . You will be able to roll it over ( however much it has in it ) to your next 401K , or to your own self-directed IRA . Anything you can afford to save now will begin to compound , and with compounding ( and being in your mid-twenties ) , time is everything .
It looks like the interest rate on bonds from 1995 is at least 1.41 % . If it is from the earlier part of the year , the interest rate is 4 % . Even if it is the latter , I 'd say it is worth keeping , although you could likely do better in a CD , it would lock your money up . I 'd consider it a part of my bond allocation in my investments and up the equity a little . You can use this link to get actual prices and interest rates : <URL>
I have about $ 1K in savings , and have been told that you should get into investment and saving for retirement early . I make around $ 200 per week , which about $ 150 goes into savings . That 's $ 10k per year . The general rule of thumb is that you should have six months income as an emergency fund . So your savings should be around $ 5k . Build that first . Some argue that the standard should be six months of living expenses rather than income . Personally , I think that this example is exactly why it is income rather than living expenses . Six months of living expenses in this case would only be $ 1250 , which wo n't pay for much . And note that living expenses can only be calculated after the fact . If your estimate of $ 50 a week is overly optimistic , you might not notice for months ( until some large living expense pops up ) . Another problem with using living expenses as the measure is that if you hold down your living expenses to maximize your savings , this helps both measures . Then you hit your savings target , and your living expenses increase . So you need more savings . By contrast , if your income increases but your living expenses do not , you still need more savings but you can also save more money . Does n't really change the basic analysis though . Either way you have an emergency savings target that you should hit before starting your retirement savings . If you save $ 150 per week , then you should have around $ 4k in savings at the beginning of next year . That 's still low for an emergency fund by the income standard . So you probably should n't invest next year . With a living expenses standard , you could have $ 6250 in savings by April 15th ( deadline for an IRA contribution that appears in the previous tax year ) . That 's $ 5000 more than the $ 1250 emergency fund , so you could afford an IRA ( probably a Roth ) that year . If you save $ 7500 next year and start with $ 4k in savings ( under the income standard for emergency savings ) , that would leave you with $ 11,500 . Take $ 5500 of that and invest in an IRA , probably a Roth . After that , you could make a $ 100 deposit per week for the next year . Or just wait until the end . If you invested in an IRA the previous year because you decided use the living expenses standard , you would only have $ 6500 at the end of the year . If you wait until you have $ 6750 , you could max out your IRA contribution . At that point , your excess income for each year would be larger than the maximum IRA contribution , so you could max it out until your circumstances change . If you do n't actually save $ 3k this year and $ 7500 next year , do n't sweat it . A college education is enough of an investment at your age . Do that first , then emergency savings , then retirement . That will flip around once you get a better paying , long term job . Then you should include retirement savings as an expected cost . So you 'd pay the minimum required for your education loans and other required living expenses , then dedicate an amount for retirement savings , then build your emergency savings , then pay off your education loans ( above the minimum payment ) . This is where it can pay to use the more aggressive living expenses standard , as that allows you to pay off your education loans faster . I would invest retirement savings in a nice , diversified index fund ( or two since maintaining the correct stock/bond mix of 70 % -75 % stocks is less risky than investing in just bonds much less just stocks ) . Investing in individual stocks is something you should do with excess money that you can afford to lose . Secure your retirement first . Then stock investments are gravy if they pan out . If they do n't , you 're still all right . But if they do , you can make bigger decisions , e.g. buying a house . Realize that buying individual stocks is about more than just buying an app . You have to both check the fundamentals ( which the app can help you do ) and find other reasons to buy a stock . If you rely on an app , then you 're essentially joining everyone else using that app . You 'll make the same profit as everyone else , which wo n't be much because you all share the profit opportunities with the app 's system . If you want to use someone else 's system , stick with mutual funds . The app system is actually more dangerous in the long term . Early in the app 's life cycle , its system can produce positive returns because a small number of people are sharing the benefits of that system . As more people adopt it though , the total possible returns stay the same . At some point , users saturate the app . All the possible returns are realized . Then users are competing with each other for returns . The per user returns will shrink as usage grows . If you have your own system , then you are competing with fewer people for the returns from it . Share the fundamental analysis , but pick your stocks based on other criteria . Fundamental analysis will tell you if a stock is overvalued . The other criteria will tell you which
You only have to unfreeze the file of the credit reporting agency that the creditor uses to check your creditworthiness ; so if for example , the creditor pulls from TransUnion , then you only need to unfreeze your TransUnion file . Unfreezing varies by agency . There are several options , not all of which are available for every agency : Unfreeze for a period of time , specified by you ( TU , EQ , EX ) Unfreeze for a specific named creditor ( EQ ) Create a single-use PIN ( EX ) Provide your personal PIN to the creditor ( TU ) Call to remove the freeze ( TU ) This list is not comprehensive ; some agencies may offer such services besides the ones I listed . Note that none of the credit reporting agencies make this a consistent or simple process . This is because they make money by selling their own personalized " lock/unlock " services , which involve creating an account with the agency , and you pay them a monthly fee for monitoring services and credit report access , as well as the ability to selectively " lock/unlock " your report without additional fees . This is not as secure as a security freeze ( which has legal weight as mandated by the FCRA ) but it is more convenient -- because you 're paying for it monthly , as opposed to per incident . Note that if you are victim of identity theft , if you submit a valid police report to each agency , they are obligated by the FCRA to permit you to freeze and unfreeze your file at no cost ; normally the cost is between $ 8-10 per freeze or unfreeze . Also note that in some states , you are also given the right to view your credit file once a month for 12 consecutive months after the occurrence of the ID theft . Finally , note that if you are temporarily or permanently removing a freeze , you should have a fraud alert on your file . The fraud alert then notifies the creditor to use additional means of verification . It does n't stop access to your file . If you create a temporary PIN with an agency , this PIN has a limited-time use , so you can not create several in advance to use at a later time . The way the process is intended to work is : You submit the application The creditor uses their computer system to pull your report The pull is denied because of the freeze The creditor notes the freeze , puts your application on hold and asks you for a way to access your file You create a single-use PIN or otherwise grant the creditor access The creditor sees your file , sees the fraud alert , and asks you more questions before making a decision . If you temporarily unfreeze for a specific time period , then the creditor never sees the freeze . They will still see the fraud alert . But this is risky if you have recently been an ID theft victim . The thief still has your information , and in some cases , ID thieves are sophisticated enough to find ways to access your credit files . I know this from personal experience , because when someone stole my identity , the first thing they did was pull my credit reports , and the next thing they did was sign up for a credit monitoring service so that they could continue to access my reports . Once I discovered this , I had to go through many steps to thwart them . ID theft is not just about fraudulent credit card applications . In many cases , it is about complete impersonation , trying to gain as much access as possible .
No . Not likely . You usually can not transfer your 401 ( k ) out of a company plan while you are still working there . Some companies do permit such transactions for those 55 and older , but only for your own deposits , not for the matching portion , if any . Either way , best to ask the admin for your company plan . If you were no longer with the company , you 'd be able to transfer the 401 ( k ) to your Solo 401 ( k ) if you wished , either directly , or stopping thru an IRA .
Market cap probably is n't as big of an issue as the bid/ask spread and the liquidity , although they tend to be related . The spread is likely to be wider on lesser traded ETF funds we are talking about pennies , likely not an issue unless you are trading in and out frequently . The expense ratios will also tend to be slightly higher again not a huge issue but it might be a consideration . You are unlikely to make up the cost of paying the commission to buy into a larger ETF any time soon though .
end question
start question
How to report a bill was paid in journal entry ?
You can do this through a journal entry in Quickbooks . It can all be entered as one entry , there 's no need to do separate ones for each bill . The journal entry should debit Accounts Payable and credit your equity account . In the line for Accounts Payable , make sure to choose your name in the ' Name ' column . This , in effect , enters a credit to your account , which will offset the bills that were shown there previously . The last step is to apply those credits to the bills . Even though they offset each other , your name would still show up in any Payables reports and in the Pay Bills window . To do this , open the Pay Bills window and select one of the bills owed to you . There should be an option to choose ' Apply Credits ' or something similar ( depends on which version of Quickbooks you are running ) . Choose that option , and apply credits in the amount of the bill , so that it zeroes out . Do the same for all of the other bills . Once they are all checked off , click the button to Pay Bills . This wo n't actually ' pay ' anything , but will instead just apply the credits to the bills as indicated .
I can say that I got X dollars from an account like " Income : Benefits " ... but where do I credit that money to ? " Expenses : Groceries " Yes does n't feel right , since I never actually spent that money on food , You did , did n't you ? You got food . I 'm guessing there 's an established convention for this already ? Doubt it . Established conventions in accounting are for businesses , and more specifically - public companies . So you can find a GAAP , or IFRS guidelines on how to book benefits ( hint : salary expense ) , but it is not something you may find useful in your own household accounting . Do what is most convenient for you . Since it is a double-booking system - you need to have an account on the other side . does n't feel right ? Add or or whatever . When you do your expense and cash-flow reports - you can exclude both the income and the expense benefits accounts if you track them separately , so that they do n't affect your tracking of the " real " expenses .
Another reason for banks to push this is sitckyness . Once you have all of your bills setup , its more trouble to change banks . This reduces the customer turnover rate , which lowers their costs .
I found out that government is going to change ISO 4217 code of local currency . So Gnucash adaptation to this would be easy and mostly mechanical . Duplicate all accounts you have with new ISO currency Set fixed rate between old and new currency Transfer all asserts from old accounts Delete old accounts
Assuming your investments are n't in any kind of tax-advantaged account ( like an IRA ) , they are generally not tracked and you indeed may pay more taxes . What will likely change , however , is your cost basis . You only pay tax on the difference between the value of the investment when you sell it and its value when you bought it . There is no rule that says once you sell an investment and pay taxes on the gain , you will never again pay any taxes on any other investments you then buy with that money . If you own some investment , and it increases in value , and then you sell it , you had a capital gain and owe taxes ( depending on your tax bracket , etc. ) . If you use the money to buy some other investment , and that increases in value , and then you sell it , you had another separate capital gain and again owe taxes . However , every time you sell , you only are subject to capital gains taxes on the gain , not the entire sale price . The value of the investment at the time you bought it is the cost basis . When you sell , you take the sale price and subtract the cost basis to find your gain , So suppose you bought $ 1000 worth of some ETF many years ago . It went up to $ 2000 and you sold it . You have $ 2000 in cash , but $ 1000 of that is your original money back , so your capital gain is $ 1000 and that is the amount on which you owe ( or may owe ) taxes . Suppose you pay 15 % tax on this , as you suggest ; that is $ 150 , leaving you with $ 1850 . Now suppose you buy another ETF with that . Your cost basis is now $ 1850 . Suppose the investment now increases in value again to $ 2000 . This time when you sell , you still have $ 2000 in cash , but this is now only $ 150 more than you paid , so you only owe capital gains taxes on that $ 150 . ( A 15 % tax on that would be $ 22.50 . ) In that example you had one capital gain of $ 1000 and a second of $ 150 and paid a total of $ 172.50 in taxes ( 150 + 22.50 ) . Suppose instead that you had held the original investment and it had increased in value to $ 2150 and you had then sold it . You would have a single capital gain of $ 1150 ( 2150 minus the original 1000 you paid ) . 15 % of this would be the same $ 172.50 you paid under the other arrangement . So in essence you pay the same taxes either way . ( This example is simplified , of course ; in reality , the rate you pay depends on your overall income , so you could pay more if you sell a lot in a single year , since it could push you into a higher tax bracket . ) So none of the money is " tax exempt " , but each time you sell , you " reset the counter " by paying tax on your gain , and each time you buy , you start a new counter on the basis of whatever you pay for the investment . Assuming you 're dealing with ordinary investment instruments like stocks and ETFs , this basis information is typically tracked by the bank or brokerage where you buy and sell them . Technically speaking it is your responsibility to track and report this when you sell an investment , and if you do complicated things like transfer securities from one brokerage to another you may have to do that yourself . In general , however , your bank/brokerage will keep track of cost basis information for you .
You can pay the full amount . There is no harm in paying off your credit card in full . Not paying your credit card minimum and on time is what will negatively affect your credit rating . I at times have paid ahead ( paid more than the current charges ) on my credit card if I know I had a large purchase in the near future .
<URL> ended up having credo in their system but you ca n't find it if you search from their top bar . In their current design you need to click " money " in the top nav and then search in the box in the middle of the page .
Seems like the straightforward answer is to call the provider and ask . They should be able to tell you if you owe them or not . Unfortunately , with small providers there is always a chance they wo n't get even that right ; I would confirm exactly why they think you do n't owe them anything if in fact you do n't . Medical providers can go after you for years later , depending on your state ; so do n't assume just because it 's been months that they wo n't eventually . Smaller providers are n't terribly organized , but they do usually eventually go after most of those who owe them .
Seven years . From the <URL> : In general , negative information more than seven years old from the date of last activity ( ten years for bankruptcies ) must be removed from your file .
Can you pull a credit report on your adult child , spouse - or even any other adult for that matter ? If you have access to things like national ID ( Social Security number ) , can answer security questions related to addresses they have previously lived and outstanding major debts they may have ( house loans , car loans , etc ) , then sure you physically can . Now , is it legal to do so ? <URL> ( a credit bureau ) obtaining someone 's credit report without their permission is considered identity theft and fraud , even if you do not use it for some nefarious purpose . Even if you are a parent , it is a violation of federal and state laws and is punishable by fines and imprisonment . Can they find out ? Absolutely ! <URL> ( according to Visa ) , or in some other way tripping a security alert ( such as if the person has intentionally put a " freeze " on their account and opted-in to some identity theft protection scheme , <URL> ) , will cause your attempt to fail and often require calling the company directly to provide additional verification information ( which of course you may not have and is less predictable ) . Depending on the <URL> , a monitoring service might even send an email or letter to a person directly if such an attempt is made ( but this does vary by service and bureau ) . Even if you do it correctly , all requests are logged and often are noted on credit reports regarding past inquiries - so if in the future they run their credit report they may see the inquiry they will know they did n't request ( that 's weird , this is the first time I 've ever checked my credit ... ) . If the person is using a mailing address you do n't know about , like a PO Box or a friend 's house to get mail ( so you do n't know about their card/statements/loans ) , then you will almost certainly lock the account and a fraud alert will be sent in a way you ca n't intercept . That 's going to be an unpleasant set of conversations ! The alternative : <URL> You can request it so you can go over the importance of good credit with them , or you can tell them outright you are concerned that they may be getting themselves into debt . You can bribe them with getting them a for-fee credit score and analysis at your expense , or extort them by demanding that if they do n't like it they can live somewhere else ... how you play it is up to you . But horror stories are easily avoided , and you can use the opportunity to actually get a credit report and sit down and go over it together . Do they know what a report is and what 's on it ? Most adults twice their age sure do n't ! Parenting tip bonus : if you are open and honest and explain why you 'd like to get a credit report and sit down with them to discuss it and they freak out - bingo , you 've got an answer that something is wrong and it did n't cost you a dime and you did n't break the law . Now , to be completely clear , if they do n't respond well to the credit report that is n't evidence of some kind of guilt or impropriety ( a thanks to the comments for pointing out this potential misinterpretation ) . However , what it does indicate is your relationship may be out of whack - imbalanced or unhealthy in some way . You could be in a co-dependent situation where you are covering for them so they do n't have to be responsible or independent ( bad for both of you ) , or they may be hiding from reality , or you may have have developed serious trust and boundary issues that need to be addressed , or any of dozens of other possibilities ! All of these are possible - they might be really screwing up , or maybe you are , or maybe you both are , or maybe it 's all ok and you can relax . I hope this makes clear the importance of figuring out what reality is and dealing with that , which is the foundation of personal financial health and healthy personal relationships , too !
One option is to look at the <URL> - As George Marian notes , this is by no means a perfect way to " estimate " how much you 'll owe . Other key questions for you to answer : Have you setup the proper number of deductions for you and your family ? E.g. if you have a partner ( wife or husband ) who doesnt have a job , do you have 2 federal and 2 state deductions noted ? Take 30 minutes to identify the major tax deductions that you qualify for . For example , do you typically itemize your deductions or take the standard deduction ? Do you invest money into IRA 's , 401k 's , HSA 's , or any other tax deferred investment vehicle ? Do you pay any interest on student loans ? Here is the <URL> on tax deductions . Another decent website lists the <URL> . It is n't hard to find these type of websites , all I did was to google " <URL> " . There 's no silver bullet here . The best you can do is to understand the key inputs into how your taxes are calculated , and then identify the most important tax deductions that you might take . Then pray that you have n't missed some nuance and use a tax program early in January to check your assumptions so you 're not completely surprised when April rolls around . A final suggestion : do your own taxes using a website like TurboTax . Take the time to " itemize " your tax deductions just to learn what is tax deductible . You can figure out how the big parts of tax law works by just looking at what you could deduct in the future .
Why ? Balance sheet is balance sheet , why is it complicated ? Bank shareholders get dividends in exactly the same way as any other company shareholders do : the company ends up with net profits , which the board of directors decides to distribute to shareholders based on certain amount per share . If at all . Not all the profits are distributed , and in fact - there are companies who do n't distribute dividends at all . Apple , for example , has n't ever distributed dividends until very very recently .
You no longer can . Experian ceased its Canadian operations in 2009 . At the time , Experian Canada had the following posted on their website : Effective April 17 , 2009 , Experian will unfortunately discontinue its Canadian consumer credit bureau operations as a result of the very difficult economic environment in Canada and around the world , which Experian believes will persist for some time . This means that as of April 18 , 2009 , Experian will no longer be providing credit reports out of its Canadian database regarding any consumer in Canada . We will continue to respond to ongoing consumer requests for copies of credit reports , as well as handle disputed items and other consumer assistance until April 17 . After that date and upon completion of any disputes in process , all consumer information will be deleted from our database and will no longer be available to consumers or creditors . If you have not previously obtained your credit report from us or initiated a dispute on your Experian credit report , you may wish to contact one of the other credit bureaus for assistance . This message is no longer on their website , but <URL> still have the message available for viewing .
Did you have an agreement with the company , in advance , that you were performing a service for them at a stipulated rate ? Else , your " work " was pro-bono , charity , free , whatever you want to call it . Too bad , so sad . On the other hand , if you did suffer demonstrable damages as a result of their error , you could try and pursue it in court , but , 2 hours of your time ? ... good luck with that ;-) Your best bet is to ask for some kind of credit , if you 're willing to put a bit more time into it and talk to the right people at the company . But you might get nothing . While a credit is n't cash , if you were to continue using their services , it 's something , and some companies make it a practice to offer credit to satisfy a long-time customer 's complaint .
In the United States , nobody is obligated to report information on your to the credit bureaus . Doing so is an incentive they hold to keep you honest . If repossession of an item is n't an option , lenders have little recourse besides hurting your credit . It is n't all that hard to declare bankruptcy , and lenders are n't allowed to threaten ( or act on ) you with harm . <URL> Furthermore , companies are n't even required to report accurately it seems . The law simply says that you can have it corrected , not that companies are bound for accuracy in the first place .
Chase does not have to verify the identity of John Doe . No new credit account is being established , so the identity check requirements are not required . The account is still owned by Larry alone ; adding an authorized user does not modify the credit agreement between Larry and Chase . Larry is the person taking the risk of adding an authorized signer , not Chase . It is Larry 's concern to verify the identity of John Doe . Every bank can decide at their discretion if/how authorized users are reported to the credit bureau ( s ) . You may submit a request asking them to report or not report , but it is unlikely they will deviate from a standard policy to honor your request .
Seems like it would be easier to wait . Credit inquires do n't make up such a large part of your score . Pay your bills on time , do n't have a ton of debt and your credit will heal quickly without trying to game the system . Equifax is only one of three players , so anything you do to " fix " equifax is going to show up on the others . Bumping inquires off of Equifax will just pollute Transunion and Experian . Edit from JoeTaxpayer - You might consider signing up at <URL> , a free service , it will let you see the inquiries in real time , and knowing they fall off after two years , you can track the impact to you score .
As I recall , the Scottrade minimum is only $ 500 . ( By the way , Scottrade has a feature to automatically reinvest any dividends which the securities pay ) Once you have an account , you can buy into an index fund . SPY tracks the S&amp;P 500 . It is also currently paying nearly 2 % in dividends . You can shop for other alternatives here : <URL>
Only 20 , and going through university This is an important question to ask yourself . Your earnings are 0 and will remain so , unless you start working . Are you willing to halve your money , if the markets tank after you put in your money ? Mostly good investors will buy some more , if they know the stocks they have picked are good . Considering that you have no income you will loose out on it . If you are graduating soon , it might make sense to start investing but it should be reliant on the fact on how quickly you will land a job . I would suggest stay put in the ISA for the time being . Check out if you might get a higher rate of interest if possible and transfer there . Check out <URL> . Do n't blindly put money in a ISA , see if you are getting the best deal in the market . And one thing , interest on ISA is calculated daily .
I would also ask them to write you a letter ( or sign one ) in exchange for your payment that states the debt is paid in full . Then if they do n't take it off you can dispute the item with the credit agencies and give them the letter as evidence . If you do this , I 'd make sure the letter is on the letterhead of the original company that the debt is listed for and not some collection agency .
end question
start question
What happens if a bank loses your safe deposit box ?
Unfortunately assets placed in a safety deposit box are not covered under the Federal Deposit Insurance Program ( FDIC ) . Unless the bank is found to be negligent in the way it handled or protected your safety deposit box , neither them nor their private insurance company will reimburse you for the loss . Find out if in the duration you had your box with them , they moved , transitioned or merged with another entity . In this specific situation , you may be able to demonstrate negligence on the part of the banks as they have seemingly misplaced your box during their transition phase , and depending upon the value of the items placed in your safety deposit box , you may be entitled to some form of recovery . Some homeowner 's insurance policies may also cover the loss , but if you did n't document what you kept in the box , you have difficulty verifying proof of the value . Valuables are often lost but documents can often be reconstructed . You can get stock and bonds by paying a fee for new certificates . For wills and trusts , you can reach out to the lawyer that prepared them for a copy . You should always keep 3 copies of such documents . When you put stuff in the box , always videotape it ( photographs can be challenged ) but if the video shows it was put in there , although it can still be taken out by you after you turn off the camera , yields more weight in establishing content and potential value . Also know the value of the items and check with your homeowner policy to make sure the default amount covers it , if not then you may need to include a rider to add the difference in value and the video , receipts , appraisals and such will serve you well in the future in such unfortunate circumstances . If the contents of a safety deposit box are lost because you did n't pay the fee , then depending on the state you are in the time frame might vary ( 3 years on average ) , but none the less they are sent to the State 's unclaimed property/funds department . You can search for these online often times or by contacting the state . It would help for you to find out which scenario you are in , their fault or yours , and proceed accordingly . Good luck .
Yes , DB pensions are " insured " by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ) , a Federal Government Corporation created under ERISA ( Employee Retirement Income Security Act ) back in the '70s . It 's purpose is to provide protection to DB pension plan participants in the event of a sponsor 's bankruptcy , insolvency , or inability to fully fund a DB plan . In a sense the PBGC is analogous to the FDIC and similar governmental corporations . There are limitations as to what is protected and I found out that there are limitations to the protection for those in the airline industry , as some pilots that I know received reduced pensions from PBGC even though they had higher vested benefits . Perhaps other industries are affected as well . If you want to find out more about the PBGC and what it covers you can go to <URL>
No , it wo n't affect your score until your statement is posted . Paying your bill before your statement is posted is actually a good way to keep your credit utilization low . If you 're worried about high credit utilization negatively affecting your credit score , consider paying your bill several times a month to ensure that when your final monthly statement is posted , your utilization is still low . When my credit limit was very low while I was in college , I did this almost every month , and I 've seen other sites recommend this practice as well . From <URL> : The easiest way [ to lower credit utilization ] is to make credit card payments more than once a month so that your balance never gets too high . and <URL> : Consider making payments to creditors more than once each month . Otherwise , if you put a major expense -- like a new appliance -- on a credit card , even if you plan to pay it off , your FICO score may take a hit . The reason is that credit scores are calculated as a snapshot in time , so if that happens to be right after you charged a new $ 700 washing machine , your utilization ratio will look worryingly high . Remember , though , that it 's best to have some balance on your card when your statement is posted ( assuming you pay it off in full each month ) , because as the chart shows , 0 % utilization is about as bad as utilization > 31-40 % : Also , remember that credit utilization affects your credit score <URL> , so if you have high utilization one month but a lower utilization the next month , the hit to your score will disappear once a statement with low utilization is posted .
MD-Tech <URL> : The answer is in your question : derivatives are contracts so are enforced in the same way as any other contract . If the counterparty refuses to pay immediately they will , in the first instance be billed by any intermediary ( Prime Broker etc. ) that facilitated the contract . If they still refuse to pay the contract may stipulate that a broker can " net off " any outstanding payments against it or pay out using deposited cash or posted margins . The contract will usually include the broker as an interested party and so they can , but do n't need to , report a default ( such that this is ) to credit agencies ( in some jurisdictions they are required to by law ) . Any parties to the trade and the courts may use a debt collection agency to collect payments or seize assets to cover payment . If there is no broker or the counterparty still has not paid the bill then the parties involved ( the party to the trade and any intermediaries ) can sue for breach of contract . If they win ( which would be expected ) the counterparty will be made to pay by the legal system including , but not limited to , seizure of assets , enforced bankruptcy , and prison terms for any contempts of court rulings . All of this holds for governments who refuse to pay derivatives losses ( as Argentina did in the early 20th century ) but in that case it may escalate as far as war . It has never done so for derivatives contracts as far as I know but other breaches of contract between countries have resulted in armed conflict . As well as the " hard " results of failing to pay there are soft implications including a guaranteed fall in credit ratings that will result in parties refusing to do business with the counterparty and a separate loss of reputation that will reduce business even further . Potential employees and funders will be unwilling to become involved with such a party and suppliers will be unwilling to supply on credit . The end result in almost every way would be bankruptcy and prison sentences for the party or their senior employees . Most jurisdictions allow for board members at companies in material breach of contract to be banned from running any company for a set period as well . edit : netting off cash flows netting off is a process whereby all of a party 's cash flows , positive and negative , are used to pay each other off so that only the net change is reflected in account balances , for example : company 1 cash flows +1.2 M : co2 +1.1 M : co3 -5 oo K : co4 -3 M : co5 +1.2 M : co3 netting off the total outgoings are 3M + 500k = 3.5 M and total incomings are 1.2 M + 1.1 M + 1.2 M = 3.5 M so the incoming cash flows can be used to pay the outgoing cash flows leaving a net payment into company1 's account of 0 .
When you take any money out of an HSA , you 'll get a <URL> . HSAs work a little differently than a 401 ( k ) . With a 401 ( k ) , you are n't supposed to take any money out until retirement . HSAs , however , are spending accounts . I take money out of my HSA every year . As long as you spend the money you take out of your HSA on qualified medical expenses , there are no taxes or penalties due . The bank that holds your HSA does n't know or care what you spend the money on ; they will certainly allow you to empty your HSA account . Anything you take out will be reported to the IRS ( and to you ) on a 1099-SA . At tax time , along with your tax return , you send in a <URL> , on which you report to the IRS what you took out of HSA , and you also certify how much of that money was spent on medical expenses . If any of it was spent on something else , taxes and penalties are due .
Each company gets to select which pension provider ( s ) they will deal with . You can certainly ask your company to consider paying into a different pension but you ca n't force them to . Many/most companies will say no since they do n't want the overhead of dealing with more than one provider , although I did once work for a company that had a policy of paying into whatever pension each employee nominated . If you move to another employer then you will be auto-enrolled in their choice of provider unless you opt-out . You may be able to transfer your pension savings from your old employer 's scheme to the new one , but this is not currently guaranteed to be possible . If you ca n't transfer , or choose not to , then the money in your old employer 's scheme will stay there being invested according to your choices . Thus over your working life you may accumulate savings in multiple pension schemes ( and yes , it 's on you to keep track of this ) .
Foreclosure is at a high level the bank declaring that the debtor can not pay their <URL> ( their debt ) . This is shortly followed by <URL> , which is the removal of debtors rights to the property . After the debtor has defaulted , he either chooses to voluntarily remove himself and his belongings from the property , or is forcibly <URL> . In the US eviction is carried out by local law enforcement , such as the sheriff 's office . The bank is now the sole owner of the property , and proceeds to sell it , in an attempt to recoup their investment . If the bank can not recoup their investment by selling the house , the rest may be converted to unsecured debt against the debtor . If the bank chooses to forgive the remaining debt , the debtor may have a tax liability for <URL> . Also the debtor may also be liable for any appreciation the house did before it was sold , but this likely to be nontaxable if the house in question is the debtor 's primary residence . They also send the credit bureaus the notice of foreclosure , which is how your credit score is hurt . <URL> or Lenders Mortgage Insurance will pay the lender some amount back to cover their losses . See Also : <URL>
If you sell it before liquidation , you get the benefit of knowing what you 're getting . If you wait until liquidation , you 'll get NAV ( there 's no market price since it 's no longer trading ) . If it 's trading at a steep discount , you should , in theory , hold . Due the nature of ETFs , sustained discounts ( or premiums ) are highly suspect . If there was an arbitrage opportunity , market makers would buy the ETF and sell the underlying narrowing the discount . The fact that it exists could be evidence that the NAV is wrong . Keep in mind , published NAV is based on yesterday 's close , like a mutual fund . For ETFs , there 's iNAV or IIV , the Intraday Indicative Value . ETF market makers make their own pricing models and as a result , could steer the ETF away from the issuers published IIV . This is common with illiquid underlying symbols . I would say this depends entirely on the situation . If it 's a domestic equity fund , you should be able to get a fair enough market rate . If it 's a foreign bond fund , well good luck . For a passive investor , bid/ask spread of the ETF can give an idea of how accurate the market 's pricing is . Some ETFs have spreads of $ 0.01 but only trade a couple times per day . In this case , you could still expect a good price .
Speaking from experience , yes ( this was 9 years ago though and may have changed due to stricter laws ) . I lived in London and was moving to NYC and wanted to have a functioning bank account upon arrival . I banked in London with HSBC and asked them if they could set me up . They connected me with the right people in the US and after many forms I had a fully functional US bank account with a foreign address and without having a social security number - and I was ( am ) just your average person . You will most likely not be able to get a credit card through them because of lack of credit history ( unless you are ridiculously rich or go for a secured credit card ) , but a debit card should be possible . * My advice is to talk to your local bank and see if they can help you , although it will help if they operate in the US . Good luck ! * I have heard from various expats that American Express may be willing to issue cards in the states based on their existing relation with clients in other countries , but I digress . If you have an Amex in Switzerland or Sweden I would recommend talking to them .
There are cases in which some Lease agreements will allow you to exit them without charge , but you can not simply vacate a location without paying . Cases that would allow you to leave the lease , if they are stated within the lease , are usually for reasons like : You or an immediate family member must move for a job . If you can prove that you have a job that is over a certain distance from the place you are currently residing in , there may be a clause that would allow you to break you lease , or simply the landlord may be more willing to allow you to go . You find the apartment or house to be unlivable If situations have changed , and conditions are now such that you can not safely live in the place , you may be able to break the lease . If you have a copy of your lease , look for these clauses or others near the end , that 's where they appear in mine . There are also other situations where if you give sufficient notice , and have been a long time tenant , breaking a lease may be only a small fee , certainly worth looking into rather than facing any legal recourse .
If a bank employee catches it then typically they would call you and ask you to come in to sign the check . If they ca n't get a hold of you they would probably mail it back to you . There is a chance that they wo n't catch in which case it would just be deposited into your account like any other check .
For 401 ( k ) and regular IRA , you pay income tax on withdrawals from the account . At a certain age , there is a " required minimum distribution " . This is an amount you must withdraw from the account or you face penalties . I 've also read about , but am not familiar with , mechanisms by which you can retire early and start taking withdrawals before the regular official retirement age . ( These may or may not be legit , I did n't do any research on it . ) A Roth IRA , which is not " tax deferred " and thus not technically covered by your question , there is no tax on withdrawals ( assuming you are at retirement age ) and no required minimum distribution . Something to watch out for on your accounts are fees that they charge for withdrawals . I was in a 401 ( k ) once that had a $ 50 fee per-withdrawal . A monthly check from this account would eat your money ! I paid the fee once , when I rolled it into an account at a brokerage after leaving the company .
These amounts should appear in the W2 as imported by Turbo Tax . You should be able to go to the " Income " section , and check the W2 as imported there . It should match . If it does n't - correct it . ESPP-related entry on box 14 in W2 does n't appear on your 1040 as is , instead it affects the calculations on your Schedule D . It should appear as adjustment to basis for the corresponding sales of the ESPP shares .
Am I right to worry about both of these ? Of course . Who carries $ 75K in cash for no good reason ? Your friend got the cash from somewhere , did n't he ? If its legit - there 's paper trail to show . Same for your parents . If you/they can show the legit paper trail - there 's nothing to worry about , the hassle , at worse , is a couple of letters to the IRS . If the money is not legit ( your friend is selling crack to the kids in the hood and your parents robbed a 7/11 to give you the money , for example ) - there may be problems .
It is not allowed to pay refunds to anyone other than the taxpayer . This is due to various tax return fraud schemes that were running around . Banks are required to enforce this . If the direct deposit is denied , a check will be issued . In her name , obviously . What she does with it when she gets it is her business - but I believe that tax refund checks may not be just " endorsed " , the bank will likely want to see her when you deposit it to your account , even if it is endorsed . For the same reason .
You can designate one or more beneficiaries for your HSA account who will get the money when you die . Some states require consent from your spouse ( if you 're married ) if they are not the beneficiary . The funds maybe taxable to the beneficiary . If you do n't designate any beneficiaries , by default the money will go into your estate and be handled the same as other assets . The funds may be taxable by the estate . If you had any medical expenses before you died , it might be possible to pay them from the HSA . When looking around for information about this I would start with the IRS publications which are the authoritative source of this information . Other articles you read are usually just summarizations of this information and can sometimes be incomplete or incorrect . <URL>
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
The US Customs and Border Protection website states that there is no limit to the amount of currency that can be brought into or taken out of the US . There is no limit on the amount of money that can be taken out of or brought into the United States . However , if a person or persons traveling together and filing a joint declaration ( CBP Form 6059-B ) have $ 10,000 or more in currency or negotiable monetary instruments , they must fill out a " Report of International Transportation of Currency and Monetary Instruments " FinCEN 105 ( former CF 4790 ) . The CBP site also notes that failure to declare currency and monetary instruments in excess of $ 10,000 may result in its seizure . Further , the site states that the requirement to report currency on a FinCEN 105 does not apply to imports of gold bullion . However , the legal website <URL> includes details of how money laundering laws may come into play here : As part of the War on Terror and the War on Drugs , U.S. law enforcement agencies have significantly increased their vigilance over money laundering . To this effect , travelers who carry large amounts of cash without supporting documentation of its legitimate source may be subject to secondary inspections and seizure of funds . In some cases , law enforcement may confiscate cash in excess of $ 10,000 until supporting documents are produced . So far , I have described the " official " position . However , reading between the lines , I think it is fair to say that in the current climate if you show up at an entry point with a suitcase full of a large amount of cash you would face considerable scrutiny , regardless of any supporting documentation you may present . If you fail to present supporting documentation , then I think your cash would certainly be seized . If you are a US resident , then you would be given the opportunity to obtain satisfactory documentation . If you did present documentation , then I think your cash would be held for as long as it would take to verify the validity of the documentation . Failure to present valid documentation would result in money laundering charges being brought against you and the matter would rest before the courts . If you are not a US resident , then failing to produce supporting documentation would mean your cash being seized and entry into the US would almost certainly be denied . You would then have to deal with the situation from outside of the US . If you did produce supporting documentation , then again I suspect the cash would be held for as long as it takes to verify the validity of the documentation . Whether or not you were allowed to enter the US would depend on what other documentation you possess .
Payments for federal subsidized and unsubsidized loans are due at the latest six months following graduation . Although , there are some exceptions . Deferment Most people who qualify for a deferment do so under one of these two conditions : At least half-time enrollment in course work at an accredited college , university , or career development program . Being unemployed or unable to find work . If you are approved for the deferment your payments on your loans and interest will be postponed until you begin making payments . The government will pay the interest on your subsidized loans while deferred ; however , the interest on your unsubsidized loans will continue to accumulate . If you wish you can make payments on the interest to reduce your tax burden at the end of the year as it is deductible and that will also reduce the overall payment when you end classes . That option would have to be based on your specific financial situation . Some private school loans offer deferment also . The terms are up to the loan servicer when it comes to conditions of deferment and how long the deferment could last . Sallie Mae does have postponement options , but I am not certain of the details you can register and login to your loan account <URL> then review details carefully . If your classes begin before your payments are scheduled to be due then the in-school deferment will be all that you need to prevent you from defaulting . If not you may need to apply for forbearance . Forbearance Forbearance works the same as deferment , but is for people that do not qualify for deferment . You will accrue interest on both subsidized and unsubsidized , but you do not have to make payments . You would only want to have the forbearance untill your classes began , apply for the deferment . The typical conditions are : Financial hardship Illness Because you are just coming out of school if you call and ask for forbearance you will most likely be granted an automatic six months . More information can be found <URL> You can also check the status and balances of your federal student loans <URL>
If company B buys company A , then it buys your shares in company A. That 's what it means to buy a company -- you buy all of its shares . If your shares are actually worth $ 20 , then you get $ 1,000 . But they may offer more or less than $ 20 per share . It 's also very common for purchasers to offer their own shares instead of cash , or a mixture of cash and shares . It 's generally all-or-nothing -- if more than a certain percentage ( usually 50 % ) of shareholders vote to accept the offer , then the remaining shareholders must also sell their shares on the same terms , and if the offer gets less votes than are required than the potential purchaser does n't buy any shares .
end question
start question
How can I save on banking charges ?
You really should be able to avoid bank charges entirely . If you 're paying for a checking account , know that there are ones available for free , even without a minimum balance . Same goes for credit cards . There are plenty of no-annual-fee cards out there , so unless you 're getting fabulous rewards that make it worth it , never pay an annual fee . Avoid ATM fees by avoiding the ATM , getting cash back at stores or taking it out at the bank . Overdraft fees and other penalties can be avoided by keeping an eye on your balances and keeping a register . Take advantage of email or text notifications that many banks offer when your account balance goes below a certain amount , or your credit card gets close to its maximum . And I agree with MrChrister that many fees will be refunded if you 've made a one-time mistake . Talk with a customer service rep , apologize , emphasize that you have a good record of on-time payments , and ask if the fee can be taken off your account .
Mentor Millonario say 's : The banking system if not that different from the one in the U.S. . What is different is the tax rules established for Puerto Rico by the U.S. For IRA purposes its like living abroad . From IRS code : Credits and deductions . If you claim the exclusion , you can not claim any credits or deductions that are related to the excluded income . Thus , you can not claim a foreign tax credit or deduction for any foreign income tax paid on the excluded income . Nor can you claim the earned income credit if you claim the exclusion . Also , for IRA purposes , the excluded income is not considered compensation and , for figuring deductible contributions when you are covered by an employer retirement plan , the excluded income is included in your modified adjusted gross income .
If he 's not used to cooking , recipes might not be enough . Maybe he needs cooking lessons . I used to think if you could read , you could cook -- but I grew up " helping " my mom in the kitchen and in the process learning what all the instructions in cookbooks meant . But it also might just be force of habit , in which case about all you could do would be to go over and cook for ( or with ) him . Maybe if you helped him get into a good habit , he would be more likely to continue with it . Otherwise , I do n't see that there 's much of anything you can do . If he is n't motivated to change his habits to save for his trip , you ca n't make him be .
If you 're not insolvent , doing something like this is both a moral and legal hazard : The Tax authorities may consider the $ 100,000 write-down as income . So you 'll potentially transform a debt to the bank to a smaller debt to the IRS and State Tax department . What you 're proposing to do is an act of fraud . ( probably a felony ) California is a community property state , which would make this particular scheme more complicated , since you and your wife own equal amounts of the property by statute . When you are insolvent , the tax and moral hazard issues can be a non-issue . Setting up a scenario that makes you appear to be insolvent is where the fraud comes in . If you decide to go down this road , spend a few thousand dollars on competent legal advice .
When you give your credit card number and authorize a merchant to charge your credit card , the merchant then gives the information to their merchant processor which in turns bills the bank that issued the card ( it 's a little more complex and it all happens instantly unless the merchant is using the very old fasion imprinting gizmos ) . It is possible for a merchant to attempt to charge you more than you authorized but if they do they risk a fine ( $ 25 - $ 50 for a chargeback ) from their processor , the legitimate portion of the charge as well as increasing the processing fees charged by their processor or even the possibility of loosing their merchant account entirely and being permanently blacklisted by Visa/Mastercard . In short no legitimate business is going to intentionally over charge your credit card . There really is n't significant risk in using a reputable online retailer 's order forms . There is the possibility that their database could be compromised but that risk is lower than the risk of having an employee steal your credit number when you give it to them in person . Besides in the US at least the most you can legally be held liable for is $ 50 assuming you notice the discrepancy within 60 days of statement the charge appears on and most banks limit liability to $ 0 . Over the years I have had a number of different credit card numbers stolen and used fraudulently and I have never had to pay any fraudulent charges .
Let 's assume you have total year income I . The inflation rate is R and the growth rate is E every year . The contributed rate deducting 1.8 % will be C = 0.982 . So , for your account you 'll have every year Let 's assume you have annual income in 1000 , then for years So , you 'll deposit 40 000 and got at the end 129 023.60 . But be careful , economic calculation for so long period could be very incaccurate because of the variation of the inflation rate , growth rate and various risks . The spreadsheet could be very useful . More accurate formula which assume that annual deposit grows only the half of the year . Thus , the result for 40 years will be 124 576.91 .
" non-resident aliens " to the US do not pay capital gains on US products . You pay tax in your home country if you have done a taxable event in your country . <URL> but if you hold dividends , you are subject to US dividend tax . The UK-US treaty should touch on that though .
You would have to do the specific math with your specific situation to be certain , but - generally speaking it would be smarter to use extra money to pay down the principle faster on the original loan . Your ability to refinance in the future at a more favorable rate is an unknowable uncertainty , subject to a number of conditions ( only some of which you can control ) . But what is almost always a complete certainty is that paying off a debt is , on net , better than putting the same money into a low-yield savings account .
Individuals most definitely can have NOL . This is covered in the <URL> . What is the difference between NOL and capital loss ? NOL is Net Operating Loss . I.e. : a situation where your ( allowable ) expenses and deductions exceed your gross income . Basically it means that you have negative income for that year , for tax purposes . Capital loss occurs when the total amount of your capital gains reported on Schedule D is negative . What are their relations then ? Not all expenses and deductions that you usually put on your tax return are allowed for NOL calculation . For example , capital loss is not allowed . I.e. : if you earned $ 2000 and you lost in stocks $ 3000 - you do not get a $ 1K NOL . Capital losses are excluded from NOL calculation and in this scenario you still have non-negative income for NOL purposes even though it is offset in full by capital loss deduction and your " taxable income " line is negative . The $ 1K that was not allowed - gets carried forward to the next year using the <URL> . You calculate your NOL using <URL> . You can use the form 1045 to apply the NOL to prior 2 years , or you can elect to apply it only to future years ( up to 20 years ) . In what cases , capital loss can be NOL ? Never .
The best thing you can do is shop around , and tell your current company that you 're shopping . I had been with GEICO for years and recently discovered ( while shopping for renter 's insurance ) that AllState offered the same coverage for a few hundred dollars less . When I called GEICO to cancel , they offered me an additional discount ( for being a member of a credit union ) that I had n't received before . I still switched , but was sad that I had n't been getting that extra discount just because I never asked if there were other discounts I might qualify for . This <URL> by ChristianPF talks about some changes you can make to reduce auto insurance costs .
The simple interest rate for an investment that costs $ 10,000 and returns $ 10,500 in 13 days is 5 % . To calculate the annual effective compound interest rate , the equation is where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . To calculate the annual effective continuously compounded interest rate , the equation is also where is the simple interest rate and is the number of days , so a 5 % return over 13 days would be . Continuous compounding is more precise and easier to manipulate but possibly not as intuitive .
Each tax year a local jurisdiction has a time window where homeowner can appeal their assessment . The law dictates the timing of the window , and how to appeal . Assuming that you are still in that window you could appeal . If you are outside that window , your ability is very limited and for all practical purposes is zero . Your local government website , or the copy of your tax bill will tell you how to appeal . The new homeowners would be able to appeal after the next assessment . The sale price of the home is not related to the assessed value . You have to show that the government made a mistake ( number of bedrooms , size of garage , lot size , age of house ... ) or that the other houses that were used by the government to make the assessment were not good matches ( too far away , different school , local environment ... ) . Many governments look at how the prices are changing to determine how to adjust the value next year , with the understanding that in a rapidly changing market the moment just prior to the next assessment will show the greatest mismatch between the direction of prices and assessed value .
It is important to remember that the tax brackets in the U.S. are marginal . This means that the first part of your income is taxed at 10 % , the next part at 15 % , next at 25 % , etc. . Therefore , if you find yourself just on the edge of a tax bracket , it really does not make any difference which side of that line you end up falling on . That having been said , of course , reducing your taxable income reduces your taxes . There are lots of deductions you can take , if you qualify . Depending on what type of health insurance coverage you have , a Health Savings Account ( HSA ) is a great way to shelter some income from taxes . Charitable contributions are also an easy way to reduce your taxes ; you do n't really personally benefit from them , but if you 'd rather send your money to a good cause than to Uncle Sam , that 's an easy way to do it .
To add to ChrisH 's response : In addition to front end load and back end load , there are also fund expenses for trading , management , administration , etc. . These expenses are rolled up and reported as the fund 's Management Expense Ratio ( MER ) . Furthermore , there are also funds that are sold on a No Load basis , which means you do n't pay either a front or back end load type of commission . However , MERs are always present . Funds may also pay trailer fees to the advisors that sell them . These are small commission amounts paid each year . All of these fees add up and can consume a significant portion of your expected investment return . For instance , if the fees total 2 % per annum and you expect to earn 8 % per annum , then 25 % of your expected returns are going to fees . ( Most people only consider the 2 % and think that 's small ; it is n't , when expressed in terms of your returns ! ) Prefer no-load funds with low MERs . Funds with loads and higher fees do n't outperform the market . Do your own research to convince yourself of this . Finally -- you can usually look up the fees for a fund in its simplified prospectus . Do n't buy a fund without understanding what it invests in , how it is managed , and what fees are charged for buying , holding , and selling it .
Two options you can try : Go to the store and ask them to refund the difference . They might not , but it does n't hurt to ask . Often stores will do this if you are within the return window because it saves them some hassle over you returning the used item and then buying a new item at the lower price . Buy the identical item again at the new price , then return it using the old receipt . I do not recommend any cheating or fraud . Please let me explain further what you might do . First , attempt # 1 above . It is very common for stores to give you a refund shortly after the purchase . Why ? Because this is an easier and better option for everyone than any of the other options . The store wants to keep its customers happy ; that is why it has the generous return policy in the first place . If the store employee does n't go for this , ( perhaps he does n't know how to properly enter this into the register ) , tell him that you would like to buy the item today at the new price and return it at the old price with your old receipt . This may not have occurred to the employee as an option , and it might help the employee figure out how to enter this transaction and give you your refund . If the store employee does n't like this , tell him that you are planning on purchasing the new item today and returning the old item tomorrow . At this point , the store employee might realize that the store is better off keeping their new item on the shelf than they are exchanging a new item for a used item , and allow you to do the second option right there . It 's possible that they wo n't go for this either . Now , if you purchase the new item , you 'll have a decision to make . You need to return one of the items with packaging using one of the receipts . If the store is logging serial numbers on the receipt , it may not be an option to return the new item with the old receipt . If the receipt does not contain the serial number , I would argue that there is no fraud or cheating going on by returning the new item with the old receipt . If the receipt does contain the serial number but the packaging does not , then you should be able to use the new packaging to return the old item .
You get to put money away with special tax incentives ( ie - no or less taxes to pay ) They are state sponsored and therefore pretty reliable , but some states are better than others . Like with many of these tax incentive type accounts ( FSA , Dependent Care Spending Accounts ) they are use it or lose it . ( In a 529 , use it or transfer it ) . So the money put away is a sunk cost towards education and can not be repurposed for something else should your kid not want to attend school . <URL>
Emergency fund first . Period . The interest you pay on the HELOC until you have the emergency savings fund is like buying insurance . It 's an expense you incur until you can afford to bear the risk yourself ( here the risk is of a personal liquidity crisis ) . When you have enough in your emergency fund to be comfortable , start using whatever amount you were putting into savings to pay down the HELOC . Alex B is right that paying off the HELOC is a guaranteed return , but your emergency fund is not an investment -- it 's your safety net .
<URL> are charges that apply to the trading of low-priced <URL> securities with low volumes . Open net buy quantity represents the total unsettled share amount per stock at any given time during a 3-day settlement cycle . Open net buy quantity must be less than 5,000,000 shares per stock for your entire firm Basically , you ca n't hold a long position of more than 5 million shares in an illiquid OTC stock without facing a fee . You 'll still be assessed this fee if you accumulate a long position of this size by breaking your purchase up into multiple transactions . Open net sell quantity represents the total unsettled share amount per stock at any given time during a 3-day settlement cycle . Open net sell quantity must be less than 10 % percent of the 20-day average volume If you attempt to sell a number of shares greater than 10 % of the stock 's average volume over the last 20 days , you 'll also be assessed a fee . The first link I included above is just an example , but it makes the important point : you may still be assessed a fee for trading OTC stocks even if your account does n't meet the criteria because these restrictions are applied at the level of the <URL> , not the individual client . This means that if other investors with your broker , or even at another broker that happens to use the same clearing firm , purchase more than 5 million shares in an individual OTC stock at the same time , all of your accounts may face fees , even though individually , you do n't exceed the limits . Technically , these fees are assessed to the clearing firm , not the individual investor , but usually the clearing firm will pass the fees along to the broker ( and possibly add other charges as well ) , and the broker will charge a fee to the individual account ( s ) that triggered the restriction . Also , remember that when buying OTC/pink sheet stocks , your ability to buy or sell is also contingent on finding someone else to buy from/sell to . If you purchase 10,000 shares one day and attempt to sell them sometime in the future , but there are n't enough buyers to buy all 10,000 from you , you might not be able to complete your order at the desired price , or even at all .
Instead of restricting yourself on a geographical basis , I would consider two markets that seem to fit the bill based on your question : <URL> : the four major countries in this category are the BRICS group - Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa . Growth is aggressive when the going is good but volatility tends to be high as well . <URL> : includes countries like Argentina and Bangladesh where the potential is high but the market is not as liquid and investment opportunities are not as easy to find ( relative to emerging markets ) . Once you 've decided on your risk appetite , I would consider using an ETF to buy in to these markets : <URL> <URL>
This depends entirely on the kind of " IT " you 're doing . A couple of examples to illuminate how wide the term is : Computer support : expense Online banking : basic functionality is expense , but ability to upsell users to high-end products is income Automated stock trading : income - and it 's extremely high in demand To answer your core question : look beyond the title ( " IT " ) , to the function you 're providing to the bank , and ask if / how that function can generate money for the bank for better income possibilities ; if the answer is " none " , figure out which levers are closer to making money , and position yourself as such .
end question
start question
When is there a difference between short - and long-term capital gains ?
On line 3 of the QDCGT worksheet , as you say , you enter the smaller of your long-term gains and total gains . Assuming you did not have a loss in either category , your long-term gains will be less than both long - and short-term combined , so you will enter long-term gains here . On line 7 of this worksheet , you effectively subtract your long-term gains from your taxable income , leaving your short-term gains lumped with the rest of your ordinary income on Line 7 . Most of the worksheet then computes your tax on the long-term gains , but on Line 24 you compute the tax on Line 7 , which , as mentioned , includes your short-term gains . Thus , this worksheet lumps your short-term gains with the rest of your income . Your short-term gains do not get the preferential tax treatment which is encoded in line 8-23 of the QDCGT worksheet . It is not easy to see this because the logic of those lines on the worksheet is rather opaque . The rough summary is that , since your long-term gains alone are always smaller than your total income ( including short-term gains ) , the various lines which tell you to enter " the smaller of X or Y " result in you entering your long-term gains ( or portions of them falling into various brackets ) , on which the preferential tax is then computed . So when you went through that worksheet , you were treating the two separately , you just did n't realize it . The amounts on Lines 20 and 23 are your capital gains taxes , and whatever amount you had on Line 11 was taxed at 0 % ( as mentioned on the worksheet ) . If you had had no long-term gains , all of your income would have remained on Line 7 and been subject to ordinary-income rates as computed at Line 24 . If you use the tax table on your total taxable income , you should get a higher number than you wind up with on the final line of the QDCGT worksheet .
The short answer is the annualised volatility over twenty years should be pretty much the same as the annualised volatility over five years . For independent , identically distributed returns the volatility scales proportionally . So for any number of monthly returns , setting the annualization factor annualises the volatility . It should be the same for all time scales . <URL> However , note the discussion here : <URL> Scaling volatility [ like this ] only is mathematically correct when the underlying price model is driven by Geometric Brownian motion which implies that prices are log normally distributed and returns are normally distributed . Particularly the comment : " its a well known fact that volatility is overestimated when scaled over long periods of time without a change of model to estimate such " long-term " volatility . " Now , a demonstration . I have modelled 12,000 monthly returns with mean = 3 % and standard deviation = 2 , so the annualised volatility should be . <URL> <URL> Calculating annualised volatility for return sequences of various lengths ( 3 , 6 , 12 , 60 months etc. ) reveals an inaccuracy for shorter sequences . The five-year sequence average got closest to the theoretically expected figure ( 6.9282 ) , and , as the commenter noted " volatility is [ slightly ] overestimated when scaled over long periods of time " . Annualised volatility for varying return sequence lengths <URL> Edit re . comment Reinvesting returns does not affect the volatility much . For instance , comparing some data I have handy , the Dow Jones Industrial Average Capital Returns ( CR ) versus Net Returns ( NR ) . The return differences are somewhat smoothed , 0.1 % each month , 0.25 % every third month . More erratic dividend reinvestment would increase the volatility . <URL>
In a well-managed company , employees bring more dollars to their employers than the employers pay the employees ( salary and benefits ) . Employees trade potential reward for security ( a regular paycheck ) . Employers take on the risk of needing to meet payroll and profit from the company 's income , minus expenses . The potential rewards are much higher as an employer ( self or otherwise ) , so the ones that do make it do quite well . But this is also consistent with your other statement that the reverse is not true ; the risk of self-employment is high , and many self-employed people do n't become millionaires .
Whenever a website mentions Hypothetical Growth of $ 100 , $ 1,000 , or $ 10,000 , it assumes that that investor himself will reinvest the dividend . This is true whether you look at Morningstar or Financial Times . Unless the website does not have dividend data , e.g. Google Finance . If you want to compare the account value after withdrawing dividends : Since the Income class pays dividends annually , there will be 1 jumps per year . For example , the 2013 dividend payment : and the 2014 dividend payment :
CDs are from banks . Share Certificates are from Credit Unions . Otherwise they are essentially the same . For CDs you are paid interest . For Share Certificates you are paid dividends . The CDs at a traditional bank are insured by the FDIC . The Share Certificates are insured by the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) .
Yes they can tell the difference . But I wonder because the reader at the grocery always asks " debit or credit " after I scan my Discover credit card . Your ability to rent a car using a debit card will vary by company and by location . You will have to research the companies in the area you want to rent . Here is the information from <URL> : Here are some important things to keep in mind if you do plan on renting this way : Logo requirements . While many rental car companies accept debit cards , many also require that the cards have a Visa or MasterCard logo . Expect a credit check . Some companies will perform a debit card check and credit inquiry to ensure that you have the proper funds . ( Keep in mind , credit inquiries show up on your credit report , and too many inquiries can actually lower your credit score . ) Be patient . The process of paying with a debit card will likely be a longer one . It takes time to check your credit and insurance , verify your ID , etc. . Prepare to pay a deposit . Often times , rental car companies place a hold on the account linked to your card . It 's basically a deposit that they 'll hold until you return the vehicle . These deposits can be $ 200 or more . Limited choice . No credit card often means you lose the option of renting luxury cars , SUVs or other specialty vehicles . Outside of the U.S. - Debit cards may not be accepted at locations outside of the United States . Please check terms and conditions for the specific country or location of rental . While it 's certainly not impossible to rent a car without a credit card , it is obviously more of a hassle . Unless you have no other option , using a credit card can really save time , money , and , perhaps , your sanity . DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED AT PARTICIPATING LOCATIONS ONLY
Why only long term investments ? What do they care if I buy and sell shares in a company in the same year ? Simple , your actually investing when you hold it for a long term . If you hold a stock for a week or a month there is very little that can happen to change the price , in a perfect market the value of a company should stay the same from yesterday to today so long as there is no news ( a perfect market can not exist ) . When you hold a stock for a long term you really are investing in the company and saying " this company will grow " . Short term investing is mostly speculation and speculation causes securities to be incorrectly valued . So when a retail investor puts money into something like Facebook for example they can easily be burned by speculation whether its to the upside or downside . If the goal is to get me to invest my money , then why not give apply capital gains tax to my savings account at my local bank ? Or a CD account ? I believe your gains on these accounts are taxed ... Not sure at what rate . If the goal is to help the overall health of business , how does it do that ? During an IPO , the business certainly raises money , but after that I 'm just buying and selling shares with other private shareholders . Why does the government give me an incentive to do this ( and then hold onto it for at least a year ) ? There are many reasons why a company cares about its market price : A companies market cap is calculated by price * shares outstanding . A market cap is basically what the market is saying your company is worth . A company can offer more shares or sell shares they currently hold in order to raise even more capital . A company can offer shares instead of cash when buying out another company . It can pay for many things with shares . Many executives and top level employees are payed with stock options , so they defiantly want to see there price higher . these are some basic reasons but there are more and they can be more complex .
Speculation means putting your money on a hunch that some event may occur , depending on current circumstances and some future circumstances . So either you win huge or lose a lot . Investment is a conscious decision made on well defined research and grounded on good reasons i.e. economy , industry , company reports etc. . Here is a link on wikipedia with more details on <URL> .
What if XOM has 400B in revenue and 40B in profit . Does a $ 360 billion difference sound synonymous to you ? Revenue can most easily be thought of as the top line of an income statement or profit and loss statement . Revenue is the total amount of income generated by the sale of goods or services related to the company 's primary operations . Profit , conversely , is the infamous bottom line . This is called net profit , because it is the amount of income that remains after accounting for all expenses , debts , additional income streams and operating costs .
" Leverage " here is referring to " financial leverage " . This is the practice of " levering " [ ie increasing , like the use of a lever to increase the amount of weight you can lift ] the value of your investment by taking on debt . For example : if you have 100k in cash , you can buy a 100k rental property . Assume the property makes 10k a year , net of expenses [ 10 % ] . Now assume the bank will also give you a 100k mortgage , at 3 % . You could take the mortgage , plus your cash , and buy a 200k rental property . This would earn you 20k from the rental property , less 3k a year in interest costs [ the 3 % ] . Your total income would be 17k , and since you only used 100k of your own money , your rate of return would now be 17 % instead of 10 % . This is financial leveraging . Note that this increases your risk , because if your investment fails not only have you lost your own money , you now need to pay back the bank . " Beta riders " appears to be negative commentary on investors who use Beta to calculate the value of a particular stock , without regard to other quantitative factors . Therefore " leveraged beta riders " are those who take on additional risk [ by taking on debt to invest ] , and invest in a manner that the author would perhaps considered " blindly " following Beta . However , I have never seen this term before , and it appears tainted by the author 's views on Quants . A " quant process driven discipline " appears to be positive commentary on investors who use detailed quantitative analysis to develop rules which they rigorously follow to invest . I have never seen this exact phrasing before , and like the above , it appears tainted by the author 's views on Quants . I am not providing any opinion on whether " beta riding " or " quant processes " are good or bad things ; this is just my attempt to interpret the quote as you presented it . Note that I did not go to the article to get context , so perhaps something else in the article could skew the language to mean something other than what I have presented .
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 50 1/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 50 1/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
Look for an individual long-term disability policy that can do a temporary group plan offset in your policy and that otherwise converts to the full coverage desired when you cease to be a group member ( i.e. you resign from the job or are terminated . ) Essentially , such an individual LTD policy acknowledges you may receive benefits as a member of the existing group LTD plan , yet enhances its benefits . The individual plan would only top up ( as opposed to double up ) your disability benefits while you are still a group member , and upgrades when you are no longer a member . I was in a similar situation some years ago . In my case , I had already purchased an individual LTD policy when working as a self-employed IT contractor ; I had no group coverage . But , one of the features I selected for the policy was an annual " future income option " , guaranteeing I could buy more coverage ( without any further medical ) as my income would increase . I took advantage of it from time to time since I was younger and my income was growing quickly . A couple of contract gigs later , I found myself back in a full-time job . The employer enrolled me in their group LTD plan , which was inferior to my individual plan in a number of respects ( the definition of disability , was n't " own occupation " coverage , etc. ) , so I maintained my individual policy alongside . While employed full time , I was again offered the opportunity to purchase additional coverage based on higher income . When I applied for increased benefits , the application form had this question : If you have group coverage , would you accept the addition of a group offset amendment , if required , due to your group coverage in force ? Yes ___ No ___ . Essentially , I needed to accept the group offset amendment which meant , in effect , " We will increase your individual LTD policy benefits , but as long as you are part of your group LTD plan , those benefits will pay first and reduce additional benefits from your individual plan -- until you are no longer part of the group . " When I left that job years later , I contacted my LTD insurer for another increase and also informed them I was no longer covered by the group LTD plan . The group offset amendment was removed from my policy ( I was issued a " Policy Change Rider " confirming that ) and so all the added benefits I 'd applied for converted to " full " benefits on the policy no longer subject to an offset . So , look for an individual LTD policy that will acknowledge ( a ) yes , you are part of a group policy , and this means " offsetting " , but ( b ) more important is that you need a guarantee from the individual LTD policy that when you cease to be a member of the group LTD plan , then your benefits in the individual policy convert to what you previously had in both plans combined . Ask your agent if he inquired about group offsets specifically . IMHO , if your agent does n't specialize in individual LTD insurance and instead is a " one stop shop " , you should consider talking to an agent who knows LTD inside and out .
Risk is reduced but is n't zero The default risk is still there , the issuer can go bankrupt , and you can still loose all or some of your money if restructuring happens . If the bond has a callable option , the issuer can retire them if conditions are favourable for the issuer , you can still loose some of your investment . Callable schedule should be in the bond issuer 's prospectus while issuing the bond . If the issuer is in a different country , that brings along a lot of headaches of recovering your money if something goes bad i.e. forex rates can go up and down . YTM , when the bond was bought was greater than risk free rate ( govt deposit rates ) Has to be greater than the risk free rate , because of the extra risk you are taking . Reinvestment risk is less because of the short term involved ( I am assuming 2-3 years at max ) , but you should also look at the coupon rate of your bond , if it is n't a zero-coupon bond , and how you invest that . would it be ideal to hold the bond till maturity irrespective of price change It always depends on the current conditions . You can not be sure that everything is fine , so it pays to be vigilant . Check the health of the issuer , any adverse circumstances , and the overall economy as a whole . As you intend to hold till maturity you should be more concerned about the serviceability of the bond by the issuer on maturity and till then .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
No functional difference . Only impression/convenience . " Business checks " are checks in larger format ( 8 " instead of the regular 5 " checks ) , they can be from your personal account just as well . I did n't have any problem using the small " individual " - standard checks for my company ( I actually did get them for free from Wells Fargo , but that was a gesture , not by policy ) .
So , lets get it straight . I 'm using 2014 numbers and my Intuit tax software : Let 's ignore the ACA tax here , it comes into play since you did n't mention anything about the ACA mandate insurance . Looking at the calculation worksheet ( <URL> ) - the account is right ( the tax amount may be a bit off , since the tax tables are still not updated for 2014 ) . You have $ 20000 capital gains , and $ 6000 ordinary income . Capital gains are taxed at 0 , as expected . Ordinary income is taxed at $ 603 , <URL> .
I would say that there is no real difference . Asset management companies that is part of large banking groups usually seat in separate entities and operate independently from the rest of the bank . Assuming proper procedures ( and regulators usually check that ) are in place they will not share information with the rest of the bank and their assets are clearly segregated from the rest of the bank . They have the same fiduciary duties as an independent AM and are probably using the broker/dealer services of other banks as well as their parent . Reputation is a key issue for banks and conflict of interests are usually managed properly . Independence also comes and goes . The corporate history of Neuberger Berman is a good example . Neuberger Berman was once an independent asset manager . In 2003 , it merged with Lehman Brothers , thus loosing its independence . When Lehman went bankrupt in 2008 , NB did not join its parent company in bankruptcy and did not lose the assets of its clients . The company continued to operate until it was acquired by the management . Finally it is mostly a question of marketing and positioning . Independent asset manager will put their independence forward as a key selling point and as a proof that they can not be conflicted . Asset management arms sitting within a larger group , will insist on the fact that they offer a on turnkey solution for all that matters to an investor
As per <URL> Temporary disability , such as an injury , serious medical condition , or even pregnancy , short-term disability payments can be obtained through private insurers , and they may be part of an employer 's compensation to employees . Whether the payments are taxable depends on how and when they are paid . Employer disability benefits If you and your employer share the cost of a disability plan , you are only liable for taxes on the amount received due to payments made by your employer . So , if you pay the entire cost of a sickness or injury plan with after-tax money , you do not need to report any payments you receive under the plan as income . If your employer pays half the cost of premiums and does not deduct these payments from your pay , then you most likely must report half the payments received as income . Reimbursement of medical costs you 've paid for after the plan was established are not taxable , but may reduce the amount of your medical costs deduction . As per <URL> Finally , the applicable statutes and regulations do not distinguish between short-term and long-term disability plans . Thus , if an employer offers both short-term and long-term disability plans and permits employees to separately elect the contribution payment method for each plan , the law does not require aggregation of the contributions paid for each plan in determining the taxation of benefits . Benefits paid under a short-term or long-term disability plan will be taxed according to the contribution payment election made for each type of coverage .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
Stop order is shorter term for stop-loss order . The point being that is intended as a protective measure . A buy stop order would be used to limit losses when an investor has sold a stock short . ( Meaning that they have borrowed stock and sold it , in hopes that they can take advantage of a decline in the stock 's price by replacing the borrowed stock later at a cheaper price . The idea is to limit losses due to a rising stock price . ) Meanwhile , a sell stop order would be used to limit losses on a stock that an investor actually owns , by selling it before the price declines further . The important thing to keep in mind about stop orders is that they turn into market orders when the stop price is reached . This means that they will be filled at the best available price when the order is actually executed . In fast moving markets , this can be a price that is quite different from the stop price . A limit order allows an investor to ensure that they do not buy/sell a stock at more/less than the specified amount . The thing to keep in mind is that a limit order is not guaranteed to execute . A stop-limit order is a combination of a stop-loss order and limit order , in that it becomes a limit order ( instead of a market order ) when the stop price is reached . Links to definitions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Can a mortgage broker issue a mortgage commitment letter ?
The mortgage commitment letter you describe will not help you because of it 's expiration before you need it . From a legal point of view , you have nothing in writing that covers your needs ( a loan on your closing date ) . I 've heard of lenders giving out letters of pre-approval , which is still subject to final approval . I 've also heard that lenders are more frequently re-pulling credit 1 or 2 days before closing to make sure nothing has changed and denying the loan if there has been any change even if they had previously approved the loan . I 'm not sure there is any letter you can get prior to your actual loan that guarantees you will get a loan on the day in question .
If you have good credit , you already know the rate -- the bank has it posted in the window . If you do n't have good credit , tell the loan officer your score . Do n't have them run your credit until you know that you 're interested in that bank . Running an application or prequal kicks off the sales process , which gets very annoying very quickly if you are dealing with multiple banks . A few pointers : Shop for TCO , not the best rate . Most folks stay in a home for 5-7 years , so you should increase the weighting of closing costs in your evaluation . Understand the costs associated with the loan in detail . This varies from state to state . Explore first time homebuyer programs offered by your state , county or city . I received $ 7,500 in grants and forgivable loans from NYS through their SONYMA program when I bought my first home . Do n't worry about your credit score and get into a tizzy over the effects of inquiries . Look for local banks and credit unions with lower ( not lowest ) advertised rates . Go in and talk to them , understand their policies and practices . These institutions usually offer the best value . You 're looking for a plain vanilla 30 year loan , so avoid mortgage brokers -- they are just another middleman who is tacking on a cost . Brokers are great when you need more exotic loans . Always , always stay away from mortgage brokers ( or inspectors or especially lawyers ) recommended by realtors .
" I asked my realtor , but she recommends to go with just one banker ( her friend ) , and not to do any rate shopping . " You need a new realtor . Anyone who would offer such advice is explicitly stating they are not advocating on your behalf . I 'd do the rate shopping first . When you make an offer , once it 's accepted , time becomes critical . The seller expects you to go to closing in so many days after signing the P&amp;S . The realtor is specifically prohibited from pushing a particular lender on you . She should know better . In response to comment - Rate Shopping can be as simple as making a phone call , and having a detailed conversation . Jasper 's list can be conveyed verbally . Prequalification is the next step , where a bank actually writes a letter indicating they have a high confidence you will qualify for the loan .
To answer this question , you should ask these questions : - How much do you expect your money will grow in your RRSP ? ( you can use any Compound Online Calculator for this , I use <URL> ) - How much will your lump sum payment save you in interest ? ( I looked at this one : <URL> ) Then you can decide what 's better in your situation . From a quick calculation using the websites above , the lump sum option will save you almost $ 3k in interest over 25 years , while investing these $ 10k will grow to $ 33k over the same time period ( considering a return of 5 % ) . Since your mortgage interest rate is relatively low compared to a decent investment ( 5 % ) , your best return is to invest . Note , however , that we are talking only numbers here . If you think you will have a little piece of mind making the lump sum payment , go ahead and forget about the numbers . It 's better to be able to sleep at night than be mathematically correct , sometimes . Hope it helps !
Ultimately this depends on a number of factors , some of which could be very localized . The first question to ask yourself is why you are purchasing a house . If your reason can be summarized as something like " because it is a good investment " , then the simple answer is to wait . Houses come with many fun hidden expenses ( like the dishwasher crapping out or needing a new roof in the middle of winter ) and historically their returns approximate inflation . In addition , any wealth you do gain is tied up in the house . There are many online resources that can step you through the thought process on deciding if getting a home is right or not , as well as calculators that can account for unexpected expenses and such to indicate the financial side of things . Now that you have decided buying a house makes sense ... In the US there are a number of options you have . If you ( or your spouse ) have a military record ( either currently active or retired/honorable discharge ) then you qualify for the VA loan program which offers low-money-down loans without PMI . If you want to buy a property that is rural farmland , and you meet a number of other requirements there are USDA loans available that also have low-to-no down payment required and no PMI . For conventional loans , lenders generally will not accept traditional loans for the down payment , though sometimes family loans are ok with them ( family loans are a bad idea for other reasons ) . Assuming you do not qualify for any of those other programs , and you do not wish to take a gift/loan / " family feud starter " from your family , you still have a few other possibilities . Many states have programs to help with down payment assistance . Depending on where the house you want is , how much you earn , how expensive the house is , and other possible factors , you might be able to get a grant or an extremely low-to-no interest loan to help bridge the gap . Note that these programs might put limits on the kind of loan you can have ( for instance it might specify you need a FHA , VA , or USDA loan to qualify ) . The specific details of the plan can be very location specific . For instance Washington State has a state wide program ( <URL> ) , but Seattle city also has a <URL> . The income limits , maximum purchase price , and assistance amount are very different between the two programs . A great resource to start with is the <URL> . They have more information on some of the federal level programs , and can also direct you to the local programs near you . Pay attention to the local programs , because many of them have classes for eligibility that you can take for free and that discuss loans and the home buying process for your area ( this is a great resource , even if you do n't wind up using those programs ) .
As for your chances of getting a new home , those student loans if no longer in deferment will count against your DTI , which is your debt to Income . The bank/credit union gets this number by taking your total monthly payments of all debt on your credit report and dividing this number by your total gross income each month . The general rule is that this number including your new house payment should be 35 % or less . Paying off these loans will keep this number low , and at the same time show the institution your ability to pay off your loans in full over a longer period of time . I would suggest paying down your student loans first . The amount to pay off changes from person to person and situation to situation . The best thing for you to do is figure out your own DTI and pay off loans until you get to the 30 % mark . Then I would suggest saving up for a 20 % down payment and to put 3 times your monthly income into a savings account for an emergency savings . On another note , since mortgage rates are based on your credit score , paying off that amount of school loans will increase your credit score and lower your mortgage rate . Last , there are many different orders you could pay off your student loans in . Another suggestion would be to take the student loan with the lowest balance and pay that off regardless of interest rates . The reason for this is that it creates a " snowball effect . " Basically what this means is that when people pay off one loan they get excited and get a renewed interest in paying them down . If you start with the lowest and work your way up , it gives you momentum and keeps you wanting to pay them down .
" add the interest for the next 5 payments and divide that by how much you paid on the principal during that time " Let 's see - on a $ 200K 6 % loan , the first 5 months is $ 4869 . Principal reduction is $ 1127 . I get 4.32 or 432 % . But this is nonsense , you divide the interest over the mortgage balance , and get 6 % . You only get those crazy numbers by dividing meaningless ratios . The fact that early on in a mortgage most of the payment goes to interest is a simple fact of the the 30 year nature of amortizing . You are in control , just add extra principal to the payment , if you wish . This idea sounds like the Money Merge Account peddled by UFirst . It 's a scam if ever there was one . I wrote about it extensively on my site and have <URL> . Once you get to this page , the first link is for a free spreadsheet to download , it beats MMA every time and shows how prepaying works , no smoke , no mirrors . The second link is a 65 page PDF that compiles nearly all my writing on this topic as I was one of the finance bloggers doing what I could to expose this scam . I admit it became a crusade , I went as far as buying key word ads on google to attract the search for " money merge account " only to help those looking to buy it find the truth . In the end , I spent a few hundred dollars but saved every visitor the $ 3500 loss of this program . No agent who dialoged with me in public could answer my questions in full , as they fell back on " you need to believe in it . " I have no issue with faith-based religion , it actually stands to reason , but mortgages are numbers and there 's order to them . If you want my $ 3500 , you should know how your system works . Not one does , or they would know it was a scam . Nassim Taleb , author of " The Black Swan " offered up a wonderful quote , " if you see fraud , and do not say ' fraud , ' you are a fraud . " The site you link to is n't selling a product , but a fraudulent idea . What 's most disturbing to me is that the math to disprove his assertion is not complex , not beyond grade school arithmetic . Update 2015 - The linked " rule of thumb " is still there . Still wrong of course . Another scam selling software to do this is now promoted by a spin off of UFirst , called Worth Unlimited . Same scam , new name .
See the <URL> ( # 3 ) . Go to <URL> and look up rates so you know what to punch in to those calculators .
Those choices are n't mutually exclusive . Yes , most discussion of the mortgage interest deduction ignores the fact that for a standard itemizer , much , if not all of this deduction can be lost . For 2011 , the std deduction for a single is $ 5,800 . It 's not just mortgage interest that 's deductible , state income tax , realestate tax , and charitable contributions are among the other deductions . If this house is worth $ 350K , the property tax is about $ 5K , and since it 's not optional , I 'd be inclined to assume that it 's the deduction that offsets the std deduction . Most states have an income tax , which tops off the rest . You are welcome to toss this aside as sophistry , but I view it as these other deductions as ' lost ' first . I 'm married , and our property tax is more than our standard deduction , so when doing the math , the mortgage is fully deductible , as are our contributions . In your case , the numbers may play out differently . No state tax ? Great , so it 's the property tax and deductions you 'd add up first and decide on the value the mortgage deduction brings . Last , I do n't have my mortgage for the deduction , I just believe that long term my other investments will exceed , after tax , the cost of that mortgage .
I have an ESPP with E * Trade ; you can transfer stock like that via a physical ( paper ) asset-transfer form . Look for one of those , and if you ca n't find it , call your brokerage ( or email / whatever ) . You own the shares , so you can generally do what you want with them . Just be very careful about recording all the purchase and transfer information so that you can deal properly with the taxes .
The name on the Form 1098 that the mortgage lender sends you . That 's the SSN and payments reported to the IRS .
A good explanation from the Wikipedia article on <URL> : Points , sometimes also called a " discount point " , are a form of pre-paid interest . One point > equals one percent of the loan amount . By charging a borrower points , a lender effectively > increases the yield on the loan above the amount of the stated interest rate . Borrowers can > offer to pay a lender points as a method to reduce the interest rate on the loan , thus > obtaining a lower monthly payment in exchange for this up-front payment . For each point > purchased , the loan rate is typically reduced by 1/8 % ( 0.125 ) . To know whether or not paying points for a mortgage is a good idea for you , you can use one of many online calculators . I like the <URL> ( see calculators 10-11 ) . There 's a payback period associated with this prepayment -- if you sell or refinance your mortgage before the payback period , you lose money on the investment of points . If you keep your mortgage past the payback period , you save money from the lower interest rate .
If this is her primary residence and the mortgage is secured by it - then yes , she can deduct the mortgage interest . The caveat : she has to either be on the title , or on the mortgage . Source : <URL> . IRC Section 163 deals with all the interest deductions and as such is quite hard to read and follow . In order to understand how to follow the statute , the Treasury issues regulations . Regulation <URL> is dealing with the IRC section 163 . This is what the regulation 1.163-1 ( B ) has to tell us : ( b ) Interest paid by the taxpayer on a mortgage upon real estate of which he is the legal or equitable owner , even though the taxpayer is not directly liable upon the bond or note secured by such mortgage , may be deducted as interest on his indebtedness . Thus , the answer to your question , as user662852 suggested in the comment , depends on whether she 's on the title ( or otherwise has ownership interest , if for example it is purchased with community funds in a community property state - check with a local lawyer . ) . Keep in mind that MFS rules affect what and how much deductions you can take , so you need to check carefully whether MFS is suitable for you .
I just read this article and found it useful <URL> Options outlined in the article ( read the article or about the different solutions to learn more ) : Continue paying and wait until the home value comes back up ( if you have the money and are commited to this home ) Refinance ( if you qualify ) Rent it out ( if it makes sense financially and you know the pros and cons of being a landlord ) Loan modification ( but watch out for terms , it might end up increasing the monthly payment ) Foreclosure or walking away ( big credit hit ) Deed in lieu ( give home ownership to bank , credit hit ) Short sale ( if you find a buyer and the lender agrees to it , credit hit )
With your numbers , look at it this way - You borrowed $ 50 . When the stock is $ 100 , you are at 50 % margin . What 's most important , is that there 's margin interest charged , so the amount owed will increase regardless of the stock price . When calculating your return or loss , the interest has to be accounted for or your numbers will be wrong . For a small investor , margin rates can run high , and often , will offset much of your potential gain . What good is a $ 100 gain if you paid $ 125 in margin interest ?
Preapproval letter means that given what you 've told the lender is true , the lender will lend you X dollars under Y terms . You need to get it because the sellers will likely to ignore you without it . But it does n't mean you 've been approved . You 've been pre-approved , which does n't mean all that much . Its a basic sanity check for the sellers that you are in fact capable of talking to a lender , and for you that a lender will in fact talk to you . From my experience , to get you pre-approved they 'll pull your credit , and take your word on anything else ( income , assets , etc ) . They do not check much , and it does n't shorten the approval time a slightest bit . Once you have a deal and you want to close , that 's when the actual approval is going to happen , and everything you 've told the bank to get pre-approved will be checked and verified by the underwriters .
Short answer : the CD can be considered as part of the down payment calculations . they will want a plan to cash them in the last days or weeks before settlement . When approving you for a mortgage they will be looking at : Income : Generally salary or from a guaranteed stream like a pension or social security . Commission based income is a special case . But generally not investment income . Expenses that you are committed to : Car Loans , school loans , other loans . Credit Card balances . Do you have other real estate that you will not be selling before completing this transaction . They will count taxes and Home Owner Association ( HOA ) fees as an expense . This could have a mortgage . If it has a renter this would be both income and expense . Other real estate that you will be selling prior to this transaction . Credit Score . They now know what you can afford to dedicate to this new property every month . They take into account principal , interest , taxes , insurance and the HOA fee . They will then look at how much money you will use as a down payment . They want this money to exist before applying , and they will check on its existence in the last days before settlement . The best is cash sitting in a bank . But it can also be money in savings bonds , or a CD , but they will want a plan for cashing that in just before settlement . They wo n't be comfortable with it being in a volatile account such as stocks especially if the current balance is exactly what you need for a mortgage that wo n't be closed for 3 more months . Because people use money they borrow from their 401K for a home purchase , it is possible to use money from volatile account . They will want to see a plan for getting money from these accounts just before settlement .
The reason I do n't know of any banks who would offer this to you ( even if you held the investment account with their bank ) is that there is no upside to the bank . It is a good idea for you , but what would they have to gain from this arrangement ? The reason banks require a down payment is underwriting quality . If you can afford a significant down payment , they know that there is a significantly lower chance that you will default . However , if you were to provide an investment account as collateral , you would receive all the upside , and any downside would reduce their collateral as a percent of the amount loaned . This sort of idea could potentially work along the lines of a margin call ( ie you have to provide additional capital if your asset value drops ) , but this would have the effective of leveraging the bank 's risk , when their objective is to lower their risk through requiring a down payment . I do n't see a reason why the bank would take on the risk that you would need to provide additional capital down the road with no upside for them . Additionally , many banks have backed away from the kinds of zero-down-payment and negative-amortization-ARM loans that got them ( or the people they sold them to ) in trouble over the last few years in an effort to reduce how much risk they take on . I think that in theory , you 'd have to offer a lot more benefit to the bank , and that in practice it 's probably a non-starter right now .
Purchase loans tend to be more challenging to get the best possible rate , because you have to balance closing the loan and getting the contract . So there is n't as much time to shop around as when you do a refinance . I disagree with the sentiment to go with your local bank . Nothing wrong with asking at your local bank and using their numbers as a baseline , but chances are they wo n't be competitive . There are many reputable online mortgage originators that will show accurate fees and rates upfront assuming you provide accurate information . In the past there were a lot of issue with Good Faith Estimates being pretty much worthless . There were a fair number of horror stories about people showing up to closing and finding out fee or rates had increased dramatically . There was a law passed after the housing debacle that severely limits the shenanigans that lenders can do at closing and so there is less risk when going with a lesser known lender . In fact I would say the only real risk with a lender now days is choosing one that happens to be overloaded and or just has poor customer service in general . Personally I have found the most competitive rates from Zillow 's mortgage service and the now defunct Google mortgage . The lenders tend to be smaller , but highly efficient . They are very much dependent on their online reputations . I have heard good things about a number of larger online lenders , but I do n't have personal experience so I will leave them off . I personally would n't worry much about whether the loan is sold or not . Outside of refinancing I do n't think I have ever talked to the bank servicing my mortgage about my mortgage . There just is n't much need to talk to them .
The mortgage commitment letter you describe will not help you because of it 's expiration before you need it . From a legal point of view , you have nothing in writing that covers your needs ( a loan on your closing date ) . I 've heard of lenders giving out letters of pre-approval , which is still subject to final approval . I 've also heard that lenders are more frequently re-pulling credit 1 or 2 days before closing to make sure nothing has changed and denying the loan if there has been any change even if they had previously approved the loan . I 'm not sure there is any letter you can get prior to your actual loan that guarantees you will get a loan on the day in question .
end question
start question
Single investment across multiple accounts ... good , bad , indifferent ?
The main restrictions you see with IRA 's involve contributions , and not the actual investments themselves . I would be indifferent to having a single investment across multiple accounts . It might be a bit trickier to manage , especially if your strategy involves some specific asset allocation . Other than account management though , there 's no big issue .
It 's very common for two income households to each have separate insurance - at least until you have children . That 's because of exactly what you describe : the employer will often cover a higher amount of the employee 's premium than other family members . As far as for what you should watch out for : Two insurances might mean two insurers , might mean non-overlapping pools of doctors . Are you okay with this ? For some that 's a benefit , for some it 's a detriment . Both of you will likely have to separately handle your medical bills - it will be harder for one to handle both ( not impossible , but more work ) . Are both of you good at paying bills on time , and good at calling up insurers/hospitals/doctors when there 's an issue ? Are both insurance plans equally good ? Sometimes it 's worth choosing the family plan if one of you has a much better plan . My wife works at a hospital and did n't get their insurance even before we had kids , because it was n't as flexible as mine , for example . As far as taxes , no , it wo n't affect you there .
No , it can really not . Look at Detroit , which has lost a million residents over the past few decades . There is plenty of real estate which will not go for anything like it was sold . Other markets are very risky , like Florida , where speculators drive too much of the price for it to be stable . You have to be sure to buy on the downturn . A lot of price drops in real estate are masked because sellers just do n't sell , so you do n't really know how low the price is if you absolutely had to sell . In general , in most of America , anyway , you can expect Real Estate to keep up with inflation , but not do much better than that . It is the rental income or the leverage ( if you buy with a mortgage ) that makes most of the returns . In urban markets that are getting an influx of people and industry , however , Real Estate can indeed outpace inflation , but the number of markets that do this are rare . Also , if you look at it strictly as an investment ( as opposed to the question of " Is it worth it to own my own home ? " ) there are a lot of additional costs that you have to recoup , from property taxes to bills , rental headaches etc. . It 's an investment like any other , and should be approached with the same due diligence .
No , this is not generally possible , as each security purchase is booked as a separate order = > hence separate transaction . You can do this through purchasing of a fund , i.e. : purchasing one share of a ETF will get you a relative share of the ETF holdings , but the actual holdings are not up to you then .
You should see " Restaurant Impossible " on TV , shows exactly how you 'll end up if you take this direction . Bottom line - yes , it is usually bad . There 's a race condition there in the hiding : you either learn the ropes as you go , or you run out of money and go bankrupt , whichever comes first . My personal experience shows that things that seem simple from the outside may become very very complex once you 're actually inside . As an engineer I know perfectly well that the devil is in the details . As an investor I know not to step into something I do n't know how to step out of . If someone sells something - you should give a thought as to why they 're selling . Is the restaurant making money ? What 's the cashflow ? Are there underlying issues ? What are the development plans in the neighborhood for the foreseeable future ? What 's the clientele , and what are the trends ? What 's with the competition ? Can you answer these questions ? If not - you 're not in a position to enter the business .
Some basics . Note that not all plans operate the same way , check with your plan to find out the specifics . When you take out the loan and pay interest , you are effectively paying yourself interest . It goes back into the account . You can typically get a loan of only a % of your account balance - your vested balance , not necessarily the total balance . And it tops out at 50K or 50 % , whichever is the smaller . If you lose your job with the employer the plan is with/move company , typically you are on the hook to pay it all back immediately . You may end up paying taxes twice . There may be origination fees . You will have to agree to a payback schedule as with a regular loan . Loans for house purchases tend to follow different rules - the payback schedule is typically longer . Such loans are not reported to credit reporting agencies . Loans are n't available from all plans . It 's at the discretion of the plan to do so or not . If you 're under 59 years of age you 'll be slugged with a penalty tax on top of the other taxes .
I experimented with Lending Club , lending a small amount of money in early 2008 . ( Nice timing right - the recession was December 2007 to June 2009 . ) I have a few loans still outstanding , but most have prepaid or defaulted by now . I did not reinvest as payments came in . Based on my experience , one " catch " is lack of liquidity . It 's like buying individual bonds rather than a mutual fund . Your money is NOT just tied up for the 3-year loan term , because to get good returns you have to keep reinvesting as people pay off their loans . So you always have some just-reinvested money with the full 3 year term left , and that 's how long it would take to get all your money back out . You ca n't just cash out when you feel like it . They have a trading platform ( which I did not try out ) if you want your money sooner , but I would guess the spreads are wide and you have to take a hit when you sell loans . Again though I did not try the trading platform . On the upside , the yields did seem fine . I got 19 eventual defaults from 81 loans , but many of the borrowers made a number of payments before defaulting so only part of the money was lost . The lower credit ratings default more often obviously , only one of 19 defaults had the top credit score . ( I tried investing across a range of credit ratings . ) The interest rates appear to cover the risk of default , at least on average . You can of course have varying luck . I made only a slight profit over the 3 years , but I did not reinvest after the first couple months , and it was during a recession . So the claimed yields look plausible to me if you reinvest . They do get people 's credit scores , report nonpayment on people 's credit reports , and even send people to collections . Seems like borrowers have a reason to pay the bill . In 2008 I think this was a difference compared to the other peer lending sites , but I do n't know if that 's still true . Anyway , for what it 's worth the site seemed to work fine and " as advertised " for me . I probably will not invest more money there for a couple reasons : the liquidity issue I feel like I 'd have to do more due diligence and research , and I do n't have time I moved to a state where they only allow trading , not new loans However as best I could tell from my experiment , it is a perfectly reasonable place to put a portion of your portfolio you might otherwise invest in something like high-yield bonds or some other sub-investment-grade fixed income . Update : here 's a useful NY Times article : <URL>
I 'm not sure there 's much meaningful diversification at Lending Club across loan quality . The important diversification is to have a lot of different borrowers . When you talk about diversifying investments , what you 're going for is to have uncorrelated asset classes , so when one thing goes down , something else might go up , giving you overall less " noise " and more consistent results . Across loan qualities , correlation is pretty high I bet . If consumers come under economic strain , you 'll get increased defaults at all loan qualities . It is n't like having stocks and bonds , where one might go up while the other goes down . All the loan qualities will ( relatively ) suffer at the same time , though the lower qualities will ( absolutely ) suffer more . Anyway the correlation probably is n't perfect so there 's probably some theoretical diversification benefit across loan qualities , but I just doubt it 's big . Maybe someone else has numbers . What you do need is diversification across borrowers . All the loan qualities , statistically on average , should have similar returns ( slightly more for lower quality ) . But they get there in a really different way , either lower interest rates with few defaults , or higher interest rates but more defaults . The " more defaults " way is lumpier and should take , on average , more borrowers and more time to average out to the expected rate of return . Regardless of loan quality , if you only loan to a few people you could easily lose all your money . Important to spread out among a lot of people so you can be fine if some of them take the money and run .
Unfortunately the answer is , almost none . Almost everything has a risk of decreasing ; but given your short time horizon and presumably given that you want back your principal in full , plus a little bit , you have few choices . ( Some of the following may be Canadian specific terms , but hopefully they are generic enough to apply ) Savings accounts , money-market funds and the like should be available at any bank . Interest wo n't pay you much right now , but the money should be safe ( I presume Israel has some kind of deposit insurance for normal bank accounts ? ) Slightly more risky would be a short-to-maturity bond or stripped bond coupon . The entry amount of money for one of these may be more than you have on hand , or the setup fee for an investment account might be more than you want to bother with for a one-off investment . Given that you seem to indicate that you might need access to the money during the time-frame in question , the bank-account option seems to be the only one really available .
The banks are required to file Currency Transaction Reports ( CTR ) to the IRS for aggregate transfers of over $ 10k . They file Suspicious Activity Reports for suspicious activity with an aggregate value of over $ 5,000 to the US Treasury . You 're probably ok for what you 're doing provided you are n't doing to regularly , but I would consider looking into alternate means of transferring funds such as a check to avoid the appearance of impropriety . Also , you should be able to call your bank to do a one time ACH transfer for up to $ 100k with minimal fees .
Am I running some risk by restricting myself to ETFs as an investment vehicle ? Yes there are risks here . First , be aware of what strategy are you using with the ETFs as if you invest in 30 or more of them , you may well wind up with a rather confusing combination of funds . Be sure you know what strategy you have for using ETFs with ideas like asset allocation , rebalancing and diversification as some ETFs may not necessarily be that diverse if one gets into the specialized sector ones for example . Is there anything I should pay attention to when selecting ETFs , other than the expense ratio and how the underlying index helps me diversifying ? Be aware of the purpose of the ETF as JoeTaxpayer 's comment on leveraged ETFs is worth noting . How liquid is the ETF , what is the size of the ETF and be aware of various strategies of how indices can be put together as while among US large-cap indices there may not be that many big shifts , in small-caps and a few other areas there may be differences as companies like Russell will re-constitute their indices twice a year while S &amp; P does a bit more management of their indices . The liquidity is how many shares trade each day as if the volume is low then you may run into greater gaps between the share price and the underlying Net Asset Value of the shares as the <URL> is usually done in blocks of 50,000 shares . The size of the ETF is the market capitalization as I could imagine some of the smaller ETFs eventually being shut down . An example here is Merrill Lynch 's HOLDRs product that existed for a while . The index reconstitution is worth noting for a couple of reasons : Purity of style . If a small-cap fund could let its winners run , they would then become mid-caps or large-caps and thus you are n't diversifying in reality . Some people may slice and dice things rather finely and thus one may not be aware of what ETF is covering which market segment . Thus , this is more a about how well does the fund handle style drift . While the same market segment may be covered , there could be different ways to look at this style . For example , there could be ETFs in the small-cap area that deal with the smallest stocks out there compared to others that deal with larger stocks that still make up what could be seen as small-cap stocks by some .
No , SPDR ETFs are not a good fit for a novice investor with a low level of <URL> . In fact , there is no investment that is safe for an absolute beginner , not even a savings account . ( An absolute beginner could easily overdraw his savings account , leading to fees and collections . ) I would say that an investment becomes a good fit for an investor as soon as said investor understands how the investment works . A savings account at a bank or credit union is fairly easy to understand and is therefore a suitable place to hold money after a few hours to a day of research . ( Even after 0 hours of research , however , a savings account is still better than a sock drawer . ) Money market accounts ( through a bank ) , certificates of deposit ( through a bank ) , and money market mutual funds ( through a mutual fund provider ) are probably the next easiest thing to understand . This could take a few hours to a few weeks of research depending on the learner . Equities , corporate bonds , and government bonds are another step up in complexity , and could take weeks or months of schooling to understand well enough to try . Equity or bond mutual funds -- or the ETF versions of those , which is what you asked about -- are another level after that . Also important to understand along the way are the financial institutions and market infrastructure that exist to provide these products : banks , credit unions , public corporations , brokerages , stock exchanges , bond exchanges , mutual fund providers , ETF providers , etc. .
First and foremost you need to be aware of what you are comparing . In this case , HSBC as traded on the NYSE exchange is not common shares , but an <URL> ( American Depository Receipt ) with a 5:1 ratio from the actual shares . So for most intents and purposes owning one ADR is like owning five common shares . But for special events like dividends , there may be other considerations , such as the depository bank ( the institution that created the ADR ) may take a percentage . Further , given that some people , accounts or institutions may be required to invest in a given country or not , there may be some permanent price dislocation between the shares and the ADR , which can further lead to discrepancies which are then highlighted by the seeming difference in dividends .
The biggest and primary question is how much money you want to live on within retirement . The lower this is , the more options you have available . You will find that while initially complex , it does n't take much planning to take complete advantage of the tax system if you are intending to retire early . Are there any other investment accounts that are geared towards retirement or long term investing and have some perk associated with them ( tax deferred , tax exempt ) but do not have an age restriction when money can be withdrawn ? I 'm going to answer this with some potential alternatives . The US tax system currently is great for people wanting to early retire . If you can save significant money you can optimize your taxes so much over your lifetime ! 401ks and IRAs If you retire early and have money invested in a Roth IRA or a traditional 401k , that money ca n't be touched without penalty until you 're 55/59 . ( Let 's ignore Roth contributions that can technically be withdrawn ) Ok , the 401k myth . The " I 'm hosed if I put money into it since it 's stuck " perspective is n't true for a variety of reasons . If you retire early you get a long amount of time to take advantage of retirement accounts . One way is to primarily contribute to pretax 401k during working years . After retiring , begin converting this at a very low tax rate . You can convert money in a traditional IRA whenever you want to be Roth . You just pay your marginal tax rate which ... for an early retiree might be 0 % . Then after 5 years - you now have a chunk of principle that has become Roth principle - and can be withdrawn whenever . Let 's imagine you retire at 40 with 100k in your 401k ( pretax ) . For 5 years , you convert $ 20k ( assuming married ) . Because we get $ 20k between exemptions/deduction it means you pay $ 0 taxes every year while converting $ 20k of your pretax IRA to Roth . Or if you have kids , even more . After 5 years you now can withdraw that 20k/year 100 % tax free since it has become principle . This is only a good idea when you are retired early because you are able to fill up all your " free " income for tax conversions . When you are working you would be paying your marginal rate . But your marginal rate in retirement is ... 0 % . <URL> on a forum you might enjoy . This is sometimes called a Roth pipeline . Basically : assuming you have no income while retired early you can fairly simply convert traditional IRA money into Roth principle . This is then accessible to you well before the 55/59 age but you get the full benefit of the pretax money . But let 's pretend you do n't want to do that . You need the money ( and tax benefit ! ) now ! How beneficial is it to do traditional 401ks ? Imagine you live in a state/city where you are paying 25 % marginal tax rate . If your expected marginal rate in your early retirement is 10-15 % you are still better off putting money into your 401k and just paying the 10 % penalty on an early withdrawal . In many cases , for high earners , this can actually still be a tax benefit overall . The point is this : just because you have to " work " to get money out of a 401k early does NOT mean you lose the tax benefits of it . In fact , current tax code really does let an early retiree have their cake and eat it too when it comes to the Roth/traditional 401k/IRA question . Taxable accounts Are you limited to a generic taxable brokerage account ? Currently , a huge perk for those with small incomes is that long term capital gains are taxed based on your current federal tax bracket . If your federal marginal rate is <URL> you will pay nothing for long term capital gains , until this income pushes you into the 25 % federal bracket . This might change , but right now means you can capture many capital gains without paying taxes on them . This is huge for early retirees who can manipulate income . You can have significant " income " and not pay taxes on it . You can also stack this with before mentioned Roth conversions . Convert traditional IRA money until you would begin owing any federal taxes , then capture long term capital gains until you would pay tax on those . Combined this can represent a huge amount of money per year . HSAs So littleadv mentioned HSAs but . . for an early retiree they can be ridiculously good . You can invest them You pay no FICA ( for employer plans , sorry self employed people ! ) You can withdraw medical expenses whenever . Not only the year of contribution ( like FSAs ) At age 65 effectively turns into IRA ( except the FICA benefit remains ) What this means is you can invest the maximum into your HSA for 10 years , let it grow 100 % tax free , and save all your medical receipts/etc . Then in 10 years start withdrawing that money . While it sucks healthcare costs so much in America , you might as well take advantage of the tax opportunities to make it suck slightly less . Related Resources There are many online communities dedicated to learning and optimizing their lives in order to achieve early retirement . The question you are
Welcome to Money.SE . Please take a look at the recent question , <URL> . Much of the discussion of risk applies to this question as well . The numbers look like your mortgage is closer to 10 % of gross income . Life insurance in your case is a personal decision . In my opinion , life insurance should be to help loved ones left behind not experience financial trauma . The single wager earner dies , and leaves a non-working spouse with 2 toddlers and a mortgage ? Trauma . Your situation ? Not so much . You should start to plan your mortgage needs based on the kids you expect to have . When running the numbers after we got married , we had a house that we each could n't afford alone , and were planning a child that would go to college . If I were you , I 'd look at the worst case numbers , and price out term that will cover your planned children , but perhaps not buy the policies until the first one is born . House contents is purely up to you . You should ask your insurer what contents insurance for fire/theft will cost . Some people are minimalists , and can replace their entire furniture collection with a single paycheck . Others love there $ 10K leather sofa . If , as you suggest , you can self-insure contents , and would lose too much sleep repurchasing the contents after the house is re-built , that 's fine . To answer the original question - Term insurance . I 'd never buy a policy tied to a loan balance . To clarify - as time passes , the mortgage payment is less painful , its real value dropping with inflation and your salary increases . But the very fact that you are earning more , and more valuable to your spouse and children points toward needing more insurance , not less . An the house , while it 's great to kill that mortgage , has higher property taxes , along with higher maintenance costs as things need a round of repair or renovation . The need for insurance is more of a step function , and the use of multiple term policies can be timed to give you the right coverage depending on the stage of your life .
I found this on the California Franchise Tax Board web at <URL> : If a taxpayer chooses to defer to 2011 and 2012 and the taxpayer leaves California in one of those years how is the conversion treated for California purposes ? Similarly , how is the conversion treated if a nonresident moves into California ? In Legal Ruling 98-3 , Taxation of IRA Distributions Rolled Over to a Roth IRA Followed by a Change of Residence Status , we provided guidance as to the tax treatment of California residents who converted a traditional IRA to Roth IRA in 1998 and then change residence during the ratable period between 1999 and 2001 , as well as the tax treatment of non California residents who converted an IRA to Roth IRA in 1998 and then become California residents in the period between 1999 and 2001 . The analysis in this ruling remains applicable to the new deferral rule allowing taxpayers to report the income from the conversion of a traditional IRA ratably over the two years following the conversion . Outbound taxpayers must include in gross income only those portions of the taxable distribution reportable under the two year rule before they became nonresidents . Under R&amp;TC section 17952.5 the gross income of a nonresident does not include qualified retirement income including income from an IRA , received on or after January 1 , 1996 . R&amp;TC 17952.5 prevents the imposition of California tax on the portions of the IRA distribution recognized after an individual becomes a nonresident . California will allow for the proration of the taxpayer 's income from the conversion based upon the number of days a taxpayer is within California during the two years of the proration . An individual who makes a rollover contribution from an IRA to a Roth IRA before January 1 , 2011 and changes residency in 2011 , must include in California adjusted gross income one half of the taxable portion of the distribution multiplied by a fraction , the denominator of which is the total number of days in the taxable year and the numerator of which is the number of days in the year in which the individual is a California resident . If the taxpayer changes residency during the second year , the amount included in California adjusted gross income for the year of the change in residency is one half of the taxable distribution multiplied by a fraction , the denominator of which is the total number of days in the taxable year and the numerator of which is the number of days in the year in which the individual is a California resident .
The number of days you could sustain your current lifestyle if you stopped working for money today
Based on a quick look at the street via Google Maps I have Estimated that there are 50 properties on the street Assume that all are 2 family houses . If 10 % are rentals that means that 10 units have renters . If they are evenly spread though out the year then 1 is for rent right now . If 25 % of all listings appear on Craigslist . Then there is a 25 % chance there is a listing on Craigslist right now . Finding Zero is the expected result of your Craigslist check . You will have to do a lot more research . A local agent can help you determine the number of days they stay on the market before they are rented . They can also help determine the spread between purchase costs and rental cost . You will also have to figure in the cost of hiring a local management company , if you do n't want to drive to Syracuse every time the renter has a problem in the middle of the night , or in the middle of a blizzard .
If you 're changing countries every year , investigate if you 're being treated as an expat or not - the latter may allow favourable tax treatment and might allow you to keep a pension fund in one country and top it up from another one ( which of course is now a lot easier as it 's all Euros with very few exceptions ) . Other than that you might involuntarily restrict yourself to less tax efficient savings vehicles unless you want a minuscule pension fund in each and every country .
The main restrictions you see with IRA 's involve contributions , and not the actual investments themselves . I would be indifferent to having a single investment across multiple accounts . It might be a bit trickier to manage , especially if your strategy involves some specific asset allocation . Other than account management though , there 's no big issue .
end question
start question
How much in CPP contributions do you pay when you are an independent contractor ?
No , certainly not , with respect to what you wrote about the payroll contributions . You 're misunderstanding calculation and the meaning of the $ 53,600 " maximum amount " , which is but one input to the calculation that limits the pensionable earnings ( salary ) amount before a contribution rate is applied to those pensionable earnings to determine contributions . The employee and the employer each pay a percentage of salary ( 4.95 % ) into CPP , on the amount of pensionable earnings exceeding the basic exemption amount ( $ 3500 , constant ) and not exceeding the year 's maximum pensionable earnings ( $ 53,600 in 2015 , varying each year as it is indexed for average wage growth . ) So , a full-time employee earning $ 100K per year will pay in annual CPP contributions , and their employer the same ( 100 % match ) . The two contributions combined equal what a self-employed individual would pay into CPP for pensionable earnings ( salary , but not dividends ) . The calculation for employees and self-employed individuals is the same -- the principal difference is that somebody who is self-employed must pay both the employee portion ( 4.95 % ) and the employer portion ( also 4.95 % ) of the CPP contributions , for a total 9.9 % on their pensionable earnings exceeding $ 3,500 but not exceeding $ 53,600 . After all , somebody who works for their own company is both the employee and employer . Service Canada makes it very clear <URL> . Quoting : If you have an employer , you pay half the required contributions and your employer pays the other half . If you are self-employed , you make the whole contribution . The retirement pension benefit calculation is also identical . Years of self-employment pensionable earnings are not worth any more or any less than years of regular pensionable earnings from employment . Here 's a great article on estimating your CPP benefits : <URL> . The author of that article worked for Service Canada and is a CPP expert . Finally , the real ( and only ) advantage that self-employed individuals that work through their own corporation have with respect to CPP is that they can elect , in any given year , to take more compensation as dividend income instead of as salary . Dividends are n't subject to CPP contributions , and so less can be paid into CPP than someone who ca n't structure their compensation that way . Yet , since the CPP retirement pension calculation drops some low earnings years from the earnings history , a self-employed individual who takes lower salaries from time to time ( and pays less into CPP in those years ) could still end up with an unreduced pension -- provided they plan accordingly .
This is a question that you want to make sure with a tax expert . It appears based on the IRS documents that you can do so . The question is will the confusing set of documents slow the IRS computers and delay your refund . If you recontribute to a new account , I would even select a new custodian , within the 60 day window this should not be a big deal . If you go beyond the 60 day window it should be fine , just a little more complex to sort out . You should contribute the original amount plus the earnings from the original investment ; Otherwise the earnings from the first account will be taxed . I would also fund the second account by the end of the calendar year to clearly mark the 2nd contribution and one for this year . You normally have until April 15th to contribute to an IRA , but doing so this year will help make sure all the paperwork matches . Please talk with a professional before making the second contribution if you will be beyond the 60 day window .
You will owe tax on the amount . The tax is not withheld in direct rollover , you 'll get a tax bill next April . You can rollover the non-Roth portion into a regular IRA , and convert to Roth when it is convenient to you ( i.e. : when the tax hit will be minimal ) , or in " installments " - converting only part each year .
IANAL ( and nor am I an accountant ) , so I ca n't give a definitive answer as to legality , but AFAIK , what you propose is legal . But what 's the benefit ? Avoiding corporation tax ? It 's simplistic -- and costly -- to think in terms like that . You need to run the numbers for different scenarios , and make a plan . You can end up ahead of the game precisely by choosing to pay some corporate tax each year . Really ! Read on . One of the many reasons that self-employed Canadians sometimes opt for a corporate structure over being a sole proprietor is to be able to not pay themselves everything the company earns each year . This is especially important when a business has some really good years , and others , meh . Using the corporation to retain earnings can be more tax effective . Example : Imagine your corporation earns , net of accounting &amp; other non-tax costs except for your draws , $ 120,000 / year for 5 years , and $ 0 in year 6 . Assume the business is your only source of income for those 6 years . Would you rather : Pay yourself the entire $ 120,000 / yr in years 1-5 , then $ 0 in year 6 ( living off personal savings you hopefully accumulated earlier ) , subjecting the $ 120,000 / yr to personal income tax only , leaving nothing in the corporation to be taxed ? Very roughly speaking , assuming tax rates &amp; brackets are level from year to year , and using <URL> calculator ( which simplifies certain things ) , then in Ontario , then you 'd net ~ $ 84,878 / yr for years 1-5 , and $ 0 in year 6 . Overall , you realized $ 424,390 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600,000 was 29.26 % . vs. Pay yourself only $ 100,000 / yr in years 1-5 , leaving $ 20,000 / yr subject to corporation tax . Assuming a 15.5 % combined federal/provincial corporate tax rate ( includes the <URL> ) , then the corp. is left with $ 16,900 / yr to add to retained earnings in years 1-5 . In year 6 , the corp. has $ 84,500 in retained earnings to be distributed to you , the sole owner , as a dividend ( of the non-eligible kind . ) Again , very roughly speaking , you 'd personally net $ 73,560 / yr in years 1-5 , and then on the $ 84,500 dividend in year 6 , you 'd net $ 73,658 . Overall , you realized $ 441,458 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600K was 26.42 % . i.e. Scenario 2 , which spreads the income out over the six years , saved 2.84 % in tax , or $ 14,400 . Smoothing out your income is also a prudent thing to do . Would you rather find yourself in year 6 , having no clients and no revenue , with nothing left to draw on ? Or would you rather the company had saved money from the good years to pay you in the lean one ?
Hourly rate is not the determinant . You could be selling widgets , not hours . Rather , there 's a $ 30,000 annual revenue threshold for GST/HST . If your business 's annual revenues fall below that amount , you do n't need to register for GST/HST and in such case you do n't charge your clients the tax . You could still choose to register for GST/HST if your revenues are below the threshold , in which case you must charge your clients the tax . Some businesses voluntarily enroll for GST/HST , even when below the threshold , so they can claim input tax credits . If your annual revenues exceed $ 30,000 , you must register for GST/HST and you must charge your clients the tax . FWIW , certain kinds of supplies are <URL> , but the kind of services you 'd be offering as an independent contractor in Canada are n't likely to be . There 's more to the GST/HST than this , so be sure to talk to a tax accountant . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Look for people who have done business with them . If you do n't know anyone who has used their services , look for a company that at least has a brick and mortar branch in your area . Being able to deal with them face to face is a must . Have you checked with your local bank ?
What does this mean and how do you do it ? Consider that there are may be more than a few different objectives when it comes to investing : Retirement College education Vacation Home purchase as new primary residence Investment property purchase Emergency fund Each of these is a different objective that can have different timelines , objectives for the money as well as possible accounts and investment choices . In a sense the question could be stated as " How much money do you need and when do you need it ? " Is it trying to figure out how much money you hope to have for retirement , or does it include short term expenses The objective could be retirement but does n't have to be . The short term expenses can be included in various ways . The retirement funds could include what kind of method would be used to make sure expenses can be met as if one is looking at retirement just a few years away the " short term expenses " may come up as part of the retirement living .
The short answer is no you can only deduct actual expenses . The long answer is that it would be impossible for the IRS to determine the value of your time and it would open the tax system to an enormous amount of fraud ( think of being able to make up time spent or writing off time spent volunteering at a soup kitchen or any other charity ) . Now you can write off expenses you have involved in doing the work , equipment and supplies used to do the work along with any wages you paid an employee or contractor to do said work .
Welcome to the workforce . The W-2 is the form on which your employer has reported both your income for last year as well as the taxes you 've already paid . This form gets sent both to you and to the IRS . You will use the information on this form to complete your tax return . You generally get sent 3 or 4 copies of this form : one is for you to keep for your records , one gets sent in with your federal tax return ( assuming you do n't e-file ) , and one gets sent in with your state tax return , if needed . There are instructions on the back of the form that roughly explain what the numbers in the different boxes represent . When you do your taxes , the instructions for the tax form tell you what to do with the numbers in some of these boxes . If you use software to do your taxes , you will enter the entire form into the software : you 'll be presented with a W-2 form on the screen , and you enter in the information just as it is shown . Then the software does its magic and figures out what to do with each value . Here is a quick explanation of some of the boxes : Box 1 : This is the total taxable income for the year . Anything that you paid with before tax money ( such as 401k contributions or health insurance premiums ) has been taken out . Box 2 : This is how much in federal tax you have already had taken out of your paychecks . Box 3 : Some of your income is not taxable for federal income tax , but is taxable for Social Security . This larger amount is shown here . Box 4 : Shows the amount of Social Security tax you 've already paid . Boxes 5 &amp; 6 : Same as boxes 3 &amp; 4 , but for the Medicare tax . Boxes 16 &amp; 17 show the taxable income and tax paid for your state . If you are lucky enough to live in a place where there is a local income tax , you 'll see amounts in boxes 18-20 . The amount you have contributed to your 401k is not always shown on your W-2 . Luckily , you do n't really need this number to do your tax return . Your Box 1 income number already has your 401k contributions taken out .
You find a broker who handles futures accounts . Search on the word Forex and you 'll find a number of companies happy to take your money . I trust you understand how futures work , the contract values , margin requirements , etc ? You just do n't have an account yet , right ?
In general the answer is yes , you can pay it off early . However , check the terms of your lease for a " prepayment penalty . " They are becoming less common , but if you have such terms in your lease , you might incur a fee for paying early . Even then , if the prepayment penalty is less than the interest you would otherwise pay , it would still be worth it . Paying off loans is a positive thing for your credit . It wo n't negatively impact your credit to prepay .
Common wisdom suggests a starting point of an 80 % replacement rate to final income . It also suggests a 4 % initial withdrawal rate from retirement assets leading to a goal of 20 times final income as the target nest egg . Think of these numbers as a mid point of a bell curve . The retirement budget is personal . During your life were you saving for the kids ' education ? You wo n't have this expense in retirement . Same with the mortgage , if you pay it off before retiring . I 've seen $ 100k budgets showing the couple was living on less than $ 40k , due to the combined mortgage , college saving , and retirement saving . Social security alone would cover their spending in retirement , my advice was n't to save less/spend more , but to be aware and understand their retirement was actually funded to spend nearly twice their pre retirement spending . I 've also seen the same $ 100k spent in full , a couple in their 50s with virtually no savings , and living on their entire income and then some . The dilemma is this - first understanding your own current budget , then forecasting how it might change in its composition if not actual dollars . I have to say , Mhoran is right on , the goal is n't fixed , it 's a moving target , and needs frequent revisiting . Note - I wrote about <URL> last year , the 20x or any other target goal should take SS into account unless you believe it wo n't be there at all . Update - Retirement needs are best understood by looking at spending , not earnings . Financial writers typically focus on the replacement ratio , which of course is a comparison to earnings , not spending . In the end , one can either get wrapped up in the discussion of where to start , or simply start saving , aggressively , with an eye on the 80 % rule of thumb , and as age 40 rolls around , start to migrate to a spending model . Much of the process of doing the math along the way was discussed in <URL> and my answer take a different spin there .
When you want to short a stock , you are trying to sell shares ( that you are borrowing from your broker ) , therefore you need buyers for the shares you are selling . The ask prices represent people who are trying to sell shares , and the bid prices represent people who are trying to buy shares . Using your example , you could put in a limit order to short ( sell ) 1000 shares at $ 3.01 , meaning that your order would become the ask price at $ 3.01 . There is an ask price ahead of you for 500 shares at $ 3.00 . So people would have to buy those 500 shares at $ 3.00 before anyone could buy your 1000 shares at $ 3.01 . But it 's possible that your order to sell 1000 shares at $ 3.01 never gets filled , if the buyers do n't buy all the shares ahead of you . The price could drop to $ 1.00 without hitting $ 3.01 and you will have missed out on the trade . If you really wanted to short 1000 shares , you could use a market order . Let 's say there 's a bid for 750 shares at $ 2.50 , and another bid for 250 shares at $ 2.49 . If you entered a market order to sell 1000 shares , your order would get filled at the best bid prices , so first you would sell 750 shares at $ 2.50 and then you would sell 250 shares at $ 2.49 . I was just using your example to explain things . In reality there wo n't be such a wide spread between the bid and ask prices . A stock might have a bid price of $ 10.50 and an ask price of $ 10.51 , so there would only be a 1 cent difference between putting in a limit order to sell 1000 shares at $ 10.51 and just using a market order to sell 1000 shares and getting them filled at $ 10.50 . Also , your example probably would n't work in real life , because brokers typically do n't allow people to short stocks that are trading under $ 5 per share . As for your question about how often you are unable to make a short sale , it can sometimes happen with stocks that are heavily shorted and your broker may not be able to find any more shares to borrow . Also remember that you can only short stocks with a margin account , you can not short stocks with a cash account .
When you start preparing your 2016 tax return in early 2017 and realize that you are ineligible to contribute to a Roth IRA , you have the options of withdrawing your contribution as well as any earnings from that contribution from the Roth IRA . The earnings will count as income for 2017 since you will be making the withdrawal in 2017 . The original contribution , of course , continues to count as income for 2016 . recharacterizing your contribution as a contribution to your Traditional IRA . You need to contact your IRA custodian and tell them about it so that they can change the status of your account from Roth to Traditional IRA . Use the word recharacterization so that they will know exactly what you are talking about . If your income is very high , you might not be able to deduct the Traditional IRA contribution ( wholly , or in part ) on your 2016 tax return either , and if you are in that high-earner category , you should file Form 8606 with your tax return to tell the IRS that you have made a nondeductible contribution to your Traditional IRA . In later years , when you start taking distributions from your Traditional IRA , that nondeductible contribution will not be taxed upon withdrawal . If you do not file Form 8606 , you will owe taxes on that amount when it is withdrawn . doing nothing in which case you will get whacked with all kinds of penalties Note : if you recharacterize your Roth IRA contribution as a Traditional IRA contribution , then , depending on your Traditional IRA accounts , it might be advantageous to do a " back-door Roth IRA conversion " . There are multiple answers on this site that will tell you all about back-door Roth IRA conversion .
First , a margin account is required to trade options . If you buy a put , you have the right to deliver 100 shares at a fixed price , 50 can be yours , 50 , you 'll buy at the market . If you sell a put , you are obligated to buy the shares if put to you . All options are for 100 shares , I am unaware of any partial contract for fewer shares . Not sure what you mean by leveraging the position , can you spell it out more clearly ?
I know in the UK at least , 99 % of the time even legitimate collectors do n't work directly for the charity . They work for independent for-profit companies . The companies collect a large comission ( around # 50 - # 70 ) for every direct debit signup . The guy that knocks on your door will see very little of it . Have a look at this : <URL> The bags you get through your door for clothing donations are run on a similar basis - the clothes and profit go to a private company , which makes a donation to the charity out of their profits . Sometimes as little as 0.1 % of your donation will go the charity . Always go direct to your chosen charity .
If you receive a 1099-MISC from YouTube , that tells you what they stated to the IRS and leads into most tax preparation software guided interviews or wizards as a topic for you to enter . Whether or not you have a 1099-MISC , this <URL> is pertinent to your question . You could probably elect to report the income as a royalty on your copyrighted work of art on Schedule E , but see this note : " In most cases you report royalties in Part I of Schedule E ( Form 1040 ) . However , if you ... are in business as a self-employed writer , inventor , artist , etc. , report your income and expenses on Schedule C or Schedule C-EZ ( Form 1040 ) . " Whether reporting on Schedule E or C is more correct or better for your specific circumstances is beyond the advice you should take from strangers on the internet based on a general question - however , know that there are potentially several paths for you . Note that this is revenue from a business , so if you paid for equipment or services that are 100 % dedicated to your YouTubing ( PC , webcam , upgraded broadband , video editing software , vehicle miles to a shoot , props , etc. ) then these are a combination of depreciable capital investments and expenses you can report against the income , reducing the taxes you may owe . If the equipment/services are used for business and personal use , there are further <URL> as to estimating the split . These apply whether you report on Sch . E , Sch . C , or Sch C-EZ . Quote : " Self-Employment Income It is a common misconception that if a taxpayer does not receive a Form 1099-MISC or if the income is under $ 600 per payer , the income is not taxable . There is no minimum amount that a taxpayer may exclude from gross income . All income earned through the taxpayer 's business , as an independent contractor or from informal side jobs is self-employment income , which is fully taxable and must be reported on Form 1040 . Use Form 1040 , Schedule C , Profit or Loss from Business , or Form 1040 , Schedule C-EZ , Net Profit from Business ( Sole Proprietorship ) to report income and expenses . Taxpayers will also need to prepare Form 1040 Schedule SE for self-employment taxes if the net profit exceeds $ 400 for a year . Do not report this income on Form 1040 Line 21 as Other Income . Independent contractors must report all income as taxable , even if it is less than $ 600 . Even if the client does not issue a Form 1099-MISC , the income , whatever the amount , is still reportable by the taxpayer . Fees received for babysitting , housecleaning and lawn cutting are all examples of taxable income , even if each client paid less than $ 600 for the year . Someone who repairs computers in his or her spare time needs to report all monies earned as self-employment income even if no one person paid more than $ 600 for repairs . "
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
how much taxes would I pay on my income from the rent they would pay me ? The same as on any other income . California does n't have any special taxes for rental/passive income . Bothe CA and the Federal tax laws do have special treatment , but it is for losses from rental . Income is considered unearned regular income and is taxed at regular brackets . Would I be able to deduct the cost of the mortgage from the rental income ? The cost of mortgage , yes . I.e. : the interest you pay . Similarly you can deduct any other expense needed to maintain the property . This is assuming you 're renting it out at FMV . If not , would I pay the ordinary income tax on that income ? In particular , would I pay CA income tax on it , even though the property would be in WA ? Yes . Do n't know how WA taxes rental income , but since you are a California tax resident - you will definitely be taxed by California on this , as part of your worldwide income .
There are a few reasons , particularly for businesses . The first is opportunity cost . That chunk of money they have could be used to get higher returns somewhere else . If they can borrow from a bank at low interest rates to finance their ongoing operations , they can use their cash to get a higher return somewhere else . The second is credit rating . For public companies , ratings companies give high emphasis to companies with large reserves . This strengthens their ability to pay back the loan should it become necessary . A good credit rating in turn let 's the company borrow money at lower rates . When a company can borrow money at low rates , it circles back to the first point where they can now put their reserves to better use . The third is leverage . Companies can use the cash they have built up to leverage into a larger investment . Assuming the investment works out , it will pay for the cost of borrowing over time . For instance let 's say I have $ 1 million to invest . I can pay all cash for a $ 1 million apartment building or I can leverage that into a $ 3 million building . Assuming I run it well , the tenants will pay for the cost of borrowing $ 2 million and at the end of the term I 'll be left with my $ 3 million building .
end question
start question
Is sales tax charged on checked baggage fees ?
No . The IRS has ruled that taxes do not have to be paid on checked baggage fees . <URL> Also an explanation here . <URL>
<URL> and <URL> on the ATO website provide some information on tax rates . They 're rather lengthy and there 's a few exceptions , but essentially , your entire foreign income , even if held overseas , is taxable . Australians are taxed worldwide .
You ca n't reclaim the German VAT ( unless you travel to Germany to collect the item ) , but the German vendor should not be charging VAT on sales of goods that will be exported from the EU . You need to get the vendor to quote and charge you a VAT-free price .
Each tax year a local jurisdiction has a time window where homeowner can appeal their assessment . The law dictates the timing of the window , and how to appeal . Assuming that you are still in that window you could appeal . If you are outside that window , your ability is very limited and for all practical purposes is zero . Your local government website , or the copy of your tax bill will tell you how to appeal . The new homeowners would be able to appeal after the next assessment . The sale price of the home is not related to the assessed value . You have to show that the government made a mistake ( number of bedrooms , size of garage , lot size , age of house ... ) or that the other houses that were used by the government to make the assessment were not good matches ( too far away , different school , local environment ... ) . Many governments look at how the prices are changing to determine how to adjust the value next year , with the understanding that in a rapidly changing market the moment just prior to the next assessment will show the greatest mismatch between the direction of prices and assessed value .
No , it is not true . That is one of the many " conspiracy theorists ' " claims to not pay taxes , and is <URL> ( i.e. : punishable by <URL> and criminal prosecution ) . Specifically to your question , the current Federal income tax framework was laid down in 1986 , with the <URL> . It is codified under the <URL> . It is usually referred to as the " Internal Revenue Code " , or IRC .
What if XOM has 400B in revenue and 40B in profit . Does a $ 360 billion difference sound synonymous to you ? Revenue can most easily be thought of as the top line of an income statement or profit and loss statement . Revenue is the total amount of income generated by the sale of goods or services related to the company 's primary operations . Profit , conversely , is the infamous bottom line . This is called net profit , because it is the amount of income that remains after accounting for all expenses , debts , additional income streams and operating costs .
The fair tax is a proposal to replace the US income tax with a sales tax . Pros of Fair Tax : Allows less manipulation of tax code for political reasons ( For good or bad , why is mortgage interest tax deductible ? ) It 's voluntary . Buy something , pay tax . Do n't buy something , do n't pay tax . Bigger paychecks ( but less spending power per dollar because of higher sales taxes ) . Role of IRS would be much smaller - in theory , tax is easier to calculate . It 's a large change to the way the United States currently does things . The " Fair Tax Act of 2011 " is <URL> in the US House and <URL> in the Senate . The full text of the bill is available at the links provided . There are some fairly large consequences of implementing a fair tax . For example , 401ks and Roth IRAs serve no benefit over non-retirement investments . Mortgages would no longer have a tax advantage . Luxury items would get far more expensive .
Found the problem , the actual numbers used are for the annual , not for semi-monthly , so multiplying my gross by 24 and calculating that way , then dividing the final tax by 24 solved the problem .
I have been a private tutor on and off for about 30 years , in three countries , so I understand your concerns ! I always kept records as though it was a real business - even if I only had one student I kept records of dates/times/names , and also tracked where the money went ( I never spent it straight up - it always got deposited to complete the paper trail ; yes , this is paranoia on my part ) . I 've never been asked to prove anything with regards this income ( although I have no Canadian experience ) . It 's always been a case of tell the tax folks and make sure my arse is covered if they come asking questions . Hope this helps .
My friend and tax-crush Kay Bell wrote an article that addressed this very well at <URL> . ( The short answer is yes , you most likely can . Read the article for full details . )
It depends on the funds you invest in . Load funds ( those that charge a fee to invest ) will charge that fee on each monthly investment . Some load funds may have special share classes that have reduced fees . You will have to research the fund ( via its prospectus or a trusted financial advisor ) to determine if you qualify to use such a share class . Some funds ( and some share classes ) charge smaller fees when you invest , but may include a contingent fee that will be paid when you sell . They 're contingent upon the time period you own them . After some period of time , the fee is usually removed . Again , read the prospectus . No-load funds do not charge a fee to invest , and so they would be a good place to look , especially for index funds . Most brokerages do not charge an additional fee to invest in mutual funds . They are paid a commission by the fund , through the sales fee and annual expense charges of the funds . If you 're investing in index ETFs or closed-end funds ( which trade on exchanges ) , there is likely a commission to be paid for each monthly investment . Your specific brokerage may have a special arrangement for recurring monthly investing . You 'll need to research that with your brokerage .
No , unless the guest is your spouse or dependent . From the <URL> : If you itemize your deductions for a taxable year on Form 1040 , Schedule A ( PDF ) , Itemized Deductions , you may be able to deduct expenses you paid that year for medical and dental care for yourself , your spouse , and your dependents .
It has more to do with who is paying the credit processors for the service , than what the goods really are . Essentially speaking , when you purchase goods worth $ 100 using your card , the store has to pay about $ 2 for the transaction to the company that operates that stores ' credit card terminal . If you withdraw cash from an ATM , you might be charged a fee for such a transaction . However , the ATM operator does n't pay the credit processor such a transaction fee - thus , it is classified as a cash transaction . It 's an attempt to discourage certain behavior . It is also used ( at least deciding to accrue interest immediately ) to prevent users from paying back one CC using a cash advance from another - this way one could run on grace periods indefinitely . Additionally , performing cash advances off a CC is a rather good indicator of a bad financial health of the user , which increase the risk of default , and in some institutions is a factor contributing to their internal creditworthiness assessment .
If you owe a tax of more than or equal to 10K , then you need pay advance tax to avoid interest &amp; penalty . From the Income Tax India website <URL> Liability for payment of advance tax arises where the amount of tax payable by the assessee for the year is Rs .10,000 / - or more . The due dates for various instalments of advance tax are given below ; - On or before 15th September Amount not less than 30 % of the previous year of such advance tax payable . - On or before 15th December Amount not less than 60 % of the previous year of such advance tax payable . - On or before 15th March of Entire balance amount of the previous year such advance tax payable So if you have income other than Salary , say gains from stocks , or interest that result in more than 10K as profits , you should be paying advance tax . Of late the Government is capturing the tax data electronically and hence its easier to compute and generate such requests . There was also an error in the year 2009 with some processing where individuals who had only salary income received errenous notice , however this is rectified . Edit : Incase you fail to make payment as per the prescribed schedule , for any delay in payment there is a penalty , ie if you do not make the 30 % by 15th Sept and make it on 15 December , you will be charged an interest . If you do not make the payment by 30th March , you would be charged a penalty . As in your example exactly 10 % tax is outstanding as of 31st March , you are liable to pay a penalty . Even if you had paid a rupee more , then you would not have had to pay the penalty .
<URL> : Medical expenses are the costs of diagnosis , cure , mitigation , treatment , or prevention of disease , and the costs for treatments affecting any part or function of the body . Loan interest and fees do not meet this definition . Your loan interest and fees are a cost of the payment method you chose ( a loan ) , not a cost of medical treatment . The IRS makes clear where loan interest is deductible . <URL> discusses home mortgage interest deductions , and <URL> specifically discusses student loan interest deductions . Considering <URL> 's definition of a medical expense , combined with the absence of a publication discussing medical expense loan interest deductions , one must conclude that medical loan interest and fees are not deductible .
Expenses are taken out of the fund 's assets , which lowers the return to investors . ( <URL> ) . As fideli mentioned below , " the indicated unit price has already taken into account the cut that the fund company took as part of its expense ratio . "
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
The <URL> limited late payment fees that credit card companies can charge . There are two ways that the fee is limited : first , the fee can not be larger than the amount of the payment . For example , if your minimum payment is $ 15 , the late fee can be no more than $ 15 . Second , the Act requires Federal agencies to set maximum late payment fees . When the Act first took effect , the late payment fee maximums were set at $ 25 for the first offense , and $ 35 for subsequent offenses within 6 months of the first offense . The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection updated these fee maximums last year , which took effect on January 1 , 2015 , to $ 27 and $ 38 . From the <URL> : Effective January 1 , 2015 , the permissible fee threshold amounts are $ 27 for Sec . 1026.52 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ( A ) and $ 38 for Sec . 1026.52 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ( B ) . Accordingly , the Bureau is revising Sec . 1026.52 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ( A ) and ( B ) to state that the fee imposed for violating the terms or other requirements of an account shall not exceed $ 27 and $ 38 respectively . <URL> is also called Regulation Z and is the regulation that deals with consumer credit . <URL> is the section that regulates penalty fees . Specifically , 1026.52 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) says : A card issuer may impose a fee for violating the terms or other requirements of an account if the dollar amount of the fee does not exceed , as applicable : ( A ) $ 27 ( B ) $ 38 if the card issuer previously imposed a fee pursuant to paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ( A ) of this section for a violation of the same type that occurred during the same billing cycle or one of the next six billing cycles ; ... ( D ) The amounts in paragraphs ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ( A ) and ( b ) ( 1 ) ( ii ) ( B ) of this section will be adjusted annually by the Bureau to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index . When these regulations are updated , there is a notice in the Federal Register , which is what is quoted above .
<URL> owns NASDAQ , a <URL> . It is a corporation , and is listed on the NASDAQ as <URL> . It makes money by : They charge each company to list their stock in their market . They charge for transaction that is taking place on their exchange server They may be offering other financial or other listing ( or IPO ) related services in a package deal with contracted third parties . <URL> NASDAQ also charges for market data services , found in the <URL> . Other information about the fees charged by NYSE and NASDAQ may be found in the Investopedia article <URL> .
Typical costs to buy might include : 1000 or so in financing costs ( including title fees etc. ) couple hundred for inspection any moving costs probably some repairs and new furniture after moving in One piece of advice if you 've never bought , fixing problems with a house always seems to cost more than the discount in price due to the problems . Say the house needs a 15K new kitchen it seems like it will be just 7K cheaper than a house with a good kitchen , that kind of thing . Careful with the fixer uppers . Costs to sell include : 3 % to seller 's agent and 3 % to buyer 's agent any repairs and landscaping you were putting off potentially staging or professional cleaning any repairs the buyer demands after inspection , that you agree to and of course you have the buying costs again for the replacement house Doing your own cleaning , repairs , moving , etc. can save a lot . You can also choose to work without an agent but I do n't know how wise it is , especially for a first time buyer . In my town there are some agents that are buyers only , never seller 's agents , which helps keep them unconflicted . Agent commissions may be lower in some areas or negotiable anywhere . Real estate transfer taxes may be owed by buyer or seller depending on location : <URL>
end question
start question
$ 700 guaranteed to not be touched for 15 years + , should I put it anywhere other than a savings account ?
( Since you used the dollar sign without any qualification , I assume you 're in the United States and talking about US dollars . ) You have a few options here . I wo n't make a specific recommendation , but will present some options and hopefully useful information . Here 's the short story : You do n't want to start buying individual stocks with that amount of money . There are several reasonable mutual funds available with the amount of money you 're talking about . Treasury savings bonds are an option . They are convenient and come with guarantees , and the government planned them for exactly this purpose . However , the rates are quite low . You can leave it in a savings account . This is convenient , but you probably wo n't keep up with inflation . You can buy certificates of deposit ( CDs ) from a bank . Individual stocks To buy individual stocks , you need to go through a broker . These brokers charge a fee for every transaction , usually in the neighborhood of $ 7 . Since you probably wo n't want to just buy and hold a single stock for 15 years , the fees are probably unreasonable for you . If you want the educational experience of picking stocks and managing a portfolio , I suggest not using real money . Mutual funds Most mutual funds have minimum investments on the order of a few thousand dollars . If you shop around , there are mutual funds that may work for you . In general , look for a fund that : has a suitably low minimal investment , allows you to make a custodial account for your daughter , has a low expense ratio ( much less than 1 % ) , does n't have transaction fees ( sometimes called " load " ) , and subject to taste , tracks an index ( such as the S&amp;P 500 ) and does n't try to be too fancy . An example of a fund that meets these requirements is <URL> from Charles Schwabb , which tracks the S&amp;P 500 . Buy the product directly from the mutual fund company : if you go through a broker or financial manager they 'll try to rip you off . The main advantage of such a mutual fund is that it will probably make your daughter significantly more money over the next 15 years than the safer options . The tradeoff is that you have to be prepared to accept the volatility of the stock market and the possibility that your daughter might lose money . Treasury Bonds Your daughter can buy savings bonds through the US Treasury 's <URL> website . There are two relevant varieties : Series EE bonds , which do not specifically track inflation . Series I bonds , which do specifically track inflation . You and your daughter seem to be the intended customers of these products : they are available in low denominations and they guarantee a rate for up to 30 years . The Series I bonds are the only product I know of that 's guaranteed to keep pace with inflation until redeemed at an unknown time many years in the future . It is probably not a big concern for your daughter in these amounts , but the interest on these bonds is exempt from state taxes in all cases , and is exempt from Federal taxes if you use them for education expenses . The main weakness of these bonds is probably that they 're too safe . You can get better returns by taking some risk , and some risk is probably acceptable in your situation . Savings Accounts Savings accounts , including so-called " money market accounts " from banks are a possibility . They are very convenient , but you might have to shop around for one that : offers custodial accounts or accounts for minors and does n't charge fees or unreasonably reduce the interest rate for the amount of money you 're talking about . I do n't have any particular insight into whether these are likely to outperform or be outperformed by treasury bonds . Remember , however , that the interest rates are not guaranteed over the long run , and that money lost to inflation is significant over 15 years . Certificates of Deposit ( CDs ) Certificates of deposit are what a bank wants you to do in your situation : you hand your money to the bank , and they guarantee a rate for some number of months or years . You pay a penalty if you want the money sooner . The longest terms I 've typically seen are 5 years , but there may be longer terms available if you shop around . You can probably get better rates on CDs than you can through a savings account . The rates are not guaranteed in the long run , since the terms wo n't last 15 years and you 'll have to get new CDs as your old ones mature . Again , I do n't have any particular insight on whether these are likely to keep up with inflation or how performance will compare to treasury bonds . Watch out for the same things that affect savings accounts , in particular fees and reduced rates for balances of your size .
It all depends on your priorities , but if it were me I 'd work to get rid of that debt as your first priority based on a few factors : Government student loans are especially difficult to discharge in bankruptcy , so it is a slightly riskier than average type of debt . As I 'm sure you know . Getting a 6.8 % is almost impossible with low risk . You can get an almost guaranteed 6.8 % return on paying down that debt . I might shift towards the house if you think you can save enough to avoid PMI , as the total savings would probably be more in aggregate if you plan on buying a house anyway with less than 20 % down . Of course , all this is lower priority than funding your retirement at least up to the tax advantaged and/or employer matched maximums , but it sounds like you have that covered .
Why should n't I just keep my money in the savings account and earn the same amount ( both accounts have the same APY in this case ) ? I will assume that you are transferring money from your savings account into a Traditional IRA and deducting the contribution from your income . While you may think that the money that is being transferred is yours already -- it is sitting in your savings account , for Pete 's sake ! -- you are deducting that amount in getting to your taxable income , and so you are effectively contributing it from current income and not paying taxes on the amount contributed . So , consider the same amount of money sitting in your savings account versus the same amount of money sitting in your Traditional IRA account . While you will earn the same amount of interest in both accounts , you will have to pay taxes each year on the interest earned in the savings account . You might choose , as most people do , to not take money out of the savings account to pay theses taxes but just pay them from ready cash/checking account/current income etc. , or these taxes might just reduce the refund that you will getting from the IRS and your State income tax authority , but in either case , you have paid taxes on the interest earned in your non-IRA savings account , and of course , long ago , you also paid taxes on the original amount in the non-IRA savings account . So , if you take any money out of the non-IRA savings account , you do n't pay any taxes on the amount withdrawn except possibly for the interest earned from January 1 till the date of withdrawal ( which you are paying from ready cash ) . On the other hand , consider the Traditional IRA . The original deposit was not taxed in the sense that you got a deduction ( reduced tax or increased refund ) when you made the contribution . The annual interest earned was not taxed each year either . So when you make a qualified withdrawal ( after age 59.5 or by meeting one of the other exceptions allowing withdrawal before age 59.5 ) , you are taking money on which you have not paid any taxes at all , and the IRS wants its cut . The money withdrawn is taxable income to you . Furthermore , the money withdrawn is not eligible for any kind of favorable treatment such as having it count as qualified dividends or as long-term capital gains even if your IRA was invested in stocks and the money in the account is all qualified dividends or long-term capital gains . If you make an unqualified withdrawal , you owe a penalty ( technically named an excise tax ) in addition to income tax on the amount withdrawn . If you are investing in a Roth IRA , you will not be getting a deduction when you make the contribution , and qualified withdrawals are completely tax-free , and so the answer is completely different from the above .
Whether your financial status is considered " OK " depends on your aspirations . You are n't spending more than you earn and have no debt . That puts you in the category of OK in my book , but the information in your post indicates that you would benefit from some financial advice -- 100 grand sounds like a lot of money to have in a bank unless you are on the verge of spending it . Financial advisors come in various shapes and sizes . Many will charge you a lot for what turns out to be helpful advice in the first meeting , but very little value-added thereafter . Some do n't have the best incentives ( they may be incentivized to encourage you to put your money into certain funds , for example ) . There are many financial advisors ( of sorts ) that you have access to that wo n't cost you anything . For example , if you have a 401 ( k ) at work , I bet there is a representative from the plan administrator that will meet with you for free . If you open a brokerage account or IRA at any place ( Fidelity , Vanguard , etc. ) you can easily talk with one of their reps and get all sorts of advice . My personal take is to meet with anyone who will meet with me for free , but not to pay anyone for this service . It 's too easy to get good advice and paying for it does n't guarantee that you get better advice . Your financial situation will depend primarily on a few things you have not mentioned here . For example , How much are you setting aside for retirement and what are your retirement goals ? This is something lots of people can give you advice on , but we do n't know what market returns will be going forward so we do n't really know . One bit of advice that may benefit you is how to set aside money for retirement in the most tax advantaged way . How much do you feel that you need saved up for large expenses ? Thinking of starting a family ? How many months worth of income are you comfortable having set aside ? What is your tolerance of risk ? If you put your money in risky assets , you may make more , but you may also actually lose money . Those are the questions a financial advisor will ask about . Once you have his/her advice -- and preferrably after talking to a few advisors -- you can make your own decision . Basically , your options are : Keep saving in banks or other safe assets ( make sure you are using the highest interest-rate paying bank you can find ) Put additional money into an IRA or other retirement vehicle in order to save on taxes Open a ( normal , taxable ) brokerage account and start buying financial assets . Buy real assets , like real estate , gold1 , collectibles , guns1 , etc. . Rules of thumb : Save only what makes sense to save in banks given your expected needs for cash . Put a lot in tax advantaged accounts ( do n't give Uncle Sam any gifts ) . Then look at financial and real investments . There are a number of free resources on the internet . For example <URL> . Or you can hit up the forums at <URL> . Those guys give and receive financial advice as a hobby . They are n't professionals , but you can get a lot of varying ideas and make up your own mind , which to me is better than ( just ) asking a professional . BTW , regarding the ESPP : these plans often give you a discount on stock and can therefore be a good idea . Just be sure you do n't hold the stock longer than you need to . It 's generally a bad idea to concentrate your wealth in any single investment , especially one highly correlated with your background risk ( i.e. , if the company does poorly you will already be worse off because you may lose your job or see fewer advancement opportunities . No need to add losses in your savings to that ) . 1 Please note : I am neither advocating nor discouraging buying guns , gold , or other controversial real assets . I 'm just giving examples of items some people buy as part of their wealth-preservation strategy .
First , a margin account is required to trade options . If you buy a put , you have the right to deliver 100 shares at a fixed price , 50 can be yours , 50 , you 'll buy at the market . If you sell a put , you are obligated to buy the shares if put to you . All options are for 100 shares , I am unaware of any partial contract for fewer shares . Not sure what you mean by leveraging the position , can you spell it out more clearly ?
I assume you are talking about the " Self-Employment Tax and Deduction Worksheet " . Form 1040-ES itself does n't have a line 1a . Everything on this worksheet should be figures for the entire year . At the very end ( line 17 on the " Estimated Tax Worksheet " ) you will divide by 4 to get your estimated tax payment for each quarter .
My original plan was to wait for the next economic downturn and invest in index funds . These funds have historically yielded 6-7 % annually when entered at any given time , but maybe around 8-9 % annually when entered during a recession . These numbers have been adjusted for inflation . Questions or comments on this strategy ? Educate yourself as index funds are merely a strategy that could be applied to various asset classes such as US Large-cap value stocks , Emerging Market stocks , Real Estate Investment Trusts , US Health Care stocks , Short-term bonds , and many other possibilities . Could you be more specific about which funds you meant as there is some great work by Fama and French on the returns of various asset classes over time . What about a Roth IRA ? Mutual fund ? Roth IRA is a type of account and not an investment in itself , so while I think it is a good idea to have Roth IRA , I would highly advise researching the ins and outs of this before assuming you can invest in one . You do realize that index funds are just a special type of mutual fund , right ? It is also worth noting that there are a few kinds of mutual funds : Open-end , exchange-traded and closed-end . Which kind did you mean ? What should I do with my money until the market hits another recession ? Economies have recessions , markets have ups and downs . I 'd highly consider forming a real strategy rather than think , " Oh let 's toss it into an index fund until I need the money , " as that seems like a recipe for disaster . Figure out what long-term financial goals do you have in mind , how OK are you with risk as if the market goes down for more than a few years straight , are you OK with seeing those savings be cut in half or worse ?
2.47 % is a really , really good rate , doubly so if it 's a fixed rate , and quadruply so if the interest is tax-deductible . That 's about as close to " free money " as you 're ever going to get . Heck , depending on what inflation does over the next few years , it might even be cheaper than free . So if you have the risk tolerance for it , it 's probably more effective to invest the money in the stock market than to accelerate your student loan payoff . You can even do better in the bond market ( my go-to intermediate-term corporate bond fund is yielding nearly 4 % right now . ) Just remember the old banker 's aphorism : Assets shrink . Liabilities never shrink . You can lose the money you 've invested in stocks or bonds , and you 'll still have to pay back the loan . And , when in doubt , you can usually assume you 're underestimating your risks . If you 're feeling up for it , I 'd say : make sure you have a good emergency fund outside of your investment money - something you could live on for six months or so and pay your bills while looking for a job , and sock the rest into something like the <URL> or a similar instrument ( Vanguard 's just my personal preference , since I like their style - and by style , I mean low fees - but definitely feel free to consider alternatives ) . You could also pad your retirement accounts and avoid taxes on any gains instead , but remember that it 's easier to put money into those than take it out , so be sure to double-check the state of your emergency fund .
My information is 10 years old but back then i am glad i consolidated . First of all the consolidated loan was at the fixed rate while my Stafford loans were floating . In addition the consolidation company offered discounts for timely payments and electronic fund transfer so after a couple of years my rate had 0.75 % discount . So if nothing changed and your loans are floating and you can consolidate at fixed rate it probably makes sense as rate will probably not going to be any lower One thing to look out for is that many consolidated loans are offering 20 year term instead of 10 . So just be disciplined enough to make extra payments monthly so you can still pay it off in 10 years ( or less )
To be in a health savings account you must be in a high deductible health plan , but the advantage is that the money rolls over from year to year if you do n't use it , but it can only be used for qualified medical expenses . A flexible spending account has its advantage as well : You can use it for dependent care as well as medical expenses , but it 's part of a cafeteria plan and you lose the money that you do n't spend by the end of the year ( rather than it simply rolling over to the next ) . Another benefit in a FSA is that if you allocate 200/mo to it , and you need to get surgery in January that costs 2400 dollars and then you lose your job in February , you just got 2400 dollars of surgery for 200 dollars pre-tax :) In summary : Move to France for real health care :) just kidding
TFSA is a misnomer . It is not a Savings Account , but a registered Savings Plan . For example , My TFSA is in mutual funds , so there is no interest as such . I make my earnings through share value growth , and dividends . If you want a guaranteed return , then you put it in GICs . You can put TFSA funds in a savings account ( which is essentially keeping it in cash ) , in which case the rate would fluctuate just like your regular savings account . However , I believe the best strategy is RRSPs should be stable and secure , and TFSA 's should be higher risk/higher reward , giving you the tax free benefit on the bulk of your earnings .
There are legitimate reasons : She is a sole proprietor , and does n't want to give out her last name . She does n't participate in the banking system for various reasons , and hands the check to a third party . She may have had an unpleasant audit experience with the tax authorities and wants to maintain a smaller record footprint . She may have an abusive spouse or some other personal situation where she values her anonymity . I would n't jump the gun and assume that this person is avoiding taxes , etc. . Barbers are usually licensed professions . Since it 's generally a cash business , they tend to get audited more often by the tax authorities . That said , I would n't pay her with a check -- you have no idea who is actually cashing the check , and you could run into issues with unknown third parties misusing your account information .
No . Ca n't understand why would you even think about it . The only thing to consider is the early sales fee , if its a NTF fund . Capital gains in the IRA/401k accounts are not taxed at all , so there 's no difference whether you hold it more than a year or not .
The IRA contribution for the year are allowed until the tax day of that year . I.e. : you can contribute for 2015 until April 15th , 2016 ( or whatever the first business day is after that , if the 15th is a holiday ) . You 'll have to explicitly designate your contribution for 2015 , since some of the IRA providers may automatically designate the current year unless you explicitly say otherwise . If that happens - it will be very hard to fix later , so pay attention when you 're making the contribution . You get a couple of things from your IRA provider : <URL> - details your contributions for the year , account FMV , and RMD details . You can see the actual form <URL> . You do n't always get this form , if you did n't contribute anything and no RMD is required for you . Since the last day to contribute is April 15th , these forms are usually being sent out around mid-May . But you should know how much you 've contributed by the tax day without it , obviously , so this is only for the IRS matching and your record-tracking . <URL> includes information about distributions ( including withdrawals and roll-overs ) . You may not get this form if you did n't take any money out of your IRA . These come out around end of January .
See <URL> regarding the relationship between a HDHP ( High Deductible Health Plan ) and an HSA ( Health Savings Account ) . In brief , to qualify for an HSA you must have a <URL> : HDHPs are plans with a minimum deductible of $ 1,200 for self-only coverage and $ 2,400 for self-and-family coverage . The maximum amount out-of-pocket limit for HDHPs is $ 5,950 for self-only coverage and $ 11,900 for self-and-family coverage . As mentioned by Stainsor , your insurance can either come from your employer , or it can be an individually purchased plan . The HSA can be bundled as part of a package with the insurance , or it can be an account you set up separately . Contributions you make to the HSA are tax deductible . You 'll report the amount you contributed when you file your taxes the following year . E.g. in April 2012 you 'll report ( and deduct ) the amount of HSA contributions you made for tax year 2011 . I 'm not sure what kind of trouble you 'll get into if you have an HSA without having a qualified HDHP . To answer the main part of your question : Different HSAs may have slightly different features , but I 've typically seen them provide the following ways to withdraw funds : Via a debit card issued with the account . You can use the debit card to pay for things like drugs at the pharmacy , or at a doctors ' office that requires payment at the time of service . Via online bill pay . You can use this to pay bills from hospitals , doctors ' offices , or other healthcare service providers that send you bills . Via paper checks . For doctors ' offices that require payment at time of service but do n't accept plastic . ( Or if you prefer not to use online bill pay . ) Via withdrawal at a teller window or ATM . You can use this to " reimburse yourself " for healthcare expenses that you paid out of pocket . The issue of documenting legitimate expenses and/or qualifying for the account with an HDHP is between you and the IRS . The bank at which your HSA is kept does n't really care whether you comply with the tax laws .
Your instructor 's numbers do not seem to have any basis in current reality . At <URL> you can see a comparison of interest rates offered by banks and credit unions . In the most recent table for June 2014 , banks paid an average interest rate of 0.12 percent on savings accounts , while credit unions paid an average of 0.13 percent . If you look back further , you will see that interest rates paid by banks and credit unions are generally comparable . Credit union rates tend to be a little bit higher , but certainly not 7 times higher . The last time any financial institution paid as much as 15 % on a savings account would probably be the early 1980s . You can see <URL> a historical chart of the " prime rate " for lending . Savings account rates ( at either banks or credit unions ) would typically be lower . ( This is based on the US , in accordance with your tag . Interest rates in other places , especially developing countries with less stable currencies , can be dramatically different . )
Depends on your time scale , but generally , I do n't think it would work . What you 'd really be betting on in this case is mean-reversal , which does not hold true in the equity universe ( atleast not in the long run ) . If you look at the historical prices of the S&amp;P , you 'll notice it increases in terms of absolute dollar value . On the short term , however , if you feel the market has significantly undervalued or overvalued a security , then mean-reversal might be a reasonable bet to make . In that scenario , however , it seems to me that you are really looking for a volatility trade , in which case you might want to consider a straddle position using options . Here , the bet you 'd be making is that the price at expiration will be inside a certain band ( or outside the band , depending on your position ) .
The bank will make this even more confusing because they use the terms from their own perspective . From the bank 's perspective ( printed on your statements ) credit : Money into your account ( increases the bank 's liabilities ) debit : Money out of your account ( decrease bank liabilities ) From your perspective : It depends on the nature of the transfer of money , but here are the most common for a personal account . Income into your account : Credit Expenses out of your account : Debit Payment on a loan made for an asset ( house/car ) : Credit for the loan account , debit for the equity account for the car/house/etc . Yes , it 's complicated . Neither credits nor debits are always a + or - . That 's why I agree with the advice of the others here that double-entry accounting is overkill for your personal finances . Note : I simplified the above examples for the purpose of clarity . Technically every transaction in double entry accounting includes both a credit and a debit ( hence the " double " in the name ) . In fact , sometimes a transaction involves more than one credit or debit , but always at least one of each . Also , this is for EACH party . So any transaction between you and your bank involves at least FOUR debits and/or credits when all involved are considered .
Never invest money you need in the short term . As already suggested , park your money in CDs .
A CD will give you a higher rate of return . The tradeoff is you can not access your money until the CD matures . If you need the ability to get your money , you should choose a savings account . If you wo n't use your money for awhile , choose a CD . Right now interest rates are so abysmal , you are n't going to get much return with either ( so I would recommend against locking up your money in a CD ) .
end question
start question
How do credit card companies make profit ?
Their income is from the two sources you mentioned - they charge the merchants for each use , and they make interest money on people who carry a balance . This is one reason a lot of merchants will be willing to give you a discount if you pay cash - they do n't have to give a portion to VISA or MasterCard . I would n't be able to speak to the relative proportions between the two income sources , but when many cards are at 30 % interest for balances carried , and many people have tens of thousands of dollars owed on their cards , the interest income is not insignificant . They 'll also charge interest immediately on cash advances . A few cards also make money off of annual fees , although I 'd suspect this is not very much in the full scheme of things . The way to get the most out of a card , is to always pay it off fully at the end of each month .
Look for offers for 0 % ( or low ) APR on balance transfers . It is more likely to get a promotional APR on balance transfer , than to lower the APR you already have . Of course , try to pay off the balance as long as you 're in the period of the promotion , because otherwise you 'll end up paying the high rate again . If you can not get such an offer ( low credit etc ) - then just try to pay off ASAP and start rebuilding your credit , not much workarounds there . BTW : When you consider the balance transfer promotions - look at 3 things : The promotion period - when it ends , so that you 'd know how much time you have to pay it off . The balance transfer fee - usually the balance transfer itself is not free , and you pay 3-5 % on the transfer . If you have 0 % APR for 12 months , it makes it effectively 5 % APR ( for the 5 % fee ) , if the period is lesser - the APR is higher . Take that into the account . The APR after the promotion , in case you ca n't pay off in that time frame .
You want to charge so that : now with a little algebra . Rounded up to $ 153.69
Credit cards come with an interest-free grace period of ~ 25 days as long as you pay your balance in full every month . In other words , charges made in January will appear on a bill cut on Jan 31 , and due around the 25th of February . If paid in full by 2/25 , there 's no interest . It is a very good idea to get in the habit of paying off your entire balance every month for this very reason . Do n't buy anything you ca n't afford to pay for at the end of the month when the credit card bill is due . You 'll avoid interest charges , build good habits , and improve your credit score . By just paying the minimum amount due , you 'll be charged interest from the moment of purchase , and the grace period on new purchases goes away . Credit card companies make the minimum amount due relatively low as a way to encourage you to pay more and more in interest every month . Do n't fall for it ! Look for a credit card with zero annual fee . Sure , rewards are nice , but it 's more important to avoid fees , keep the interest rate low , and get in the habit of paying in full every month , in which case the interest rate wo n't matter . Your bank or credit union is a good place to start looking .
If you are going to make those purchases any way , and there is zero cost to you , and you make all the payments on time then you can use this to do several things : Cash management : You only make one or two payments a month . Maximize rewards : you move additional items onto the cards to increase your cash back . Credit Usage : in the short term you will be utilizing more of your credit , which can hurt your score . But a sustained period of paying it off each month should mean the credit card company will increase your credit limit .
Each merchant is assigned a category , and all the purchases through that merchant fall into that category . If a merchant qualifies for more than one category ( e.g. : Costco &amp; Costco Gas ) , then for different purchases the merchant will use different merchant ID 's . These codes are called " <URL> " , and the merchant fees are also decided based on the category assigned to the merchant ( the same merchant with several codes will pay higher fees on some codes than the others ) . You can see the purchase categories on your credit card purchases regardless of whether you get rewards or not , this information is usually available through your statement or on-line .
Apparently it is up to the credit card company on how they want to report your available balance . Another disadvantage to the no-limit credit card may not be apparent to most people , but it is something noted by organizations like The Motley Fool , which is expert in many issues of finance and investment . Part of your credit score , about 30 % , considers the amount of money you have borrowed , and the limit on your present credit cards . A no-limit credit card company may report your limit as $ 0 if you have not used the card , or they may report a maximum limit available to you . They may not , nor are they obligated , to report times when you put tons of expenses on a credit card and then paid them off . While some companies will report your timely payments and paid off amounts , others simply report an extremely low limit . For instance if you spent $ 100 US Dollars ( USD ) , your limit might be considered $ 100 USD , or it may merely be reported as zero . You 'll need to check with a credit card company on how they report payments and limits on a no-limit credit card before you obtain one . Some people who are scrupulous are paying off their cards at the end of each month suffer major losses to their credit score , without even realizing it , if their spending ability is rated at zero , or their payments do n't count toward showing credit worthiness . <URL>
Yes , they did stop the practice in 2007 . See this article from the Seattle Times for reference : <URL>
Yes . For $ 15 it 's not worth anyone 's time to dig deep just for this specific occurrence . What you should do , however , is keep an eye on your credit card bills and accounts and watch for any other suspicious activity . It is possible that your number was stolen somehow and someone is using it fraudulently , so you want to be on the lookout in case they try to use it again . However , your credit card company is going to be much , much better than you at detecting patterns of fraud , which is why you should leave it to them unless and until you actually see more suspicious activity .
They generally issue the extra fraction as cash . When they do a reverse split this is the way to get rid of small investors . They take 1000 shares pre-split and turn it into 1 share post split . If you own less than a share you are given cash . If those shares are part of a larger fund ( ie in a 401K ) the fund will take care of this because each member can own fractional shares . The documentation for the merger should discuss the fractional shares and how they handled and when any cash will be received .
You could make an entry for the disputed charge as if you were going to lose the dispute , and a second entry that reverses the charge as if you were going to win the dispute . You could then reconcile the account by including the first charge in the reconciliation and excluding the reversal until the issue has been resolved .
Credit ratings are the same as credit score , but they very different from a credit report . A credit score is a calculated number based on a usually secret formula that attempts to quantify with math a consistent number that ranks everybody equally and uniformly as to the risk they present to a lender . Basically , we are all just a number ; the higher the better . Your credit report is a detailed list of all your accounts , how well you pay them and if you are behind or have settled them as agreed . It is a detailed history of how you use credit , who you have credit from , how long you have had credit , and how much credit and debt you carry . A credit report relies on lenders honestly and accurately stating how your account is performing with them . Some radio show hosts ( Clark Howard ) say that up to 70 % of United States citizens have a mistake on their credit reports . The credit report is the source of values that are computed into your credit score . By and large , your credit score gives a lender a good idea if you are acceptable , but if you number is on the line , they MIGHT choose to read your credit report to make a decision by a human . Your credit score is how retail stores can offer and immediately approve store cards . If you number is high enough , credit you get . Source : <URL> EDIT : I did n't read well the first time , but sine I typed it I will leave it here . Sorry for rushing and not reading well .
The Fidelity funds have an expense ratio , and while some funds may have little to no profit , having you as a customer lets them try to sell you on their managed account/portfolio and other services . It 's possible they do n't make much or any money from you at all , but with so many accounts it 's fine as long as it averages out . Similar to having a credit card and never paying interest on it , but reaping the rewards anyway . Averaged out , they make plenty of money across all accounts . An <URL> is usually given as a percentage , and it 's the amount you pay for the fund per year . If it has a 1 % ER , and you have $ 1,000 invested in it , then it costs you $ 10 for the year ( a very simplified example ) . You wo n't notice this as a direct transaction since it gets taken from the funds assets directly , but this is lowering the return ( or worsening the loss ) on the fund . You can find the ER in your Fidelity account for any funds that are available to you . Something else I thought of is that you add liquidity to their funds , and your assets increase the amount " under management " which may be a selling point , may lower overall costs , etc. .
I 'm not sure if the rules in Canada and the US are the same . I 'm as amazed as you are by the amounts of debts people have , but I can see how this credit can be extended . Generally , with good credit history and above average pay - it is not unheard of to get about $ 100K credit limit with a bunch of credit cards . What you do with that after that depends on your own ability to manage your finances and discipline . Good credit history is defined by paying your credit cards on time with at least minimum payment amount ( which is way lower than the actual statement amount ) . Above average pay is $ 60K + . So you can easily have tons of debt , yet be considered " low risk " with good credit history . And that 's the most lucrative market for the credit card issuers - people who do not default , but also have debt and pay interest .
If this is a pre-authorized automatic billing , and if you have signed any contract with the merchant , cancelling may not block any future charges from the merchant . Happens with gyms , magazines , memberships quite often . There is a time period after the cancellation this will occur , then it 'll be completely dead .
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
Think about who are they protecting : only themselves . Just like mortgage insurance , you pay the premium so in case you ca n't pay your bill , they still get to cash in the policy . Upside , you do n't owe them money when you ca n't pay . Downside , you more or less paid them . If you get hurt , ca n't work and ca n't pay your bills the best option for you is to call your creditors and try to arrange something specific to the situation . But only when it happens . If things go completely wrong , or there is a debt attributed to you that is n't really yours , you have the option to not pay them . So my opinion is why pay for insurance for them , let the bank pay their own premiums .
I think that its not because you were rejected several months before , but because your credit report started showing some activity and you fit the filtering criteria ( which are pretty low in some cases ) for those " preapproved " offers .
Cash is king . PIN-based debit transactions are cheap . In terms of credit cards , a regular ( ie . not a gold card ) with no rewards has the lowest rates . Bigger merchants with lots of card volume likely have better deals that make the differences less pronounced .
Do you mean kinda big amounts , or REALLY big amounts ( like Warren Buffet-sized amounts ) ? Stocks on the American markets are traded in lots of 100 shares ( called " round lots " ) . For these amounts you can either call up a broker or go to an online brokerage and place your order in directly to the floor . It 's executed in seconds ( usually ) and you have your shares for a commission of a few bucks . This is in contrast to what you 're doing with Sharebuilder . You can buy in less than 100-share increments , but you 're paying more per share in the long run to do so because you 're actually buying an allocation of a round lot from Sharebuilder . If you 're buying a whole lot of shares , then usually you have to do so gradually ( and not tell anyone you 're doing so , especially if you 're Warren Buffet ) . If you were to put an order for 1,000,000 shares at once , you could end up paying a lot more than you need to because it might not be the case that there are enough sellers to sell you 1,000,000 shares at near the current price . The price will go up until your order is filled , but that could take a while .
end question
start question
Is it OK that my bank 's routing number is nowhere near me ?
This is normal . The routing numbers were used once long time ago to actually physically route the checks to your branch ( or the main area branch ) . Then , the correct routing number was necessary for the check to physically reach you ( the checks were eventually mailed back to the customers ) . Now , it is all done electronically , and there 's no need in area-bound routing numbers any more .
It reminds me of the Efficient Market Hypothesis , except that just states in its weakest form that the current market price accounts for all information embedded in previous market prices . In other words , people buying today at 42 know it was selling for 40 yesterday , and the patterns and such . To say that stock is memoryless strikes me as not quite right -- to the extent that stocks are valued based on earnings , much of what we infer about future earnings relies on past and present earnings . One obvious counterexample to this " memoryless " claim is bankruptcy . If a stock files bankruptcy , and there is n't enough money to pay senior debt , your shares are worth 0 in perpetuity .
If you 're a bit into the loan , then they 're probably hoping that you 'll take longer to pay off the loan . Is there a fee for refinancing the loan ? If so , be sure to take that into account . A smart way to approach it ( assuming that the fees are low or zero ) would be to continue making the same payment you had been before the refinance . Then you 'll end your loan ahead of schedule . ( This assumes that there 's no prepayment penalty . )
Vesting generally means that you are entitled to a pension as per the plan rules . If you are not vested and your employment is terminated ( e.g. via resignation or firing ) , the pension plan will just return all the money accumulated thus far to you ( possibly roll it over into your IRA or your new employer 's pension plan or 401k plan if that is possible ) . When you are fully vested , you have the choice of whether to take your money with you upon termination of employment or leave it in the pension plan , hopefully to grow , and take a pension when you ultimately retire . So , if the pension plan rules say that you will get x % per year of your final salary ( usually x % is between 1 % and 2 % ) then after five years when you are fully vested , you have the right to get 5x % of your salary starting from the full retirement date ( as stated in the pension plan rules ) . Another meaning of vesting is about 401k plans where you can not take the employer match with you if you quit or are fired before full vesting occurs . Your own contributions are yours to take at any time , but the employer 's contributions can be taken only after vesting . Partial vesting means you are entitled to the fraction vested of the full benefit . For example , for a 401k plan , after one year you are entitled to take 20 % of the matching funds contributed by your employer , after two years , 40 % etc. . Remember that over 5 years your employer will likely contribute increasing amount , but even if not , you will be entitled to 20 % of first year match , 40 % of two years ' match ( including earnings ) , 60 % of three years ... etc. .
The short answer is that it depends on the industry . Retail : usually have low margins , 3-5 % being a goodish range ; some of the value traders can be even lower . Margin here is nothing compared to volume . If you 're selling bags of potatoes and making a 2 % margin , that 's fantastic as long as you can use the income from the potatoes you sold five minutes ago to buy the potatoes you 'll sell in the next five minutes . Manufacturing : margins tend to be higher on specialised , high-end goods and lower on mass-produced , highly-competitive goods ; could be anywhere from 5-20 % . Mining/Extraction : oil , coal , gold , you name it , usually very good margins but nailed by high tax rates and the globally set prices , so some sources only good at certain price points . A well-managed company will manage these fluctuations . Margins can be from 25-90 % . Services : amongst the highest margins but often the most likely to suffer incredible crashes since competition is fierce and barriers to entry low . Margins usually around 40-60 % . In other words , margin alone - even in comparison to peers - will not be a sufficient index to track company success . I 'll mention Apple quickly as a special case that has managed to charge a premium margin for a mass-market product . Few companies can achieve this . As with all investment analysis , you need to have a very clear understanding of the industry ( i.e. what is " normal " for debt/equity/gearing / margin/cash-on-hand ) as well as of the barriers-to-entry which competitors face . A higher-than-normal margin may swiftly be undermined by competitors ( Apple aside ) . Any company offering perpetual above-the-odds returns may just be a Ponzi scheme ( Bernie Maddof , etc. ) . More important than high-margins or high-profits over some short-term track is consistency of approach , an ability to whether adverse cyclical events , and deep investment in continuity ( i.e. the entire company does n't come to a grinding halt when a crucial staff-member retires ) .
T4A is " Statement of Pension , Retirement , Annuity , and Other Income " Other Income includes scholarship and certain grant . If the amount is exactly $ 890 and the payer is Ministry of Training , Colleges and Universities , it is 30 % Off Ontario Tuition Grant . If the amount is exactly $ 1000 and the payer is Canada Student Loans Program , it is Canada Student Grant for Persons from Low-Income Families . if the payer is University of X , it is scholarship received between Sep 2014 and Dec 2014 .
When you say " Currently I have a mix of my own contributions along with this rollover " , do you mean that you have made direct contributions to your Roth IRA ? When withdrawing , the <URL> is that contributions always come out first , then conversions and rollovers , and lastly earnings . So if the amount you withdraw is less than your direct contributions , it will only come out of contributions and not touch the conversion amount . But if you withdraw some of the conversion amount within 5 years of the conversion , there will be a <URL> . The penalty applies to the part of the conversion that was taxable , which was all of the conversion in your case . There is no " principal " or " earnings " within this conversion -- conversions are counted separately from contributions or earnings in the Roth IRA .
Stock price = Earning per share * P/E Ratio . Most of the time you will see in a listing the Stock price and the P/E ration . The calculation of the EPS is left as an exercise for the student Investor .
It is legal and is a common practice . Hotels take your credit/debit card information in case there are additional charges ( incidentals ) billed to you during your stay , or to ensure you pay if you did n't pre-pay . Every hotel does it . If they just swiped it - the information is in the computer , but they still keep it . You might see a pending charge from the hotel on your account . It is an " authorization " , not a real charge . You should make sure they cancel it when you leave as to not hold funds on your account tied up unnecessarily . As to your concerns - when you leave , request to take that note from the reception after you 've paid your bill . Debit card transactions without a swiped card and typed-in PIN are considered credit card transactions ( except that they 're charged to your account immediately ) and enjoy the same fraud protections . So unless you 've given them your PIN as well ( which you should never do ) , you 're OK .
does it mean uncontrolled severe deflation/inflation is more likely to occur compared to " normal " currencies such as USD , EUR etc ? Look at the chart referenced in the link in your question . It took approximately 50 years for annual production of gold to double from 500 tons to 1000 tons . It took approximately 40 years for annual production to double from 1000 tons to 2000 tons . Compare that to the production of US dollars by the Federal Reserve ( see chart below obtained from <URL> ) . US dollar production doubled in DAYS . Which one do you think will lead to uncontrolled inflation/deflation ? Update : Why did I include a chart of the FED 's balance sheet ? Because this is the way newly printed money is introduced - the FED will purchase something from banks ( mortgage-backed securities , US treasuries , etc. ) with newly printed money . The banks can then loan this money to people who then deposit the money into other banks who loan those deposits to other people and so on . This is how the fractional reserve process expands the money supply . This is why I did not include a chart of the money supply since that is counting the same money multiple times . If I deposited 100 newly minted coins into a bank and that bank proceeded to loan out 80 of my coins where 80 are deposited into another bank who then proceeds to loan out 60 of the coins , and so on ... the production of coins only changed by the initial 100 that I minted - not by the fractional reserve multiple . There are historical examples of inflation with gold and silver as duff has pointed out . None of them come close in magnitude to the inflation experienced with <URL> .
BlackJack 's answer is technically correct : government credit ratings are independent of corporate credit ratings . The rating should reflect the borrower 's ability to repay its obligations . One reason the book you read may have stated that corporate credit ratings can not be better than the government 's credit rating is that the government , unlike the corporation , can steal ( or in government parlance " tax " ) from anywhere or anyone . So if a government finds itself in financial difficulty it could simply take the cash from corporations or people with high credit ratings by a variety of methods : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , or simply <URL> . This increases the risk of doing business in a country with an over-extended government . Over extended governments do not die gracefully . They only die when there is nothing left to steal .
You can only make deposits into an ATM that your bank owns ( or has some special relationship with ) . You can make withdrawals from any ATM . UPDATE : Comments show that there are some credit unions that have special relationships with other banks/credit unions and allow you to make deposits into their machines .
According to the FAFSA info <URL> , they will count your nonretirement assets when figuring the EFC . The old Motley Fool <URL> I mentioned in my comment suggests asking the school for a " special circumstances adjustment to your FAFSA " . I do n't know much about it , but googling finds many pages about it at different colleges . This would seem to be something you need to do individually with whatever school ( s ) your son winds up considering . Also , it is up to the school whether to have mercy on you and accept your request . Other than that , you should establish whatever retirement accounts you can and immediately begin contributing as much as possible . Given that the decision is likely to be complicated by your foreign income , you should seek professional advice from an accountant versed in such matters .
Yes , they 're referring to the credit card dispute ( chargeback ) process . In the case of dispute , credit card company will refund/freeze your charge so you do n't have to pay until the dispute is resolved ( or at all , if resolved in your favor ) . If the dispute is resolved in your favor , your credit card company will charge back the merchant 's service provider which in turn will charge back ( if it can ) the merchant itself . So the one taking the most risk in this scenario is the merchant provider , this is why merchants that are high risk pay significantly higher fees or get dropped .
I will attempt to answer three separate questions here : Should you leave your emergency fund in a high yield investment ? Should you leave your emergency fund in BRL or convert it to SEK ? Can a moderate risk investment in BRL or SEK yield better results ? Should you leave your emergency fund in a high yield investment ? The standard answer is that an emergency fund should not be in an investment that can lose value . The safest course of action is to put it in a savings account or other very low risk investment somewhere . Should you leave your emergency fund in BRL or convert it to SEK ? This question becomes : can a reasonable and low risk investment in Sweden be comparable to or better than a low risk investment in Brazil ? Inflation in Brazil has averaged a little less than 6 % over the last 10 years with a recent spike up above 8 % . A cursory search indicates interest rates on savings accounts in Brazil are outpacing inflation so you might still expect a positive return on money in a savings account there . By contrast , Sweden 's inflation rate has been around 1 % over the last 10 years and has hovered around 0 or even deflation in recent years . Swedish interest rates for savings accounts right now are very low , nearly 0 % . Putting money in a savings account in Sweden would likely hold its value or lose a slight amount of value . Based on this , you might be better off leaving your emergency fund invested in BRL in Brazil . Can a moderate risk investment in BRL or SEK yield better results ? The answer to this a little unclear . The Brazilian stock market has been all over the place in the last 10 years , with a slight downard trend in recent years . In comparison , Sweden 's stock market has shown fairly consistent growth in spite of the big dip in 2008 . Given this , it seems like the fairest comparison would your current 13 % ROI investment in Brazil vs. a fund or ETF that tracks the Swedish stock market index . If we assume a consistent 13 % ROI on your investment in Brazil and a consistent inflation rate of 6 % , your adjusted ROI there would be around 7 % per year . The XACT OMS30 ETF that tracks the Swedish OMS 30 Index has a 10 year annualized return of 9.81 % . If you subtract 0.8 % inflation , you get an adjusted ROI 9 % . Based on this , Sweden may be a safer place for longer term , moderate risk investments right now .
If you are going to be investing in mutual funds then <URL> is considered the king of mutual funds . <URL> is also good . Just be sure and check fees for the accounts and for the individual funds you are investing in . For brokerage accounts where you want to buy individual stocks check out this article . <URL> If you are going to just be investing in mutual funds for the foreseeable future I would stick with an account at the mutual fund company you are investing in . Vanguard or T Rowe Price for example .
Check out the questions about why stock prices are what they are . In a nutshell , a stock 's value is based on the future prospects of the company . Generally speaking , if a growth company is paying a dividend , that payment is going to negatively affect the growth of the business . The smart move is to re-invest that capital and make more money . As a shareholder , you are compensated by a rising stock price . When a stock is n't growing quickly , a dividend is a better way for a stockholder to realize value . If a gas and electric company makes a billion dollars , investing that money back into the company is not going to yield a large return . And since those types of companies do n't really grow too much , the stocks typically trade in a range and do n't see the type of appreciation that a growth stock will . So it makes sense to pay out the dividend to the shareholders .
SOS is Secretary of State . SOS number is the number the Secretary of State office assigned to your entity . You can find it on the LLC application form that you submitted ( assuming you kept the copy of your application returned to you ) , or by <URL> ( the first column , " entity number " , is what you 're looking for ) .
The closer the contribution is to the December 31st date , the more profitable that specific contribution is , only taking into consideration the 5 % discount . On your case , the first contribution that beats your student loans interest rate is the August one , where you get about 9 % annual return , the remaining contributions go up from there .
Your analysis is not comparing apples to apples which is why it looks like investing money in a non-qualified account is better than a 401k ( traditional or Roth ) . For the non-qual you are using post tax dollars ( money that has already been taxed ) . Now on top of that original tax you are also going to pay capital gains tax for any growth plus dividend rates for any dividends it throws off . For the 401k , let 's assume for the moment that $ 10,000 is invested in a traditional and that the marginal tax rate is always 20 % . And for growth let 's assume 10x . With a traditional your money will grow to $ 100,000 and then the IRS gets $ 20,000 as you pull the money out . The result is a net 80,000 for you . For a Roth 401k , it is taxed first so only $ 8,000 gets invested . This then grows by the same multiplier to $ 80,000 . ( Until you consider changing tax rates the Roth and traditional give the same growth of money ) . Considering the non-qual option , like with the Roth we only have $ 8,000 to invest . However in this case you will not realize the full 10x growth as you will have to pay taxes on $ 72,000 . These are taxes that the 401ks ( and also IRAs ) do not pay . There are other reasons to consider non-qual over maxing out your 401k . Liquidity , quality of investments , and fees being some of those . But the capital gains rate vs. ordinary income rate is not one , as the money in the non-qual still has to go through that ordinary income tax first before it is available to even invest .
end question
start question
You 're in Ontario and are setting up Autoload on your Presto fare card . Credit or debit ? Which threshold and Autoload values should you pick ? And why ?
TL ; DR : I have five main suggestions . They are in bold , below . The rest is mostly commentary . The Presto system has some quirks . The system has also had <URL> in the past . 1 . Set up Autoload using a credit card . If there are any system foul-ups , this may help to protect you . If you have Autoload-related problems , phone Presto . If they do n't help , phone your credit-card issuer . If the Presto system attempts repeated unjustified Autoloads , as it has done to <URL> , you wo n't be hit with $ 150 of NSF fees . If you do use a debit card and have problems , the money will already be missing . You can phone Presto ; you can phone your bank ; you can contact the BBB ; you can file an Ontario Ombudsman complaint against Metrolinx ; or you can go to small-claims court . But these options might not help . 2 . If you only have a debit card , it may be unwise to set up Autoload . Debit-card Autoload and Period Pass Autorenew are convenient , but carry risks . ( See above . ) You can live without them . 3 . It may be wisest to choose a threshold of $ 20 or more . Autoloads are supposed to be processed instantly and automatically , with <URL> . Recent system changes have made it <URL> to choose a threshold of $ 5 , but that does n't mean you should . There are rare cases , including credit-card expiry , credit-card failure , and <URL> , in which a $ 5 threshold Autoload can fail . If you can afford to set a threshold of $ 20 , consider doing so . If you use GO Transit daily , you may want to choose a threshold which is even higher . 4 . Do n't choose an Autoload amount over $ 50 unless you use GO Transit . <URL> are a hassle . Refunds over $ 50 are a big hassle . Do n't keep hundreds of dollars on your card unless you use GO Transit daily . If you ever decide to stop using Presto : Use up most of the money on your card , then give it away to a trusted friend or relative . 5 . Know that Autoload may not work correctly if your card starts out below the threshold . If your card has $ 3 on it , and you set up Autoload , the card <URL> or <URL> reload itself . If Autoload fails to work , your card may eventually end up in overdraft , and you may need to schlep to a customer service office to get it unblocked . It 's silly . If you enable Autoload on a Presto card which is below your chosen threshold , watch your balance . See whether Autoload actually succeeds or not . ( The Presto website is n't always up-to-date . You may want to instead use a balance-checking machine or a self-serve reload machine to check your balance . ) Then please click <URL> and tell us what happened .
You must leap frog . Open the new account ( which increases your credit limit and decreases your utilization , therefore increasing your credit score a tad ) then close the old account a bit later . Closing will have opposite effect on your score . ( Decreasing your overall limit and increasing your utilization . ) Unless you are paying an annual fee , I would n't bother actually closing the old account , just stop using it and shred the cards . The bank will close it for you eventually . By the way , if you are planning on letting it expire , do n't forget to keep it up to date in your budget or tracking software . And do n't lose any online account information either . You still need to pay attention to it for odd activity and keep it secure . If you are paying an annual fee , and it is due soon , then I would suggest closing it after you have your new card to avoid the fee .
Where goes the Delta ? To the sea , of course . Your question is very valid and for once , I think most of the answers are too involved into mechanical details and are badly missing the big picture . At the risk of over simplifying things , let me try to describe the situation in broad strokes : Inflation : the volume of money grows faster than production ( including services ) . Deflation : production increase faster than the volume of money . Imagine an economy with 10 products and $ 10 . 1 product = $ 1 . In an inflationary scenario , money available increase : $ 20 for 10 products . 1 product = $ 2 . In a deflationary scenario , money available decrease : $ 5 for 10 products . 1 product = $ 0.5 . So far , it 's pretty textbook . Now onto the stuff that you do n't usually read in textbooks : Time . Say 10 people are attending an auction , each with $ 10 bucks . 10 items are for sale . $ 100 and 10 items . Item price is $ 10 . Now , if just before opening the bidding , you go around and give each person $ 40 , every one has $ 50 . Each product sells for $ 50 . That 's the picture people have of inflation . Prices have increased , but everybody has more money , so it comes down to the same thing . Now , let 's bring this example closer to reality : You have to distribute $ 400 , so the total amount of money is $ 500 , which means that the normal price of each item should be $ 50 . Now , imagine that instead of giving money to everyone at the same time , you started by giving $ 40 to 1 guy who was hanging out in front . The auction starts . While you go around distributing the money , the first guy manages to buy 2 items at $ 10 each . Now , there is $ 480 in the market , and only 8 items , making each item $ 60 on average . The next guy to get money manages to snap 2 items at $ 15 . 6 items left and $ 450 in play . Each item now costs $ 75 ... and keep increasing in price as things move along . People who get the money early buy items under their real value , and people who get paid at the end pick up the tab , because by then , there are only a few items left . Back to reality , while inflation means that wages eventually increase ( and they do ) , actual purchasing decrease for most people due to this simple trick . Employees are pretty much at the end of the chain . Income tax Another major source of " signal loss " is income tax . It works by brackets , as you certainly know . Simplifying again because I am lazy : Take a guy who earns $ 100 . Pays no taxes . Can buy 100 products at $ 1 each . Now , put in some inflation ... He earns $ 500 . He pays $ 50 in taxes and can buy 90 products at $ 5 each . By the time he earns $ 10,000 , he can only buy 50 products on account of income tax . So this is another area where you are bleeding purchasing power , and why income tax , which was originally presented as a tax for the ultra-rich is now a fact of life for most people ( except the ultra-rich , of course ) . Money as debt Next stop : Money itself . Money is created as debt in our society . At the risk of over-simplifying things again , let 's say Bank A has $ 1000 in assets . In the fractional reserve system ( our current system ) , Bank A can lend out many times over that amount . Let 's say $ 9,000 , for a total of $ 10,000 ( much more in reality ) . And of course , it lends that money at interest . When bank A has made $ 10,000 available through 10 % interest loans , the total amount of money has increased by $ 10,000 , but when the loans are paid back , $ 11,000 must be paid to the bank , so the net result of the operation is that $ 1,000 get taken out of the market . This system explains why almost all companies and governments have huge debts , and why most of the world 's large companies belong to financial institutions of some kind , and why most of the world 's wealth rest in very very few hands . To fully answer your question and provide details and references and names , one would have to write a book or 5 . There is a lot more than can be said on the subject , and of course , all the examples given here are extremely simplified , but I think they illustrate the key issues pretty well . Bottom-line is that our system is designed that way . Our economic system is rigged and the delta bleeds out on automatic .
According to <URL> , broker 's commissions for stock transactions within an IRA can not be paid in addition to the IRA contribution ( s ) , but they are deductible as part of the contribution , or add to the basis if you are making a nondeductible contribution to a Traditional IRA . ( Top of Page 10 , and Page 12 , column 1 , in the 2012 edition of Pub 590 ) . On the other hand , trustees ' administrative fees can be paid from outside the IRA if they are billed separately , and are even deductible as a Miscellaneous Deduction on Schedule A of your income tax return ( subject to the 2 % of AGI threshold ) . A long time ago , when my IRA account balances were much smaller , I used to get a bill from my IRA custodian for a $ 20 annual administrative fee which I paid separately ( but never got to deduct due to the 2 % threshold ) . My custodian also allowed the option of doing nothing in which case the $ 20 would be collected from ( and thus reduce ) the amount of money in my IRA . Note that this does not apply to the expenses charged by the mutual funds that you might have in your IRA ; these expenses are treated the same as brokerage commissions and must be paid from within the IRA .
I see three options , none of them ideal : Walk away from the mortgage and be willing to endure the consequences of a lousy credit record for 7 years . Take out an unsecured personal loan so you can make a lump sum payment at closing to pay off the balance . You 'll have to pay it back with interest , so this is expensive too . If you are selling because you need to relocate , you could consider retaining ownership and renting out the house . Obviously this is n't an option if you just want to get out of home ownership . And if you 're moving away , you 'll have to hire local management to deal with tenants , you may not be able to get enough in rent to cover your costs , etc. . But it could be a way to avoid a new loan or a default .
No , not only . OTC stocks are stocks not traded on regulated exchanges , but these are still stocks that represent shares of ownership in various companies . There may be numerous reasons why the company would not be trading on a regulated exchange . There are many privately held companies which are n't officially listed on a regulated exchange , but which stocks are popular and sought after . For example , Facebook was trading on OTC for quite a while before their IPO because they were not listed publicly yet some people had shares that they could trade ( some early employees/investors with fully vested stocks were selling them OTC ) . Another example would be many companies <URL> for one reason or another ( many times companies late with their SEC filings get delisted from a regulated exchange , yet there are retail investors owning stocks trying to get rid of , or buy some while they 're cheap ) . If you believe the company now in trouble will get better - you 'd want to invest in it even if it is not listed on a regulated exchange .
A more generic definition applying to all currency denominations would be : Main currency : for the whole unit currency part left of the decimal point Fractional currency : for the part to the right of the decimal point usually measured in 1/100 of the main unit ( at least in modern times ) . For more information , please see <URL> : Each currency typically has a main currency unit ( the U.S. dollar , for example , or the euro ) and a fractional currency , often valued at 1⁄100 of the main currency [ ... ]
The stock should fall by approximately the amount of the dividend as that is what is paid out . If you have a stock trading at $ 10/share and it pays a $ 1/share dividend , the price should drop to $ 9 as what was trading before the dividend was paid would be both the dividend and the stock itself . If the person bought just for the dividend then it would likely be neutral as there is n't anything extra to be gained . Consider if this was n't the case . Would n't one be able to buy a stock a few days before the dividend and sell just after for a nice profit ? That does n't make sense and is the reason for the drop in price . Similarly , if a stock has a split or spin-off there may be changes in the price to reflect that adjustment in value of the company . If I give you 2 nickels for a dime , the overall value is still 10 cents though this would be 2 coins instead of one . Some charts may show a " Dividend adjusted " price to factor out these transactions so be careful of what prices are quoted .
If you 're simply a futures speculator , then yes , it does seem like gambling . If you 're a farmer producing a few thousand bushels of wheat , futures can be a mechanism for you to hedge against certain kinds of market risk . Same if you 're running a heating oil company , etc. . I just read somewhere that the bad spring weather in South Dakota has prevented farmers from getting corn planted -- nothing is in the ground yet . This is " objective data " from which you might infer that this year 's corn harvest could be late and/or smaller than normal . So maybe if you 're a buyer for General Mills , you use corn futures to control your costs . In this case you 'd have some idea based on experience what to expect for the price of corn , what your production line requires for input , how much you can charge for finished product , etc. . These all factor in to the price you 'd be willing to pay for corn futures .
I would focus first on maxing out your RRSPs ( or 401k ) each year , and once you 've done that , try to put another 10 % of your income away into unregistered long term growth savings . Let 's say you 're 30 and you 've been doing that since you graduated 7 years ago , and maybe you averaged 8 % p.a. return and an average of $ 50k per year salary ( as a round number ) . I would say you should have 60k to 120k in straight up investments around age 30 . If that 's the case , you 're probably well on your way to a very comfortable retirement .
You can not carry a balance on a charge card ; the total balance is due as the payment each period . I guess some government use charge cards . There is no interest to be paid on them , so it is cheaper , but the credit companies still make some money on transaction fees . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Normally , clauses letting you drive other cars only apply to cars that you do n't own . So I 'd check your policies carefully , and then insure the Renault in your wife 's name and add her as a named driver to your policy on the Skoda .
It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without having to ask your customers how rich they are , and you get the benefit of finding out additional information like their address , email etc. . The principle is similar to coupons on cereal boxes , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who are cash rich/time poor are less likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joe Spolsky <URL> about this and various other pricing mechanisms a while back , I like to reference the article every few weeks . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retired and living off of social security , $ 7 an hour sounds pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch getting paid $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice things about piece-of-junk Internet companies , working for $ 7 an hour is a joke , and you 're not going to clip coupons . Heck , in one hour you could issue " buy " recommendations on ten piece-of-junk Internet companies ! So coupons are a way for consumer products companies to charge two different prices and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebates are pretty much the same as coupons , with some other twists like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct marketed to in the future .
A debit card takes the funds right from your account . There 's no ' credit ' issued along the way . The credit card facilitates a short term loan . If you are a pay-in-full customer , as I am , there 's a cost to lend the money , but we 're not paying it . It 's part of the fee charged to the merchant . Thus the higher transaction cost .
As far as trading is concerned , these forward curves are the price at which you can speculate on the future value of the commodity . Basically , if you want to speculate on gold , you can either buy the physical and store it somewhere ( which may have significant costs ) or you can buy futures ( ETFs typically hold futures or hold physical and store it for you ) . If you buy futures , you will have to roll your position every month , meaning you sell the current month 's futures and buy the next month 's . However , these may not be trading at the same price , so each time you roll your position , you face a risk . If you know you want to hold gold for exactly 1 year , then you can buy a 1-year future , which in this case according to your graph will cost you about $ 10 more than buying the front month . The forward curve ( or sometimes called the futures term structure ) represents the prices at which gold can be bought or sold at various points in the future .
You did the math correctly . You do n't lose the entire deduction for the sake of the FSA . But it does come off the top , so as you calculated , you still have $ 5000 to take as an itemized deduction .
It all depends on the merchant . When you charge your card the information goes through but it waits for the merchant to send the info/confirm the charge before it shows up on your online activity . For example : I use Intuit to accept CC payments . When I charge an Amex the info is sent to Amex on the spot which is why your credit limit updates immediately but Amex then waits for a confirmation . Intuit actually handles the entire process which is probably how all CC processing services work . When you use your debit card in a debit transaction you are withdrawing cash from your checking account , which is in part why debit transactions do not have the same security as credit . Another note about debit cards and referring to mhoran_psprep comment - this is because you are using your debit card as a credit transaction , many bank cards offer this and it can come with added benefits . See - <URL>
I do n't believe there is any particular structural or financial reason that outgoing wire transfers cost so much in Canada , their costs are no higher than other countries ( and lower than many ) . Wires seem to be an area where the Canadian banks have decided people do n't comparison shop , so it 's not a competitive advantage to offer a better price . The rates you quoted are on the low side : $ 80 for a largish international wire is not unusual , and HSBC charges <URL> ! There are several alternative ways to transfer money domestically in Canada . If the recipient banks at the same bank , it 's possible to go into a branch and transfer money directly from your own account to their account ( I 've never been charged for this ) . The transfer is immediate . But it could n't be done online , last time I checked . For transfers where you do n't know the recipients bank account , you can pay online with Interac E-Transfers , offered by most Canadian banks . It 's basically e-mailing money . It usually costs $ 1 to $ 1.50 per transfer , and has limits on how much you can send per day/week . Each of the banks also have a bill-pay service , but unlike similar services in the US ( where they mail a paper check if the recipient is n't on their system ) , each Canadian bank has a limited number of possible payees ( mostly utilities , governments , major stores ) .
Cash is king . PIN-based debit transactions are cheap . In terms of credit cards , a regular ( ie . not a gold card ) with no rewards has the lowest rates . Bigger merchants with lots of card volume likely have better deals that make the differences less pronounced .
Yes . In my legendary blog article <URL> I mention how I had a card with a 10 % cash rebate , but only for 90 days . I bought $ 50,000 in debit cards in less than 90 days even though the card limit was $ 10,000 , by doing what you suggested , paying mid-cycle , freeing up the credit , then going back for more . The cards were for $ 500 and had a 1 % fee . A total cost of $ 50,500 and $ 5050 cash back . We used them up over the next 18 months or so .
end question
start question
What are some sites that offer decent deals on college textbooks ?
Have you tried seeing if your college 's bookstore offers used textbooks ? <URL> still may be cheaper , but used from your bookstore beats new by a lot . Also , from <URL> which I just discovered comes a <URL> to rent textbooks or buy them at a discount .
Is your ( and your spouse 's , I assume ) retirement fund in order ? Make sure you 're on track with that first . Your children are slated to go to college starting around 2024 . The value of a college education is already being called into question now . I expect this scrutiny to continue . A lot of schools offer a junker education at Ferrari prices . College does n't have to cost in the six-figure range . How about low five figures ? Take CLEP exams to place out of as many classes as possible -- perhaps up to two full years . Then look for deals for the other two years . This can be paid for with a part-time job while living at home . That , and if your kids get bitten by the entrepreneurial bug , they might see college as a waste of time . Worry less about the tax savings that you 'd get with a 529 plan and worry more about bringing down the cost of the education . That savings will dwarf what you 'd save with the 529 .
You do n't . Say you deposited $ 5000 . Then you converted $ 4950 to Roth . You declare $ 4950 as the amount converted and you 're done .
Listing on NYSE has more associated overhead costs than listing on NASDAQ . In the case of young technology companies , this makes NASDAQ a more attractive option . Perhaps the most important factor is that NYSE requires that a company has an independent compensation committee and an independent nominating committee while NASDAQ requires only that executive compensation and nominating decisions are made by a majority of independent directors . No self-respecting , would-be-instant-billionare tech entreprenuer is going to want some independent committee lording it over their pay packet . Additionally , listing on NYSE requires a company have stated guidance for corporate governance while NASDAQ imposes no such requirement . Similarly , NYSE requires a company have an internal audit team while NASDAQ imposes no such requirement . Fees on NYSE are also a bit higher than NASDAQ , but the difference is not significant . A good rundown of the pros/cons : <URL>
I find it strange that they would actually recommend switching to a SD RSP . Most of the Big 5 banks would be happy to have you blindly invested in their high-fee mutual funds without even making you aware that the self-directed option exists . In my view , there are a few very important things to consider : Would you like your investments to be self-directed ? Would you be able to decide what to invest your money in if you had all the choice that 's offered through a SD RSP ? Would your financial advisor at the bank still be involved ? Only consider answering the question of when you should start looking into switching to one if you have already decided that you would like to switch to one . If you would like to have a SD RSP , it might make sense once your invested amount can justify any added commissions and fees you may incur with your new investments . If it 's at a Big 5 bank ( i.e. TD or RBC ) you 're looking at $ 30/trade for stocks and ETFs , and maybe a fee for third-party mutual funds . Are you well-versed with all the products that you can invest in using a self-directed account ? Although I would generally recommend a SD RSP , or even a self-directed TFSA or non-registered account , it would behoove an investor to really be committed to knowing what they 're doing . Without presuming too much about the OP , I would recommend anyone reading this answer to start at a great <URL> . What are all the fees associated with the SD RSP ? Many of the Big 5 banks and other companies charge exorbitant fees . Commission fees notwithstanding , the two major fees that I would be careful about are the annual administration fees and transfer out fees . RBC Direct Investing , for example , <URL> $ 75/yr for RSPs that are less than $ 25000 in value . They also charge an exorbitant $ 135 transfer out fee . Of course , you 'd need to pay that if you decide to switch brokerages since you ca n't just withdraw from bank A and redeposit at bank B without triggering tax consequences . If you really would like a self-directed account , must you stick with your current bank ? Having said all this , I think that there are other brokerages out there that should be evaluated apart from the Big 5 banks should you choose to go this route , particularly if one has less than $ 25000 invested . A good starting point is at a <URL> , which includes a table of many Canadian discount brokerages . The irony would be staggering if you inform your financial advisor at your bank that you have decided to take their advice and open a SD RSP , but somewhere else . Best of success with your RRSP , whatever you decide to do . If you would like me to elaborate further on any of these points , please post a comment and I 'll do what I can .
4.7 is a pretty low rate , especially if you are deducting that from your taxes . If you reduce the number by your marginal tax rate to get the real cost of the money you end up with a number that is n't far off from inflation , and also represents a pretty low ' yield ' in terms of paying off the loan early . ( e.g. if your marginal tax rate is 28 % , then the net you are paying in interest after the tax deduction is 4.7 * .72 = 3.384 ) While I 'm all for paying off loans with higher rates ( since it 's in effect the same as making that much risk free on the money ) it does n't make a lot of sense when you are down at 3.4 unless there is a strong ' security factor ' ( which really makes a difference to some folks ) to be had that really helps you sleep at night . ( to be realistic , for some folks close to retirement , there can be a lot to be said for the security of not having to worry about house payments , although you do n't seem to be in that situation yet ) As others have said , first make sure you have enough liquid 'em ergency money ' in something like a money market account , or a ladder of short term CD 's If you are sure that the sprouts will be going to college , then there 's a lot to be said for kicking a decent amount into a 529 , Coverdell ESA ( Educational Savings Account ) , uniform gift to minors account , or some combination of those . I 'm not sure if any of those plans can be used for a kid that has not been born yet however . I 'd recommend <URL> as a good starting point to get more information on your various options . As with retirement savings , money put in earlier has a lot more ' power ' over the final balance due to compounding interest , so there 's a lot to be said for starting early , although depending on what it takes to qualify for the plans there could be such a thing as too early ;-) ) . There 's nothing wrong with Managed mutual funds as long as the fund objective and investing style is in alignment with your objectives and risk tolerance ; The fund is giving you a good return relative to the market as a whole ; You are not paying high fees or load charges ; You are not losing a lot to taxes . I would always look at the return after expenses when comparing to other options , and if the money is not in a tax deferred account , also look at what sort of tax burden you will be faced with . A fund that trades a lot will generate more short term gains which means more taxes than compared to a more passive fund . Anything lost to taxes is money lost to you so needs to come out of the total return when you calculate that . Sometimes such funds are better off as a choice inside an IRA or 401K , and you can instead use more tax efficient vehicles for money where you have to pay the taxes every year on the gains . The reason a lot of folks like index funds better is that : The majority of managed funds do n't manage to beat the indexes Lots of good no-load and low expense options abound , including in ETF form . The lack of short term trades means the tax burden is way lower , making them good for investments outside of a tax deferred accounts . Once you subtract management fees and money paid out for taxes , even fewer managed funds yeild the same net return on investment that a low cost index fund does . Given your described age , it 's not appropriate now , but in the long run as you get closer to retirement , you may want to start looking at building up some investments that are geared more towards generating income , such as bonds , or depending on taxes where you live , Municipal bonds . In any case , the more money you can set aside for retirement now , both inside and outside of tax deferred accounts , the sooner you will get to the point of the ' critical mass ' you need to retire , at that point you can work because you want to , not because you have to .
I 've used ING Direct for several years . Never had any problems with them . They were ( and maybe still are ? ) ahead of the curve on security arrangements . You do n't need to have a brick and mortar bank to transfer money in , but it is faster and easier if you do . ( At least this is true with my mail account -- see next item . ) You do n't have to have an online account . You can bank entirely by mail if you want . ( At least I have one account set up this way , I assume you can still open an account by mail . ) They offer CDs with somewhat mediocre rates that are easy to open and fund online from your savings account . The website is relatively simple to use . I have never had any problems with transfers in or out . When you have to call , you get a human on the phone , quickly . Someone who speaks American English with reasonable diction . ( At least it used to be this way , I do n't think I 've called them in over a year . ) I 'm a fan of ING , but I do wish they managed to keep their rates on top of the chief competition .
Amazon will not credit any different card . They can not know that the different card number is in fact a replacement for the old one you used . Your card issuer , however , can . If receive the refund form Amazon , and can transfer it to the new card . However , you need to talk to them and ask them if and how will they do that . They may decide to apply it to the fraudulent transactions ' balance instead of giving it to you , to reduce their losses , so you need to talk to them beforehand and make sure that since the refund is for the purchase made before the card was cancelled , they will transfer it to the new card with all the rest of the information . Another option is to request a refund to your Amazon account as a gift card balance for further purchases . I know that many retail shops will gladly give you a gift card instead of the cash/credit refund , so it may be worth your while to check with Amazon if they do that too .
The " $ 1000 is no money at all " people are amusing me . Way back in the mists of time , a very young me invested on the order of ~ $ 500 in a struggling electronics manufacturer I had a fondness for . An emotional investment , not much money , but enough that I could get a feel for what it was like owning stock in something . That stock 's symbol was AAPL . This is admittedly a rare outcome , but $ 1000 invested over the long term is n't not worth doing . If for no other reason then when the OP has " real " money , he 'll have X + $ 1000 invested rather than X , assuming 0 % return , which I doubt . It 's a small enough amount that there are special considerations , but it 's a solid opportunity for learning how the market works , and making a little money . Anyway , my advice to the OP is as follows : All of this assumes you have enough money to live on , and this $ 1000 is indeed " play money " . If you need this money for books , rent , etc. put it in a savings account . Putting $ 1000 into the market , and then needing to tap high interest credit card debt to make ends meet is losing money . Consider opening a Roth IRA . If you 've already got the money , you 've already been taxed on it , and as a non-working student , your tax rate is as low as its likely going to be . Consider how much risk you 're willing to shoulder . Are you alright with having $ 0 at the end of all this ? Take a look at index ETFs and mutual funds . While these do n't have a spectacular return , at least recently , the market as of Fall 2011 is unusually highly correlated , which means it 's unlikely that you 'll do much worse or staggeringly better unless you 're lucky . Pay special attention to commissions and expenses with these , as they can eat into your returns , which will admittedly be small . An $ 10 commission on a $ 10,000 investment is much less of a big deal than it is on a $ 1,000 investment . Some discount brokerages even have mutual funds that are themselves baskets of index funds ( instant diversification ) , and if you 're a client with them , these have low minimum investments and fairly small fees , which are properties you 're looking for . Which brings me to the last bit . Whatever you end up doing , hold it . Actively trading with as little money as you have will devour your returns with transaction fees .
If you are able to deposit to an IRA and take a deduction , that will impact your return . $ 5500 each , $ 11K total will save you $ 2750 if you are in the marginal 25 % bracket . ( For married couples filing jointly , in which the spouse who makes the IRA contribution is covered by a workplace retirement plan , the income phase-out range is $ 95,000 to $ 115,000 ) Is the $ 7000 due to <URL> ? I recall that was an issue that might have caused you to have a high amount you 'd owe now . I ask because it 's odd to owe so much based on 1 withholding allowance unless there are some unusual factors at play . This is one situation where filing separately might help , as it may allow your wife to itemize her interest and property tax , as those are her obligations . Aside from that , you might need to adjust your W4 allowances to zero and still withhold extra each check .
Binary options is a type of option where the payoff is either some fixed amount of some asset or nothing at all . When you trade binary options a trader who thinks that the EUR/USD strike price will close at or below 1.2500 at 3:00 p.m. can buy a put option or sell the contract .
When you start preparing your 2016 tax return in early 2017 and realize that you are ineligible to contribute to a Roth IRA , you have the options of withdrawing your contribution as well as any earnings from that contribution from the Roth IRA . The earnings will count as income for 2017 since you will be making the withdrawal in 2017 . The original contribution , of course , continues to count as income for 2016 . recharacterizing your contribution as a contribution to your Traditional IRA . You need to contact your IRA custodian and tell them about it so that they can change the status of your account from Roth to Traditional IRA . Use the word recharacterization so that they will know exactly what you are talking about . If your income is very high , you might not be able to deduct the Traditional IRA contribution ( wholly , or in part ) on your 2016 tax return either , and if you are in that high-earner category , you should file Form 8606 with your tax return to tell the IRS that you have made a nondeductible contribution to your Traditional IRA . In later years , when you start taking distributions from your Traditional IRA , that nondeductible contribution will not be taxed upon withdrawal . If you do not file Form 8606 , you will owe taxes on that amount when it is withdrawn . doing nothing in which case you will get whacked with all kinds of penalties Note : if you recharacterize your Roth IRA contribution as a Traditional IRA contribution , then , depending on your Traditional IRA accounts , it might be advantageous to do a " back-door Roth IRA conversion " . There are multiple answers on this site that will tell you all about back-door Roth IRA conversion .
The companies have Symbols on all exchanges where they are traded . They can be in different countries , with different prices and in different currencies . Also maybe trading at different times ( as market hours vary ) .
The libor swap rates show the fixed rate you would have to pay if you entered into a swap agreement where you received the floating 3-month libor rate . From the link in your question : Two Year : 0.478 Three Year : 0.549 Five Year : 0.842 For example , if I wanted to enter into a two year interest rate swap I would have to pay a fixed rate of 0.478 % for two years and in return I would receive interest payments based on the 3-month LIBOR rate ( currently 0.4551 % ) . My interest payments would be fixed while the money I received from the swap would be variable based on the 3-month libor rate . Mid-market means the rates were reported at the middle of the trading day . Semi-annual means the swap settles interest payments every 6 months .
It 's because financing can fall through , and then the time between offer and closing is wasted . Often buyers will include preapprovals and other evidence of financing eligibility with their offer for this reason .
The <URL> did an <URL> on this very topic a while ago . I think if you look in the T&amp;C for Mint , it says somewhere that you are giving a " limited " power of attorney to Mint that allows them to login to various websites on your behalf . For purposes of this Agreement and solely to provide the Account Information to you as part of the Service , you grant Intuit a limited power of attorney , and appoint Intuit as your attorney-in-fact and agent , to access third party sites , retrieve and use your information with the full power and authority to do and perform each thing necessary in connection with such activities , as you could do in person .
Options or Shares vest by date they are granted . It would strike me as odd for anyone to say their stares were given with 4 year vesting , but the clock was pre-started years prior . In my opinion , you have nothing to complain about .
Generally , yes . Rather than ask , " why are these guys so cheap ? " , you should be asking why the big names are so expensive . :) Marketing spend plays a big role there . Getting babies to shill for your company during the super bowl requires a heck of a lot of commissions . Due to the difficulties involved in setting up a brokerage , it 's unlikely that you 'll see a scam . A brokerage might go bankrupt for random reasons , but that 's what investor insurance is for . " Safeness " is mostly the likelihood that you 'll be able to get access to your funds on deposit with the broker . Investment funds are insured by SIPC for up to $ 500,000 , with a lower limit on cash . The specific limits vary by broker , with some offering greater protection paid for on their own dime . Check with the broker -- it 's usually on their web pages under " Security " . Funds in " cash " might be swept into an interest-earning investment vehicle for which insurance is different , and that depends on the broker , too . A few Forex brokers went bankrupt last year , although that 's a new market with fewer regulatory protections for traders . I heard that one bankruptcy in the space resulted in a 7 % loss for traders with accounts there , and that there was a Ponzi-ish scam company as well . Luckily , the more stringent regulation of stock brokerages makes that space much safer for investors . If you want to assess the reliability of an online broker , I suggest the following : Are they a Forex broker ? Definitely give these guys closer scrutiny . Check their registration , at <URL> , <URL> , or FINRA . Look for ratings from trusted publications such as Barrons , which gives these two 4 + stars Check out what other investors are saying , such as at a site like brokerage-review . com . It 's tempting to look at when the brokerage was founded . Fly-by-night scams , by definition , wo n't be around very long -- and usually that means under a few months . Any company with a significant online interface will have to have been around long enough to develop that client interface , their backend databases , and the interface with the markets and their clearing house . The two brokerages you mentioned have been around for 7 + years , so that lends strength to the supposition of a strong business model . That said , there could well be a new company that offers services or prices that fit your investment need , and in that case definitely look into their registrations and third-party reviews . Finally , note that the smaller , independent brokerages will probably have stiffer margin rules . If you 're playing a complex , novel , and/or high-risk strategy that ca n't handle the volatility of a market crash , even a short excursion such as the 2010 flash crash , stiff margin rules might have consequences that a novice investor would rather pretend did n't exist .
Bulk sales , promotions , special agreements with agents , etc etc. . Many ways .
It varies per state . In NY I could do 6 or 12 months when I lived there . In NC was the same , at least a few years ago . In KY , to the best of my knowledge , you do a year . There are also variations between states as to whether the car or the driver are required to be insured ( NY is car , NC is driver , for example ) .
end question
start question
On what quantity the Dividend is given in India ?
So My question is if I purchased the shares on 03-08-15 then will I get the dividend ? Yes if you purchase on 3-Aug , the shares will actually get credited to your account on 5-Aug and hence you will hold the shares on 6-Aug , the record date .
I 'm assuming this was a cashless exercise because you had income show up on your w-2 . When I had a similar situation , I did the following : If you made $ 50,000 in salary and $ 10,000 in stock options then your W-2 now says $ 60,000 . You 'll record that on your taxes just like it was regular income . You 'll also get a form that talks about your stock sale . But remember , you bought and sold the stock within seconds . Your forms will probably look like this : Bought stock : $ 10,000 Sold stock : $ 10,000 + $ 50 commission Total profit ( loss ) : ( $ 50 ) From the Turbotax/IRS view point , you lost $ 50 on the sale of the stock because you paid the commission , but the buy and sell prices were identical or nearly identical .
Usually backtests for ( long-term ) strategies are evaluated on a end-of-day basis where you only consider close prices . If your strategy performs well in these backtests , hopes are that if you use a <URL> order your performance will not diverge too much from the backtest . The fact that it wo n't diverge much is important if you keep backtesting the strategy along with the real trading to see regime changes or similar . If you used end-of-day prices for the backtests but some arbitrary intraday market order , you 'd have some difficulties to explain deviations between the two . What it is : MOC orders can be submitted during the day , but they wo n't be executed until shortly before the market ( or more precise the current session ) closes .
The textbook answer would be " assets-liabilities + present discounted value of all future profit " . A&amp;L is usually simple ( if a company has an extra $ 1m in cash , it 's worth $ 1m more ; if it has an extra $ 1m in debt , it 's worth $ 1m less ) . If a company with ~ 0 assets and $ 50k in profit has a $ 1m valuation , then that implies that whoever makes that valuation ( wants to buy at that price ) really believes one of two things - either the future profit will be significantly larger than $ 50k ( say , it 's rapidly growing ) ; or the true worth of assets is much more - say , there 's some IP/code/patents / people that have low book value but some other company would pay $ 1m just to get that . The point is that valuation is subjective since the key numbers in the calculations are not perfectly known by anyone who does n't have a time machine , you can make estimates but the knowledge to make the estimates varies ( some buyers/sellers have extra information ) , and they can be influenced by those buyers/sellers ; e.g. for strategic acquisitions the value of company is significantly changed simply because someone claims they want to acquire it . And , $ 1m valuation for a company with $ 500m in profits is n't appropriate - it 's appropriate only if the profits are expected to drop to zero within a couple years ; a stagnant but stable company with $ 500m profits would be worth at least $ 5m and potentially much more .
Long term : Assuming you sold stock ABC through a registered stock exchange , e.g. , the Bombay Stock Exchange or the National Stock Exchange of India , and you paid the <URL> ( STT ) , you do n't owe any other taxes on the long term capital gain of INR 100 . If you buy stock BCD afterwards , this does n't affect the long term capital gains from the sale of stock ABC . Short term : If you sell the BCD stock ( or the ABC stock , or some combination therein ) within one year of its purchase , you 're required to pay short term capital gains on the net profit , in which case you pay the STT and the exchange fees and an additional flat rate of 15 % . The Income Tax Department of India has a <URL> titled " How to Compute your Capital Gains , " which goes into more detail about a variety of relevant situations .
I think you 've got competition on that list for where to put the money - I 'd work out which option is costing me the most currently or will cost me the most in the future and take care of it . I 'd be willing to bet that Eric is right , though , that it will need to be the roof . Not fixing it could cost you more in the long run than any of the other items on the list ( assuming your circumstances remain roughly the same ) . General comments/other considerations : Interest on education loan tends to be quite low , so not worth targeting Not enough to top up the 401K given everything else you have going on I 'd ignore the car payments , unless you 're getting nailed with a bad interest rate ; if that were the case , it might warrant a closer look . Any money that does n't get spent on the roof ( if any ) - I would put in a rainy day fund .
Is the balance ( in dollars , say ) automatically converted to rupees when I try to : You ca n't transact on this account like you do on savings account . So there is NO ATM/Debit Card/Net Banking . You have to walk-in to the Branch and withdraw in local currency or in travel cards as required . Am I correct in understanding that a resident foreign currency account can not have deposits made into it in rupees , say if someone wants to transfer money to me using IMPS ? Deposits are restricted . <URL>
<URL> includes India in the list of countries where is possible to open an international account to invest in the US Stock Market . They just merged with Charles Schwab and they have a nice online trading platform . Stocks and ETFs are little bit pricey . . Get in touch with them to get more information .
As an NRI , you are still liable to pay taxes on certain incomes earned in India , like the interest on Savings accounts / rent received from property / capital gains on shares / etc. . It is advisable to file a NIL return in India . The forms are same as one you fill for normal returns . You just have to declare the right source of income and show zero taxes [ if within the exempt bracket ] . There are quite a few online services including <URL> As Dilip has mentioned in comments , US taxes on your global income , hence it would be advisable to declare the interest income in India to the IRS . The Double tax avoidance treaty would help you avoid being taxed twice , however you would still pay the max rate of tax .
Income tax , yes . VAT only if the turn over is Rs 30 lacs ( ? Do n't recollect )
In an adjustable rate mortgage ( ARM ) , the starting interest rate is guaranteed for a certain period . After this period , the rate can go up or down . The monthly payment on these loans is calculated as if the rate never changed over the life of the loan . However , if the rate does change , the monthly payment also changes to cover the change in interest so that the mortgage is still paid off in the same amount of time . Using your example , let 's say that you have a 25-year mortgage that is a 5-year ARM . The initial interest rate is 3 % , which means that for the first 5 years , your rate is fixed at 3 % . The monthly payment for those first 5 years is the same as it would be if you had a 25-year fixed rate mortgage at 3 % . Here is the formula : <URL> where : P = monthly payment L = Loan amount c = monthly interest rate . This is the annual interest rate divided by 12 . n = number of months in the loan ( years * 12 ) In our example , if the loan is $ 100,000 , the interest rate is 3 % ( monthly interest rate is 0.25 % , or 0.0025 ) , and the number of months is 300 ( 25 years ) , the monthly payment will be $ 474.21 . Now , 5 years into a 25 year mortgage , the <URL> tells us that the remaining principal will be $ 85,505.48 . So if the rate jumps to 4 % at that point in time , the monthly payment will be recalculated so that the loan is still paid off in the original 25-year time . To find the new payment , use the above formula again , but this time L = $ 85,505.48 , c = 0.04 / 12 = 0.0033333 , and n = 20 * 12 = 240 . The new monthly payment is $ 518.15 . If , instead , you had a loan where the payment will be constant over the entire loan period , but the interest rate changes during the period ( this is not common ) , there is a formula for that as well . See <URL> for the details .
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
Go to the stock exchanges where the entity is listed . Under that specific company details , you should be able to find i.e. company filings , details about company reports per quarter , dividends information and much more . Or go to a website like <URL> or a financial publication like <URL> . These are reliable sources more so than individual bloggers and the likes of them . Other way is to go a company 's website and to the investor/shareholder 's section where they generally post such information . Company website 's are n't updated as fast as the stock exchange websites . Example <URL> <URL> <URL>
But I wish to know why the parameter is dividend/market price rather than just ' dividend ' ? What ' extra ' info you can uncover by looking at dividend/market price that you can not get from ' dividend ' ? Consider two stocks A and B . A offers a dividend of $ 1 per year . B offers a dividend of $ 2 per year . Let 's remove all complications aside and assume that this trend continues . If you were to buy each of these stocks you will get the following amounts over its life ( assumed infinity for simplicity ) : cash flows from A = $ 1 / ( 0.04 ) = $ 25 , assuming risk free is 4 % per annum cash flows from B = $ 2 / ( 0.04 ) = $ 50 , assuming risk free is 4 % per annum The price you buy them at is an important factor to consider because let 's say if A was trading for $ 10 and B for $ 60 , then A would look like a profitable nvestment while B wo n't . Of course , this is a very simplistic view . Dividend rates are not constant and many companies pose a significant risk of going bust but this should help illustrate the general idea behind the D/P ratio . P.S. : - The formula I have used is one for computing the NPV of a <URL> .
Credit card companies charge 2 % -3 % transaction fees . On typical retail transactions [ buying clothes , groceries , electronic goods , etc ] the margin is in excess of 10-30 % . Hence the Merchants tend to absorb the cost of card from profit margin . In petrol transactions , the dealer make a fixed amount per liter of pertol/desiel sold . They can not absorb the loss of 3 % . Hence they charge additional Fuel surcharge to make up for that loss . Some companies will lift the surcharge fee with a minimum transaction amount . For example , many fuel stations wo n't apply the surcharge if you buy at least 400 Rupees of fuel . There are also Card Tie-up where by Card Issuing Companies absorb this cost and hence no additional surcharge .
I think you are mixing up forward looking statements with the actual results . The funds objective The fund invests primarily in stocks that tend to offer current dividends . It focuses on high-quality companies that have prospects for long-term total returns as a result of their ability to grow earnings and their willingness to increase dividends over time Obviously in 1993 quite a few companies paid the dividends and hence VDIGX was able to give dividends . Over the period of years in some years its given more and in some years less . For example the Year 2000 it gave $ 1.26 , 1999 it gave $ 1.71 and in 1998 it gave $ 1.87 The current economic conditions are such that companies are not making huge profts and the one 's that are making prefer not to distribute dividends and hold on to cash as it would help survive the current economic conditions . So just to clarify this particular funds objective is to invest in companies that would give dividends which is then passed on to fund holders . This fund does not sell appreciated stocks to convert it into dividends .
It means that you received a dividend from Apple with a Record date of Feb. 2nd 2015 , a Payment Date of Feb. 12 2015 , and Non-Resident Tax withheld of $ 267.90 . Apple paid a $ 0.47 per share cash dividend , so for the 5700 shares you hold you would have received a dividend amount of $ 2679 ( $ 0.47 x 5700 ) with 10 % ( $ 267.90 ) withheld as above , for a net dividend of $ 2411.10 which you should have received .
This depends entirely on the kind of " IT " you 're doing . A couple of examples to illuminate how wide the term is : Computer support : expense Online banking : basic functionality is expense , but ability to upsell users to high-end products is income Automated stock trading : income - and it 's extremely high in demand To answer your core question : look beyond the title ( " IT " ) , to the function you 're providing to the bank , and ask if / how that function can generate money for the bank for better income possibilities ; if the answer is " none " , figure out which levers are closer to making money , and position yourself as such .
The curved lines ( on my screen orange , yellow and pink ) are simple moving averages . The fuchsia and blue straight lines are automatically generated trend lines . Those lines are attempting to show how a stock is trending by showing potential bounce points and are commonly used in technical analysis ( TA ) .
They do " Hibah " ( " gift " ) : <URL> Basically , the bank rewards you , with a " gift " , for the profits that it makes from your deposits but without specifying those details in contract . So , unlike a non-islamic deposit you ca n't have any garantee about when or how much the reward will be . In that way it 's more like a dividend .
end question
start question
What happens to my shares if another company purchases my company ?
If company B buys company A , then it buys your shares in company A. That 's what it means to buy a company -- you buy all of its shares . If your shares are actually worth $ 20 , then you get $ 1,000 . But they may offer more or less than $ 20 per share . It 's also very common for purchasers to offer their own shares instead of cash , or a mixture of cash and shares . It 's generally all-or-nothing -- if more than a certain percentage ( usually 50 % ) of shareholders vote to accept the offer , then the remaining shareholders must also sell their shares on the same terms , and if the offer gets less votes than are required than the potential purchaser does n't buy any shares .
No , it wo n't affect your score until your statement is posted . Paying your bill before your statement is posted is actually a good way to keep your credit utilization low . If you 're worried about high credit utilization negatively affecting your credit score , consider paying your bill several times a month to ensure that when your final monthly statement is posted , your utilization is still low . When my credit limit was very low while I was in college , I did this almost every month , and I 've seen other sites recommend this practice as well . From <URL> : The easiest way [ to lower credit utilization ] is to make credit card payments more than once a month so that your balance never gets too high . and <URL> : Consider making payments to creditors more than once each month . Otherwise , if you put a major expense -- like a new appliance -- on a credit card , even if you plan to pay it off , your FICO score may take a hit . The reason is that credit scores are calculated as a snapshot in time , so if that happens to be right after you charged a new $ 700 washing machine , your utilization ratio will look worryingly high . Remember , though , that it 's best to have some balance on your card when your statement is posted ( assuming you pay it off in full each month ) , because as the chart shows , 0 % utilization is about as bad as utilization > 31-40 % : Also , remember that credit utilization affects your credit score <URL> , so if you have high utilization one month but a lower utilization the next month , the hit to your score will disappear once a statement with low utilization is posted .
Only if your work on the side is making you at least # 60,000 profit a year . The overheads are just not worth it if you make less . Working as a sole trader , you can still claim for expenses incurred in the course of your business . You can also claim a percentage of your computer costs , even though you may use the computer for gaming . This is not unreasonable as the computer is necessary for your work . The Inland Revenue accept the fact that some assets are part work-related . In your case , as a web and mobile phone developer , I expect the percentage to be at least half , if not a lot more . If you need to travel in the course of your work you can claim a percentage for your car . You can include other small expenses such as telephone , stationery , electricity etc but do n't go overboard . The important point to remember is that you must be able to defend the expenses claimed as work-related , so long as you can do this there is no problem . Remember to keep good records of all your expenses . This is on-going throughout the year and is much more work than filling out your tax return . The software on the IR <URL> site is excellent , so it 's conceivable that you may not need an accountant if you are prepared to do your own tax return . However , if you feel unsure employ an accountant initially and take it from there .
Yes , DB pensions are " insured " by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ) , a Federal Government Corporation created under ERISA ( Employee Retirement Income Security Act ) back in the '70s . It 's purpose is to provide protection to DB pension plan participants in the event of a sponsor 's bankruptcy , insolvency , or inability to fully fund a DB plan . In a sense the PBGC is analogous to the FDIC and similar governmental corporations . There are limitations as to what is protected and I found out that there are limitations to the protection for those in the airline industry , as some pilots that I know received reduced pensions from PBGC even though they had higher vested benefits . Perhaps other industries are affected as well . If you want to find out more about the PBGC and what it covers you can go to <URL>
Its a broker fee , not something charged by the reorganizing company . <URL> charge $ 20 , <URL> charge $ 38 . As with any other bank fee - shop around . If you know the company is going to do a split , and this fee is of a significant amount for you - move your account to a different broker . It may be that some portion of the fee is shared by the broker with the shares managing services provider of the reorgonizing company , do n't know for sure . But you 're charged by your broker . Note that the fees differ for voluntary and involuntary reorganizations , and also by your stand with the broker - some do n't charge their " premier " customers .
When dealing with investments ( including stocks ) , CAGR is how you can describe the average growth of something over a period of time . The acronym stands for Compound Annual Growth Rate . For instance : Let 's say that I buy $ 10,000 worth of stock . After one year , it 's worth $ 9,000 ( a 10 % decrease ) After two years , it 's worth $ 12,000 ( a 33 % increase ) If I wanted to brag to my friends , I 'd say " I made 33 % on my stock from last year ! " Anyone who has known me a bit longer would probably be more interested in what kind of return ( percentage-wise ) I had made in total since I initially purchased the stock ( CAGR ) . This is calculated as follows : where and so for our example , You can double-check this by using that value each year and working forward Initial stock purchase of $ 10,000 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 955 ) = $ 10,955 Increase of 9.55 % ( $ 1046 ) = $ 12,001 On a side note , it is interesting that the " simple " calculation most people would make for the above example goes like this : I have $ 12,000 now . I started with $ 10,000 . That is $ 2,000 profit , which is 20 % of $ 10,000 over 2 years . I made 10 % profit each year . Sticking with the CAGR formula prevents such mistakes from happening .
If your current property is valued at $ 270K and you currently have a mortgage of $ 200k , then your equity in the current property is $ 70K or 25.9 % This means that your LVR is about 74 % . So since your current LVR is below 80 % you do n't pay any LMI ( Loan Mortgage Insurance ) . If you were looking to buy another property worth approximately $ 300K you would need to have more than $ 114K in equity ( I say more because you would have to include the extra required for closing costs - including Stamp Duty if required and conveyancing costs in addition to the $ 114K ) to keep your LVR to 80 % or below and avoiding LMI . ( 20 % of $ 570K = $ 114K ) . So if you want to avoid paying LMI you will need an additional $ 50K or so at least . Even if you went for a LVR of 95 % on the new property you would still need $ 69K plus closing costs , so you are still a bit short . You would also have to pay LMI on the new mortgage and you would be taking on a lot of extra risk , especially if interest rates rise ( as they are likely to in 12 to 18 months time ) , you lost your job or some other emergency came up . You are better off waiting some time before purchasing a second property , allowing your equity to grow further and for you to save up a bit more . You may want to open up an offset account linked to your loan account ( if you have n't already ) so that any additional savings you have in the offset account reduces the interest payable on your mortgage . When you are ready to purchase a second property allow an additional 2-3 % in your serviceability calculations on top of the mortgage interest rates you get , so that you do n't get into trouble when interest rates do go up , or if you are on a fixed rate , when your fixed period ends and the variable at the time is higher than your fixed rate .
Listing on NYSE has more associated overhead costs than listing on NASDAQ . In the case of young technology companies , this makes NASDAQ a more attractive option . Perhaps the most important factor is that NYSE requires that a company has an independent compensation committee and an independent nominating committee while NASDAQ requires only that executive compensation and nominating decisions are made by a majority of independent directors . No self-respecting , would-be-instant-billionare tech entreprenuer is going to want some independent committee lording it over their pay packet . Additionally , listing on NYSE requires a company have stated guidance for corporate governance while NASDAQ imposes no such requirement . Similarly , NYSE requires a company have an internal audit team while NASDAQ imposes no such requirement . Fees on NYSE are also a bit higher than NASDAQ , but the difference is not significant . A good rundown of the pros/cons : <URL>
There are a few reasons why an index mutual fund may be preferable to an ETF : Index mutual funds do n't typically have transaction fees and ETFs usually do because ETFs trade like stocks . If you pursue a dollar cost averaging strategy ( i.e. buying stocks every two weeks ) , ETF transaction costs can add up . Fractional index mutual fund shares can be owned , so you can invest a constant amount in an index mutual fund ( which also works well with a dollar cost averaging strategy ) . You ca n't buy 18.3 shares of an ETF . Similar to stocks , ETFs have liquidity risk . ETFs can trade at a premium or discount to Net Asset Value , similar to a close-ended mutual fund ( this means the price of an ETF can stray from the value of its underlying assets ) . I looked at the <URL> and it has an expense ratio of 0.07 % . The Vanguard Admiral S&amp;P 500 index has an expense ratio of 0.05 % and the Investor Shares have an expense ratio of 0.17 % , do I do n't necessarily agree with your statement " admiral class Vanguard shares do n't beat the iShares ETF " .
Unfortunately assets placed in a safety deposit box are not covered under the Federal Deposit Insurance Program ( FDIC ) . Unless the bank is found to be negligent in the way it handled or protected your safety deposit box , neither them nor their private insurance company will reimburse you for the loss . Find out if in the duration you had your box with them , they moved , transitioned or merged with another entity . In this specific situation , you may be able to demonstrate negligence on the part of the banks as they have seemingly misplaced your box during their transition phase , and depending upon the value of the items placed in your safety deposit box , you may be entitled to some form of recovery . Some homeowner 's insurance policies may also cover the loss , but if you did n't document what you kept in the box , you have difficulty verifying proof of the value . Valuables are often lost but documents can often be reconstructed . You can get stock and bonds by paying a fee for new certificates . For wills and trusts , you can reach out to the lawyer that prepared them for a copy . You should always keep 3 copies of such documents . When you put stuff in the box , always videotape it ( photographs can be challenged ) but if the video shows it was put in there , although it can still be taken out by you after you turn off the camera , yields more weight in establishing content and potential value . Also know the value of the items and check with your homeowner policy to make sure the default amount covers it , if not then you may need to include a rider to add the difference in value and the video , receipts , appraisals and such will serve you well in the future in such unfortunate circumstances . If the contents of a safety deposit box are lost because you did n't pay the fee , then depending on the state you are in the time frame might vary ( 3 years on average ) , but none the less they are sent to the State 's unclaimed property/funds department . You can search for these online often times or by contacting the state . It would help for you to find out which scenario you are in , their fault or yours , and proceed accordingly . Good luck .
If possible , I would open a Canadian bank account with a bank such as TD Canada Trust . You can then have your payments wired into that account without incurring costs on receipt . They also allow access to their US ATM network via TD Bank without additional costs . So you could use the American Affiliate to pull the funds out via a US teller while only bearing the cost of currency conversion . If that option ca n't work then the best route would be to choose a US bank account that does n't charge for incoming wire transfers and request that the money be wired to your account ( you 'll still get charged the conversion rate when the wire is in CAD and the account is in USD ) .
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
Well , so long as the shares trade they are valued at greater than " worthless . " An important distinction . If truly worthless , you indicate a sell date of the day they were deemed worthless , and a sale price of zero . In your case , the broker should sell the shares for you . If the bid is zero and ask , say .1 cent , the broker should offer a courtesy purchase , i.e. they take the shares , so you can claim the loss . This loss is used to offset gains from other stocks you sold , if it 's greater than the gains , you take a $ 3000 loss again ordinary income and carry the rest forward , until you use it up against gains or $ 3000 each year .
Salaries in India are generally paid of the month . If you have joined mid-month like you mention on 6th Jan. . The first salary will be for part month . In your case it would be ( 15000/31 ) Multiply by 27 Days . Rs 13065 . You should get a salary slip that would give more details .
As far as I know about TFSA 's , you would be correct in that you are taxed on the $ 1000 extra you 've put in , but not on the original $ 5000 . Although , one good thing about TFSA 's are that every year your account is open , the limit of $ 5000 is added on to the previous limit , not the amount of money you 've put in . If you open one and put in $ 20 , and wait a year , your limit will be increased to $ 10000 , rather than just the additional $ 5000 . So at least if you have the account open long enough , you could deposit much more than $ 5000 without paying taxes on the interest .
I used to work in <URL> for 5 years so I know a bit about international tax ( I am not an international tax expert by any means ) . Tax authorities do n't generally care about transactions unless they 're adversely impacted . US tax laws are usually written to say that intercompany transactions should happen at an arm 's length price ( i.e. fair market value ) . If you sell your EU company to your US company for $ 1 , the US tax authorities will be happy . The US taxes worldwide income , so the income of your EU company will become taxable in the US forevermore , all for the low price of $ 1 . Companies typically shift intellectual property from high tax jurisdictions ( e.g. the US ) to low tax jurisdictions ( e.g. Ireland ) . Shifting IP to the US at below market prices is the opposite of what companies like <URL> does to minimize taxes .
There are a number of ways this can result . In a broad ETF , such as SPY , the S&amp;P 500 spider , the S&amp;P index will have 500 stocks no matter what , so a buyout would simply result in a re-shuffling of the index makeup . No buyout will happen so quickly that there 's no time to choose the next stock to join the index . In your case , if the fund manager ( per the terms of the prospectus ) wishes to simply reallocate the index to remove the taken-over stock that 's probably how he handle it . Unless of course , the prospectus dictates otherwise . In which case , a cash dividend is a possible alternative .
Google is a poor example since it does n't pay a dividend ( and does n't expect to ) , so let 's use another example with easy numbers . Company X has a stock price of $ 100 , and it pays a quarterly dividend ( many companies do ) . Let 's assume X pays a dividend of $ 4 . Dividends are always quoted in annual terms , as is dividend yield . When a company says that they pay " quarterly dividends , " it means that the company pays dividends every quarter , or every 3 months . BUT , if a company has a $ 4 dividend , you will not receive $ 4 every quarter per share . You will receive $ 4/4 = $ 1 per share , every quarter . So over the course of a fiscal year , or 4 quarters , you 'll get $ 1 + $ 1 + $ 1 + $ 1 = $ 4 per share , which is the annual dividend . The dividend yield = annual dividend/stock price . So in this case , company X 's div . yield will be $ 4 / $ 100 * 100 = 4 % . It 's important to note that this is the annual yield . To get the quarterly yield , you must divide by 4 . It 's also important to note that the yield fluctuates based on stock price , but the dividend payment stays constant unless the company states an announcement . For a real world example , consider Intel Corp. ( TICKER : INTC ) <URL> The share price is currently $ 22.05 , and the dividend is $ 0.84 . This makes the annual yield = $ 0.84 / $ 22.05 * 100 = 3.80 % . Intel pays a quarterly dividend , so you can expect to receive $ 0.21 every quarter for every share of Intel that you own . Hope that clears it up !
MD-Tech <URL> : The answer is in your question : derivatives are contracts so are enforced in the same way as any other contract . If the counterparty refuses to pay immediately they will , in the first instance be billed by any intermediary ( Prime Broker etc. ) that facilitated the contract . If they still refuse to pay the contract may stipulate that a broker can " net off " any outstanding payments against it or pay out using deposited cash or posted margins . The contract will usually include the broker as an interested party and so they can , but do n't need to , report a default ( such that this is ) to credit agencies ( in some jurisdictions they are required to by law ) . Any parties to the trade and the courts may use a debt collection agency to collect payments or seize assets to cover payment . If there is no broker or the counterparty still has not paid the bill then the parties involved ( the party to the trade and any intermediaries ) can sue for breach of contract . If they win ( which would be expected ) the counterparty will be made to pay by the legal system including , but not limited to , seizure of assets , enforced bankruptcy , and prison terms for any contempts of court rulings . All of this holds for governments who refuse to pay derivatives losses ( as Argentina did in the early 20th century ) but in that case it may escalate as far as war . It has never done so for derivatives contracts as far as I know but other breaches of contract between countries have resulted in armed conflict . As well as the " hard " results of failing to pay there are soft implications including a guaranteed fall in credit ratings that will result in parties refusing to do business with the counterparty and a separate loss of reputation that will reduce business even further . Potential employees and funders will be unwilling to become involved with such a party and suppliers will be unwilling to supply on credit . The end result in almost every way would be bankruptcy and prison sentences for the party or their senior employees . Most jurisdictions allow for board members at companies in material breach of contract to be banned from running any company for a set period as well . edit : netting off cash flows netting off is a process whereby all of a party 's cash flows , positive and negative , are used to pay each other off so that only the net change is reflected in account balances , for example : company 1 cash flows +1.2 M : co2 +1.1 M : co3 -5 oo K : co4 -3 M : co5 +1.2 M : co3 netting off the total outgoings are 3M + 500k = 3.5 M and total incomings are 1.2 M + 1.1 M + 1.2 M = 3.5 M so the incoming cash flows can be used to pay the outgoing cash flows leaving a net payment into company1 's account of 0 .
I believe that article provides some good reasons , though it may be a bit light on technical details and there are likely other reasons a company would do it . Apparently much of its cash is held overseas , which would pare down the cash pile if brought back into the U.S. With their high credit rating ( and probably due to current market conditions ) a bond sale would be relatively cheap As long as they do not take on too much debt , it does not matter that debt is used to finance a buyback and/or dividend payments . The shares are bought back -- bringing down the number of shares on the market , thus boosting share price -- and/or shareholders are payed their dividends . So , if they can finance for less then they would lose to taxes by bringing the money home and they do not take on too much debt , this will likely work just fine and increase share holder value . Hopefully , someone else can provide some other reasonable scenarios . The bottom line is that it does not matter how they finance the share buybacks and/or dividend payments as long as they do not shoot themselves in the foot while doing it .
end question
start question
Are lottery winnings taxed based on the ticket date or the redemption date ?
It depends on when you can get the money , not when you know that you won or when you choose to take the ticket in . If you can present your ticket this year and get paid this year , the taxes are due this year , whether or not you actually choose to claim the prize this year . If you can not receive payment until next year , then taxes will be due next year . This is " constructive receipt , " which applies to most individual tax situations . This assumes that you chose to receive a lump sum . If you get installments , then your taxes would be due as the installments are available , but the constructive receipt still applies .
Assuming the United States . This is a loan and not an investment . You report this as income and will pay your tax rate on the 18 % of the money that the borrower pays you ( any money paid above what was originally lent ) for the year in which it was received . You owe taxes on the income even if the borrower does not send you a Form 1099-INT showing the interest you received . For example : If you loan $ 10,000 and receive $ 1,800 in interest , and your tax bracket is 25 % , then you will owe $ 450 in tax .
Whether or not you have money in your account will not necessarily stop them withdrawing the money , and it certainly wo n't stop them attempting to withdraw the money . There are two possible scenarios when they attempt to withdraw the money ( as they surely will ) : The bank refuses the withdrawal : you still owe them the money , you may also owe additional late payment fees , the bank may also charge you for a refused payment . If you continue to refuse to pay they could sue you for it . The bank permits the withdrawal : they get their money , you may then owe fees or charges to the bank for the ( unauthorised ? ) overdraft . I think you are just lucky they have n't attempted the withdrawal yet . Put the necessary money into your account now if you possibly can , and consider this a slightly expensive lesson learned about following the Ts and Cs when cancelling services .
It 's really a calculated risk . The most you gain is for the growth to be tax free , the downside ( for the excess funds ) is the growth is taxed plus the 10 % penalty . I 'd suggest a simple strategy . Deposit as much as you can , early on , until the balance approaches the current 4 yr college cost . Then , just add enough to match the current cost , i.e. . If college costs grow more than the account , just make up that difference .
Market-makers ( which you term dealers ) earn the bid-ask spread by buying and selling in as short a window as possible , hopefully before the prices have moved too much . It is not riskless . The spread is actually compensation for this risk . From <URL> : The market-maker faces two types of problem . One is an inventory-management problem -- how much stock to hold and at what price to buy and sell . The market-maker earns a bid-ask spread in return for solving this problem since they bear the risk that their inventory loses value . Market-makers face a second , information-management problem . This arises from the possibility of trading with someone better informed about true prices than themselves -- an adverse selection risk . Again , the market-maker earns a bid-ask spread to protect against this informational risk . The bid-ask spread , then , is the market-makers ' insurance premium . It provides protection against risks from a depreciating or mis-priced inventory . As such , it also proxies the " liquidity " of the market -- that is , its ability to absorb buy and sell orders and execute them without an impact on price . A wider bid-ask spread implies greater risk in the sense of the market 's ability to absorb volume without affecting prices . The less liquid an asset is , the more time is likely to pass ( and hence more information likely to arrive ) until someone comes along to take the inventory from the dealer , and the greater is the risk that the price will have changed in the mean time . Since spread is compensation for this risk , ceteris paribus spreads are wider for less liquid assets .
From my recollection of Warren Buffett 's book " Warren Buffett and the Art of Arbitrage " , the following factors determine the difference between the market price of a stock and the future expected price of an acquisition or merger : Time : Assuming the deal will close , the market price should approach the offer price as the closing date approaches . The fact that there is a 14 % spread partially reflects the time value of money . Probability : Things could happen between now and closing date which could derail the deal . The higher the spread the more likely the market thinks the deal will not occur . For example , LO shareholders could reject the offer saying it is too low , or anti-trust regulators could say the deal is anti-competitive . Part of this 14 % spread indicates the probability of the deal completing .
It means what it says , 1c per share , but not less than $ 4.95 , meaning you 'll pay $ 4.95 even for one share . The $ 9.95 maximum means that even if you buy 1000 shares , you 'll pay just the $ 9.95 , not that 995 shares are the most they 'll let you trade . seems like a question for <URL>
Did you just buy them in 2010 ? If you owned them prior , you might have to amend your returns . Rental property income and expenses is declared on a <URL> and once you add all your expenses along with depreciation , you may show a loss . You can take that loss against ordinary income if your gross income is under a certain level , $ 100k MAGI begns the phaseout range . Otherwise , it carries over . A gain flows to your 1040 as ordinary income . I just saw your edit . You bought these 8 and 3 years prior to posting this question . How were you handling your taxes all this time ?
It includes income for both spouses , as it is calculated from a version of your tax return ( which includes both your incomes ) , as shown in <URL> . There is <URL> about limit on a traditional IRA deduction if a spouse is covered by a retirement plan .
The cost of living is quite high in New York City . It has the highest CPI ( Consumer Price Index ) of any city in the U.S. Salaries also tend to be highest in NYC . Just about any bicycle lock sold in the U.S. has an exception in its warranty for NYC . It is the most populous American city . So , why do people deal with all the hassles of living here ? Because , it is a hotbed of activity . I venture that the advantages are basically the same in Zurich : Job opportunities Business opportunities Lifestyle options
The short answer : Original equity plus 100k , up to the fair market value of the home . You have two considerations when considering the deductability of the interest of a refinanced mortgage . First off , you can count interest on the principal that was used to acquire the home , plus any amount spent on improving the home ( document this , though ) . Secondly , you can count up to $ 100k ( married , filing jointly ) of home equity debt towards your maximum limit . This is a separate amount , not included in the first amount ( the original equity ) , so it is additive . However , you are restricted to the lesser of $ 100k , or the total fair market value of the home minus the amount considered in the first category ( acquisition/improvement ) , when considering both together . The IRS explains this in <URL> : Example . You own one home that you bought in 2001 . Its FMV now is $ 110,000 , and the current balance on your original mortgage ( home acquisition debt ) is $ 95,000 . Bank M offers you a home mortgage loan of 125 % of the FMV of the home less any outstanding mortgages or other liens . To consolidate some of your other debts , you take out a $ 42,500 home mortgage loan [ ( 125 % × $ 110,000 ) − $ 95,000 ] with Bank M. Your home equity debt is limited to $ 15,000 . This is the smaller of : $ 100,000 , the maximum limit , or $ 15,000 , the amount that the FMV of $ 110,000 exceeds the amount of home acquisition debt of $ 95,000 . So if your cash-out refinance allowed you to borrow more than the fair market value of the home , only deduct interest on principal up to that amount . The appraisal you presumably paid for during the refinance process will cover this .
It ca n't be ( 1 ) as the last date of service does n't mean the bill was sent . What if they take a month to bill you ? ( 2 ) seems right , 30 days gives enough time , say 5 days , for receipt of mail , and then 3 weeks for you to pay . ( 3 ) not so much , as it adds the gray area of transit thus losing a real ' due by ' .
The Nebraska DMV web site has a <URL> about this . It seems to be fairly simple , and not costly to record a lien and later release it . Just go there with the title and the sales agreement that details the terms , and pay the $ 7 fee .
I 'd say that it can not be meaningfully calculated or measured because the two are just too different in every way . Poker is zero-sum all individual games are fully independant of each other . has a large random component , but the properties of this random influence are exactly statistically known . players have incomplete knowledge due to said randomness , but all have the same amount of knowledge . player skill consists of knowing said statistics and analyzing and influencing the behavior of individual other players . can be played as a game of luck , but if you do so , skilled players will eat you alive . Stock trading is zero-sum in the short term , but not in the long term . a large number of games is constantly running in parallel ( and even overlapping ) , and they are all highly correlated ( this may be the most fundamental difference ) . has almost no truly random components , but an effectively infinite number of influencing factors , which can make it appear random . players have incomplete knowledge because of that . But the amount of knowledge varies widely between players . player skill consists of gaining more knowledge ( research , fundamental analysis , insider trading ) , identifying which influence factors are most important ( fundamental analysis ) , and finding and exploiting correlations ( technical analysis ) . can be played as a game of luck , but if you do so , you 'll just lose money on trading fees . I guess the last point ( that someone relying on luck is exploitable in poker but not in stock trading ) could be interpreted as stock trading being based more on luck , while the second and third points indicated that poker has more true randomness and is thus based more on luck . Something both have in common is that people who have been losing money are often tempted to take stupid risks which lose them everything .
The biggest and primary question is how much money you want to live on within retirement . The lower this is , the more options you have available . You will find that while initially complex , it does n't take much planning to take complete advantage of the tax system if you are intending to retire early . Are there any other investment accounts that are geared towards retirement or long term investing and have some perk associated with them ( tax deferred , tax exempt ) but do not have an age restriction when money can be withdrawn ? I 'm going to answer this with some potential alternatives . The US tax system currently is great for people wanting to early retire . If you can save significant money you can optimize your taxes so much over your lifetime ! 401ks and IRAs If you retire early and have money invested in a Roth IRA or a traditional 401k , that money ca n't be touched without penalty until you 're 55/59 . ( Let 's ignore Roth contributions that can technically be withdrawn ) Ok , the 401k myth . The " I 'm hosed if I put money into it since it 's stuck " perspective is n't true for a variety of reasons . If you retire early you get a long amount of time to take advantage of retirement accounts . One way is to primarily contribute to pretax 401k during working years . After retiring , begin converting this at a very low tax rate . You can convert money in a traditional IRA whenever you want to be Roth . You just pay your marginal tax rate which ... for an early retiree might be 0 % . Then after 5 years - you now have a chunk of principle that has become Roth principle - and can be withdrawn whenever . Let 's imagine you retire at 40 with 100k in your 401k ( pretax ) . For 5 years , you convert $ 20k ( assuming married ) . Because we get $ 20k between exemptions/deduction it means you pay $ 0 taxes every year while converting $ 20k of your pretax IRA to Roth . Or if you have kids , even more . After 5 years you now can withdraw that 20k/year 100 % tax free since it has become principle . This is only a good idea when you are retired early because you are able to fill up all your " free " income for tax conversions . When you are working you would be paying your marginal rate . But your marginal rate in retirement is ... 0 % . <URL> on a forum you might enjoy . This is sometimes called a Roth pipeline . Basically : assuming you have no income while retired early you can fairly simply convert traditional IRA money into Roth principle . This is then accessible to you well before the 55/59 age but you get the full benefit of the pretax money . But let 's pretend you do n't want to do that . You need the money ( and tax benefit ! ) now ! How beneficial is it to do traditional 401ks ? Imagine you live in a state/city where you are paying 25 % marginal tax rate . If your expected marginal rate in your early retirement is 10-15 % you are still better off putting money into your 401k and just paying the 10 % penalty on an early withdrawal . In many cases , for high earners , this can actually still be a tax benefit overall . The point is this : just because you have to " work " to get money out of a 401k early does NOT mean you lose the tax benefits of it . In fact , current tax code really does let an early retiree have their cake and eat it too when it comes to the Roth/traditional 401k/IRA question . Taxable accounts Are you limited to a generic taxable brokerage account ? Currently , a huge perk for those with small incomes is that long term capital gains are taxed based on your current federal tax bracket . If your federal marginal rate is <URL> you will pay nothing for long term capital gains , until this income pushes you into the 25 % federal bracket . This might change , but right now means you can capture many capital gains without paying taxes on them . This is huge for early retirees who can manipulate income . You can have significant " income " and not pay taxes on it . You can also stack this with before mentioned Roth conversions . Convert traditional IRA money until you would begin owing any federal taxes , then capture long term capital gains until you would pay tax on those . Combined this can represent a huge amount of money per year . HSAs So littleadv mentioned HSAs but . . for an early retiree they can be ridiculously good . You can invest them You pay no FICA ( for employer plans , sorry self employed people ! ) You can withdraw medical expenses whenever . Not only the year of contribution ( like FSAs ) At age 65 effectively turns into IRA ( except the FICA benefit remains ) What this means is you can invest the maximum into your HSA for 10 years , let it grow 100 % tax free , and save all your medical receipts/etc . Then in 10 years start withdrawing that money . While it sucks healthcare costs so much in America , you might as well take advantage of the tax opportunities to make it suck slightly less . Related Resources There are many online communities dedicated to learning and optimizing their lives in order to achieve early retirement . The question you are
Without having researched that particular fund , I believe that they bought bonds in the past , say five years ago , interest rates were higher . As the interest rates have dropped , those bonds became more valuable , so their price rose . As a result what you are seeing is not just the direct interest rate that bonds have , but also the boost that bonds get when interest rates fall . Of course , in the future , if interest rates should rise , then you 'll see the opposite effect where bond funds will deliver lower returns .
Normally , you do n't pay capital gains tax until you actually realize a capital gain . However , there are some exceptions . The exception that affected Eduardo Saverin is the <URL> , or exit tax . If you leave a country and are no longer a tax resident , your former country taxes you on your unrealized capital gains from the period that you were a tax resident of that country . There are several countries that have an expatriation tax , including the <URL> . Saverin left the U.S. before the Facebook IPO . Saverin was perhaps already planning on leaving the U.S. ( he is originally from Brazil and has investments in Asia ) , so leaving before the IPO limited the amount of capital gains tax he had to pay upon his exit . ( Source : Wall Street Journal : <URL> ) Another situation that might be considered an exception and affects a lot of us is capital gain distributions inside a mutual fund . When mutual fund managers sell investments inside the fund and realize gains , they have to distribute those gains among all the mutual fund investors . This often takes the form of additional shares of the mutual fund that you are given , and you have to pay capital gains tax on these distributions . As a result , you can invest in a mutual fund , leave your money there and not sell , but have to pay capital gains tax anyway . In fact , you could owe capital gains tax on the distributions even if the value of your mutual fund investment has gone down .
<URL> It 's 5 days later , and the site shows as above ( i.e. they fixed it after receiving my note ) . For whatever one can say to criticize the tax code , it 's written by congress , not the IRS . When I say " my friends at the IRS " it 's not to be snarky , but a sincere thanks for how responsive and helpful I 've found them in my 35 years of paying taxes . ( And for what it 's worth , this morning I saw an IRS email , telling me they corrected the typo and thanking me for the note . )
Assets held within an ISA or New ISA <URL> , so you wo n't have to pay either income tax or capital gains tax .
It does matter greatly . Applying the excess amount to principle will reduce the loan balance and as such the interest you pay with subsequent payments over the life of the loan . This is the one you should choose . Paying advance payments only allows you to skip months of payments at a time and essentially giving the lender and interest free loan on those prepayments . While there may be a small set of circumstances this is okay , your question does not describe one . Do the " over payment toward account balance " will make this loan go away faster and reduce your cost in interest starting next month .
end question
start question
Index funds with dividends ?
Yes , for example <URL> , a mutual fund tracking the Nasdaq and <URL> and <URL> , two ETFs tracking the Dow . Yes , they all pay dividends because the funds are required to distribute the dividends they receive from their constituent stocks .
Index Funds &amp; ETFs , if they are tracking the same index , will be the same in an ideal world . The difference would be because of the following factors : Expense ratio : i.e. the expense the funds charge . This varies and hence it would lead to a difference in performance . Tracking error : this means that there is a small percentage of error between the actual index composition and the fund composition . This is due to various reasons . Effectively this would result in the difference between values . Demand / Supply : with ETFs , the fund is traded on stock exchanges like a stock . If the general feeling is that the index is rising , it could lead to an increase in the price of the ETF . Index funds on the other hand would remain the same for the day and are less liquid . This results in a price increase / decrease depending on the market . The above explains the reason for the difference . Regarding which one to buy , one would need to consider other factors like : a ) How easy is it to buy ETFs ? Do you already hold Demat A/C &amp; access to brokers to help you conduct the transaction or do you need to open an additional account at some cost . b ) Normally funds do not need any account , but are you OK with less liquidity as it would take more time to redeem funds .
<URL> Mr D receives a dividend of # 100 cash from his Limited Company . The way tax credits work means that this actually represents only 90 % of the tax charge so to work out the taxable income it needs to be ' grossed up ' to 100 % . You do this by taking the 100 , dividing it by 90 then multiplying it by 100 , giving # 111.11 . For the purposes of a tax return this is the dividend income . Next you need to think about how much tax should be paid . This depends on which tax bracket you fall into : Basic rate tax payers pay 0 % on dividends Dividend income = # 111.11 Incurring tax of : Tax charge at 10 % = # 11.11 Less 10 % tax credit = - # 11.11 Tax due = # 0 So as I said this results in income tax of 0 % . Though on your tax return you have to go through all those steps . As the author puts it , just the vagaries of ministers and to confuse mere mortals . Primarily the credit is because you have already paid corporation tax on the income , so a bit of relief and not to tax you twice .
Index funds may invest either in index components directly or <URL> ( like ETFs , index options , futures , etc. ) which are highly correlated with the index . The specific fund prospectus or description on any decent financial site should contain these details . Index funds are not actively managed , but that does not mean they are n't managed at all - if index changes and the fund includes specific stock , they would adjust the fund content . Of course , the downside of it is that selling off large amounts of certain stock ( on its low point , since it 's being excluded presumably because of its decline ) and buying large amount of different stock ( on its raising point ) may have certain costs , which would cause the fund lag behind the index . Usually the difference is not overly large , but it exists . Investing in the index contents directly involves more transactions - which the fund distributes between members , so it does n't usually buy individually for each member but manages the portfolio in big chunks , which saves costs . Of course , the downside is that it can lag behind the index if it 's volatile . Also , in order to buy specific shares , you will have to shell out for a number of whole share prices - which for a big index may be a substantial sum and wo n't allow you much flexibility ( like " I want to withdraw half of my investment in S&amp;P 500 " ) since you ca n't usually own 1/10 of a share . With index funds , the entry price is usually quite low and increments in which you can add or withdraw funds are low too .
Yes . Companies increase , decrease , start paying and stop paying dividends when they think it appropriate . If a company has been going through some problems and makes a loss , or even a large decrease in profits , they can choose to stop paying dividends until things improve . Many companies did this during the <URL> .
Multiple overlapping indices exist covering various investment universes . Almost all of the widely followed indices were originally created by Lehman Brothers and are now maintained by Barclays . The broadest U.S. dollar based bond index is known as the Universal . The <URL> ( often abbreviated Agg ) , which is historically the most popular index , more or less includes all bonds in the Universal rated investment grade . The direct analog to the S&amp;P 500 would be the U.S. Corporate Investment Grade index , which is tracked by the ETF <URL> , and contains exactly what it sounds like . Citigroup ( formerly Salomon Brothers ) also has a competitor index to the Aggregate known as <URL> , and Merrill Lynch ( now Bank of America ) has the <URL> . Multiple other indices also exist covering other bond markets , such as international ( non-USD ) bonds , tax-exempts ( municipal bonds ) , securitized products , floating rate , etc. .
For stock splits , let 's say stock XYZ closed at 100 on February 5 . Then on February 6 , it undergoes a 2-for-1 split and closes the day at 51 . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 51 on Feb 6 , but all of the closing prices for the previous days will be divided by 2 . So for Feb 5 , it will say the closing price was 50 instead of 100 . For dividends , let 's say stock ABC closed at 200 on December 18 . Then on December 19 , the stock increases in price by $ 2 but it pays out a $ 1 dividend . In Yahoo 's historical prices for XYZ , you will see that it closed at 200 on Dec 18 and 201 on Dec 19 . Yahoo adjusts the closing price for Dec 19 to factor in the dividend .
Summary : The corporation pays 33.3 % tax on dividends it receives and gets a tax refund at the same rate when it pays dividends out . Details According to <URL> the corporate tax rates for 2015 are : According to page 3 : The federal and provincial tax rates shown in the tables apply to investment income earned by a CCPC , other than capital gains and dividends received from Canadian corporations . The rates that apply to capital gains are one-half of the rates shown in the tables . Dividends received from Canadian corporations are deductible in computing regular Part I tax , but may be subject to Part IV tax , calculated at a rate of 33 1/3 % . If I understand that correctly , this means that a Corporation in Quebec pays 46.6 % on investment income other than capital gains and dividends , 23.3 % on capital gains and 33.33 % on dividends . I 'm marking this answer as community wiki so anyone can correct these numbers if they are incorrect . UPDATE : According to <URL> page 22 the tax rate on taxable dividends received from certain Canadian corporations is 33 1/3 % . Further , this is refunded to the corporation through the " refundable dividend tax on hand " ( RDTOH ) mechanism at a rate of $ 1 for every $ 3 of taxable dividends paid . My interpretation is as follows : if the corporation receives $ 100 of dividends from another company , it pays $ 33.33 tax . If that corporation then pays out $ 100 of dividends at a later time , it receives a tax refund of $ 33.33 . Meaning , the original tax gets refunded . Note the first line is for the 2015 tax year while the second link is for the 2014 tax year . The numbers might be a little different but the tax/refund process remains the same .
If you read Joel Greenblatt 's The Little Book That Beats the Market , he says : Owning two stocks eliminates 46 % of the non market risk of owning just one stock . This risk is reduced by 72 % with 4 stocks , by 81 % with 8 stocks , by 93 % with 16 stocks , by 96 % with 32 stocks , and by 99 % with 500 stocks . Conclusion : After purchasing 6-8 stocks , benefits of adding stocks to decrease risk are small . Overall market risk wo n't be eliminated merely by adding more stocks . And that 's just specific stocks . So you 're very right that allocating a 1 % share to a specific type of fund is not going to offset your other funds by much . You are correct that you can emulate the lifecycle fund by simply buying all the underlying funds , but there are two caveats : Generally , these funds are supposed to be cheaper than buying the separate funds individually . Check over your math and make sure everything is in order . Call the fund manager and tell him about your findings and see what they have to say . If you are going to emulate the lifecycle fund , be sure to stay on top of rebalancing . One advantage of buying the actual fund is that the portfolio distributions are managed for you , so if you 're going to buy separate ETFs , make sure you 're rebalancing . As for whether you need all those funds , my answer is a definite no . Consider Mark Cuban 's blog post <URL> . Although there are some highly questionable points in the article , one portion is indisputably clear : Let me translate this all for you . " I want you to invest 5pct in cash and the rest in 10 different funds about which you know absolutely nothing . I want you to make this investment knowing that even if there were 128 hours in a day and you had a year long vacation , you could not possibly begin to understand all of these products . In fact , I do n't understand them either , but because I know it sounds good and everyone is making the same kind of recommendations , we all can pretend we are smart and going to make a lot of money . Until we do n't " Standard theory says that you want to invest in low-cost funds ( like those provided by Vanguard ) , and you want to have enough variety to protect against risk . Although I ca n't give a specific allocation recommendation because I do n't know your personal circumstances , you should ideally have some in US Equities , US Fixed Income , International Equities , Commodities , of varying sizes to have adequate diversification " as defined by theory . " You can either do your own research to establish a distribution , or speak to an investment advisor to get help on what your target allocation should be .
Your broker should be able to provide you with the amount of foreign dividends . Most brokerage statements have an expanded section after the 1099s with dividend details , realised gains and losses , margin interest , investment fees and other detailed information that is not reported to the IRS .
The idea of an index is that it is representative of the market ( or a specific market segment ) as a whole , so it will move as the market does . Thus , past performance is not really relevant , unless you want to bank on relative differences between different countries ' economies . But that 's not the point . By far the most important aspect when choosing index funds is the ongoing cost , usually expressed as Total Expense Ratio ( TER ) , which tells you how much of your investment will be eaten up by trading fees and to pay the funds ' operating costs ( and profits ) . This is where index funds beat traditional actively managed funds - it should be below 0.5 % The next question is how buying and selling the funds works and what costs it incurs . Do you have to open a dedicated account or can you use a brokerage account at your bank ? Is there an account management fee ? Do you have to buy the funds at a markup ( can you get a discount on it ) ? Are there flat trading fees ? Is there a minimum investment ? What lot sizes are possible ? Can you set up a monthly payment plan ? Can you automatically reinvest dividends/coupons ? Then of course you have to decide which index , i.e. which market you want to buy into . My answer in the other question apparently did n't make it clear , but I was talking only about stock indices . You should generally stick to broad , established indices like the MSCI World , S&amp;P 500 , Euro Stoxx , or in Australia the All Ordinaries . Among those , it makes some sense to just choose your home country 's main index , because that eliminates currency risk and is also often cheaper . Alternatively , you might want to use the opportunity to diversify internationally so that if your country 's economy tanks , you wo n't lose your job and see your investment take a dive . Finally , you should of course choose a well-established , reputable issuer . But this is n't really a business for startups ( neither shady nor disruptively consumer-friendly ) anyway .
One reason a lot of bond ETFs like Financials are because of how financial companies work . They usually have amazing cash flows due to deposits and fees and therefore have little risk associated with paying their debts in the short term . The rest of VCSH contains companies with low default risk and good cash flow generation as well : GE Verizon Apple Abbive This is of course the objective of VCSH : Seeks to provide current income with modest price fluctuation . Invests primarily in high-quality ( investment-grade ) corporate bonds . Maintains a dollar-weighted average maturity of 1 to 3 years Banks themselves issue a lot of bonds to raise cash to lend for other purposes . Banks are intermediary and help make funds liquid for investors and spenders . Hope that helped answer your question . If not comment below and I 'll try to adjust the answer to be more complete .
The main difference between an ETF and a Mutual Fund is Management . An ETF will track a specific index with NO manager input . A Mutual Fund has a manager that is trying to choose securities for its fund based on the mandate of the fund . Liquidity ETFs trade like a stock , so you can buy at 10am and sell at 11 if you wish . Mutual Funds ( most ) are valued at the end of each business day , so no intraday trading . Also ETFs are similar to stocks in that you need a buyer/seller for the ETF that you want/have . Whereas a mutual fund 's units are sold back to itself . I do not know of many if any liquity issues with an ETF , but you could be stuck holding it if you can not find a buyer ( usually the market maker ) . Mutual Funds can be closed to trading , however it is rare . Tax treatment Both come down to the underlying holdings in the fund or ETF . However , more often in Mutual Funds you could be stuck paying someone else 's taxes , not true with an ETF . For example , you buy an Equity Mutual Fund 5 years ago , you sell the fund yourself today for little to no gain . I buy the fund a month ago and the fund manager sells a bunch of the stocks they bought for it 10 years ago for a hefty gain . I have a tax liability , you do not even though it is possible that neither of us have any gains in our pocket . It can even go one step further and 6 months from now I could be down money on paper and still have a tax liability . Expenses A Mutual Fund has an MER or Management Expense Ratio , you pay it no matter what . If the fund has a positive return of 12.5 % in any given year and it has an MER of 2.5 % , then you are up 10 % . However if the fund loses 7.5 % with the same MER , you are down 10 % . An ETF has a much smaller management fee ( typically 0.10-0 .95 % ) but you will have trading costs associated with any trades . Risks involved in these as well as any investment are many and likely too long to go into here . However in general , if you have a Canadian Stock ETF it will have similar risks to a Canadian Equity Mutual Fund . I hope this helps .
Vanguard offers an index fund . Their FTSE Social Index Fund . For more information on it , <URL> .
From my days in e-commerce they break down like this ? The company does n't know a debit from a credit card . Got the Visa logo , then it is a Visa through the company 's payment gateway . The gateway talks to the bank and that is where the particulars for money is figured out . When I programmed gateway interfaces , I had the option to " authorize " or check for funds ( which did n't reserve anything , just verified funds existed ) , run for batch ( which put a hold on the funds and collected them at the end of the night ) or just take the money . Most places did a verify during the early checkout stages and then did a batch at the end of the night . The nightly batch allows a merchant to cancel a transaction without getting charged a fee . The " authorize " does n't mean the money is tied up , although that might be your banks policy . Furthermore , an authorize can only last for so many days . This also explains why most of your banks do n't report your transactions to you the day of . There is a bunch more activity on your card than the transactions that complete .
A suitable mix of index funds IS a great option if you do n't want to spend a lot of time and effort micromanaging your money . If you find amusement in pushing numbers around , you may be able to do better . Notice : MAY . If you have multiple millions , you can hire someone of that sort to push the numbers around for you . They may do better for you . Notice : MAY . And remember that part of your additional gains have to go to pay them , which means they have to do better just to be worth having on staff in the first place . If you have more than that , there are some options available which smaller investors really ca n't get involved in . As one example : If you have enough money that you can lose $ 100K without especially noticing , you can get involved in venture capital and the like which require a large commitment AND are higher-risk but can yield higher returns . Anyone who 's dismissing index funds as " only for beginners " is being foolish . But recommending them to beginners in particular is a good thing since they let you get into the market with fairly predictable risk/benefits without needing a massive investment in education and time .
Resident Alien is liable for the same taxes as a citizen . Citizenship has nothing to do with taxes .
I emailed Dr. Varian , the chief economist at Google ( formerly a Berkeley economist ) to ask ; he responded that the GPI was never intended to be a public project , data source , etc. . It was simply a project internal to Google that got hyped up by the press . In my opinion ( unconfirmed by Dr. Varian ) Google , like virtually every other company , probably uses the Consumer Price Index ( CPI ) in their economic analyses .
The All Ords Index consists of the 500 largest companies by market capitalisation listed on the Australia Stock Exchange . Each stock in the All Ords . Index is given a weighting based on its market capitalisation . As the price of the stocks within the All Ords . Index change , so does the points on the index itself . The Index is more sensitive to changes in the larger capitalised stocks due to their larger weighting in the Index . Example : If a company has a weighting of 10 % and its price goes up by 10 % , and all other stocks in the Index do n't go up or down , then this will cause the All Ords Index to go up by 1 % ( 10 % of 10 % ) .
No , some of Vanguard 's funds are index funds like their Total Stock Market Index and 500 Index . In contrast , there are funds like Vanguard PRIMECAP and Vanguard Wellington that are actively managed . There are index funds in both open-end and exchange-traded formats . VTI is the ticker for Vanguard 's Total Stock Market ETF while VTSMX is an open-end mutual fund format . VOO would be the S &amp; P 500 ETF ticker while VFINX is one of the open-end mutual fund tickers , where VIIIX has a really low expense ratio but a pretty stiff minimum to my mind . As a general note , open-end mutual funds will generally have a 5 letter ticker ending in X while an ETF will generally be shorter at 3 or 4 letters in length .
end question
start question
Are credit monitoring services worth the monthly fee ?
No , in the vast majority of cases . ( I +1 with littleadv but I wanted to add another idea ) If you happen to have a reason to suspect somebody you know will be attempting to steal your identity as a means of revenge , having a monitoring service might provide you peace of mind . ( Or you know you have been exposed via other criminal activity ) You can also get free monitoring from Credit Karma ( which is run by Transunion I think ) . It wo n't be all inclusive as it is only one agency , but I do n't see the harm . But the best solution for almost everybody is to <URL> . Freezing your credit will prevent the most harmful shenanigans that a credit monitoring service will only be able to tell you about after the fact . Freezing is typically cheaper as well . You ca n't have credit opened in your name you do n't know about , so monitoring your existing statements and a freeze will keep you as protected as any service I know of .
It depends on the bank . CitiCards for example ( at least some of them ) , require a full statement balance payment regardless of any refund that may have happened , to avoid interest ; this is even true if your refund plus payment leave a 0 or even negative balance on the card , and you leave it alone like that . Most will include that refund as " part of the payment . " In other words , call the customer service for your card and find out .
That info is n't in the credit card transaction data record . Keep and scan your receipts .
Reward cards are for people who can demonstrate to the lender that paying them the rewards is " worth it " , and the lender comes ahead in the end . Let me step back from just answering your question and understand what you are trying to do . First , stop doing what you are doing right now . No further applications as you have reduced your chances of getting unsecured credit by having a lot of hard hits to your report . I assume you have a SSN , and in that case what you are doing is digging a deep hole to put yourself into the next year unless you have a job at hand ( to justify a debt-income ratio that a lender will look at before approval ) . Read this and ask questions : <URL> Tell us more about your background : esp . if you have a job , how much credit you are seeking and what made you decide applying for rewards cards was a good idea to begin with . Updated after OPs edit : Your question has been answered already : the answer being " Yes " . I trust the answer and the person behind it . However , I know where you are coming from , and what you should focus on is establish a strong foundation for your credit . In that light you should n't be asking about rewards card . Rewards will come ( I am told ) but the time 's not now . The reason is embedded in your own edit : For the record , I 'm an incoming PhD student on a fellowship with an expected annual income of $ 30k for the next 5 years . I wanted to apply for reward cards since some of them were available and I wanted to try them out ( but I 'm ignorant of the bigger picture as I know little about credit cards ) The lenders have no metric about your expected annual income : they can see the data in a W2 , in a 1040 or similar . Anything else is up for speculation ; even your expected salary on a contract : if your project gets shelved or your advisor gets fired , you no longer have the money . If the lender gives you a line of credit you are then likely to use it up and then have a hard time paying it back . Establish strong foundation for your credit , focus your efforts there for now . If you have done less than 3 apps recently , see if you get a secured credit card . If you do n't get approved , it looks like you can have your parents to help you out ? Add yourself as an authorized user to a BofA card they own . I know BofA reports the authorized users on their cards . You can try a student credit union : I use <URL> . They rock . The fact that my professors also have accounts there and I often go in with them when I have a favor to ask from the CU might bias my feedback , so do your own research . You are a smart guy , put that brain to use :-D Best of luck !
I use <URL> . It 's a bit more like Quickbooks than plain Quicken , but it 's not all that complicated . Probably the most difficult part is understanding the idea of income accounts . Benefits : freely available on Windows , OSX and Linux open source online transaction pull from supported banks / other institutions , with bayesian transaction matching to eliminate duplicates supports multiple currencies , and most any ticker symbol you can imagine scheduled transactions can help you plan expenses and income before they occur the file format is either xml , sqlite or SQL database ( mysql , postgres ) , so the programmatically inclined can a budget sheet and historical estimator ( But really i just prefer scheduled transactions and a spreadsheet ) For short term planning , I use scheduled transactions . If I 'm spending more than I have , it 'll show up here . Every paycheck and dollar spent or invested is recorded with the exact date I anticipate it will happen , 30 days in advance . If that would overdraw my checking account , the Future Minimum Balance field will go negative and red . This lets me move float to higher interest savings and retirement funds , and avoids overdraft fees or other mishaps . By looking 30 days ahead in detail , I have enough time to transfer from illiquid assets . For longer term planning , I keep a spreadsheet around that plans out annual expenses . If I 'm spending more than I earn , it shows up here . I estimate everything : expenses , savings , taxes , and income . I need this because I have a lot of expenses that are far less frequent than monthly or paycheck-ly . The beauty of it is that once I 've got it in place , I can duplicate the sheet and consider tweaks for say taking a new job or moving , or even just changing an insurance plan ( probably less relevant for those with access to NHS ) . Especially when moving to take a new job , it 's not as straightforward as comparing salaries , and thus having a document for the status quo to start from lets you focus on the parts that changed .
It 's not entirely clear what you 're asking ... If you 're talking about an Excel Formula for getting both of those , then : = PV ( Rate , NPER , PMT , Future Value ) = PMT ( Rate , NPER , Present Value , Future Value ) For the lump sum investment , you would put the final value you need in as " present value " , and the Payment would = 0 . For the Monthly Investment ( with no up-front lump sum ) , you would put the monthly investment as the payment , and 0 for the Present Value . The Future Value is still the same . If you 're interested in doing the math , the formula for a Future Value of a Lump Sum is : The formula to calculate the monthly payments to achieve a Future Value is commonly called a " Sinking Fund Payment " : r = interest rate for the period , n = the number of periods . Make sure that the interest rate matches the investment 's compounding frequency . If you are calculating the value of an upfront investment and additional monthly investments , you have to do the calculations as two separate problems . You can do the algebra to reverse the lump sum formula around for Present Value fairly easily , or you can find the answer on Wikipedia . <URL> &amp; <URL>
It 's a good idea to have some emergency money so I would propose a plan that keeps some in your savings : Pay off the ones with 2 % in full . Take your time with the one that is at 0 % . You are n't losing any money on it . If the 0 % goes away , then consider paying it off , but by that time hopefully you have built up your savings a bit more . Also consider the ability to move the balance from the 2 % cards to the 0 % one , if that is possible .
The Roth IRA is worth it . My initial reaction - there are no " fees and stuff " and your colleagues do n't know what they are talking about . That said it depends on your IRA provider . You will setup the Roth IRA with a bank , credit union or brokerage . If they charge something , go elsewhere - another bank , Vanguard , etc. . Remember an IRA is different from a 401k . An IRA is also just a label , not an account . The vehicle/account/place you put your money can be a CD , money market account or mutual fund . You could put $ 1000 into an IRA CD and $ 1000 into an IRA mutual fund . Next year you can do something different with a different bank . You could hold those two accounts with two different banks even . There is a lot of flexibility and it 's all your own choice . The amount you are legally <URL> to put into an IRA ( Traditional and/or Roth ) is capped each year by whichever is lower : $ 5000 ( though the amount may increase in future years ) Amount you earn ( taxable income ) So if you only earn $ 4000 after taxes in a year , then you can only put $ 4000 max into a Roth IRA . I 've mentioned two different types of IRA ; if that is confusing and you do n't feel like researching/reading further then just choose a Roth IRA . Congrats on saving early !
Based on <URL> it looks like you can claim these expenses as deductions , but you only get to claim any amount of Unreimbursed Employee Expenses that exceeds 2 % of your adjusted gross income ( Form 1040-line 38 ) . So unless you are spending a LOT of money on software or have other expenses of this type , it probably wo n't be worth it . Unreimbursed Employee Expenses Generally , the following expenses are deducted on Schedule A ( Form 1040 ) , line 21 , or Schedule A ( Form 1040NR ) , line 7 . You can deduct only unreimbursed employee expenses that are : Paid or incurred during your tax year , For carrying on your trade or business of being an employee , and Ordinary and necessary . An expense is ordinary if it is common and accepted in your trade , business , or profession . An expense is necessary if it is appropriate and helpful to your business . An expense does not have to be required to be considered necessary . You may be able to deduct the following items as unreimbursed employee expenses . Depreciation on a computer your employer requires you to use in your work . Subscriptions to professional journals and trade magazines related to your work . Tools and supplies used in your work . Work-related education . Note : I truncated this list to items most likely to be relevant to a programmer working for an employer . Follow the link above to see the fulllist .
" myRA " is a name for a proposal Obama made to make IRA more accessible to people who are employed but do n't have access to the traditional employer-sponsored retirement plans . However , other than making IRA more accessible - there 's nothing in that plan that does n't exist already . You can open IRA yourself and deposit money there yourself . The only thing " myRA " proposal adds is an ability to deduct money automatically from your paycheck and deposit it into your IRA without you doing it manually . Bottom line - it is just a proposal , not an existing program , that makes things you 're already doing easier for people who are not doing it yet .
Depending on your platform and country , there are alternatives to Quicken . Most banks will say " we only support Quicken " to lessen their technical support burden , but under the covers they mostly use a standard protocol , OFX . That means any software package which supports OFX should work . On the Mac platform , <URL> is one example .
TL ; DR summary : 0 % balance transfer offers and " free checks usable anywhere " rarely are a good deal for the customer . 0 % rate balance transfer offers ( and the checks usable anywhere including payment of taxes ) come with a transaction fee because the credit card company is paying off the balance on the other card ( or the tax or the electric bill ) in the full amount of $ X as stated on the other card statement or on the tax/electric bill ) . This is in contrast to a purchase transaction where if you buy something for $ X , you pay the card company $ X but the card company pays the merchant something less than $ X$ . ( Of course , the merchant has jacked up the sale price of the item to pass on the charge to you . ) Can you get the credit card company to waive the transaction fee ? You can try asking them but it is unlikely that you will succeed if your credit score is good ! I have seen balance transfer offers with no transaction fees made to people who have do n't have good credit scores and are used to carrying a balance on their credit cards . I assume that the company making the offer knows that it will make up the transaction fee from future interest payments . A few other points to keep in mind with respect to using a 0 % balance transfer offer to pay off a student loan ( or anything else for that matter ) : The unpaid part of the 0 % rate balance becomes subject to an interest rate that might be higher than the regular interest rate once the 0 % period expires . So , do n't pay off more of the student loan than you could have managed to pay directly over the 0 % rate period or you will be in a bigger hole when the 0 % rate period expires . After you accept a 0 % offer , your card 's status changes to " Did n't pay off last month 's statement due in full by the due date " and so interest is charged on new purchases from the date of purchase , that is , there is no " grace period " of 25 days to pay off the credit card without having to pay interest . The only way to avoid interest charges on purchases is to pay off in timely fashion the entire balance ( including the 0 % rate balance ) shown on the first monthly statement that you receive after acceptance of the offer ( balance transfer or check usage ) . So , at best , the transaction fee will be prepaid interest for a period of 55 days or so , making the APR much more than stated in Dheer 's answer . Of course , if you have a zero balance on the card , and can put away your credit card and not use it at all during the 0 % interest rate period , you can make this work in your favor . ( There is an answer somewhere on money.SE by Moderator @JoeTaxpayer that describes how he paid off a huge chunk of his mortgage via a 0 % rate loan , but very few of us can match his savvy or his iron discipline ) . If you are used to interest being charged from Day One of each purchase and rarely pay off the monthly statement in full , then be aware that if only the minimum payment due is made , that amount will be applied to the 0 % balance . Meanwhile , all your purchases and finance charges on them will continue to accrue unpaid . The CARD Act of 2009 mandates that the part of the payment that exceeds the minimum required payment must be applied to the part of the balance that has the highest interest rate . But , the minimum payment due ( or any lesser amount ) can be applied to whichever part of the balance the credit card company chooses , and they invariably choose to apply it to the lowest interest rate balance .
This functionality is widely available , not only on brokerage sites , but also financial management and even financial information sites . For instance , two of the latter are Google Finance and Yahoo Finance . If you are logged in , they let you create " portfolios " listing your stocks and , optionally , the size of your holdings in that stock ( which you do n't need if you are just " watching " a stock ) . Then you can visit the site at any time and see the current valuations .
Since its not a rebate ( i.e. : reimbursement of money you paid to them ) , it is a taxable income . It is essentially a sign-up bonus , they have no obligation to reimburse you for anything by law . This is usually reported as interest income or MISC income on 1099 ( if its MISC - be careful to mark it properly if you prepare your own taxes , otherwise it may be added to your self-employment income ) . The $ 50 you paid as the transfer fee can be deducted as <URL> , subject to the 2 % AGI threshold .
For whatever reason , that card issuer is n't reporting the card or reporting it correctly . Yes , a BOA Visa is a major credit card .
The math is pretty easy . Closing costs are nearly identical , noise . Take the lower rate , and just keep up the prepayments . Unless you got rates flipped , but either way , the term here is irrelevant , you want the lower rate , period . Edit - 5.125 % $ 132K PMT of $ 1020 , leads to a remaining time of 15yrs , 9 mo. . Please confirm your current numbers are correct . One caution - looking at your numbers , $ 1020 payment now , 15 yr payment $ 981 , you might be tempted to see a $ 39 difference and calculate a near 24 month break even . Which of course is nonsense . If you went out to 30 years and saw a payment closer to $ 630 , almost $ 400/mo less , a 2 mo breakeven is the same nonsense . Principal payments do n't count , your cost of money is the interest you pay . On $ 132K , 1.125 % ( savings ) is $ 1485 . Your breakeven is about 8 months , even if the term were 10 years and the payment far higher than what you pay now . Other discussions of breakeven focus on cash flow , but you 've made it clear that 's not your concern , nor should it be if you can pay $ 1000/mo extra principal .
You should call Citi and ask them if they even reported you to the agencies . Agencies wo n't create a report if no-one put anything on it . Once the data starts accumulating , it will take several months till the agencies will score you ( that 's what the " 6-months rule " refers to ) .
Most participants will win nothing , so your expected winnings are almost zero . You could donate the equipment to a local high school or college . It would wipe out all the income , and you would end up getting nothing , but you would owe no taxes . It would be easy to do , and you would end up with a nice thank you letter from the school , and maybe your name on a plaque on a wall .
Yes you can deposit money into your credit card . When you make a repayment of your credit card bill you are making a deposit into it and it will show up as a credit on your statement . If you get a refund for an item you returned this will also be listed as a credit on your statement .
I 'm assuming that compound interest is paid monthly . In that case , the interest rate is ~ 0.9162 % per month ( i.e. an APR of 11.57 % ) . The following formula is the one you are interested in : sum _ { y = 0 } ^ 9 ( sum _ { m = 0 } ^ 11 ( 500 +50 * y ) * ( 1 + T ) ^ ( 120-12 * y-m ) ) = 149028 I did n't attempt to solve this , but instead used trial and error . The value T = 0.0091624 works nicely ; you can verify this in <URL> . Getting at APR/EAR is simply ( 1 + T ) ^ 12 - 1 .
end question
start question
Is business the only way to become a millionaire ?
Not at all . <URL> offers a book full of anecdotes on couples that earned money and saved their way to being millionaires . I believe about 1/3 or so had businesses , but the rest were employed and simply saved wisely . $ 3860/yr saved for 40 years at 8 % will return $ 1M . Adjust the numbers to hit a million sooner or reach a higher goal . The Author might be accused of survey bias . This is the phenomenon of studying the final results without looking at the pool of people years prior . Little Adv ' is correct that while 1/3 of millionaires may have gotten that way by starting a business , that says nothing about how many businesses need to start to find the one millionaire that resulted . I view the book more as a lesson of " spend beneath your means " and focus on his anecdotes of the dual income couples who saved their way to this status . If you are in no rush , get this book from your library and spend the few hours to read it . In response to my Friend Dilip 's comment , <URL> offers a good look at compound growth ( for the S&amp;P ) over time . The 40 years ending 2012 , which obviously include the ' lost decade , ' returned a CAGR of 9.78 % . Not to be confused with the average 11.43 % . When I pull the numbers for each year 's return and apply an annual $ 3860 deposit , the 40 years ends with $ 2.2 M . A 1 % fee , or 1 % lower return resulted in $ 1.6 M . If 8 % is n't conservative , of course you can run the numbers you wish . The 40 years contained both a lost decade and two great ones . Will the 3 decades post-lost average to get the Quad-Decade period to 8 % + ? I do n't know .
Not at all . <URL> offers a book full of anecdotes on couples that earned money and saved their way to being millionaires . I believe about 1/3 or so had businesses , but the rest were employed and simply saved wisely . $ 3860/yr saved for 40 years at 8 % will return $ 1M . Adjust the numbers to hit a million sooner or reach a higher goal . The Author might be accused of survey bias . This is the phenomenon of studying the final results without looking at the pool of people years prior . Little Adv ' is correct that while 1/3 of millionaires may have gotten that way by starting a business , that says nothing about how many businesses need to start to find the one millionaire that resulted . I view the book more as a lesson of " spend beneath your means " and focus on his anecdotes of the dual income couples who saved their way to this status . If you are in no rush , get this book from your library and spend the few hours to read it . In response to my Friend Dilip 's comment , <URL> offers a good look at compound growth ( for the S&amp;P ) over time . The 40 years ending 2012 , which obviously include the ' lost decade , ' returned a CAGR of 9.78 % . Not to be confused with the average 11.43 % . When I pull the numbers for each year 's return and apply an annual $ 3860 deposit , the 40 years ends with $ 2.2 M . A 1 % fee , or 1 % lower return resulted in $ 1.6 M . If 8 % is n't conservative , of course you can run the numbers you wish . The 40 years contained both a lost decade and two great ones . Will the 3 decades post-lost average to get the Quad-Decade period to 8 % + ? I do n't know .
( Assuming you are in the USA ) If your money is not in a qualified ( eg retirement ) account , any distribution from the fund is going to be taxable to you , either as regular income or capital gain . Reinvesting the dividend does not change that . ( Municipal bond funds may or may not be taxable , depending on where you live . ) Most funds will use cash-on-hand coming from interest payments and capital gains ( if they actively manage their portfolio ) to reinvest , but in the USA funds must distribute a certain percentage of the interest/gains they recieve from the holdings or else they have tax implications that will affect expenses and NAV .
The satisfaction from gains packs less of an emotional impact than the fear of loss . It 's very difficult for many people to overcome this fear , so when prices begin to fall , many investors sell to minimize their potential loss . This causes a further drop , which can lead to more selling as other investors reach their emotional threshold for loss . This emotion-based selling keeps the market inefficient in the short term . If there are n't enough value investors waiting to scoop up the stock at the new discount , it can stay undervalued for a long time .
First you must understand your <URL> ( Tax Bracket ) The exemptions you claim are like saying to your employer " tax me on $ 4050 less , or more " for each change up or down of 1 exemption . Say you look at the table ( <URL> ) and see you are in the 15 % bracket . And your refund is $ 2000 . 2000 / .15 is $ 13,333 . So you want that $ 13K to not be taxed . Raising exemptions by 3 ( 3x4050 = 12,150 ) will get you close . $ 1822 closer to your goal . For what it 's worth , you can read through the instructions for the W4 , of course . But this answer skips through the details and gets you to your goal . One point to note , since the exemption is in whole numbers , and $ 4050 is it , you will get close , + / - $ 608 if in the 15 % bracket , but to get dead on , you 'd need a mid year adjustment . Not worth it . A refund of under $ 608 should be enough for a 15 % er . ( $ 1012 for a 25 % er ) If you ready want to nail the taxes to a closer accuracy , you can use the line requesting additional dollars be withheld . <URL> Most W4 discussions miss this point . The exact number withheld by your employer comes from an IRS document known as Circular E , but retrieved as <URL> . It will help you confirm the validity of my dirty shortcut method . What I do recommend is that you use a quick online tax calculator to do a dry run of you return , early in the year . If you see your withholding is off in either direction , best to adjust as soon as possible . ( The numbers here now reflect 2016 's $ 4050 exemption , recent question on Money.SE have linked to this one , prompting me to update for 2016 )
Check this list : <URL> . TASE is denominated in NIS , and most , if not all , companies that are traded there are tied to Israel and its currency . You can try going with the global companies ( TEVA , NICE etc ) which although are traded on TASE and are Israeli , have large global presence and are not dependent on Israeli market or currency ( of course they are , but not tightly ) . In Israel there 's tons of various mutual funds that you can invest through without hassle , and save yourself the dealing with foreign exchanges by paying the slightly higher management fees and getting slightly lower income and lack of flexibility and control . Or you can convert a large sum of NIS to USD ( through an investment house it will be much cheaper than through a bank , I 'm talking about commissions of $ 25-45 including the SWIFT fees here ) , and open an investment account in a US firm ( or Israeli investment house that allows trading abroad ) . That is actually pretty simple and straight forward . Oh , and bottom line - do n't do your investments in a bank . Not in Israel , and not everywhere else . Banks are not for investments , banks are for dealing with cash and short term savings .
Withdrawals from 401k and ( non-Roth ) IRA accounts , assuming all contributions were pre-tax as is probably typical , are taxed as ordinary income . This includes money from all sources : contributions , interest , capital gains , etc. . This means that Treasury bonds have no tax advantage over any other investment when they are held within a 401k or IRA . Since Treasury bonds pay lower interest rates than other bonds and in these accounts are taxed the same way , they are usually considered inappropriate for 401k 's and IRA ( for other than " safety " concerns ) .
You only pay tax on the capital gain of the bond , not the principal , unless the source of the money for the principal was gain from another investment , if that makes sense . In other words , if you bought the bond with income earned from your job , that money was already taxed as income , so it is n't subject to taxation again when you redeem the bond . On the other hand , if you cashed out of one investment and used those proceeds to buy a bond , then the entire amount might be taxable .
Not really . You can promise , but that would not prevent you from actually doing it . The seller can then claim " he promised " to PayPal , but PayPal usually do n't care about seller claims , and I assume Google would n't either . These companies only care about their bottom line , and do not take any risks , so in case of chargebacks - sellers are usually screwed . The seller can sue you in court , though , as your promise is in fact a contract , but if you 're in a different country it may be a hard thing to do . That is why many sellers do not ship internationally on eBay , for example . An irreversible payment option would be a wire transfer through your bank or companies like Western Union or MoneyGram . It is more expensive , true . But you do get something in return , as you can see .
Yes , if it 's an American style option . American style options may be exercised at any time prior to expiration ( even if they 're not in-the-money ) . Generally , you are required to deliver or accept delivery of the underlying by the beginning of the next trading day . If you are short , you may be chosen by the clearinghouse to fulfill the exercise ( a process called " assignment " ) . Because the clearinghouse is the counter-party to every options trade , you can be assigned even if the specific person who purchased the option you wrote did n't exercise , but someone else who holds a long position did . Similarly , you might not be assigned if that person did exercise . The clearinghouse randomly chooses a brokerage to fulfill an assignment , and the brokerage will randomly choose an individual account . If you 're going to be writing options , especially using spreads , you need to have a plan ahead of time on what to do if one of your legs gets assigned . This is more likely to happen just before a dividend payment , if the payment is more than the remaining time value .
I think much of that info is hidden behind pay-walls . Here is one site I 've found . <URL> Another that is for non-profits only is guidestar . <URL>
It 's definitely annoying , but it 's not necessarily false advertising . There is no rule or law that says they have to fix a pricing error at all , let alone within a certain period of time . Unfortunately they have no obligation to do business with you unless they take ( and keep ) your money . If they canceled the order and returned your money you have no binding agreement with them . On top of that , in the US ... ' misleading advertising ' usually refers to " Any advertising or promotion that misrepresents the nature , characteristics , qualities or geographic origin of goods , services or commercial activities " ( Lanham Act , 15 U.S.C.A. § 1125 ( a ) ) . The main criteria that they evaluate before taking legal action is whether or not someone has suffered harm or loss due to the reliance on the bad information . But you 're in Europe . The EU ideas behind misleading advertising tend to focus a lot more on comparing one product to someone else 's and making subjective claims or false promises . Pricing does come up , but still , you need to have an ability to prove that you suffered harm or a loss from the business ' actions . Even if you were able to prove that , to force the business to change its price catalog , you would need to go through legal proceedings , demonstrate the harm that you 've sustained , and then have a judge decide in your favor and order the supplier to comply . My guess is that it 's just not worth it for you , but you have n't specified if this is just an annoying shoe-shopping experience or if you are regularly experiencing bait-and-switch tactics from a supplier that is a crucial part of a business operation . If it 's the former , just like a physical shop reserves the right to kick you out if you 're not behaving , ( but usually does n't because they 'd like to keep you as a customer ) , an online shop can update its prices whenever they like . They can change their prices too , and cancel orders . If it 's the latter , then start putting together some documentation on how many times this has happened and how it has damaged your business . But before you get on the warpath I would recommend you look for another place to buy whatever you have in mind , or else try a pound of sugar in your approach to this supplier ... My own business experience has shown that can go a lot way in figuring out a mutually beneficial resolution . If you want to see a bit more ... <URL> <URL> that spells out what is explicitly not allowed from a business by way of advertising &amp; business practices .
This is going to vary very much between different countries based on their local regulations . It 's certainly possible to open a bank account remotely , but you ca n't just open any old account . In almost all cases the bank will require you to appear in person , and even then many countries restrict accounts to local residents of that country only . To open an account remotely , you are best placed to look for an " offshore " account . These are frequently used by expatriates who require a bank account in their home country after moving abroad and can no longer hold a " normal " account ( or do n't want to for tax reasons ) . Most of the time they will offer a range of currencies ( GBP/EUR/USD being common ) and you can hold multiple currencies if needed . Offshore accounts are often based in unique geographical destinations ( e.g. in Europe there are many offshore banks based in the Isle of Man , Jersey , Guernsey ) . A lot of these banks do accept remote applications to open an account , but the process takes some time and requires a lot of paperwork to be sent back and forth . Regarding the minimum balance though , you 'll find this is common . Offshore banks cost more money to run and a minimum balance of US$ 5000 is very normal . If you search around enough there are some with lower balance requirements , but your choices will be limited . Wire transfers are certainly possible , but normally have to be via SWIFT ( read : high transaction fees ) . If this is too expensive for your purposes , your only other option is to take a trip to the country in question and go to a branch in person to open a " normal " account . Make sure you check that the banking rules of that country allow non-residents to open accounts before you travel though !
My current favorite service for this kind of transfer is <URL> . The fees are quite low when compared to the 2.5-3 % by high-street banks for currency conversion , to which you need to add the international wire transfer fee , and it 's often a lot faster , as they split it into two domestic transfers while the international part + currency conversion happens internally to Transferwise .
There is a service <URL> through which you can send money from UK banks to EUR bank accounts in the EU for a 1 GBP fee ( much cheaper then about 25 GBP for a SWIFT transfer ) . You send them a UK national GBP transfer to their UK HSBC account , and they send the equivalent amount in EUR from their Irish EUR bank account to your EUR account - for example in Germany . What is best , is that they use bare mid-market ForEx exchange rates , without any markup on the GBP to EUR exchange rate , which is usually in the range of 2 % to 5 % in banks , so you do n't lose anything on the exchange rate .
There is no proper way , but I think you have decide before you even try what the minimum you will accept for the job and be ready to decline the offer if you do n't get it . Further , do n't just go into the conversation with the attitude " I want more money , give it to me . " Be ready to restate your qualifications and the value they will provide to the organization . You have to justify why you are worth more than they are offering . For example : " As we discussed in the interview , I raised sales by $ 100K in my last firm in the first year . With that in mind , an additional $ 10K in your offer seems very reasonable , what do you think ? " As someone who has been on the employer side of this conversation , I can say that one of the most annoying things you can do , and I see it a lot , is ask me whether my number is negotiable . Of course it is , but depending on what else I have lined up and how badly I want to hire you , it might not be for you . It is just a silly question and makes you come off as a weak negotiator that can easily be taken advantage of . I usually just say " no " when people ask this . It 's not like I ca n't back off on this position later on if they actually do try to walk away from the deal . Best advice , come up with a good justification/story about why you are worth more , and ask for a specific number . Update : As requested in the comments , here is a generic <URL> to negotiating successfully . Here 's one specifically <URL> .
You should see " Restaurant Impossible " on TV , shows exactly how you 'll end up if you take this direction . Bottom line - yes , it is usually bad . There 's a race condition there in the hiding : you either learn the ropes as you go , or you run out of money and go bankrupt , whichever comes first . My personal experience shows that things that seem simple from the outside may become very very complex once you 're actually inside . As an engineer I know perfectly well that the devil is in the details . As an investor I know not to step into something I do n't know how to step out of . If someone sells something - you should give a thought as to why they 're selling . Is the restaurant making money ? What 's the cashflow ? Are there underlying issues ? What are the development plans in the neighborhood for the foreseeable future ? What 's the clientele , and what are the trends ? What 's with the competition ? Can you answer these questions ? If not - you 're not in a position to enter the business .
I contacted the three credit bureaus , and they directed me to <URL> , which led me to the FTC . If you suspect your identity is stolen , you should follow this process to authenticate yourself to the credit bureau : File a <URL> with the FTC . You can do this by filling out an online form or calling them . Once you complete this , you 'll receive an FTC Identity Theft Affidavit . File a police report . Bring this affidavit to your local police department , along with any other proof of the theft , a government photo ID , proof of your address , and the <URL> . To prove your address , you need at least two documents bearing your current address that are dated within the last two months . If the police department wo n't accept identity theft reports , either file a miscellaneous report or contact a different police department , sheriff , state police , or federal authorities . Unfortunately , the last step is somewhat vague . The FTC Identity Theft Affidavit and a copy of the completed police report form your " identity theft report " . Transunion said that in the event of fraud , the identity theft report , your Social Security number , and " proof of address or identity as needed " are all that 's necessary to authenticate yourself . They were n't clear on what other personal information they need and would n't specify unless I filed a fraud complaint ; Equifax gave me a similar response . Experian did n't offer specifics unless I opened a fraud complaint . In short , I think your best bet is to create an identity theft report through the FTC and your local police station and use that information to work with the credit agencies . Side note : If identity theft is a concern for you ( when is it not ? ) , consider placing a <URL> on your credit report with each of the credit bureaus . This allows you to control how these agencies sell and/or offer your data to third parties . Unless you lift the freeze , a third party ( landlord , collection agency , etc. ) should n't be able to request your credit history . You 'll need to place a freeze with <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> separately , however . Remember that there is usually a fee to place , temporarily lift , or permanently remove a credit freeze , but some jurisdictions allow you to waive this fee is you 're a documented victim of identity theft .
Technically filing fee is probably a " <URL> " , but yes - its a kind of an expense . The yearly recurring fee is an expense .
Quite a few stock broker in India offer to trade in US markets via tie-up brokers in US . As an Indian citizen , there are limits as to how much FX you can buy , generally very large , should be an issue . The profits will be taxed in US as well as India [ you can claim relief under DTAA ]
end question
start question
Can damaged gold bullion be sold at a bank ?
There are bullion dealers who will buy gold no matter its form . You wo n't get the spot price as it 's probably being bought same as junk jewelry or any other gold needing to be melted and recast . If this is your concern , you should buy a fireproof safe , the kind people use to store their important documents , and add the gold value to home insurance policy . Do not get a safe deposit box at the bank , see mbhunter 's comment and link .
Gold 's value starts with the fact that its supply is steady and by nature it 's durable . In other words , the amount of gold traded each year ( The <URL> ) is small relative to the existing total stock . This acting as a bit of a throttle on its value , as does the high cost of mining . Mines will have yields that control whether it 's profitable to run them . A mine may have a $ 600/oz production cost , in which case it 's clear they should run full speed now with gold at $ 1200 , but if it were below $ 650 or so , it may not be worth it . It also has a history that goes back millennia , it 's valued because it always was . John Maynard Keynes referred to gold as an archaic relic and I tend to agree . You are right , the topic is controversial . For short periods , gold will provide a decent hedge , but no better than other financial instruments . We are now in an odd time , where the stock market is generally flat to where it was 10 years ago , and both cash or most commodities were a better choice . Look at sufficiently long periods of time , and gold fails . In my history , I graduated college in 1984 , and in the summer of 82 played in the commodities market . Gold peaked at $ 850 or so . Now it 's $ 1200 . 50 % over 30 years is hardly a storehouse of value now , is it ? Yet , I recall Aug 25 , 1987 when the Dow peaked at 2750 . No , I did n't call the top . But I did talk to a friend advising that I ignore the short term , at 25 with little invested , I only concerned myself with long term plans . The Dow crashed from there , but even today just over 18,000 the return has averaged 7.07 % plus dividends . A lengthy tangent , but important to understand . A gold fan will be able to produce his own observation , citing that some percent of one 's holding in gold , adjusted to maintain a balanced allocation would create more positive returns than I claim . For a large enough portfolio that 's otherwise well diversified , this may be true , just not something I choose to invest in . Last - if you wish to buy gold , avoid the hard metal . GLD trades as 1/10 oz of gold and has a tiny commission as it trades like a stock . The buy/sell on a 1oz gold piece will cost you 4-6 % . That 's no way to invest . Update - 29 years after that lunch in 1987 , the Dow was at 18448 , a return of 6.78 % CAGR plus dividends . Another 6 years since this question was asked and Gold has n't moved , $ 1175 , and 6 years ' worth of fees , 2.4 % if you buy the GLD ETF . From the '82 high of $ 850 to now ( 34 years ) , the return has a CAGR of .96 % / yr or .56 % after fees . To be fair , I picked a relative high , that $ 850 . But I did the same choosing the pre-crash 2750 high on the Dow .
The answer is in <URL> on page 17 On IRS Form 8606 you may enter the non deductible amount on line 1 of the form . The <URL> for <URL> state on page 5 : Taking the deduction is optional if you qualify for the deduction .
<URL> FDIC currently insures up to $ 250,000 . ( I would have put that as a comment to Jeffery but it says it was locked . ) You do n't want to put all your eggs in one basket . If you shop around , and keep shopping all the time you can keep your accounts in a single place so long as that single place provides the best deal . Do n't have any loyalty to your banking institutions because they do n't have any loyalty to you . Also , having lots of accounts means you are familiar with lots of institutions , so you are likely better at shopping around . Things I consider . For fewer institutions : Best rates Package deals , getting bigger discounts Better negotiation because you have much business with that bank Ease of managing accounts and summary statements Fewer phone calls to make in the case of emergencies For more institutions : Less people know my full financial history Less danger if any single bank is compromised I can play banks offers off of each other ( price matching or beating by 5 % ) More and varied accounts helps with credit score ( I think )
The options for setting up a single member SMSF are to have one of the following trustee structures : a corporate trustee with the member as the sole director of the corporate . a corporate trustee with the member being one of only two directors of the corporate , where the member is not an employee of the other director unless they are related . two individual trustees , provided the member is one of the trustees and is not an employee of the other trustee unless they are related .
if you bought gold in late ' 79 , it would have taken 30 years to break even . Of all this time it was two brief periods the returns were great , but long term , not so much . Look at the ETF GLD if you wish to buy gold , and avoid most of the buy/sell spread issues . Edit - I suggest looking at <URL> and decide whether long term gold actually makes sense for you as an investor . It 's sold with the same enthusiasm as snake oil was in the 1800 's , and the suggestion that it 's a storehouse of value seems nonsensical to me .
For small amounts I would n't be too concerned . There are two factors I can think of : The bank going out of business e.g. due to a run on the bank . In most places there is government insurance to cover these situations . In Australia it appears that up to $ 250k per customer per bank is <URL> . Loss of your money due to fraud/illegal access to your funds . Typically banks would be responsible for that kind of loss since it is their responsiblity to prevent unauthorized access to your funds . Check terms of service , contract and local laws to be sure . For relatively small amounts and when dealing with reputable banking institutions there should be little concern of banking with a single bank . It 's what most people do .
The <URL> looked at ' safe ' withdrawal rates from retirement portfolios . They found it was safe to withdraw 4 % of a portfolio consisting of stocks and bonds . I can not immediately find exactly what specific investment allocations they used , but note that they found a portfolio consisting largely of stocks would allow for the withdrawal of 3 % - 4 % and still keep up with inflation . In this case , if you are able to fund $ 30,000 , the study claims it would be safe to withdraw $ 900 - $ 1200 a year ( that is , pay out as scholarships ) while allowing the scholarship to grow sufficiently to cover inflation , and that this should work in perpetuity . My guess is that they invest such scholarship funds in a fairly aggressive portfolio . Most likely , they choose something along these lines : 70 - 80 % stocks and 20 - 30 % bonds . This is probably more risky than you 'd want to take , but should give higher returns than a more conservative portfolio of perhaps 50 - 60 % stocks , 40 - 50 % bonds , over the long term . Just a regular , interest-bearing savings account is n't going to be enough . They almost never even keep up with inflation . Yes , if the stock market or the bond market takes a hit , the investment will suffer . But over the long term , it should more than recover the lost capital . Such scholarships care far more about the very long term and can weather a few years of bad returns . This is roughly similar to retirement planning . If you expect to be retired for , say , 10 years , you wo n't worry too much about pulling out your retirement funds . But it 's quite possible to retire early ( say , at 40 ) and plan for an infinite retirement . You just need a lot more money to do so . $ 3 million , invested appropriately , should allow you to pull out approximately $ 90,000 a year ( adjusted upward for inflation ) forever . I leave the specifics of how to come up with $ 3 million as an exercise for the reader . :) As an aside , there 's a Memorial and Traffic Safety Fund which ( kindly and gently ) solicited a $ 10,000 donation after my wife was killed in a motor vehicle accident . That would have provided annual donations in her name , in perpetuity . This shows you do n't need $ 30,000 to set up a scholarship or a fund . I chose to go another way , but it was an option I seriously considered . Edit : The Trinity study actually only looked at a 30 year withdrawal period . So long as the investment was n't exhausted within 30 years , it was considered a success . The Trinity study has also been criticised when it comes to retirement . Nevertheless , there 's some withdrawal rate at which point your investment is expected to last forever . It just may be slightly smaller than 3-4 % per year .
You are not wrong . This is called the " Broken Window " fallacy in economics . Imagine if 20 % of a population was employed to go around breaking windows . This would stimulate the economy as many people would have to be employed to make new windows , repair the broken windows , etc. . The problem is that everyone would have been better off if they did n't have to spend their valuable resources on repairing a perfectly functioning window . Although many people will be employed to rebuild Japan , this does n't improve the standard of living for the folks in Japan .
I have always though that the <URL> organization has a lot of good information . Including one on the <URL>
( Disclaimer : I am not an accountant nor a tax pro , etc. , etc. ) Yes , a Canadian corporation can function as a partial income tax shelter . This is possible since a corporation can retain earnings ( profits ) indefinitely , and corporate income tax rates are generally less than personal income tax rates . Details : If you own and run your business through a corporation , you can choose to take income from your corporation in one of two ways : as salary , or as dividends . Salary constitutes an expense of the corporation , i.e. it gets deducted from revenue in calculating corporate taxable income . No corporate income tax is due on money paid out as salary . However , personal income taxes and other deductions ( e.g. CPP ) would apply to salary at regular rates , the same as for a regular employee . Dividends are paid by the corporation to shareholders out of after-tax profits . i.e. the corporation first pays income tax on taxable income for the fiscal year , and resulting net income could be used to pay dividends ( or not ) . At the personal level , dividends are taxed less than salary to account for tax the corporation paid . The net effect of corporate + personal tax is about the same as for salary ( leaving out deductions like CPP . ) The key point : Dividends do n't have to be paid out in the year the money was earned . The corporation can carry profits forward ( retained earnings ) as long as it wants and choose to issue dividends ( or not ) in later years . Given that , here 's how would the partial income tax shelter works : Earn revenue for your corporation , doing whatever real business it does . * ( see far below ) Do not pay out all corporate revenue as salary . Leave all or most in the company . Revenue remaining in the company at the end of the year is subject to corporate income tax , likely at the corporate <URL> . e.g. Ontario , 2010 : 15.5 % . This rate is significantly less than the top personal income tax rate . Do not pay out those retained earnings as dividends . Leave all or most in the company . The company would invest retained earnings to generate a return . Next year , the company will owe tax on income generated by the invested retained earnings . ( Note : The tax man will want to see most of the company 's income being <URL> -- perhaps not a problem if it continues doing real business as in step 1 . ) Repeat . At some point , for you to personally realize income from the corporation , you can have the corporation declare a dividend . You 'll then have to pay personal income taxes on the income , at the dividend rates . But for as long as the money was invested inside the corporation , it was subject only to lesser corporate tax rates , not higher personal income tax rates . Hence the " partial " aspect of this kind of tax shelter . Or , if you 're lucky enough to find a buyer for your corporation , you could qualify for the <URL> on proceeds up to $ 750,000 when you sell a qualified small business corporation . This is the best exit strategy ; unfortunately , not an easy one where the business has no valuable assets ( e.g. a client base , or intellectual property . ) * The major sticking-point : You need to have real business revenue ! A regular employee ( of another company ) ca n't funnel his personally-earned employment income into a corporation just to take advantage of this mechanism . Sorry . : - /
An Exchange-Traded Fund ( ETF ) is a special type of mutual fund that is traded on the stock exchange like a stock . To invest , you buy it through a stock broker , just as you would if you were buying an individual stock . When looking at a mutual fund based in the U.S. , the easiest way to tell whether or not it is an ETF is by looking at the ticker symbol . Traditional mutual funds have ticker symbols that end in " X " , and ETFs have ticker symbols that do not end in " X " . The <URL> , with ticker symbol JFAMX , is a traditional mutual fund , not an ETF . <URL> ; the <URL> , with ticker symbol JPEM , is an example . This ETF invests in similar stocks as JFAMX ; however , because it is an index-based fund instead of an actively managed fund , it has lower fees . If you are n't sure about the ticker symbol , the advertising/prospectus of any ETF should clearly state that it is an ETF . ( In the example of JPEM above , they put " ETF " right in the fund name . ) If you do n't see ETF mentioned , it is most likely a traditional mutual fund . Another way to tell is by looking at the " investment minimums " of the fund . <URL> of $ 1000 . ETFs , however , do not have an investment minimum listed ; because it is traded like a stock , you simply buy whole shares at whatever the current share price is . So if you look at the <URL> , you 'll see the fees listed , but not any investment minimums .
I frequently use the Bret Whissel 's <URL> . Fill in all fields except for one and click calculate . The calculator will figure out the value for the field that was left blank . For your example , you would be able to take out a mortgage of $ 178,155.99 ( $ 800/mo for 30 years at 3.5 % ) . You could buy a house for $ 222,695 with 20 % down ( $ 44,539 ) .
Coins are legal tender . They 're authorized by governments and have a face value . Rounds are simply coined pieces of metal minted by private manufacturers . They do not have any face value and are not legal tender . Rounds are used to own metal , they have no value other than the value of the metal in them . Any premium you pay over the price of the metal is the mint 's profit . Coins are also used as bulions ( i.e. : to own metal and create profits for the government ) , but many times coins have limited issue and become valuable because of the rarity , specific issues with a specific coin ( mistakes , impurities , exclusive designs ) , etc. . So they also may have some numismatic value ( depends on the specific coin ) . Coins also have the assurance of quality of the authorizing government ( and fakes are dealt with by the law as forgery of coins is illegal and is a crime ) , rounds however do not enjoy such protection , and any one can mint them ( only copyright/trademark protections apply , where the enforcement is by the owner and not the government ) . Re the advantages - coins ( if you pick the right ones ... ) appreciate much more than the metal . However , this is mostly in hindsight , and most of the " bulion " coins do not appreciate significantly beyond the price of the metal unless there 's something else significant about them ( first year of issue , high quality certification , etc ) . Rounds on the other hand are cheaper ( 1 oz round will be significantly cheaper than 1 oz coin ) , and monitor more closely the price of the metal . It is unlikely for rounds to significantly deviate from the spot price ( although this does happen occasionally , for specific designs or if a mint goes out of business ) .
When you submit for reimbursement , the cash you get should be FIFO ( first in , first out ) and a large bill should empty out 2011 first , automatically tapping 12 for remaining amount owed . I doubt you need to do anything .
I think most financial planners or advisors would allocate zero to a gold-only fund . That 's probably the mainstream view . Metals investments have a lot of issues , more elaboration here : <URL> Also consider that metals ( and commodities , despite a recent drop ) are on a big run-up and lots of random people are saying they 're the thing to get in on . Usually this is a sign that you might want to wait a bit or at least buy gradually . The more mainstream way to go might be a commodities fund or all-asset fund . Some funds you could look at ( just examples , not recommendations ) might include several PIMCO funds including their commodity real return and all-asset ; Hussman Strategic Total Return ; diversified commodities index ETFs ; stuff like that has a lot of the theoretical benefits of gold but is n't as dependent on gold specifically . Another idea for you might be international bonds ( or stocks ) , if you feel US currency in particular is at risk . Oh , and REITs often come up as an inflation-resistant asset class . I personally use diversified funds rather than gold specifically , fwiw , mostly for the same reason I 'd buy a fund instead of individual stocks . 10 % - ish is probably about right to put into this kind of stuff , depending on your overall portfolio and goals . Pure commodities should probably be less than funds with some bonds , stocks , or REITs , because in principle commodities only track inflation over time , they do n't make money . The only way you make money on them is rebalancing out of them some when there 's a run up and back in when they 're down . So a portfolio with mostly commodities would suck long term . Some people feel gold 's virtue is tangibility rather than being a piece of paper , in an apocalypse-ish scenario , but if making that argument I think you need physical gold in your basement , not an ETF . Plus I 'd argue for guns , ammo , and food over gold in that scenario . :-)
In the first case , if you wish to own the stock , you just exercise the option , and buy it for the strike price . Else , you can sell the option just before expiration , it will be priced very close to its in-the-money value .
It is a good idea to keep the receipts . The reason being that the dispensation from the ATM and the debit to the account are async process . There are multiple handshakes during this process between the hardware of the ATM , the software controlling the ATM and the core banking software . like any software programming , there are chances of errors , ie amounts being debit wrong due to bugs , or duplicate of transactions being posted . Altough such errors would normally get caught during recon between the ATM software and the Core Banking postings , its advisable to keep the receipts and verify erroneous debits . In such cases , the receipts would provide additional information required by the Bank to rectify the errors promptly .
Gold is classified as a collectible so the gain rates are as follows : Held less than one year . The capital gain is taxed at ordinary income tax rate , ( up to 35 % ) . See <URL> . Held more than one year . The capital gain is also taxed at ordinary income rate , but with a cap of 28 % . In other words , if your marginal tax rate is 15 % , the gain is taxed at 15 % , not 28 % . If you 're rich and your marginal tax rate is 35 % , then you tax the gain at 28 % . See <URL> . So you 'd report a gain of $ 100 or $ 1,000 , depending on which coin you sold .
My French is very rusty and <URL> is in French only . But with my rusty French I could n't find any information that would suggest that they actually do refunds . From my experience ( with other countries , not France ) , once a private person pays the VAT/customs - they 're non-refundable ( unless you 're a tourist that is and can claim refund ) .
end question
start question
UK LLC dissolved but PAYE not closed - how to remedy ?
I called the help line . They instructed me to use their Basic PAYE Tools to do an earlier year update with ' Final submission because scheme ceased ' box ticked , roughly as per <URL> .
When you start preparing your 2016 tax return in early 2017 and realize that you are ineligible to contribute to a Roth IRA , you have the options of withdrawing your contribution as well as any earnings from that contribution from the Roth IRA . The earnings will count as income for 2017 since you will be making the withdrawal in 2017 . The original contribution , of course , continues to count as income for 2016 . recharacterizing your contribution as a contribution to your Traditional IRA . You need to contact your IRA custodian and tell them about it so that they can change the status of your account from Roth to Traditional IRA . Use the word recharacterization so that they will know exactly what you are talking about . If your income is very high , you might not be able to deduct the Traditional IRA contribution ( wholly , or in part ) on your 2016 tax return either , and if you are in that high-earner category , you should file Form 8606 with your tax return to tell the IRS that you have made a nondeductible contribution to your Traditional IRA . In later years , when you start taking distributions from your Traditional IRA , that nondeductible contribution will not be taxed upon withdrawal . If you do not file Form 8606 , you will owe taxes on that amount when it is withdrawn . doing nothing in which case you will get whacked with all kinds of penalties Note : if you recharacterize your Roth IRA contribution as a Traditional IRA contribution , then , depending on your Traditional IRA accounts , it might be advantageous to do a " back-door Roth IRA conversion " . There are multiple answers on this site that will tell you all about back-door Roth IRA conversion .
When I left the UK four years ago , free banking is still an option and I 'm pretty sure it still is . Therefore , you have chosen to have a bank account with a 5.00 / month charge . In return for this charge , you will be eligible to receive certain benefits . For example ; reduced borrowing costs , discounted mortgage rates , free overdraft on small amounts , " rewards " for paying household bills by direct debit , and things of this sort . Amongst these benefits may be preferential savings rates . However , from HMRC 's point of view it will be the extra perks you are paying for with your monthly charge . You have chosen to pay for the account and HMRC is not interested in how you choose to spend your money , only in the money you earn . While I agree with you that it does have an element of unfairness , the problem is how would you divide the cost amongst the various benefits .
That is correct , the SS cap is on total wages , not each wage . When you create an LLC ( as a disregarded entity ) , you do n't pay yourself with a W2 , all the LLC earnings are your earnings . So instead of Social Security deductions , you will be paying <URL> ( which totals to the same amount as you would be paying with W2 to yourself , just under different name ) . Note that S-Corp is a pass-through entity for Federal taxes , so there 's not much difference from LLC being taxed as LLC ( other than extra complexity , for S-Corp you need to file additional forms while LLC is completely invisible on your Federal taxes ) . It may be different on a state level , but probably not much as well . S-Corp existed when there were no LLC 's , but now I do n't see a reason to ever deal with S-Coprs unless you 're dealing with shareholders and shares . Something to take into the account : if you 're paying yourself with W2 - you 'll have to deduct the FICA taxes on all your earnings , and then get credit on your 1040 . With LLC - you wo n't have to pay and wait for refunds .
The difference is that the GI Bill is a VA program , and by statute , veteran 's benefits are not taxed . The SLR is an army program , so it 's treated like compensation .
The short answer is yes , losses get passed through to members . Limits/percentages do apply , primarily based on your share in the business . Check out the final post in this thread : <URL> It 's not a bad little summary of the profit/loss pass-through . Regarding your 60K/60K example : the amount of money you earn in your day job will impact how much loss you can claim . Unfortunately I ca n't find anything more recent at the IRS or business.gov , but see this from 2004 - 40K was the limit before the amount you could claim against started to be mitigated : <URL> HTH
What you should do is re-characterize contributions from being a Traditional IRA contributions to Roth IRA contributions . Call your broker that holds the account and ask how to do that . Note : re-characterize means you do n't move the money to Roth account , you retroactively say that it was a Roth account to begin with . By re-characterization you 're saying that your contribution , and all the earnings on it , are Roth from the start . This is different from moving ( rolling over ) , and moving is not advised if you have significant Rollover IRA sums . If your MAGI is over the limit for Roth IRA as well ( see <URL> ) then you keep it as non-deductible IRA contribution and report it on form 8606 . In this case your wife 's Roth IRA contribution should be recharacterized as traditional and reported as non-deductible on form 8606 as well .
Bank have their own Capital , Deposits from Depositors and lend money to Borrowers . In a liquidity problem , it is typically that either the Borrowers are taking time to repay [ they are not yet defaulters ] or there is more pressure on withdrawals from Depositors or there is a short term of mismatch between deposits and loans ... in all these valid scenarios FED does lend out the banks to met these short terms obligations . Banks fail when the losses are actually booked in comparison to the overall Capital or loss would materialize ... for example the Mortgage crisis in US meant that quite a few Banks the actual loss had materialized or would have any ways materialized . In such situations the short term leading does not help and they would burn it out anyways as the borrowers are not paying back any time soon ...
Under " Pension contributions deducted from your pay " you need to put in the # amount of the 5 % that you pay from your salary . If your gross salary is # 50k then you would put # 2500 in that field . Under " Pension contributions not paid from your salary " you need to put in any additional amounts that you have paid into any pensions , eg by sending in a cheque or making a Direct Debit or Standing Order . This may well be # 0 in your specific case . You do not need to enter the 10 % employer contribution anywhere .
Short answer : it 's complicated . The UK govt pages on foreign income are probably your best starting point : <URL> As you can see , it depends on your precise residence status here . ( There is a tax treaty between the UK and the US so you would n't be double taxed on the income either way . But there might still be reporting obligations ) .
There is nothing to pay on importing and exporting coins of dollar value not in excess of 10,000 dollars . You do n't even have to declare them . I just took the advice from @Chris W. Rea to speak to a customs professional . You only really get issues if your coming in from a country that is flagged , say such as Cuba .
No . Income inside an RRSP is sheltered from income tax until you withdraw it . That is , indeed , the major benefit of RRSPs . Note that you will eventually declare this as income . Consider the following case : - in 2015 , you make $ 1000 in income . - in 2015 , you contribute $ 100 to your RRSPs . You store this in an account that pays interest , rather than investing it in stocks , bonds , or mutual funds . - between 2015 and 2025 , your money makes an additional $ 100 in interest . - in 2025 , you are retired and pull out the entire amount in your RRSP , i.e. $ 200 . Now , between 2015 and 2025 , you did not declare the income from interest . You 'd have had to do this if the money was in a regular bank account ( instead of an RRSP or a TFSA ) . Indeed , your bank would have issued tax forms in that case . But you do n't report income sheltered in an RRSP . This is good , as it increases the power of compounding . In 2015 , you pay tax on only $ 900 rather than the full $ 1000 . In 2025 , you pull out the entire $ 200 . You report all $ 200 as income ( or , actually , as a withdrawal from your RRSP , but it 's the same thing ) . You pay tax on the initial $ 100 investment ( which you did not do in 2015 ) , and you also pay tax on the $ 100 that your investment has made ( and which you are now pulling out ) . The hope is that your income is now lower , as you are retired . So you 'll end up paying less income tax . Plus , your investment has had many years of opportunity to compound , tax-free . TL ; DNR : You do n't pay tax on , or report gains in , an RRSP account . The bank or investment house wo n't even issue tax forms , not until you withdraw the money .
I would pile up your extra cash to use when you wo n't be able to work as much . This will prevent you from adding debt during that time . Because you 'll need the money in the short term ( less than 5 years ) , your best place to put it is a savings account earning a dismal amount of interest .
Pro : - Faces less redemption pressure and hence the Fund Manager can focus more on long term gains rather than immediate gains . - Works well in emerging markets . - Less churn out in case the market falls sharply , there by making more money in long run . Cons : - No additional money to invest/take advantage of market situation . - Less liquid for investor as he is locked in for a period .
Had an accountant solve this and : For 2011 they counted the whole thing as my primary residence . For 2012 they counted any portion that was not for rent as my primary residence for the period it was not for rent .
It makes no difference ( to the UK ) what country a bank account is in . What matters is whether you are resident in the UK or not while employed locally in a foreign country . You 're taxed on where you are tax resident ( which could be either country , both , or neither ) , not where the money is earned or banked . You can assume , with modern exchange of information agreements , that all money you put in bank accounts anywhere in the world will eventually be known to the UK authorities . The rules for when you are a UK tax resident changed recently , there is now a <URL> ( pdf ) . The rules are complex , but in general if you are outside the UK for less than one full tax year you 're still resident , and in many cases where you 're gone longer than that you may still be , depending on the length of your trips back to the UK and the ties you have there . So a 6-month winter job in Thailand teaching English as a foreign language will be subject to UK tax if you come back after , even if you leave all the money there or in a third country . If you pay local tax as well there are agreements between countries to avoid double taxation , but these do vary . What you do about National Insurance payments while gone for a short time is another complex area .
A breach of a legal agreement ( such as a lease agreement ) is indeed illegal . This is generally handled by civil law , not criminal law . Likely , the lease agreement states that your lease can be terminated if you violate the agreement . You may also be liable for monetary damages . You will want to read your lease agreement carefully . It will specify what happens if you violate it .
To start out with , suppose you have three people : A and B own a house and rent it out to a third person C . In this case C pays rent and A and B each receive or pay ( rent - mortgage ) / 2 , depending on whether the rent covers the mortgage . Your situation is identical , except that B and C are the same person . So the person not living in the house receives or pays ( rent - mortgage ) / 2 and the person living in the house covers the remainder . I hope you can agree on a reasonable rent . :)
From <URL> - What are the eligibility requirements for a business to establish a SEP-IRA ? Almost any type of business is eligible to establish a SEP-IRA , from self-employed individuals to multi-person corporations ( including sole proprietors , partnerships , S and C corporations , and limited liability companies [ LLCs ] ) , tax-exempt organizations , and government agencies . What are the contribution limits ? You may contribute up to 25 % of compensation ( 20 % if you 're self-employed3 ) or $ 49,000 for 2011 and $ 50,000 for 2012 , whichever is less . If we set the PC aside , you and the son have an LLC renting office space , this addresses the ability of the LLC to offer the retirement account .
Where do you see this ? I would suspect that it is a simple mistake . If you try to do a P14 online submission with a Taxcode of , for example , MI1234 , it will be rejected as invalid . Background , I am a programmer and I have had to write UK payroll software and have never come across such a code in any of the specifications and since the tax code controls how much tax you pay , they ca n't just make new codes without telling the software developers .
end question
start question
Should I be concerned if Equifax asks you about a " possible mortgage " ?
If you are at the point where the credit agency is attempting to verify your identity , they may very well put up lines of credit that you never had . Just answer accurately to the two or three questions . If they ca n't find you , you might have a problem of just not having much of a report , or worse you might be " married " to another similar account . For example if you are a Jr. and your father a Sr. the agencies might have you all mixed up .
Why do you care if it 's " legal " ? If you are concerned about the security implications and do n't want to do it , then do n't do it . If the company wo n't accept your deposits without it , then go to another investment company . There are hundreds of them out there . I have never , ever had someone ask for a scanned image of my credit card , and I 've done business with at least half a dozen investment companies , so this is not a standard industry practice . You have at your disposal a protection far stronger than the ability to bring some sort of legal complaint : You can take your business elsewhere . Doing that does n't require hiring a lawyer or going to court or anything . You just do it . All that said , there are ways to avoid creating much additional security risk . I presume you 've already given them your name , address , card number , and security code over the phone or through their website , so you 've trusted them with this information , and if hackers or the NSA wanted to snoop on your private information , they could have done it then . Okay , a web page might have used https and thus been encrypted while an email is not . So three solutions : ( a ) If they provide an upload on an https page , use that and you have no more security risk than when you originally entered this information . ( b ) Put the scanned image into an encrypted file before emailing , like say an encrypted PDF , or encrypt the image file with some other software , and then send them the password in a separate email . ( c ) You can get fairly decent security by sending the front and back of the card in two separate emails sent at different times . Then a hacker would have to intercept both and be able to connect them to each other . BTW I would n't really worry about the NSA intercepting such emails . I presume that if they want access to your credit card account , they have easier ways to accomplish that than figuring out this unusual system . Unless they have some specific reason to target you or this investment company , they 're probably not searching for images of credit cards in emails .
No , that was not the right thing to do . A W-9 is the form used to certify that you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien for U.S. federal tax purposes . You want to fill out a W-8BEN , available on the <URL> There is a spot on a W-8BEN for you to include your U.S. social security number . A Form W-8 is used to certify that you are NOT a U.S. resident for U.S. federal tax purposes .
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
Taxes are a tool for achieving social policy goals . While Americans consider " Socialism " to be a curse , the US is in fact quite socialistic . Mostly towards corporations , but sometimes even the normal people , not only the " Corporation are people , my friend " ( M. Romney ) get some discounts . The tax deduction on mortgage interest comes as a tool to encourage Americans to own their homes . It is important , socially , for people to own their home to be independent , and in general contributes to the stability of the society . As anything , when taken to the extreme , it in fact achieves exactly the opposite , as we 've seen in 2008 , but when balanced - works well . Capital gain is taxed in the US , because it is income . Generally , any income is taxed . However , gain sourced from the sale of primary residence is excluded , up to a certain ( quite large ) amount from this tax ( if lived in the residence long enough - 3 of the last 5 years prior to sale ) . This , again , to encourage Americans to upgrade their houses and make it easier for Americans to relocate when needed ( sell one house and buy another without losing cash on taxes ) . As to " asset producing income " - that is true in the US as well . You can not deduct your personal expenses , in general . Mortgage interest on primary residence is a notable exception , because it serves a social cause . Similarly , medical expenses are allowed as a deduction , if they 're above certain limit , and many other things ( for example - if a US person totals his car , and insurance does n't cover the loss - it is tax deductible , above certain limit , the higher the income - the higher the limit ) . These are purely social policy breaks . Socialism , something Americans like to have , and love to hate . Many " anti-socialists " in the US are in fact taking advantage of these specific tax breaks the most , because for rich folks these are limited or non-existent ( mortgage interest limited up to 1 million , medical expenses are allowed only above certain percentage of income , etc ) .
The fact that you are planning to move abroad does not affect the decision to contribute to a 401 ( k ) . The reason for this is that after you leave your employer , you can roll all the money over from your 401 ( k ) into a self-directed traditional IRA . That money can stay invested until retirement , and it does n't matter where you are living before or after retirement age . So , when deciding whether or not to use a 401 ( k ) , you need to look at the details of your employer 's plan : Does your employer offer a match ? If so , you should definitely take advantage of it . Are there good investments available inside the 401 ( k ) ? Some plans offer very limited options . If you ca n't find anything good to invest in , you do n't want to contribute anything beyond the match ; instead , contribute to an IRA , where you can invest in a fund that you like . The other reason to use a 401 ( k ) is that the contribution limits can be higher . If you want to invest more than you are allowed to in an IRA , the 401 ( k ) might allow that . In your case , since there is no match , it is up to you whether you want to participate or not . An IRA will allow more flexibility in investing options . If you need to invest more than your IRA limit , the 401 ( k ) might allow that . When you leave your employer , you should probably roll any 401 ( k ) money into an IRA .
Look for people who have done business with them . If you do n't know anyone who has used their services , look for a company that at least has a brick and mortar branch in your area . Being able to deal with them face to face is a must . Have you checked with your local bank ?
Yes , you can have a buy-to-let mortgage on a rental property at the same time as a residential mortgage on your own property . A lot of landlords do this . I would n't go expecting your rental property to contribute much to paying off your residential mortgage . Most of it will go on the various costs and fees of renting out a property ( not least the buy-to-let mortgage ! ) . The main financial benefit in the UK of owning a rental property with a substantial mortgage on it is that the value of the property goes up ( in a rising market , which it normally seems to be ) .
As mentioned before - you 're over-thinking the hard-pull issue . But do try to make the preapproval as close to the actual bidding as possible - because it costs money . At least from my experience , you 'll get charged the application fee for preapproval , while " pre-qualification " is usually free . If you 're seriously shopping , I find it hard to believe that you ca n't find a house within 3 months . If you 're already in the process and your offer has been accepted and you opened the escrow - I believe the preapproval will be extended if it expires before closing . I 've just had a similar case from the other side , as a buyer , and the seller had a short-sale approval that expired before closing . It was extended to make the deal happen , and that 's when the bank is actually loosing money . So do n't worry about that . If you have n't even started the process and the preapproval expired , you might have to start it all over again from scratch , including all the fees . The credit score is a minor issue ( unless you do it every 2-3 months ) .
There are entire books devoted to this topic ... :) I 'd suggest focusing on a % of income that you can set aside for each child and start doing that instead of looking at a specific dollar target . I would look at a 529 plan to get the state tax benefit for growth . Also , be careful to counter the " advice " given by admissions folks , who encourage high school kids to " choose the college that will make you happy " and expose them to as many pictures of lovely , leafy private campuses as possible . The lawns at the private school are nice , but state colleges offer a great education at a relative bargain . Try to teach your kids about money so they understand the downsides of the loans that schools throw at you . I went to a state school , had very supportive parents and worked throughout . I came out with $ 750 of debt ( on a 0 % credit card for a laptop replacement ) . I have a friend who went to a similar , private school who came from a similar background and who is now in a similar place career-wise . Except he has a $ 500/mo monthly tribute to Sallie Mae . My parents started working on me when I was about 12 , and it worked !
First , a margin account is required to trade options . If you buy a put , you have the right to deliver 100 shares at a fixed price , 50 can be yours , 50 , you 'll buy at the market . If you sell a put , you are obligated to buy the shares if put to you . All options are for 100 shares , I am unaware of any partial contract for fewer shares . Not sure what you mean by leveraging the position , can you spell it out more clearly ?
It will depend on the interest rates you can get on the savings vs the mortgage . If the savings rate is higher , then you would be better paying your money there than in the mortgage . Alternatively if the mortgage rate is higher than you can get with a savings account ( or alternative such as peer-to-peer savings ) then you should look to pay off the mortgage . You should also consider if you will be charged any early repayment fees for paying off your mortgage early . It could be that using a combination of paying off the mortgage up to the early repayment limit , with any surplus going to savings accounts would be a better option .
Much of the interest on a loan comes in the first years of a mortgage , so the sooner you can pay that off , the better . But let 's see what the numbers say . If you have a loan at 4 % , principal of $ 100,000 , a term of 30 years , then this gives monthly payments of $ 477.42 ( using the <URL> ) . If you sell the house after precisely 5 years worth of payments , then you have made $ 28,644.92 in payments , you still owe $ 90,924.93 . Suppose you sell the house for $ 100,000 . That means you will be in the hole for : $ 100,000 - $ 90,924.93 - $ 28,644.92 = - $ 19,569.85 Now , suppose you pay an extra $ 50 per month over the five years . The same calculation becomes : $ 100,000 - $ 87,659.98 - $ 31,644.92 = - $ 19,304.90 So in this scenario , which is a little simplistic , you are $ 264.95 better off . The question you have to ask is whether you could have done better investing the $ 3,000 in extra payments somewhere else . The CAGR in doing this is 1.7 % , so you might be better off putting the money away . Running the same numbers for a 6 % mortgage the CAGR you have is about 2.7 % . Edit I 've added a <URL> ( read-only ) that you can download and play with . Feel free to correct anything you find amiss ! Edit 2 OK , so I 've had a look at what <URL> is saying in the comments below , and now I agree : The CAGR should be 4 % . Where I want wrong was to assume that the $ 50 per month payments over the five years are worth $ 50 * 5 * 12 = $ 3000 . This neglects the " time value of money " -- having small amounts of money periodically , rather than all of it in a lump sum . Including this makes the " effective " value of the monthly $ 50 payments $ 2714.95 written as in Excel or Google Docs . <URL> Note that it still does n't quite come to 4 % , but I guess it 's a minor error in the sheet . NB : I know , I 'm leaving out mortgage interest tax relief , costs for selling etc. etc. .
As is so often the case , there is an asterisk next to that 2.5 % interest offer . It leads you to a footnote which says : Savings Interest Rate Offer of 2.5 % is available between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 on all net new deposits made between January 1 , 2015 and March 31 , 2015 to a maximum of $ 250,000.00 per Account registration . You only earn 2.5 % interest on deposits made during those three months . Also , on the full offer info page , it says : During the Offer Period , the Bank will calculate Additional Interest on eligible net new deposits and : All interest payments are ineligible for the purposes of calculating Additional Interest and will not be calculated for the purposes of determining eligible daily balances . In other words , any interest paid into an Applicable Account , including Additional Interest , will not be treated as a new deposit for subsequently calculating Additional Interest payments . I could n't totally parse out all the details of the offer from their legalese , but what it sounds like is you will earn 2.5 % interest on money that you deposit into the account during those three months . Any interest you accrue during that time will not count as a deposit in this sense , and so will not earn 2.5 % compounded returns . The " During the Offer Period " qualification also makes it sound like this extra interest will only be paid during the three months ( presumably at a 2.5 % annualized rate , but I ca n't see where it actually says this ) . So essentially you are getting a one-time bonus for making deposits during a specific three-month period . The account does n't really earn 2.5 % interest in the normal sense . The long-term interest rate will be what it normally is for their savings accounts , which <URL> says is 1.05 % .
Each company gets to select which pension provider ( s ) they will deal with . You can certainly ask your company to consider paying into a different pension but you ca n't force them to . Many/most companies will say no since they do n't want the overhead of dealing with more than one provider , although I did once work for a company that had a policy of paying into whatever pension each employee nominated . If you move to another employer then you will be auto-enrolled in their choice of provider unless you opt-out . You may be able to transfer your pension savings from your old employer 's scheme to the new one , but this is not currently guaranteed to be possible . If you ca n't transfer , or choose not to , then the money in your old employer 's scheme will stay there being invested according to your choices . Thus over your working life you may accumulate savings in multiple pension schemes ( and yes , it 's on you to keep track of this ) .
I think it is just semantics , but this example demonstrates what they mean by that : If you put $ 100 in a CD today , it will grow and you will be able to take out a greater amount plus the original principal at a later time . If you put $ 100 extra on your house payment today , you may save some money in the long run , but you wo n't have an asset that you would n't otherwise have at the end of the term that you can draw on without selling the property . But of course , you ca n't live on the street , so you need another house . So ultimately you ca n't easily realize the investment . If you get super technical , you could probably rationalize it as an investment , just like you could call clipping coupons investing , but it all comes down to what your financial goals are . What the advisers are trying to tell you is that you should n't consider paying down your mortgage early as an acceptable substitute for socking away some money for retirement or other future expenses . House payments for a house you live in should be considered expenses , in my opinion . So my view is that paying off a note early is just a way of cutting expenses .
You can get a guess by looking at interest rate futures . It looks like UK adjustable-rate mortgages are based on 3-month LIBOR , according to <URL> . If this is the case , you can look at the Eurodollar futures rates to get see what the rate is predicted to be . The interest rate will adjust to some amount above this , which depends on the specific mortgage . Looking at <URL> : , the last trade for December of 2012 ( when I write this ) is 98.9750 . To get the predicted LIBOR , subtract this from 100 . 100 - 98.9750 = 1.025 % , so rates are still predicted to be low . For December of 15 , the last trade is 96.5950 . So the predicted LIBOR would be 100 - 96.5950 = 3.405 % . This is a the market forecast , no one know what the rates will be at that time , they could be higher or lower . If the margin on the loan is 3 % , then the rate in the first case would be 4.025 % , and in the second case 6.405 % What the monthly payment will be depends on a few other factors as well , the main one being how long the loan is ( technically , the amortization time . ) <URL> is a good calculator to do the computation . Note that the " expected adjustment " gets applied every year , so if you start it at 5 % for the fixed period , and make the adjustment 1 % , it will go up 1 % every year until it hits the cap . You can make the cap 6 % if you want to only have it adjust once . If you want to put in multiple interest rate changes , <URL> will let you put in more detailed info .
You 're supposed to file a 1040X ( amended return ) and include the missing information about the 1099-R , even though there is no additional tax due . It 's a straightforward form and not too much of a hassle . If this will stress you even a little , take the 15-20 minutes to file the 1040X . You could also just wait -- there 's a chance you 'll get a letter from the IRS in a few months asking you to act or not act on the information . They could just say , " We noticed and you do n't have to do anything . " If it were me , I 'd just wait . A Google search on " 1040x 1099-r rollover " yields some similar stories with no definitive answer , other than " yes , you should , but if it were me I would n't bother . "
Ultimately this depends on a number of factors , some of which could be very localized . The first question to ask yourself is why you are purchasing a house . If your reason can be summarized as something like " because it is a good investment " , then the simple answer is to wait . Houses come with many fun hidden expenses ( like the dishwasher crapping out or needing a new roof in the middle of winter ) and historically their returns approximate inflation . In addition , any wealth you do gain is tied up in the house . There are many online resources that can step you through the thought process on deciding if getting a home is right or not , as well as calculators that can account for unexpected expenses and such to indicate the financial side of things . Now that you have decided buying a house makes sense ... In the US there are a number of options you have . If you ( or your spouse ) have a military record ( either currently active or retired/honorable discharge ) then you qualify for the VA loan program which offers low-money-down loans without PMI . If you want to buy a property that is rural farmland , and you meet a number of other requirements there are USDA loans available that also have low-to-no down payment required and no PMI . For conventional loans , lenders generally will not accept traditional loans for the down payment , though sometimes family loans are ok with them ( family loans are a bad idea for other reasons ) . Assuming you do not qualify for any of those other programs , and you do not wish to take a gift/loan / " family feud starter " from your family , you still have a few other possibilities . Many states have programs to help with down payment assistance . Depending on where the house you want is , how much you earn , how expensive the house is , and other possible factors , you might be able to get a grant or an extremely low-to-no interest loan to help bridge the gap . Note that these programs might put limits on the kind of loan you can have ( for instance it might specify you need a FHA , VA , or USDA loan to qualify ) . The specific details of the plan can be very location specific . For instance Washington State has a state wide program ( <URL> ) , but Seattle city also has a <URL> . The income limits , maximum purchase price , and assistance amount are very different between the two programs . A great resource to start with is the <URL> . They have more information on some of the federal level programs , and can also direct you to the local programs near you . Pay attention to the local programs , because many of them have classes for eligibility that you can take for free and that discuss loans and the home buying process for your area ( this is a great resource , even if you do n't wind up using those programs ) .
If this is her primary residence and the mortgage is secured by it - then yes , she can deduct the mortgage interest . The caveat : she has to either be on the title , or on the mortgage . Source : <URL> . IRC Section 163 deals with all the interest deductions and as such is quite hard to read and follow . In order to understand how to follow the statute , the Treasury issues regulations . Regulation <URL> is dealing with the IRC section 163 . This is what the regulation 1.163-1 ( B ) has to tell us : ( b ) Interest paid by the taxpayer on a mortgage upon real estate of which he is the legal or equitable owner , even though the taxpayer is not directly liable upon the bond or note secured by such mortgage , may be deducted as interest on his indebtedness . Thus , the answer to your question , as user662852 suggested in the comment , depends on whether she 's on the title ( or otherwise has ownership interest , if for example it is purchased with community funds in a community property state - check with a local lawyer . ) . Keep in mind that MFS rules affect what and how much deductions you can take , so you need to check carefully whether MFS is suitable for you .
end question
start question
Will modern coins and currency be worth money in the future ?
The value of Coins &amp; Currency is more of Demand Vs Supply Situation . The value of Coins is not just due to it being old , but also - due to how many are available in the market Vs how many people want to buy that . - The condition of the coin - The percived historical importance - The metal used . Older coins were based on Gold/Silver - The design , how pleasing it looks For example the 1876 US Nickel around 300,000 were minted . The 1916 US Nickel around 400,000 were minted . However the 1916 Nickel is at more premium than the 1876 . This is because there are many collectors who want to complete the collection post 1900 . They can never complete the 1800 to 1900 collection as other year coins are not available . It is hard to tell which currency will catch craze amongst collectors . That 's what will drive the prize . For example if 50 years from now , Zimbabwe becomes a leading developed country , there will be craze / nostaliga to collect things of past . Certain coins like the American Double Eagle are a craze becuase the design is very good , its made of Gold , has history to it . Its sold for USD 7-8 Million , Or the USD 1 Dollar uncut sheets [ 16 notes in a sheet ] , the sheet goes for around 1-2 Million USD As an individual if you have some coins / currencies keep them more as a hobby than as something that would return value . Investements in Collectibles and Art is an emerging form of investment and needs to be looked at seperately and should ' nt be mixed with a simple hobby .
In the credit card fees disclosure they tell you how much they charge for a foreign currency transaction , it is usually 1-3 % . Check with your card issuer the fee for your particular card ( same issuers can have different fees for different cards ) . If the transaction is in USD , then the credit card issuers do n't charge fees ( usually , that is , check with your issuer ) but you 'll pay much more because of the unfavorable exchange rate . It is my personal experience that buying with credit cards is the cheapest way to convert money while traveling .
The fact that the option is deep in the money will be reflected in the market price of the option so you can just sell it at a profit . If there 's a ( n almost ) guaranteed profit to be had , however , you can always find someone who will lend you the money to cover the exercise ... they 'll charge you interest , however !
I found out that government is going to change ISO 4217 code of local currency . So Gnucash adaptation to this would be easy and mostly mechanical . Duplicate all accounts you have with new ISO currency Set fixed rate between old and new currency Transfer all asserts from old accounts Delete old accounts
If you can afford it , Yes . You will be able to roll it over ( however much it has in it ) to your next 401K , or to your own self-directed IRA . Anything you can afford to save now will begin to compound , and with compounding ( and being in your mid-twenties ) , time is everything .
Is it worth attending the meetings for these clubs typically Community is one of the reasons for joining an investment club . I would say that not attending the meetings would be counter to the whole point of being a part of one . Are they just fronts for sales operations ? ( Many are run by real estate agents . ) Not necessarily . That said , I would be wary of ones run by real estate agents , insurance agents , etc. . . Is there a sanctioning body that accredits or oversees these groups ? I do not think so . Though The Motley Fool mentions the <URL> . <URL> I think it will help answer many of your questions . They go into forming one , what to look for in an investment club and potential issues . They stress that investment clubs are about community , having fun , making investing accessible to the novice investor , pooling money for investment and making investing accessible to those without a large amount of money to invest . They also point out that it can help reduce the work load of researching investment ideas . Finally , they also state that organization is important to having a successful investment club .
I would disagree with your analysis . To me there are two purposes for a money market ( MM ) : Emergency Fund Pre-purchase money parking fund Your emergency fund should be from 3 to 6 months of expenses . Think of it of an insurance policy against Murphy . You may want to have some money designated for big expenses , or even sinking funds . For example , I keep some money in a MM for a car as both the wife , daughter , and I driver older vehicles . I may need to replace them . If you were planning on making a larger purchase car , house , boat , engagement ring I would put the money in a MM fund so you are not subject to the whims of the market . After that you are free to invest all your money . Its likely that you should have some money outside of tax advantaged funds so if you want to start a business you will not have to do high cost withdrawals .
According to IRS <URL> : If you pay medical expenses by check , the day you mail or deliver the check generally is the date of payment . The quoted text can be found under the section titled What Expenses Can You Include This Year ?
In my opinion , Schwab is pretty good and their commissions competitive . You should be using their no-commission ETFs to take full advantage of your relationship . Though Schwab 's ETFs are new , their ERs are one of the lowest you 'll find . Schwab 's reports are tools are their biggest strength . They are well thought out and very useful . Schwab 's closest competitor is Fidelity . Whatever Fidelity does , Schwab will usually offer something similar ! If you are happy with them , no reason to switch . There are some brokers that offer lower commissions , but these are all new players and have n't proven themselves like Schwab . Some like Zecco even pulled a bait-and-switch with their zero commissions .
There is nothing to pay on importing and exporting coins of dollar value not in excess of 10,000 dollars . You do n't even have to declare them . I just took the advice from @Chris W. Rea to speak to a customs professional . You only really get issues if your coming in from a country that is flagged , say such as Cuba .
What you 're looking for are either FX Forwards or FX Futures . These products are traded differently but they are basically the same thing -- agreements to deliver currency at a defined exchange rate at a future time . Almost every large venue or bank will transact forwards , when the counterparty ( you or your broker ) has sufficient trust and credit for the settlement risk , but the typical duration is less than a year though some will do a single-digit multi-year forward on a custom basis . Then again , all forwards are considered custom contracts . You 'll also need to know that forwards are done on currency pairs , so you 'll need to pick the currency to pair your NOK against . Most likely you 'll want EUR/NOK simply for the larger liquidity of that pair over other possible pairs . A quote on a forward will usually just be known by the standard currency pair ticker with a settlement date different from spot . E.g. " EUR/NOK 12M " for the 12 month settlement . Futures , on the other hand , are exchange traded and more standardized . The vast majority through the CME ( Chicago Mercantile Exchange ) . Your broker will need access to one of these exchanges and you simply need to " qualify " for futures trading ( process depends on your broker ) . Futures generally have highest liquidity for the next " IMM " expiration ( quarterly expiration on well known standard dates ) , but I believe they 're defined for more years out than forwards . At one FX desk I 've knowledge of , they had 6 years worth of quarterly expirations in their system at any one time . Futures are generally known by a ticker composed of a " globex " or " cme " code for the currency concatenated with another code representing the expiration . For example , " NOKH6 " is ' NOK ' for Norwegian Krone , ' H ' for March , and ' 6 ' for the nearest future date 's year that ends in ' 6 ' ( i.e. 2016 ) . Note that you 'll be legally liable to deliver the contracted size of Krone if you hold through expiration ! So the common trade is to hold the future , and net out just before expiration when the price more accurately reflects the current spot market .
Devaluation is a relative term , so if you want to protect yourself against devaluation of your currency against dollars - just buy dollars . Inflation is something you can not protect yourself against because it is something that describes the purchasing power of the money . You will still need to purchase , and usually with money . A side effect of inflation is usually devaluation against other currencies . So one of the ways to deal with inflation is not to keep the money in your currency over time , and only convert from a more stable currency when you need to make purchases . Another way is to invest in something tangible that can easily be sold ( for example , jewelery and precious metals , but it has other risks ) . Re whats legal and illegal in your country - we do n't really know because you did n't tell what country that is to begin with , but the usual channels like travelers ' checks or bank transfer should work . Carrying large amounts of cash are usually either illegal or strictly regulated .
Never invest money you need in the short term . As already suggested , park your money in CDs .
I would pile up your extra cash to use when you wo n't be able to work as much . This will prevent you from adding debt during that time . Because you 'll need the money in the short term ( less than 5 years ) , your best place to put it is a savings account earning a dismal amount of interest .
You have a few options , depending on what you believe would be safer . This also depends on when you would like to access your 401k . If your going to be retiring in 10 years then you would n't care what happens in the next 3 years so much . I will assume your accessing your retirement account already ... If you are scared of a banking collapse you can always just hold your money in cash , it is the most liquid . Unless you have more then what the FDIC will insure that is probably your safest bet . You have the option of putting your money in bonds . Historically , treasuries are the safest . <URL> - Is another vehicle you can use to protect your self against inflation as well . If your not a fan of treasuries then you can choose to invest in bonds of highly rated multinational corporations with a very healthy balance sheet , preferably companies with a huge cash pile , they would be the least influenced by a credit crunch . However even these companies would suffer unless investors deem governments unable to pay back their debt , which in that case they might flock to these bonds for safety . Traditionally gold has also served as a safe haven and a hedge against inflation . It is essentially a currency that can not be manipulated by the interest rate policies of any one government . In a 401k you ca n't short sell directly or take a margin position so you are limited with this account . You are still able to hedge by going long on put options . However with your personal account you can use more complicated trades . I wo n't go into heavy detail as they should only be reserved for more experienced investors . If your interested I suggest reading up on <URL> In conclusion : You have a few options but regardless of what you choose there is some sort of risk in all , depending on what you believe . Now with that said I am not in the camp to believe a catastrophic financial collapse is just over the hill , so I am more inclined to say depending on your investment goals I would maintain a diversified portfolio in cash , bonds and gold . Edit : I wanted to add , the only thing a banking crisis can guarantee is liquidity issues , so the safest asset would be the most liquid asset or what would be perceived as the most liquid . Inflation would n't be the result of a banking crisis directly , instead it could be the result of the actions from what The Fed might or might not do during a banking crisis .
Index funds can be a very good way to get into the stock market . It 's a lot easier , and cheaper , to buy a few shares of an index fund than it is to buy a few shares in hundreds of different companies . An index fund will also generally charge lower fees than an " actively managed " mutual fund , where the manager tries to pick which stocks to invest for you . While the actively managed fund might give you better returns ( by investing in good companies instead of every company in the index ) that does n't always work out , and the fees can eat away at that advantage . ( Stocks , on average , are expected to yield an annual return of 4 % , after inflation . Consider that when you see an expense ratio of 1 % . Index funds should charge you more like 0.1 % -0.3 % or so , possibly more if it 's an exotic index . ) The question is what sort of index you 're going to invest in . The Standard and Poor 's 500 ( S&amp;P 500 ) is a major index , and if you see someone talking about the performance of a mutual fund or investment strategy , there 's a good chance they 'll compare it to the return of the S&amp;P 500 . Moreover , there are a variety of index funds and exchange-traded funds that offer very good expense ratios ( e.g. Vanguard 's ETF charges ~ 0.06 % , very cheap ! ) . You can also find some funds which try to get you exposure to the entire world stock market , e.g. Vanguard Total World Stock ETF , NYSE : VT ) . An index fund is probably the ideal way to start a portfolio - easy , and you get a lot of diversification . Later , when you have more money available , you can consider adding individual stocks or investing in specific sectors or regions . ( Someone else suggested Brazil/Russia/Indo-China , or BRICs - having some money invested in that region is n't necessarily a bad idea , but putting all or most of your money in that region would be . If BRICs are more of your portfolio then they are of the world economy , your portfolio is n't balanced . Also , while these countries are experiencing a lot of economic growth , that does n't always mean that the companies that you own stock in are the ones which will benefit ; small businesses and new ventures may make up a significant part of that growth . ) Bond funds are useful when you want to diversify your portfolio so that it 's not all stocks . There 's a bunch of portfolio theory built around asset allocation strategies . The idea is that you should try to maintain a target mix of assets , whatever the market 's doing . The basic simplified guideline about investing for retirement says that your portfolio should have ( your age ) % in bonds ( e.g. a 30-year-old should have 30 % in bonds , a 50-year-old 50 % . ) This helps maintain a balance between the volatility of your portfolio ( the stock market 's ups and downs ) and the rate of return : you want to earn money when you can , but when it 's almost time to spend it , you do n't want a sudden stock market crash to wipe it all out . Bonds help preserve that value ( but do n't have as nice of a return ) . The other idea behind asset allocation is that if the market changes - e.g. your stocks go up a lot while your bonds stagnate - you rebalance and buy more bonds . If the stock market subsequently crashes , you move some of your bond money back into stocks . This basically means that you buy low and sell high , just by maintaining your asset allocation . This is generally more reliable than trying to " time the market " and move into an asset class before it goes up ( and move out before it goes down ) . Market-timing is just speculation . You get better returns if you guess right , but you get worse returns if you guess wrong . Commodity funds are useful as another way to diversify your portfolio , and can serve as a little bit of protection in case of crisis or inflation . You can buy gold , silver , platinum and palladium ETFs on the stock exchanges . Having a small amount of money in these funds is n't a bad idea , but commodities can be subject to violent price swings ! Moreover , a bar of gold does n't really earn any money ( and owning a share of a precious-metals ETF will incur administrative , storage , and insurance costs to boot ) . A well-run business does earn money . Assuming you 're saving for the long haul ( retirement or something several decades off ) my suggestion for you would be to start by investing most of your money * in index funds to match the total world stock market ( with something like the aforementioned NYSE : VT , for instance ) , a small portion in bonds , and a smaller portion in commodity funds . ( For all the negative stuff I 've said about market-timing , it 's pretty clear that the bond market is very expensive right now , and so are the commodities ! ) Then , as you do additional research and determine what sort investments are right for you , add new investment money in the places that you think are appropriate - stock funds , bond funds , commodity funds , individual stocks , sector-specific funds , actively managed mutual funds , et cetera - and try to maintain a reasonable asset allocation . Have fun . * ( M
You need a budget . You need to know how much you make and how much you spend . How much you earn and what you choose to spend you money on is your choice . You have your own tolerance for risk and your own taste and style , so lifestyle and what you own is n't something that we can answer . The key to your budget is to really understand where you money goes . Maybe you are the sort of person who needs to know down to the penny , maybe you are a person who rounds off . Either way you should have some idea . <URL> and <URL> Once you know what you budget is , here are some pretty standard steps to get started . Each point is a full question in of itself , but these are to give you a place to start thinking and learning . Use your budget to spend less than you make . Use your budget to save for expensive things you want ( car , house , vacation , electronics ) Carry no consumer debt ( like credit cards ) Save up an emergency fund Save for your retirement Invest a little , spend a little just for fun . You might have other priorities like a charity or other organizations that go into your priority like . Regardless of your career path and salary , you will need a budget to understand where you money is , where it goes , and how you can reach your goals and which goals are reasonable to have .
The bank will make this even more confusing because they use the terms from their own perspective . From the bank 's perspective ( printed on your statements ) credit : Money into your account ( increases the bank 's liabilities ) debit : Money out of your account ( decrease bank liabilities ) From your perspective : It depends on the nature of the transfer of money , but here are the most common for a personal account . Income into your account : Credit Expenses out of your account : Debit Payment on a loan made for an asset ( house/car ) : Credit for the loan account , debit for the equity account for the car/house/etc . Yes , it 's complicated . Neither credits nor debits are always a + or - . That 's why I agree with the advice of the others here that double-entry accounting is overkill for your personal finances . Note : I simplified the above examples for the purpose of clarity . Technically every transaction in double entry accounting includes both a credit and a debit ( hence the " double " in the name ) . In fact , sometimes a transaction involves more than one credit or debit , but always at least one of each . Also , this is for EACH party . So any transaction between you and your bank involves at least FOUR debits and/or credits when all involved are considered .
It depends on the countries involved ... The ATM or Credit cards are expensive options in terms of rates ... The best deals are with the currency exchange counters [ not at airport ] at some busy places ... One needs to find out which is stronger currency , ie is the demand more for foreign currency or local currency ... For example if you have USD and are travelling from US to any Asian countries , it makes sense to exchange the USD in the local Asian countries as the demand for USD is more in these local markets , it would be a bad idea for excahange this in US [ for some currencies the option may also not be available ] If you are trying to exchange between 2 equally strong currencies [ say USD , GBP , EUR , etc ] then it doesnt matter much where you get it changed ... One also needs to consider local practises , for example in UK , most currency houses charge a Conversion fee above the rate making it a very bad deal .
The value of Coins &amp; Currency is more of Demand Vs Supply Situation . The value of Coins is not just due to it being old , but also - due to how many are available in the market Vs how many people want to buy that . - The condition of the coin - The percived historical importance - The metal used . Older coins were based on Gold/Silver - The design , how pleasing it looks For example the 1876 US Nickel around 300,000 were minted . The 1916 US Nickel around 400,000 were minted . However the 1916 Nickel is at more premium than the 1876 . This is because there are many collectors who want to complete the collection post 1900 . They can never complete the 1800 to 1900 collection as other year coins are not available . It is hard to tell which currency will catch craze amongst collectors . That 's what will drive the prize . For example if 50 years from now , Zimbabwe becomes a leading developed country , there will be craze / nostaliga to collect things of past . Certain coins like the American Double Eagle are a craze becuase the design is very good , its made of Gold , has history to it . Its sold for USD 7-8 Million , Or the USD 1 Dollar uncut sheets [ 16 notes in a sheet ] , the sheet goes for around 1-2 Million USD As an individual if you have some coins / currencies keep them more as a hobby than as something that would return value . Investements in Collectibles and Art is an emerging form of investment and needs to be looked at seperately and should ' nt be mixed with a simple hobby .
end question
start question
Are ' per trade ' fees charged on every order or just once per stock ?
You will be hit every time , once every buy order and once every sell order . Commissions to the broker are paid every time they do something for you . This is true regardless if it is a security in which you are already invested . It is true regardless if you make or lose money . It is just as sure as death and taxes .
In New Jersey , <URL> is considered a temporary disability covered under the state disability benefits . According to the <URL> , you have 30 days from the first day of disability to file a claim : Is there a time limit for filing a disability claim ? Yes . You have 30 days from the first day of disability to file your claim . If your claim is received more than 30 days from the start of the disability , you must show good cause why the claim was not filed timely . You can attach a statement to the claim form ( DS-1 ) explaining why your claim is late . If good cause is not shown , benefits may be reduced or denied . For a normal pregnancy , the first day of disability is generally <URL> .
I think this is off topic , but here is a stab : So these are cashless . It could be a way to smooth out the harsh reality of capitalism ( I overproduced my product , I have more capacity than I can sell ) and I can trade those good to other capitalists who similarly poorly planned production or capacity . Therefore the market for a system like is limited to businesses that do not plan well . Business that plan production or capacity to levels they can already sell for cash do not need a private system to offload goods . Alternatives to such a system include : Laying off a workforce Slowing down production until inventory matches demand Selling or moving business space Offering products or services at a discount or coupon price . ( I do n't know how many businesses are really in this over production / over capacity state . If my assumption that it is n't many is wrong , my answer is garbage . ) This is a bartering system with a brokerage . I think we have historically found that common currencies create more trade and economic activity because the value of the note in your pocket , which is the same type of note in my pocket , is common and understood . Exchange rates typically slow down trade . ( There are many other reasons to have different currency or notes on a global sale , but the exchange certainly is a hurdle to clear . ) This brokerage is essentially adding a new currency ( in a grand metaphor ) . And that new currency is only spendable on their brokerage , which is of limited use to society as a whole , assuming that society as a whole is n't a participating member of that brokerage . I ca n't really think of why this type of exchange is better than the current system we have now . I would n't invest in this as a business , or invest in this as a person looking for opportunity .
The commenters who referred you to the prisoner 's dilemma are exactly correct , but I wanted to give a more detailed explanation because I find game theory quite interesting . The Dilemma The prisoner 's dilemma is a classic scenario in game theory where even though it 's in the best interests of two or more players to cooperate , they fail to do so . <URL> has a simple example using prisoners , but I 'll use a simple example using Fidel and Charles , who are fund managers at Fidelity and Charles Schwab , respectively . To make the table shorter , I abbreviated a bit : , , . Here is the dilemma itself , in the table that shows the resulting market shares if each fund manager follows the course of action in question . While this example is n't mathematically rigorous because I completely fabricated the numbers , it makes a good example . The most profitable course of action would be both fund managers agreeing to increase their fees , which would keep their market shares the same but increase their profits as they earn more fees . However , this wo n't happen for several reasons . Regulators in most industries normally frown on such collusion agreements because they 're not competitive , and in the case of investment funds , regulators can normally enforce anti-collusion measures . In <URL> such enforcement is n't as easy . Since regulatory pressure might prevent the use of a formal contract , why not a gentleman 's agreement ? As the table shows , Fidel could choose to decrease his fees while Charles maintains the agreement . Fidel reaps greater profits in the short run when his market share increases , until eventually ( hopefully soon , if Charles is wise ) , Charles decreases his fees to match those of Fidel 's fund , thus returning the market to an equilibrium . Assumptions Because economies of scale exist in the market for investment funds , it 's reasonable to assume in a simple example that as funds grow larger , their costs decrease , so even though a fund manager decreases his fees ( betraying the other players ) , this decrease wo n't be enough to reduce their profits . In fact , the increased market share resulting from such a decrease may well dominate the decreased fees and lead to higher profits . The prisoner 's dilemma is highly applicable to markets such as these because they exist as oligopolies , i.e. markets where a relatively small number of established sellers possess considerable market power . Complications If you actually wanted to model the market for donor-advised funds using game theory , you need to take a few more things into account . Obviously there are more than two firms . It 's probably a valid assumption that the market is an oligopoly with significant economies of scale , but I have n't researched this extensively . There is more than one time period , so some form of the <URL> is needed . The market for donor-advised funds is also complicated by the fact that these are philanthropic funds . This may introduce tax implications or the problem of goodwill and institutional opinion of these funds . Although both funds increasing their fees may increase their profits in theory , institutional investors may look on this as a pure profit-seeking and take their funds elsewhere . For example , they may choose to invest in smaller funds with higher fees but better reputations . While reputation is important for any company , it might make more of a difference when the fund/investment vehicle is philanthropic in nature . I am by no means an expert on game theory , so I 'm sure there are other nuances to the situation that I 'm unaware of .
This 2010 SEC rule seems to say that under extraordinary circumstances , a trade can be cancelled , by the exchange , any time after it was made : Release No. 34-62259 ; File No . SR-NYSEArca-2010-47 Rule 6.89 ... According to the proposal , in the event of any verifiable disruption or malfunction in the use or operation of any electronic communications and trading facilities of the Exchange , in which the nullification or modification of transactions may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market or the protection of investors and the public interest exist , a Trading Official , on his or her own motion , may review such transactions and declare such transactions arising out of the use or operation of such facilities during such period null and void or modify the terms of these transactions , in accordance with the guidelines contained in sections ( a ) ( 3 ) ( C ) ( i ) ( aa ) - ( bb ) of Rule 6.87 . Pursuant to the proposal , the Trading Official , absent extraordinary circumstances , must initiate action under this authority within sixty ( 60 ) minutes of the occurrence of the erroneous transaction that was a result of the verifiable disruption or malfunction . [ Italics are mine . ] <URL> This rule seems to have gone into effect because it was cited in this news article : <URL> This is an interesting rule I had not known about previously , I wonder if it gives too much power to the exchange ...
Outside of a tax sheltered IRA or 401 ( k ) type of account your transactions may trigger tax liability . However , transactions are not taxed immediately at the time of the transaction ; and up to a certain limits capital gains can be offset by capital losses which can mitigate your liability at tax time . Also , remember that dividend receipts are taxable income as well . As others have said , this has nothing to do with whether or not money has been moved out of the account .
It is true that operation profit comes from gross profit however it is possible for a company to have negative net profit yet have postive cash flow , it has to do with the accounting practice A possible example is that a company has extremely high depreciation expense of fixed asset hence net profit will be negative but cash flow will be positive . Assuming the fixed asset has been fully paid for in earlier years
It is per individual per bank . So if you open more than one FD or FD in different branches of the same bank , they would be combined together . Further its not just FD 's -- any amount in Savings/Current/Recurring accounts are also combined and the total insurance is Rs 1,00,000 . This is for both principal and interest . So if you had a principal of 90,000 and an interest of 5,000 accrued not yet paid , you are insured for the entire 95,000 . The term individual is meant as in same capacity . Hence if you open one account in your name and another in your child 's name with you as guardian , another with your wife as joint holder , all 3 accounts will be treated differently and you would be insured up to Rs 3,00,000 . Hence if you want more insurance , you should open accounts in different capacity and in different banks . More info at : <URL>
No . And furthermore , canceling based on insider information is not considered insider trading . <URL> ( a ) Does the act of terminating a plan while aware of material nonpublic information result in liability under Section 10 ( b ) and Rule 10b-5 ? No . Section 10 ( b ) and Rule 10b-5 apply " in connection with the purchase or sale of any security . " Thus , a purchase or sale of a security must be present for liability to attach . See <URL> , 421 U.S. 723 ( 1975 ) . [ link mine ] A 10b5-2 is a <URL> that governs trading on " material nonpublic information . " Fried ( <URL> ) even concluded that : The SEC 's safe harbour permitting insiders to buy or sell shares pursuant to prearranged trading plans while in possession of material nonpublic information and to cancel the plans while aware of material nonpublic information enables insiders to profit from their access to such information . The SEC could easily eliminate insider 's advantages over public shareholders by not allowing insiders to cancel their plans after becoming aware of material nonpublic information .
The regulators ( in the past , at least ) and banks distinguish demand-deposit ( checking ) accounts from savings accounts . Checking accounts are without such limits , but savings accounts are subject to withdrawals-per-month limitations . The overall effect of this is to slow the speed with which money flows through the savings account , thus essentially making the money remain on deposit for a longer time . That 's exactly why generally savings accounts pay more interest than checking accounts .
I would not be concerned about the impact to your credit rating . You already have an <URL> , and the temporary change to your utilization will have minimal impact to your score . If you really need to make this $ 2500 purchase and you have the money in the bank to pay for it , I would not recommend borrowing this money . Only put it on the credit card if you plan on paying it off in full without paying interest . Let me ask you this : Why do you want to keep this $ 2500 in the bank ? It certainly is n't earning you anything significant . My guess is that you 'd like to keep it there for an emergency . Well , is this $ 2500 purchase an emergency ? If it is necessary , then spend the money . If not , then save up the money until you have enough to make the purchase . It does n't make sense to keep money for an emergency in the bank , but then when one comes up , to leave the money in the bank and pay interest on your emergency purchase . If you make this emergency purchase and another emergency comes up , you can always ( if necessary ) borrow the money at that time . It does n't make sense to borrow money before you need it . That having been said , I would encourage you to build up your emergency fund so that you have enough money in there to handle things like this without completely depleting your savings account . 3 to 6 months of expenses is the general recommendation for your emergency fund . Then if something unplanned comes up , you 'll have the money in the bank without having to borrow and pay interest .
The fees that the funds charge would be explained in their respective prospectuses . With the other question , you 're correct .
Yes , it 's true . The benefit in question is Canada 's Universal Child Care Benefit ( UCCB ) . The UCCB was introduced in the <URL> . The UCCB provides " all families with $ 100 per month for each child under age 6 . " Benefits began in July , 2006 . What 's confusing is how to apply for the UCCB . When UCCB was introduced , there existed another benefit called the Canada Child Tax Benefit ( CCTB ) . When introducing UCCB , the government decided it would be more efficient to have a single application process for all child benefits . In order to get UCCB , you would apply under the existing application process for CCTB . Unfortunately : The application form for CCTB does n't mention the UCCB at all ! The CCTB is income-tested , meaning if your family makes more than a certain amount of income , you do n't qualify for CCTB , which may incorrectly lead you to believe you should n't apply ! You should apply anyway for CCTB , even if you do n't expect CCTB benefits . Applying for CCTB gets you in the system to receive UCCB , which is not income-tested . ( But , UCCB benefits are taxable . ) Here 's the necessary form : <URL> . Even after updates since 2006 , it still does n't mention UCCB , but it does say " Complete this form to apply for all child benefit programs . " Here are some other resources about the UCCB : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I 've never heard of such a thing , but seems like if such a product existed it would be easily manipulated by the big trading firms - simply bet that trading volume will go up , then furiously buy and sell shares yourself to artificially drive up the volume . The fact that it would be so easily manipulated makes me think that no such product exists , but I could be wrong .
For an RRSP , you do not have to pay taxes on money or investments until you withdraw the money . If you do not reinvest the dividends but instead , take them out as cash , that would be withdrawing the money . For mutual funds , you would normally reinvest the dividends if holding the investment inside an RRSP . For stocks , I believe the dividends would end up sitting in the cash part of your RRSP account ( and you 'd probably use the money to buy more stocks , though would not be required to do so ) . Either way , you do not pay tax on this investment income unless you withdraw it from your RRSP . For example , you invest $ 10,000 inside your RRSP . You get the tax benefit from doing so . You get dividends of $ 1,000 ( hey , it was a good year ) , and use these to buy more stock . As the money never left your RRSP account , you are considered to have invested only your initial $ 10,000 . If instead , you withdraw the $ 1,000 in dividends , you are taxed on $ 1000 income . TFSA are slightly more complicated . You do n't get a tax benefit from your initial contribution , but then do not pay tax when you withdraw from the TFSA . Your investment income is still tax-free , and you are ( generally ) much more limited in how much you can contribute . For example , you invest $ 10,000 inside your TFSA . You get dividends of $ 1,000 , and use these to buy more stock . Your total contributions to your TFSA remains at $ 10,000 as the money never left your account . You could instead withdraw the $ 1000 from your TFSA and would not pay tax on it . In the next calendar year ( or later ) after the withdrawal , you could " repay " the $ 1000 you took out without suffering an overcontribution penalty . This makes TFSA an excellent place to park emergency funds , as you can withdraw and subsequently replace the investment while continuing to get the tax benefits on your investment income . RRSPs are better for retirement or for the home buyers plan . In general , you should not be withdrawing money from either your TFSA or RRSP , except in emergencies , when retiring , or when purchasing a home . I prefer indexed mutual funds or money market accounts for both my RRSP and TFSA rather than individual stocks , but that 's up to you .
Any large stockbroker will offer trading in US securities . As a foreign national you will be required to register with the US tax authorities ( IRS ) by completing and filing a <URL> form and pay US withholding taxes on any dividend income you receive . US dividends are paid net of withholding taxes , so you do not need to file a US tax return . Capital gains are not subject to US taxes . Also , each year you are holding US securities , you will receive a form from the IRS which you are required to complete and return . You will also be required to complete and file forms for each of the exchanges you wish to received market price data from . Trading will be restricted to US trading hours , which I believe is 6 hours ahead of Denmark for the New York markets . You will simply submit an order to the desired market using your broker 's online trading software or your broker 's telephone dealing service . You can expect to pay significantly higher commissions for trading US securities when compared to domestic securities . You will also face potentially large foreign exchange fees when exchaning your funds from EUR to USD . All in all , you will probably be better off using your local market to trade US index or sector ETFs .
The short answer : Original equity plus 100k , up to the fair market value of the home . You have two considerations when considering the deductability of the interest of a refinanced mortgage . First off , you can count interest on the principal that was used to acquire the home , plus any amount spent on improving the home ( document this , though ) . Secondly , you can count up to $ 100k ( married , filing jointly ) of home equity debt towards your maximum limit . This is a separate amount , not included in the first amount ( the original equity ) , so it is additive . However , you are restricted to the lesser of $ 100k , or the total fair market value of the home minus the amount considered in the first category ( acquisition/improvement ) , when considering both together . The IRS explains this in <URL> : Example . You own one home that you bought in 2001 . Its FMV now is $ 110,000 , and the current balance on your original mortgage ( home acquisition debt ) is $ 95,000 . Bank M offers you a home mortgage loan of 125 % of the FMV of the home less any outstanding mortgages or other liens . To consolidate some of your other debts , you take out a $ 42,500 home mortgage loan [ ( 125 % × $ 110,000 ) − $ 95,000 ] with Bank M. Your home equity debt is limited to $ 15,000 . This is the smaller of : $ 100,000 , the maximum limit , or $ 15,000 , the amount that the FMV of $ 110,000 exceeds the amount of home acquisition debt of $ 95,000 . So if your cash-out refinance allowed you to borrow more than the fair market value of the home , only deduct interest on principal up to that amount . The appraisal you presumably paid for during the refinance process will cover this .
I agree with QuantK the easiest way is through an investment in ETFs . The other possibilities are : Buy commodities in the spot market . i.e. you just buy the commodity you want and hold on to it . This implies that you will need to store it , which you probably do n't . Hence , the next alternative . Futures . Investing in futures is not something you should consider without doing your homework first ! Futures positions are taken on margin and are thus " bought " with leverage . Furthermore , futures contract have a maturity date . This means that you would need to " roll " your position if you want to keep exposure to the commodity . In addition you should note that spot market returns are not necessarily the same as movements in futures returns due to basis risk and differences in timing ( futures typically converge to the spot price the closer to maturity but in essence reflect price discovery over time ) . If you want to invest in commodities through taking a position in futures contracts I advise you to become familiar with at least the following concepts : roll returns ( backwardation/contango term structures ) , margin ( especially what kind of collateral your broker accepts ) and transaction costs . ETFs typically invest in commodities through one of the above stated possibilities . They either arrange storage or they make sure futures positions are rolled . If ETFs invest through futures your return typically consist of the futures return and the return on collateral ( typically some bond portfolio ) . There are also other other derivates which you can consider but in the end these are typically linked to futures returns .
The one that signs the check is the one that 's giving the gift , and unless it is a spouse - gift splitting wo n't work . I suggest each of you to write a separate check . It would be even " cleaner " if it is not coming from joint accounts .
Typically , preferred shares come with one or both different benefits - a disproportionate share of votes , say 10 votes per share vs the normal 1 , or a preferred dividend . The vote preference is great for the owner ( s ) looking to go public , but not lose control of the company . Say , I am a Walton ( of Walmart fame ) and when I went public , I sold 80 % of the ( 1000 share total ) company . But , in creating the share structure , 20 % of shares were assigned 10 votes each . 800 shares now trade with 800 votes , 200 shares have 10 votes each or 2000 votes . So , there are still the 1000 shares but 2800 votes . The 20 % of shares now have 2000/2800 or 71 % of the total votes . So , my shares are just less than half ownership , but over 78 % of votes . Preferred dividend is as simple as that , buy Stock A for ownership , or ( same company ) Stock A preferred shares which have ownership and $ 1/yr dividend . Edited to show a bit more math . I use a simple example to call out a total 1000 shares . The percentages would be the same for a million or billion shares if 20 % were a 10 vote preferred .
end question
start question
Should I renew the rate on my ARM to a lower one , considering the fees charged ?
When determining if you should refinance , you need to figure out how long it will take to make up the closing costs from interest saved under the new loan . At 4.5 % you are currently paying approx . $ 586 in interest each month . At 3.25 % you would be paying approx . $ 423 to begin with . So , the first month , you will save about $ 160 in interest . The amount of interest paid each month will change based on how much principal you apply to the loan . However , you will be around $ 160/mo in interest savings for the first several months . This would mean you break even point would be around 6 months . I would recommend the refinance to 3.25 % assuming the $ 800 figure for closing costs is accurate . You will save several thousand dollars in interest payments over the next 5 years if you do refinance .
The expense ratio is 0.17 % so doesnt that mean that for every 10K I keep in the money market fund I lose $ 17/year ? Not really . The expense ratio is taken before distributions are paid which applies to all mutual funds . Should I care about this ? In this case not really . If it was a taxable account , then other options may be more tax-efficient that is worth noting . The key with money market funds is that the expense ratio often represents how much money the administrators will take before paying out the rest . So , if your money market fund bought investments that paid .25 % then you 'd likely see .08 % as that is what is left over after the .17 % is taken in the dividends . If at the start of the year , the funds NAV is $ 1 , and at the end of the year , the funds NAV is still $ 1 , I havent lost anything right ? Right . <URL> has a good article on money market funds . Keep in mind that most money market funds are run as one of a number of funds from a fund family that may have to take a little less profit on the money market funds when rates are low .
Ideally you would negotiate a car price without ever mentioning : your intentions around financing whether or not you work for the car company whether you 've recently graduated any trade-in you might be bringing or lease you need to get out of And other factors that affect the price . You and the dealer would then negotiate a true price for the car , followed by the application of rebates , followed by negotiating for the loan if there is to be one . In practice this rarely happens . The sales rep asks point blank what rebates you qualify for ( by asking get-to-know-you questions like where you work or if you served in the armed forces - you may not realize that these are do-you-qualify-for-a-rebate questions ) before you 've even chosen a model . They take that into account right from the beginning , along with whether they 'll make a profit lending you money , or have to spend something to subsidize your zero percent loan . However unlike your veteran 's status , your loan intentions are changeable . So when you get to the end you can ask if the price could be improved by paying cash . Or you could try putting the negotiated price on a credit card , and when they do n't like that , ask for a further discount to stop you from using the credit card and paying cash .
That 0.625 % is the annual interest rate you 'll receive . It is paid out in two , semi-annual payments . That is , every six months you 'll receive a check for roughly 0.3125 % . <URL>
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
It sounds like you want to lock-up your money in something relatively safe , and relatively hard to touch . You may want to consider a <URL> ( <URL> I found in a quick search ) - from what I see it 's the closest thing to a US <URL> . You wo n't get much back , but if you pick a 5-year term , you ca n't spend it * easily . Other options might be to buy an <URL> , or get into <URL> s - but that will depend on your risk comfort . Also - to add from the comment <URL> left - be sure to pay off any high-interest debts : especially if they 're on a credit card , it will help you later on . * easily . . you can withdraw , but there 're generally penalties
The common number is similar to what should be a mortgage payment - about one week 's pay should cover the rent . So 25 % . But - if one lives in a city and drops the need for a car , they might choose to pay a bit higher rent as they save quite a bit by walking or taking public transportation to work . There 's also a lot to be said for first time renters ( i.e. new graduates ) to find a suitable multi-bedroomed apartment or house and share the rent .
There is no ready made forumulae . Put the Deposit in cell B3 as 10,000,000 Put the rate of interest in Cell B2 as 2 % [ Format this as Percnetage ] In Cell c3 write the formulae as = B3 * B2 * 3/12 [ Interest for 3 months till Dec ] In cell B4 write = B3 + C3 [ Principal as of 1st jan 13 and in cell C4 as = B4 * B2 [ Interest for full years ] In Cell B5 wirte = B4 + C4 [ new principal as of Jan 14 ] and in cell C5 as = B5 * B2 * 3/12 [ interest for 3 months on year 2014 ] In Cell B6 write = B5 + C5 . This is your revised amount at the end of period . My Calculation show this as 10,319,340 If you now want to find the interest for final amount of 10,300,000 use the Goal Seek function in XLS 2003 it is under tools - > Goal Seek , Enter the values as Set Cell : B6 To Value : 10,300,000 By Changing Cell : B2 The answer I got for the above problem is 1.87982299790449
The European Central Bank 's Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices was set at 100 in 2005 . In December 2010 , the most recent month for which it 's available , it was 111.3 . So $ 1000 in 2005 would buy you the same amount of stuff as $ 1113 would now . Source : <URL>
When determining if you should refinance , you need to figure out how long it will take to make up the closing costs from interest saved under the new loan . At 4.5 % you are currently paying approx . $ 586 in interest each month . At 3.25 % you would be paying approx . $ 423 to begin with . So , the first month , you will save about $ 160 in interest . The amount of interest paid each month will change based on how much principal you apply to the loan . However , you will be around $ 160/mo in interest savings for the first several months . This would mean you break even point would be around 6 months . I would recommend the refinance to 3.25 % assuming the $ 800 figure for closing costs is accurate . You will save several thousand dollars in interest payments over the next 5 years if you do refinance .
The are several issues you need to consider : The rate is not guaranteed to be fixed . If you are even one day late the interest rate can jump to 24 % . Minimum Payment . Most credit cards expect you to pay 2 % per month . That may make you monthly payment to the credit card more than you loan payment There is no going back . If you want to switch back to a student loan you ca n't . This will be a cash advance/balance transfer . Understand all the fees associated with the transfer . Can you get a get a credit line big enough ? many people owe 10K to 50K in loans . Tax implications ? Forgiveness programs . Some employers will forgive parts of the loan , or if you work in public service for X years they forgive some of the loan . They will not view the credit card debt the same way .
According to Wikipedia , <URL> mature in 1 year or less to a fixed face value : Treasury bills ( or T-Bills ) mature in one year or less . Regular weekly T-Bills are commonly issued with maturity dates of 28 days ( or 4 weeks , about a month ) , 91 days ( or 13 weeks , about 3 months ) , 182 days ( or 26 weeks , about 6 months ) , and 364 days ( or 52 weeks , about 1 year ) . Treasury bills are sold by single-price auctions held weekly . The T-bills ( as Wikipedia says , like <URL> ) are actually sold at a discount to their face value and mature to their face value . They do not return any interest before the date of maturity . Because the amount earned is fixed at purchase , " return " is a more accurate term than " rate " when referring to a specific T-bill . The " rate " is the difference between this return and the discount value you purchased it at . So , yes , your rate of return is guaranteed . T-notes ( 1-10 year ) and T-bonds ( 20-30 year ) also have an interest rate guaranteed , but have <URL> ( usually every 6 months ) , paying out a fixed amount of interest on the principal . ( See more info on the <URL> . ) Because those bonds are not compounding the interest it pays out , but instead paying out every 6 months , you 'd have to purchase new securities to create a compound return , changing your rate of return over time slightly as the rates for new treasury securities changes .
A good way to measure the performance of your investments is over the long term . 25-30 % returns are easy to get ! It 's not going to be 25-30 % in a single year , though . You should n't expect more than about 4 % real ( inflation-adjusted ) return per year , on average , over the long term , unless you have reason to believe that you 're doing a better job of predicting the market than the intellectual and investment might of Wall Street - which is possible , but hard . ( Pro tip : It 's actually quite easy to outdo the market at large over the short term just by getting lucky or investing in risky askets in a good year . Earning this sort of return consistently over many years , though , is stupidly hard . Usually you 'll wipe out your gains several years into the process , instead . ) The stock market fluctuates like crazy , which is why they tell you not to invest any money you 're likely to need sooner than about 5 years out and you switch your portfolio from stocks to bonds as you approach and enter retirement . The traditional benchmark for comparison , as others have mentioned , is the rate of return ( including dividends ) from the Standard and Poors 500 Index . These are large stable companies which make up the core of larger United States business . ( Most people supplement these with some smaller companies and overseas companies as a part of the portfolio . )
I would estimate the total costs as somewhere from # 1,000 to # 3,000 . Stamp duty is indeed <URL> . It 's 1 % of the total house price in the range # 125,000 to # 250,000 . There was a temporary exemption for a while for first-time buyers , defined as never having owned a house before . That 's ended now , though . You need a <URL> when buying - usual cost is somewhere between a few hundred pounds and a couple of thousand , depending on how thorough it is . Generally the more thorough surveys are appropriate for older houses . You might also want specialist reports on things like the electric wiring and the plumbing . You need a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to handle the legal aspects , and there are also a <URL> associated with those legal aspects . Typical total cost is # 500 - # 1000 . There might be a fee associated with getting a mortgage , but it depends entirely on the deal you get and should generally just be considered as part of the costs of the loan rather than the house purchase itself .
Your tax bracket is determined by your total taxable income in a given year , where money drawn from a traditional-style deferred-tax 401k or IRA is taxable income . ( Money drawn from a Roth account was taxed before deposit and is not taxed when withdrawn after the relevant date . ) Your recent salary history has no effect on this , except salary in the same year -- and there is no advantage to be gained by taking a deliberate pay cut for its own sake .
You ca n't use APR to compare loans with different periods . The rate on the 5/1 Jumbo ARM has a lower APR because the government does not allow the lender to use the initial/teaser rate to calculate the APR for the entire loan . ( This is to address misleading terms where the first payment is at 0.1 % , then pops up to a higher rate . ) So , the lender calculates the APR based on the current rate of the underlying index , which is lower than the initial rate offered by the lender . They do this because they do n't have a crystal ball to project the LIBOR ( or some other ) rate index 5 years in the future . Unless your crystal ball is telling you that you are absolutely going to be moving in 5-7 years , AND you have a big downpayment , it 's probably crazy to sign up for an ARM in 2011 .
Simply put , the interest you 're paying on your loans is eating into any gains you have in the stock market . So , figure out how much you 're paying in interest and consider the feasibility of paying off some of the loan . Also figure in if you would be selling the stock at a profit or a loss . Generally speaking , a home loan is typically long-term , with a high principal . I believe the consensus is that it is typically not worth paying down extra on it . A car loan , though , is much shorter term , with a lower principal . It may be worth it to pay that down . I would certainly consider paying down the loan with 10 % interest , even without running any numbers . What about doing this without selling stock ? The reason I suggest that is that you should not sell the stock unless you truly need the money or for some material reason ( s ) related to the company , the market , etc. . ( Of course , one other reason would be to cut losses . ) Unless I was looking to sell some stock anyway , I would try other ways to come up with the money to pay down the highest interest loan , at least . If you are thinking of selling stock to pay down debt , definitely run the numbers .
Biggest drawback : if you fail to pay the credit cards immediately you may get zapped with more interest than you could recover in points . There 's also the question of whether the dealer accepts credit cards ; they may not . Find that out first , then if you still want to do this consider prepaying into the credit card account so you ca n't miss that payment .
I do n't think that this can be generalized . It is not the absolute cost of living and salary that is important , but the difference between the two . To be more precise , the difference between spending and income . The more money you save , the more you can spend in retirement . Depending on your individual situation , including habits and personal preferences , this may be either the higher cost of living area or the lower cost of living area . As an example , if you tend to eat out a lot , you may be better off in a small town with limited , less expensive choices that are 1 ) less expensive and 2 ) less tempting . On the other hand , in a big city you may have more public transit options so need only one ( or zero ) cars instead of two . I would focus on living someplace you enjoy , and then try to maximize your savings given the constraints of your chosen area .
There two answers , either never or now ; which one is correct for you really depends on how you view the debt , and your discipline of paying it off . As mentioned by @Vitalik , your absolute cheapest alternative may well be to keep the debt in your line of credit and merely pay it off . The fact that it is a higher interest rate than your mortgage may help to focus your pay-back to as short a time as possible . If you pay back the debt over say a year , the overall paid interest may well be lower than if you had instead increased your mortgage . You could do a simple interest-rate calculation to determine if this is the case , using the difference between your credit-line rate and your mortgage rate . ( Also to take into account , is any tax implications - I understand that in the USA mortgage payments are somehow tax deductable ? ) If on the other hand , you do not plan to pay back the debt quickly , then you are certainly better off getting it moved to the lower-rate mortgage right away . Do be aware of a subtle trap , however : you may lull yourself into a false sense of security as to the absolute amount of money you can borrow and owe . If you were to again run up your credit line , because it is available , you may find yourself in a worse situation than you meant to . Doing this kind of credit-line to mortgage probably makes sense for durable assets , like a house addition or renovation , but I would personally recommend against it for even something like a car purchase , as you can end up paying more over time .
end question
start question
My Co-Signer is the Primary Account Holder for my Car Loan - Does this affect my credit ?
It sounds like your father got a loan and you are making the payments . If your name and SSN are not on the loan then you are not getting credit for making the payments your father is . So it will not affect your credit . If you are on the loan as a secondary borrower it will affect your credit but not substantially on the positive but could affect it substantially on the negative side . Since your father is named as the primary borrower you will probably need to talk with him about it first . If this is a mistake the 2 of you will need to work together with the bank to get it corrected . Since your father is currently listed first the bank is probably going to be unable ( even if they are willing ) to make a change to the loan now with out his explicit permission . In addition if the loan is in your fathers name , if it is a vehicle loan , then the car is most likely in your fathers name as well . Most states require that the primary signatory on a vehicle loan also be the primary owner on the title to the vehicle . If your fathers name is the primary name on the title then you would have to retitle the car to refinance in your name .
I have had a card signed as " asked for ID " , and it did n't make any merchant ask for ID . In fact , it did n't have any positive effect whatsoever . Most merchants do n't even try to match the signature , and most credit card issuers know that it 's worthless . I was however once asked to sign a card that I did n't sign at all , and the seller said that he 's not allowed to sell to me unless I do . He did ask for my ID as well . As Joe said , signing the card is obligatory , but the signature itself is meaningless . It is supposed to be the proof that you 're the owner and match the signature sample the issuer has , but I know of at least two issuers whose cards I have in my wallet where I applied for the card electronically and was not asked ( and did n't provide ) any signature sample at all . Merchants who want to make sure that you 're indeed the owner of the card will not rely on the signature , they 'll ask for ID . Those who do n't - assume the risk , if the card is stolen and used by someone who 's not the owner .
The easiest way is most likely to simply visit the bank in person . Bring proof of your identity ( passport , driver 's license , national photo ID card , or whatever else happens to be most viable in your particular case ) , walk up to the counter and simply tell them that you forgot your account number and need them to tell you what it is . With a very high degree of likelihood they will be able to help you out right then and there , and if they ca n't because of some regulation ( government-imposed or company-specific ) , then they will tell you exactly what more they need from you . If you want to , you certainly can call the bank and ask what documentation they will need before going to the branch office yourself , and there is always the possibility that you can call them and ask them to send you some type of customer summary which will include this information , but they almost certainly wo n't be able to simply give you the account number over the phone because you most likely do n't have any way to prove to them over the phone that you are who you claim to be with regards to your account . So likely the best you can hope to get out of a phone call is to be told what sort of documentation you need to bring with you when you visit the branch office , or if you are lucky that they will agree to physically mail the information to you .
Your credit report has no historic utilization rates ( although it will note the highest balance you have had on a particular line of credit ) . It only factors in the last reported statements from your creditors . The actual delay depends on a combination of the creditor and the reporting agency . It will usually range from 1-3 months . If you have no plans to have your credit pulled in the near future , your utilization rate should not be a major concern .
The key is that you need to use your debit card to earn the higher interest rate . The bank can offer a higher interest rate on accounts connected with a debit card because : They earn additional income through debit card fees charged towards account holders , among other things . They offer the higher interest rate specifically to encourage people to use their debit cards . By offering a joint checking/savings account that requires you to use your debit card , the bank is assuming that you 'll keep more money in your account than you would in a standard checking-only account . Your higher balance translates into more money the bank can loan out or invest , which usually leads to higher profit for them . <URL> These fees represent another source of profit for the bank . The more you use your debit card , the more the bank earns in fees , so the bank encourages you to use your debit card more frequently through incentives like a higher interest rate or waiving fees on your account if you use your card enough . Plus , since it 's likely that an individual who maintains a fairly high balance in an account linked to a debit card is going to spend more ( simply because they can spend more ) , banks will sometimes waive fees on the consumer side for balances over a certain amount .
Age does n't signify , except that being younger means you have a shorter credit history by definition . Re what affects credit score : <URL> . Basically , the obvious : demonstrating you can ( or ca n't ) be trusted to handle credit responsibly . That 's what the score is trying to measure and predict , after all . If you are careful with your money , that will already put you well above the average , and the credit score will look after itself . You really do n't have to worry much about it until you start borrowing stupidly or fail to make most payments on time or otherwise give folks reason to worry about your willingness and ability to pay .
Based on the information from <URL> : Will my FICO score drop if I apply for new credit ? If it does , it probably wo n't drop much . If you apply for several credit cards within a short period of time , multiple inquiries will appear on your report . Looking for new credit can equate with higher risk , but most credit scores are not affected by multiple inquiries from auto , mortgage or student loan lenders within a short period of time . Typically , these are treated as a single inquiry and will have little impact on the credit score .
One data point : I screwed up and simply missed one $ 25 bill for one month , I paid it the next month . I took about a 50 point hit from it .
Your credit score is based on your use of Debt . From <URL> : 35 % of your Credit Score is devoted to Debt Payment History . 30 % of your Credit Score is based on Utilization ( basically , the amount of unused credit available ) . 15 % of your Credit Score is impacted by your Credit History . 10 % of your Credit Score is based on Inquiries for new Debt . 10 % of your Credit Score is determined by Types of Debt . Opening and closing bank accounts , buying or selling cars without debt , or even buying or selling houses without debt wo n't affect your credit score .
Yes , in fact , if your MAGI is $ 220K or over as a couple , you are not able to open the account . Having a relative with lower income is a good way to set one up . As MrChrister commented , the Coverdell is more limited , only $ 2000/yr , dropping to $ 500 if congress does n't act . ( limit was $ 2000 in 2012 , to clarify ) Funds must be disbursed by age 30 to the beneficiary . But - the investment options are as varied as any other investment accounts , with a 529 , the choices for investment are quite limited . In a 529 , unused funds can be used for a changed beneficiary within the same extended family , not so with Coverdell .
Both <URL> and the <URL> allow you to exclude $ 250,000 ( single ) or $ 500,000 ( couple ) of profit . So in your case , $ 1.35 M would be exlcluded ( basis $ 850k plus $ 500k exclusion ) , plus any amount you paid for capital improvements ( consult your tax accountant for details on that ) . Beyond that amount , the rest of the sale ( so in your case , about $ 850k ) would be subject to capital gains tax ( Federal and State ) . You 'd likely pay around 24 % to 29 % tax on the gain between the two , unless other relevant details apply .
For a person to totally skip the gift tax provision , the money must be paid directly from the giver to the school . For example , if the grandparents want to pay for college they can send a tuition payment directly to the school . Even if the annual tuition is $ 30,000 . Normally , a person can give $ 14,000 to another person without having to reduce their lifetime exemption for estate tax . Let us say that tuition is $ 30,000 per year , room and board $ 15,000 per year , and books $ 1,000 per year : for a total of $ 46,000 per year . If they give all the money to the child , they will have to reduce their lifetime exemption by ( 46K - 14K ( Grandparent 1 ) -14 K ( grandparent 2 ) ) or $ 18,000 for that year . If they send the tuition payment of 30K directly to the school , the remaining 16K can be covered by splitting the gift to the student between the two grandparents . Now to your situation . The provision you quoted does n't apply . Sending the payment to the bank is n't the same as sending it to the school . The quoted section is to allow a person to fund another persons education without having the money be commingled with all the other money the student has . But you can send 14K to each parent , and they can use it to pay off the loan without you having to reduce your lifetime exemption . The good news is that as soon as January rolls around you can send another $ 14K to each parent . That mean you can send a total of $ 56,000 to them in the next 6 months . You can double the numbers if you are married and your spouse also send $ 14K to each of your parents every year . Unfortunately , the payments are not a source of deduction for you . They are a gift to a family member , they are n't a donation to a charity .
I did n't use TurboTax this year , but I have in other years . When I 've had to file by mail or chosen to do so , I always had to print and mail myself . I 'd definitely run this down until you 're sure , but until you know for sure otherwise , I 'd assume that they are not mailing anything for you . Intuit has a site for questions specific to TurboTax . You might do better posting there and/or calling customer support .
yes , when you apply for a new loan the loan originator will do a ' hard pull ' on your credit history which will result in your score going down . In my experience your score may go down by 20 points or so . You should be able to recover it fairly soon by making timely payments . I was also told that you can do as many hard pulls as you want within 48 hours and it will effect your just like one pull . So when shopping around for a mortgage probably a good idea to allow them to check your credit score on the same day . Unlike soft pulls when credit card companies just check it for marketing purposes . This does n't effect your credit score . Here some information explaining the difference <URL>
Credit utilization ( and therefore , your credit score ) is n't impacted by one 's mortgage . I have a current mortgage and saw a zero utilization the one month that I paid my credit cards in full just before the bill was cut . What will change is your borrowing ability . Your debt to income will drop and the payment you used to make will be available to service a future debt if you wish . Note - obviously , a regularly paid on time mortgage helps one 's score and late payments will hurt . I am addressing just the ' utilization ' portion which is what i think the OP is asking . The credit report , strangely enough , does not take income into account . The focus instead is on utilization .
I wrote <URL> some time ago . The answer is yes , this helps the credit score , but this factor , age of accounts , is pretty minimal . Grabbing deals , as you did , I 'm actually down to a " C " for this part of my score , but still maintain a 770 score .
For all intents and purposes , a lease affects your credit score in a similar manner as a loan . In fact , a lease often requires slightly better credit in order to get the best terms , compared to a loan . Alternative answer to your question : <URL> . A car loan may not be the answer . Sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Now that you have a Social Security Number , if you want Bank of America to start reporting to your credit report so that you can establish a credit history , you 'll need to contact Bank of America and ask them to attach your Social Security Number to your account . It might be easiest to do this in person : bring your Social Security card into a Bank of America branch and see if they can help you . Some sources online for more reading : UScreditcardguide.com : <URL> ( Read " Conclusions " section at the end . ) Quora.com : <URL> Dreamact.info forum : <URL>
No , but as long as you are disciplined to spend each month less than the payment you applied to your card . If you can do that - then that 's the way to go and reduce ( and ultimately eliminate ) your balance . If you 're not disciplined enough , and using credit cards makes you spend more than what you have and/or does n't allow you reducing your balance - then do n't do it , keep your cards in the drawer until they 're completely paid off . In either case , large portion of your paycheck should go to paying off the cards , because its expensive . But if you 're using your credit cards for day to day expenses - this portion should be significantly larger , to cover for those expenses , and should include the part you used to keep on your checking account to cover for those expenses when using the debit card .
Looking purely at the numbers , it will cost you $ 200/month to lease a Hyundai Accent . That 's a cost of $ 2400/year . If you hold on to your Mazda Protege for another year , it costs you $ 1000 . Now , you say you need new winter tyres . So , your questions are twofold : 1 . How much will winter tyres cost ? 2 . How much will these tyres add to the value of your Protege , when it comes to selling them ? Assuming the answers are " less than $ 1400 " and " $ 0 " , it makes more financial sense to hold on to your Protege for one more year . Of course , there are other considerations . A new vehicle is likely to be more reliable , while your Protege may break down over the next year . And most people would recommend you buy rather than lease a vehicle . Or you may want to consider selling the Protege and picking up a second-hand vehicle rather than buying or leasing a new car .
end question
start question
How much should I be contributing to my 401k given my employer 's contribution ?
JoeTapayer has good advice here . I would like to add my notes . If they give a 50 % match that means you are getting a 50 % return on investment ( ROI ) immediately . I do not know of a way to get a better guaranteed ROI . Next , when investing you need to determine what kind of investor you are . I would suggest you make yourself more literate in investments , as I suggest to anyone , but there are basic things you want to look for . If your primary worry is loss of your prinicipal , go for <URL> . This means that you are willing to accept a reduced expected ROI in exchange for lower volatility ( risk of loss of <URL> ) . This does not mean you have a 100 % safe investment as the last market issues have shown , but in general you are better protected . The fidelity investments should give you some information as to volatility or if they deem the investments conservative . Conservative investments are normally made up of trading <URL> , which have the lowest ROI in general but are the most secure . You can also invest in <URL> , although stock is inherently riskier . It is pointed out in comments that stocks always outperform bonds in the long term , and this has been true over the last 100 years . I am just suggesting ways you can protect yourself against market downturns . When the market is doing very well bonds will not give you the return your friends are seeing . I am just trying to give you a basic idea of what to look for when you pick your investments , nothing can replace a solid investment adviser and <URL> .
I am pretty sure you could find a number of financial planners whom you could pay to give you a very accurate number , but the rule of thumb I like best is Save a dime of every dollar . 10 % ( Savings means save for retirement , not vacations . ) Here is a nice article from radio personality Clark Howard with some adjustments based on your age : <URL> If you 're getting started saving for retirement later in life , the dime out of every dollar rule wo n't cut it for you . So for you , The Baltimore Sun has crunched the following numbers : If you start saving at 35 , you need to save 20 cents out of every dollar to have a comfortable retirement at a reasonably young age If you start saving at 45 , you need to save 30 cents out of every dollar If you start saving at 55 , you need to save 43 cents out of every dollar Read Other Answers and a Disclaimer Jayraj has a particularly good and just as simple bit of math . <URL> Your retirement and financial planning should not end with a flat percentage . In fact , the chances that any simple math formula is adequate are very low . My percentages ( or Jayraj 's simple math ) are only starting places . If you are at the point where you are asking " where do I start " , starting with this super easy no-brainer approach is great because the key is starting and doing it .
Did the W-2 you received from your employer have a value in Box 12 with a code of W ? If yes then the company already accounted for their contribution and your pre-tax contribution on the W-2 . You should have submitted form <URL> and <URL> . If you used software to complete your tax forms this should have been done automatically . Your contributions and the companies contributions should be on line 9 . If No , this is more complex because your contributions were made after tax , because your contributions would not appear on the W-2 . You will have to gather the documents from the HSA administrator . Those contributions not made via paycheck withholding are entered on line 2 of form 8889 . If you did n't include form 8889 you will need to file an amended return .
What is your investing goal ? And what do you mean by investing ? Do you necessarily mean investing in the stock market or are you just looking to grow your money ? Also , will you be able to add to that amount on a regular basis going forward ? If you are just looking for a way to get $ 100 into the stock market , your best option may be <URL> . ( DRIP stands for Dividend Re-Investment Plan . ) The idea is that you buy shares in a company ( typically directly from the company ) and then the money from the dividends are automatically used to buy additional fractional shares . Most DRIP plans also allow you to invest additional on a monthly basis ( even fractional shares ) . The advantages of this approach for you is that many DRIP plans have small upfront requirements . I just looked up Coca-cola 's and they have a $ 500 minimum , but they will reduce the requirement to $ 50 if you continue investing $ 50/month . The fees for DRIP plans also generally fairly small which is going to be important to you as if you take a traditional broker approach too large a percentage of your money will be going to commissions . Other stock DRIP plans may have lower monthly requirements , but do n't make your decision on which stock to buy based on who has the lowest minimum : you only want a stock that is going to grow in value . They primary disadvantages of this approach is that you will be investing in a only a single stock ( I do n't believe that can get started with a mutual fund or ETF with $ 100 ) , you will be fairly committed to that stock , and you will be taking a long term investing approach . The Motley Fool investing website also has some information on DRIP plans : <URL> . It 's a fairly old article , but I imagine that many of the links still work and the principles still apply If you are looking for a more medium term or balanced investment , I would advise just opening an online savings account . If you can grow that to $ 500 or $ 1,000 you will have more options available to you . Even though savings accounts do n't pay significant interest right now , they can still help you grow your money by helping you segregate your money and make regular deposits into savings .
As I 've had several jobs over the last decade , I 've typically run two pension plans - a private one which I use for consolidating all my previous pensions into and my current corporate one ( often does n't allow consolidating ) where I take advantage of the corporate benefits associated with it ( large corporate institutions typically match your own contributions or contribute a fixed percentage of salary as a perk ) . This allows me to not worry about the previous pension schemes I was a part of as they are in a single place . With the very last corporate job I had , I was not allowed to keep my pension pot under their scheme terms ( unlike with a few others where it was allowed to stay in the scheme but contributions were no longer allowed by either party ) and so when I left , I provided the details of my private pension plan and the pot was transferred into it by my employer . I 've since turned to contracting and consolidated all my previous pensions into a single private pension pot which I still contribute to every month .
My answer will provide a general guideline , which is what I believe you are asking for . You must keep in mind , a budget is not a one size fits all type of deal and should be personalized . With that said ; lets begin . All my numbers will be based on your ' take home ' cash , meaning the money you get after taxes , 401k contribution , or any other amount withdrawn by your employer . I also assume you have no revolving debt . If you spend less on one category you can always transfer that amount onto another . So for example , if you take public transportation and your cost is less then 15 % you can allocate the remaining amount between which ever categories you like . Your savings budget will also depend on your age , investment returns , and other various risk factors you might be exposed to . If your employer does not provide you with a 401k or contribute to any retirement plan I suggest you consider raising the amount in the savings category . The most important thing is to stay within your budget and realizing that you should spend money in this order - > Necessities , Savings , Luxuries . You have a 2 % margin of error for any times you may go over budget . Cutting into that 2 % should be a warning sign that tells you ; " hey , I 'm going over budget I need to cut back on something " . So do n't make a habit of it , otherwise you may find your self quickly going past that 2 % line and falling into debt . A note on medical expenses : The 5 % I suggested may vary depending on where you live , your current state of health , your income , and what options your employer offers for healthcare . You may find your self spending less or more . Your health is considered a necessity , so if you find your self spending more you should adjust your budget accordingly . Another budget is the <URL> rule . In this budget you start with your after-tax income not your ' take home ' cash . So do not deduct any 401k contributions or any other amount withdrawn by your employer . The breakdown :
You need to sift through the return to uncover the source of this discrepancy . You are correct , a rental put in service for 10 months with have 5/6 the depreciation of a full year . Something else is going on .
Yes , you should absolutely bother . Get a Roth IRA opened up soon and contribute the max you can per paycheck . $ 96 weekly , $ 192 bi-weekly or $ 416 per month . You probably should n't fret about the benefits of your IRA for a year . Instead , consider the benefits of feeding it for your entire working life . Other issues to consider Do you have any debt ? Pay them off . Do you have an emergency fund ? Try to make one . Fund that IRA
The OP invests a large amount of money each year ( 30-40k ) , and has significant amount already invested . Some in the United States that face this situation may want to look at using the bonus to fund two years worth of IRA or Roth IRA . During the period between January 1st and tax day they can put money into a IRA or Roth IRA for the previous year , and for the current year . The two deposits might have to be made separately , because the tax year for each deposit must be specified . If the individual is married , they can also fund their spouses IRA or Roth IRA . If this bonus is this large every year , the double deposit can only be done the first time , but if the windfall was unexpected getting the previous years deposit done before tax day could be useful . The deposits for the current year could still be spread out over the next 12 months . EDIT : Having thought about the issue a little more I have realized there are other timing issues that need to be considered . If the decision is made to spread the deposits over a long period of time , there are still investment minimums that need to be considered . Assume $ 65K to be invested this year , that would be ~ $ 5400 a month , If the decision is to fund several investments ( Large Company , emerging markets , bonds ) and if these are new funds , the deposits may have to be lumpier than desired to make sure that the minimums are reached . Keep in mind that the OP currently invests daily and weekly . In a similar concern , some funds/investment companies change fees and classes of funds based on the amount invested in their funds , getting to those minimums quickly has advantages . Another type of investment also has deadlines : putting money into a 529 . Unfortunately to credit the investment for a year it must be done by December 31st . The amount of money that can be invested in one year , the maximum tax credit/deduction , and lifetime maximums depend on the state .
Putting money into a Roth IRA or 401 ( k ) will save you money if your taxes this year will be lower than your taxes in retirement . If you 're young and just starting your career , there 's a good chance of this in general . Even if you 're not , most people are anticipating tax increases in our nation 's future If you have a lot of expenses one year , e.g. for medical reasons , you may have to realize a significant amount of income that year , so having it be Roth money instead of regular can help avoid higher taxes . See also <URL>
Yes . It may change the investment options you have available and almost certainly will change the fees that get charged to your account . On the other hand , you probably do n't have any say in the matter , so it is n't worth stressing about . BTW : Do n't bother looking at your statements for these fees , they are usually hidden in the difference between the funds prices you pay and the market prices for those funds . Personally , I think the lack of transparency on those fees is downright criminal .
Take a look at <URL> . This is your employer 's " bible " for withholding the correct amount of taxes from your paycheck . Most payroll systems use what this publication defines as the " Percentage Method " , because it requires less data to be entered into the system in order to correctly compute the amount of withholding . The computation method is as follows : Compute the employee 's gross pay for the pay period ( wages , tips , salary , commissions , etc ) . Subtract any " pre-tax deductions " ( med ins premiums , retirement , etc ) . This is the employee 's " pre-tax net pay " . Divide the amount one W-4 allowance is worth annually ( for 2012 , that 's $ 3800 ) by the number of pay periods in the tax year ( e.g 26 for bi-weekly ) . Multiply this by the number of allowances claimed on the W-4 and subtract it from the pre-tax net pay to determine the " pay subject to withholding " . Taxes are computed " piecewise " ; dollar amounts up to A are taxed at X % , and then dollar amounts between A and B are taxed at Y % , so total tax for B dollars is A * X + ( B-A ) * Y . Here is the table of rates for income earned in 2012 on a daily basis by a person filing as Single : To use this table , multiply all the dollar amounts by the number of business days in the pay period ( so do n't count more than 5 days per week even if you work 6 or 7 ) . Find the range in which your pay subject to withholding falls , subtract the " more than " amount from the range , multiply the remainder by the " W/H Pct " for that line , and add that amount to the " W/H Base " amount ( which is the cumulative amount of all lower tax brackets ) . This is the amount that will be withheld from your paycheck if you file Single or Married Filing Separately in the 2012 TY . If you file Married Filing Jointly , the amounts defining the tax brackets are slightly different ( there 's a pretty substantial " marriage advantage " right now ; withholding for a married person in average wage-earning range is half or less than a person filing Single . ) . In your particular example of $ 2500 biweekly ( 10 business days/pp ) , with no allowances and no pre-tax deductions : So , with zero allowances , your employer should be taking $ 451.70 out of your paycheck for federal withholding . Now , that does n't include PA state taxes of 3.07 % ( on $ 2500 that 's $ 76.75 ) , plus other state and federal taxes like SS ( 4.2 % on your gross income up to 106k ) , Medicare/Medicaid ( 1.45 % on your entire gross income ) , and SUTA ( .8 % on the first $ 8000 ) . But , you also do n't get a refund on those when you fill out the 1040 ( except if you claim deductions against state income tax , and in an exceptional case which requires you to have two jobs in one year , thus doubling up on SS and SUTA taxes beyond their wage bases ) . If you claim 3 allowances on your federal taxes , all other things being equal , your taxable wages are reduced by $ 438.45 , leaving you with taxable income of $ 2061.55 . Still in the 25 % bracket , but the wages subject to that level are only $ 619.55 , for taxes in the 25 % bracket of $ 154.89 , plus the withholding base of $ 187.20 equals total federal w/h of $ 342.09 per paycheck , a savings of about $ 110pp . Those allowances do not count towards other federal taxes , and I do not know if PA state taxes figure these in . It seems odd that you would owe that much in taxes with your withholding effectively maxed out , unless you have some other form of income that you 're reporting such as investment gains , child support/alimony , etc. . With nobody claiming you as a dependent and no dependents of your own , filing Single , and zero allowances on your W-4 resulting in the tax withholding above , a quick run of the 1040EZ form shows that the feds should owe YOU $ 1738.20 . The absolute worst-case scenario of you being claimed as a dependent by someone else should still get you a refund of $ 800 if you had your employer withhold the max . The numbers should only have gotten better if you 're married or have kids or other dependents , or have significant itemized deductions such as a home mortgage ( on which the interest and any property taxes are deductible ) . If you itemize , remember that state income tax , if any , is also deductible . I would consult a tax professional and have him double-check all your numbers . Unless there 's something significant you have n't told us , you should not have owed the gov ' t at the end of the year .
I wrote an article <URL> in which I detail how the ideal credit utilization is 1-19 % . So , doing the math , $ 5000 will support $ 1000 ( actually $ 950 ) worth of spending . If you do n't get higher credit lines , and find you charge more now and then , simply make a payment mid-cycle . It 's the amount on the statement that gets reported , not daily balances .
There are way too many details missing to be able to give you an accurate answer , and it would be too localized in terms of time &amp; location anyway -- the rules change every year , and your local taxes make the answer useless to other people . Instead , here 's how to figure out the answer for yourself . Use a tax estimate calculator to get a ballpark figure . ( And keep in mind that these only provide estimates , because there are still a lot of variables that are only considered when you 're actually filling out your real tax return . ) There are a number of calculators if you search for something like " tax estimator calculator " , some are more sophisticated than others . ( Fair warning : I used several of these and they told me a range of $ 2k - $ 25k worth of taxes owed for a situation like yours . ) Here 's an estimator from <URL> -- it 's handy because it lets you enter business income . When I plug in $ 140K ( $ 70 * 40 hours * 50 weeks ) for business income in 2010 , married filing jointly , no spouse income , and 4 dependents , I get $ 30K owed in federal taxes . ( That does n't include local taxes , any itemized deductions you might be eligible for , IRA deductions , etc. . You may also be able to claim some expenses as business deductions that will reduce your taxable business income . ) So you 'd net $ 110K after taxes , or about $ 55/hour ( $ 110k / 50 / 40 ) . Of course , you could get an answer from the calculator , and Congress could change the rules midway through the year -- you might come out better or worse , depending on the nature of the rule changes ... that 's why I stress that it 's an estimate . If you take the job , do n't forget to make <URL> ! Edit : ( some additional info ) If you plan on doing this on an ongoing basis ( i.e. you are going into business as a contractor for this line of work ) , there are some tax shelters that you can take advantage of . Most of these wo n't be worth doing if you are only going to be doing contract work for a short period of time ( 1-2 years ) . These may or may not all be applicable to you . And do your research into these areas before diving in , I 'm just scratching the surface in the notes below . Retirement plan . You can set up an Individual 401 ( k ) account and stash " up to " $ 49k tax-free ( you would n't qualify for this much though ) . Or you can open a SEP IRA ( which is a bit cheaper and simpler to set up ) , and save around $ 35k tax-free . Health care . You do n't mention if you have a spouse who works , and if you have health care through that employment . If you get a high-deductible health plan and establish a Health Savings Account , the premiums for the insurance should be deductible , and you can save up to $ 6150 in the HSA which is deductible . ( To be clear , I think the health care premiums you pay are deductible whether you have HDHP+HSA or not , but check with your accountant first . ) Disability insurance . It will take you a couple of years to have a track record before you 'll be able to buy it , but disability insurance premiums may be deductible . Be sure to talk to your accountant first , though , because choosing to deduct these premiums can have large consequences in the event that you need to collect on this insurance .
No logistics , just sign the title . Gifts under $ 14K ( as of 2015 ) ( total per year per person you give gifts to ) <URL> . If you 're not going to give any more cars to your sister this year - you 're good to go .
My information is 10 years old but back then i am glad i consolidated . First of all the consolidated loan was at the fixed rate while my Stafford loans were floating . In addition the consolidation company offered discounts for timely payments and electronic fund transfer so after a couple of years my rate had 0.75 % discount . So if nothing changed and your loans are floating and you can consolidate at fixed rate it probably makes sense as rate will probably not going to be any lower One thing to look out for is that many consolidated loans are offering 20 year term instead of 10 . So just be disciplined enough to make extra payments monthly so you can still pay it off in 10 years ( or less )
JoeTapayer has good advice here . I would like to add my notes . If they give a 50 % match that means you are getting a 50 % return on investment ( ROI ) immediately . I do not know of a way to get a better guaranteed ROI . Next , when investing you need to determine what kind of investor you are . I would suggest you make yourself more literate in investments , as I suggest to anyone , but there are basic things you want to look for . If your primary worry is loss of your prinicipal , go for <URL> . This means that you are willing to accept a reduced expected ROI in exchange for lower volatility ( risk of loss of <URL> ) . This does not mean you have a 100 % safe investment as the last market issues have shown , but in general you are better protected . The fidelity investments should give you some information as to volatility or if they deem the investments conservative . Conservative investments are normally made up of trading <URL> , which have the lowest ROI in general but are the most secure . You can also invest in <URL> , although stock is inherently riskier . It is pointed out in comments that stocks always outperform bonds in the long term , and this has been true over the last 100 years . I am just suggesting ways you can protect yourself against market downturns . When the market is doing very well bonds will not give you the return your friends are seeing . I am just trying to give you a basic idea of what to look for when you pick your investments , nothing can replace a solid investment adviser and <URL> .
If there is no match and you are disciplined enough to contribute without it coming directly out of your paycheck , dump the 401K . The reason : Most 401K plans have huge hidden fees built into the investment prices . You wo n't see them directly , but 3 % is not uncommon . 3 % is a horrible drag on your investment performance . Get an IRA or Roth IRA and pick something with low fees . Bonus : You will have a lot more investment choices !
In my experience , any kind of equity you may be offered by the company is just a carrot . Your offer may be written in such a way that your potential ownership represents , say , 1 % of the company today . But if the company goes for a round of financing your ownership percentage can get diluted . If this happens a couple of times and the terms of financing are n't very favorable then your percentage can go from that 1 % down to 0.001 % , making the equity worthless . I 've known people who heard their company was being bought and thought they might get some kind of payoff . Come to find out the company had n't done all that well and there was n't anything to pay out after the main investors got some money back . ( The main investors took a loss . ) For obvious reasons , management was n't keeping the staff up to date about the fact that they were operating in the red and their options were worthless . Some people grumbled about lawyers and filing lawsuits , but at the end of the day , there was n't any money to be won . Keep this in mind . As to your question regarding what to look out for : What does the offer represent in terms of percentage of the company ? In a corporation , there may be multiple classes of shares . With an LLC , the sky is the limit as to what they 're going to offer you . Beyond just share classes , profit rights and voting/control rights can be divided up in any way the Membership Agreement states . Are they offering you Membership ? Will your shares/units have voting rights ? Are you even getting shares/units or is it just a promise to share profit/equity in case of a buyout ? Are there any provisions regarding dilution ? How big is the employee pool ? What is the vesting schedule ? What are your rights / obligations if you separate from the company ? Is there a difference between voluntary and involuntary separation ? If you exercise your offer before the company is bought , and you become a Member ... can you continue as a Member after leaving the company ? is your employment tied to Membership in any way ? can you sell your shares/units ? what are your rights/obligations as a Member ? Can you get a copy of the Membership Agreement ( or Bylaws ) ?
If you can afford it , Yes . You will be able to roll it over ( however much it has in it ) to your next 401K , or to your own self-directed IRA . Anything you can afford to save now will begin to compound , and with compounding ( and being in your mid-twenties ) , time is everything .
end question
start question
Buying non-qualified employee stock options that are going to expire ?
Options granted by an employer to an employee are generally different that the standardized options that are traded on public stock option exchanges . They may or may not have somewhat comparable terms , but generally the terms are fairly different . As a holder of an expiring employee option , you can only choose to exercise it by paying the specified price and receiving the shares , or not . It is common that the exercise system will allow you to exercise all the shares and simultaneously sell enough of the acquired shares to cover the option cost of all the shares , thus leaving you owning some of the stock without having to spend any cash . You will owe taxes on the gain on exercise , regardless of what you do with the stock . If you want to buy publicly-traded options , you should consider that completely separately from your employer options other than thinking about how much exposure you have to your company situation . It is very common for employees to be imprudently overexposed to their company 's stock ( through direct ownership or options ) .
The main reason is that you move from the linear payoff structure to a non-linear one . This is called <URL> in finance . With options you can design a payoff structure in almost any way to want it to be . For example you can say that you only want the upside but not the downside , so you buy a call option . It is obvious that this comes at a price , the option premium . Or equivalently you buy the underlying and for risk management reasons buy a put option on top of it as an insurance . The price of the put could be seen as the insurance premium . You can of course combine options in more complicated ways so that you e.g. profit as long as the underlying moves strongly enough in either direction . This is called a <URL> .
It depends on the timing of the events . Sometimes the buying company announces their intention but the other company does n't like the deal . It can go back and forth several times , before the deal is finalized . The specifics of the deal determine what happens to the stock : They can buy all the outstanding shares and the stock holder of those shares get the money . They can trade X shares for the old company for Y shares of the new company . They can do a hybrid where X shares are traded for Z shares and some cash for the fractional shares . The deal will specify when the cutoff is . Some people want the cash , others want the shares . Some will speculate once the initial offer is announced where the final offer ( if there is one ) will end up . This can cause a spike in volume , and the price could go up or down . Regarding this particular deal I did find the following : <URL> Additional Information and Where to Find It Orbitz intends to file with the SEC a proxy statement as well as other relevant documents in connection with the proposed transaction with Expedia . The definitive proxy statement will be sent or given to the stockholders of Orbitz and will contain important information about the proposed transaction and related matters . SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT CAREFULLY WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC , AS WELL AS ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS , BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION . The proxy statement and other relevant materials ( when they become available ) , and any other documents filed by Expedia or Orbitz with the SEC , may be obtained free of charge at the SEC 's website , at www.sec.gov . In addition , security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the proxy statement from Orbitz by contacting Investor Relations by mail at ATTN : Corporate Secretary , Orbitz Worldwide , Inc. , 500 W. Madison Street , Suite 1000 , Chicago , Illinois 60661 .
All the EMV contactless payment cards ( paypass , expresspay , paywave etc ) will sometimes ' request to go online ' when making a transaction , which translates into asking for a PIN . The info you received with the card should have included something about this . For example , the Mastercard <URL> includes the note " Contactless " payments are tapped , not swiped . It 's simple . Look for your MasterCard PayPass logo on your card or the reader Tap your card on this symbol PayPass locator Look for the green lights , listen for the beep , and GO * That 's it , you 're on your way . No need to enter a PIN † [ ... ] † there may be some instances when you are asked to enter your PIN number for security reasons or for purchases above a certain amount . You 're not doing anything wrong ; there 's nothing wrong with the readers or your card ; this is a standard feature of contactless . If you 're asking " why did my issuer 's risk model instruct my card to go online for these particular transactions ? " , well , we ca n't answer that , and your issuer probably wo n't , ' for security reasons ' . Also , I 've just seen that you say " I have never paid using it before " - I believe ALL contactless cards will require a successful PIN transaction before any contactless transaction can succeed - this is to stop someone who 's intercepted your card in the mail from being able to spend your money ...
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 50 1/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 50 1/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
Generally there 's no ultimate protection against charge backs . Some methods are easier to charge back and some harder , and there 's always the resort of going to courts . The hardest to contest is , of course , a cash payment or wire transfer . You need to remember that imposing unnecessary/unreasonable difficulties on your customers will drive business away . I can buy diamonds in the nearest mall with my credit card - why would I buy from you if you want cash , BTC , or any other shady way to pay ? I 'm pretty sure that whatever that is you 're selling , anyone can buy elsewhere as well .
Call the CBOE , the Chicago Board of Options Exchange I 've requested options on several IPOs in the past . You mainly have to convince them that there is a market for them ( or they wo n't be inclined to provide liquidity ) . The CBOE could talk to the company in question to help convince them , or the CBOE will just tell you when the options will begin trading . Oh yeah , sometimes they 'll ask you who you work for , just try to avoid that question , they do n't like to talk to individual/retail investors .
After talking to two CPAs it seems like managing it using an imprest system is the best idea . The base characteristic of an imprest system is that a fixed amount is reserved and later replenished as it runs low . This replenishment will come from another account source , e.g. , petty cash will be replenished by cashing a cheque drawn on a bank account . Petty cash imprest system allows only the replenishment of the spend made . So , if you start the month with $ 100 in your petty cash float and spend $ 90 of that cash in the month , an amount of $ 90 will be then placed in your petty cash float to bring the balance of your petty cash float back to $ 100 . The replenishment is credited to the primary cash account , usually a bank account ( Dr - Petty Cash a/c , Cr - Bank a/c ) and the debits will go to the respective expense accounts , based on the petty cash receipt dockets ( Dr - Expense a/c , Cr - Petty Cash a/c ) . In a non imprest system where a fixed amount is issued every month , e.g. , $ 100 every time cash is required , there is no incentive to ensure all money issued has been documented because when money is all spent a check for a fixed amount is issued . It is much more difficult to reconcile a non imprest system as you never know how much exactly should be in the float . In an imprest system the amount requested is documented , the documentation being the petty cash dockets and their associated receipts or invoices . So at all times you can check how much should be left in the petty cash float by deducting the amount spent from the opening petty cash float .
I found <URL> at CNN Money , that lists 5 viable alternatives to Paypal , namely : Digital River 2checkout . com Alertpay TrialPay E-Junkie I would suggest looking for unbiased sources like CNN rather than searching for alternatives and happening upon the merchant 's sites themselves . Hope this helps !
There are multiple answers here which discuss credit scoring criteria . A good score does n't require that you pay interest on a loan . I like that you 're thinking about this so far in advance . A credit inquiry does impact your score for 2 years . I refinanced my mortgage in November 2011 , and the result was nearly $ 5000 less interest per year . Along with that , came a ding to my report , it fades overtime , and falls off after the second year . I do recommend finding the cards that you plan to use for a long time . ( again , other posts here discuss ideal cards ) For me , it was a card that gives 2 % to my daughter 's 529 college account . For you , a different cash back card might be better . Either way , enough available credit so you do n't get a bill representing more than 19 % of the total credit lines . Then pay in full . Do n't apply for any new credit starting 25 months prior to house hunting . And plan to put 20 % down . Average age of accounts helps your score , so constantly opening new accounts and cancelling old is bad . A few related answers help provide a greater understanding of credit scoring - <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
No . And furthermore , canceling based on insider information is not considered insider trading . <URL> ( a ) Does the act of terminating a plan while aware of material nonpublic information result in liability under Section 10 ( b ) and Rule 10b-5 ? No . Section 10 ( b ) and Rule 10b-5 apply " in connection with the purchase or sale of any security . " Thus , a purchase or sale of a security must be present for liability to attach . See <URL> , 421 U.S. 723 ( 1975 ) . [ link mine ] A 10b5-2 is a <URL> that governs trading on " material nonpublic information . " Fried ( <URL> ) even concluded that : The SEC 's safe harbour permitting insiders to buy or sell shares pursuant to prearranged trading plans while in possession of material nonpublic information and to cancel the plans while aware of material nonpublic information enables insiders to profit from their access to such information . The SEC could easily eliminate insider 's advantages over public shareholders by not allowing insiders to cancel their plans after becoming aware of material nonpublic information .
I have an ESPP with E * Trade ; you can transfer stock like that via a physical ( paper ) asset-transfer form . Look for one of those , and if you ca n't find it , call your brokerage ( or email / whatever ) . You own the shares , so you can generally do what you want with them . Just be very careful about recording all the purchase and transfer information so that you can deal properly with the taxes .
You have two questions - first - no , if you are above the deduction limit , then you still have a traditional IRA deposit but with post tax money , tracked via form 8606 . Second - If I read this right , if you can not take the deduction , but can do the Roth , by all means , this is the ' no-brainer ' decision . Makes no sense to deposit non-deducted to a traditional IRA if you can do Roth . But - for sake of the full picture - if above the Roth limit , you still should make the post tax deposit ( to the traditional . ) If you have no pretax IRA at all , you can convert immediately . If you have a mix , you have the option to convert piecemeal paying the tax on the pro-rated amount the pretax represents .
Much like if you had a large capital gain with no withholding , you should determine if you 'll be at risk of an <URL> . Generally this means you end up owing more than $ 1000 at tax filing time , though there are some safe harbors . Unfortunately that is more difficult with AMT and its interplay with the regular income tax system . But you should be able to estimate how much extra you 'll owe . With that information , you have two options . You can either pay estimated taxes , or if you have a W-2 job , just adjust your withholding . Keep in mind if you 're exercising now , the penalty should be pretty minimal since it 's only for part of the year , and interest rates are low .
Your maximum risk is 100 % . If you buy the stock 15 % off and your company goes bankrupt tomorrow , you 've lost everything . It also sounds like you have foreign exchange risk . One can debate how much risk this is in terms of expected outcomes , but that was not your question . However , if you purchase the company stock and buy put options at the same time , you can lock in a sale price ahead of time and absolutely limit your risk . Depending on the amount of stock we 're talking about , you can buy currency futures as well to hedge the exchange risk . You do n't necessarily have to buy the break-even strikes , you can buy the ones that guarantee a positive return . These are probably fairly cheap . Note that a lot of companies have policies that prohibit beneficiaries from shorting the company stocks , in which case you might not be able to hedge yourself with put options .
For me , it would be hard to leave all forms of money at home ( cash , credit card , debit card . ) There are times when you simply need to have money on hand . But , here 's a simple idea I have that lets you bring your cards with you , yet still puts up a hurdle to curb impulse buying . Get a sheet of paper , scissors , pen , and tape . Craft a small envelope just the right size to hold a credit card . Put your credit card in this new envelope and tape it shut ; i.e. no easy access . On both sides write : Do you really need it ? Repeat for each of the cards you need to carry . When you 're in a situation where you want to buy something , the card that 's in your wallet/purse will be wrapped in your crafted " reminder envelope . " You 'll see the reminder , which is hopefully enough . Then , in order to make a purchase you 'll need to tear it open . That should get you to think twice . The one problem with the above is online purchases : If you have memorized your card information , add this rule for yourself : No online purchases without the payment card present and visible . ( i.e. you also must tear open the envelope for online purchases . )
Nearly every country has its own exchange because so many countries have their own currency , and currency permeates every part of an exchange 's business . Generally , an exchange will support transaction and settlement only in local currency . Securities ( except those that explicitly enable FX trading ) are denominated and will trade in a single currency -- you can only buy a share of IBM in U.S. dollars . Securities trading always seeks to be a clean , frictionless , scalable process , and adding cross-currency translation to the mix would just complicate things . So it 's one exchange , one currency . In most countries , citizens and even businesses are largely restricted to having bank accounts in local currency . There are various political reasons for this , but there it is : it is difficult or impossible to open a domestic bank account in a foreign-denominated currency . A public company headquartered in a given country will be required to publish financial statements in local currency , will be more likely to do business with the local citizenry and businesses in that currency , and so will likely look for investors from that same pool -- which generally means listing in local currency , which means on an exchange in that country . There are exceptions , of course . Big multinationals do business all over the world , and many seek investors all over the world as well . Mechanisms have been created to permit this ( American Depositary Receipts or ADRs , for example ) . But once again , cross-currency translation makes things more complicated , so ADRs and their like are only practical for very big international players . As to why there may be many exchanges in a single country , IMO Nick R has it right . Read " Flash Boys " ; many market makers profit from trading between exchanges , and so have an interest in there being many of them . And in the U.S. , regulators have expressed an interest in " innovation " in the exchange space , and so permit them . There is also an argument to be made against having a single " Too Big To Fail " exchange just like the argument for banks , but I would n't call that a " reason " for the current state of affairs .
You 're talking about NQO - non-qualified stock options . Even assuming the whole scheme is going to work , the way NQO are taxed is that the difference between the fair market value and the strike price is considered income to you and is taxed as salary . You 'll save nothing , and will add a huge headache and additional costs of IPO and SEC regulations .
The sentence you quoted does not apply in the case where you sell the stock at a loss . In that case , you recognize zero ordinary income , and a capital loss ( opposite of a gain ) for the loss . Reference : <URL>
Yes it is legal , in fact according to <URL> , foreign investors are the largest holders of UK shares ( as of 2008 ) . Investors from outside the UK owned 41.5 per cent of shares listed on the London Stock Exchange at the end of 2008 , up from 40.0 per cent at end of 2006 , according to the latest Office for National Statistics report on share ownership .
end question
start question
In 2015 , why has the price of natural gas been plummeting ?
You do not hold leveraged ETF for longer than a few days . You have UGAZ and DGAZ , both 3x leveraged , one longs one shorts . What happens if you buy both ? You do n't get 0 % return . In fact , you get -10 % return if you hold both for 3 months . No matter what happens , they both go down in long term . Call it Leverage Decay , Beta Slippage , Contango , Rollover , etc. . If you want to gamble that NG goes up within 3 days , go ahead . Just be prepared for the worst cases like losing 15 % in 3 days . If you want to speculate the NG will recover in a year , buy Natural Gas industry ETF <URL>
It 's simply supply and demand . First , demand : If you 're an importer trying to buy from overseas , you 'll need foreign currency , maybe Euros . Or if you want to make a trip to Europe you 'll need to buy Euros . Or if you 're a speculator and think the USD will fall in value , you 'll probably buy Euros . Unless there 's someone willing to sell you Euros for dollars , you ca n't get any . There are millions of people trying to exchange currency all over the world . If more want to buy USD , than that demand will positively influence the price of the USD ( as measured in Euros ) . If more people want to buy Euros , well , vice versa . There are so many of these transactions globally , and the number of people and the nature of these transactions change so continuously , that the prices ( exchange rates ) for these currencies fluctuate continuously and smoothly . Demand is also impacted by what people want to buy and how much they want to buy it . If people generally want to invest their savings in stocks instead of dollars , i.e. , if lots of people are attempting to buy stocks ( by exchanging their dollars for stock ) , then the demand for the dollar is lower and the demand for stocks is higher . When the stock market crashes , you 'll often see a spike in the exchange rate for the dollar , because people are trying to exchange stocks for dollars ( this represents a lot of demand for dollars ) . Then there 's " Supply : " It may seem like there are a fixed number of bills out there , or that supply only changes when Bernanke prints money , but there 's actually a lot more to it than that . If you 're coming from Europe and want to buy some USD from the bank , well , how much USD does the bank " have " and what does it mean for them to have money ? The bank gets money from depositors , or from lenders . If one person puts money in a deposit account , and then the bank borrows that money from the account and lends it to a home buyer in the form of a mortgage , the same dollar is being used by two people . The home buyer might use that money to hire a carpenter , and the carpenter might put the dollar back into a bank account , and the same dollar might get lent out again . In economics this is called the " multiplier effect . " The full supply of money being used ends up becoming harder to calculate with this kind of debt and re-lending . Since money is something used and needed for conducting of transactions , the number of transactions being conducted ( sometimes on credit ) affects the " supply " of money . Demand and supply blur a bit when you consider people who hoard cash . If I fear the stock market , I might keep all my money in dollars . This takes cash away from companies who could invest it , takes the cash out of the pool of money being used for transactions , and leaves it waiting under my mattress . You could think of my hoarding as a type of demand for currency , or you could think of it as a reduction in the supply of currency available to conduct transactions . The full picture can be a bit more complicated , if you look at every way currencies are used globally , with swaps and various exchange contracts and futures , but this gives the basic story of where prices come from , that they are not set by some price fixer but are driven by market forces . The bank just facilitates transactions . If the last price ( exchange rate ) is 1.2 Dollars per Euro , and the bank gets more requests to buy USD for Euros than Euros for USD , it adjusts the rate downwards until the buying pressure is even . If the USD gets more expensive , at some point fewer people will want to buy it ( or want to buy products from the US that cost USD ) . The bank maintains a spread ( like buy for 1.19 and sell for 1.21 ) so it can take a profit . You should think of currency like any other commodity , and consider purchases for currency as a form of barter . The value of currency is merely a convention , but it works . The currency is needed in transactions , so it maintains value in this global market of bartering goods/services and other currencies . As supply and demand for this and other commodities/goods/services fluctuate , so does the quantity of any particular currency necessary to conduct any of these transactions . A official " basket of goods " and the price of those goods is used to determine consumer price indexes / inflation etc. . The official price of this particular basket of goods is not a fundamental driver of exchange rates on a day to day basis .
You have to look at the whole picture . What is happening to volume prior to the reversal ? How long has the trend been going for ? Is there any divergence between price and momentum before the reversal commenced ? Have there been any bad reports by the company or any bad new stories ? What is happening to the market as a whole ? When a reversal happens on heavy volume it may indicate that sentiment has changed , the bulls have been exhausted ( no more buyers in the market ) , and the bears are taking charge ( sellers starting to take profits ) . This effect may cause panic in other security holders and cause them to sell . Then you get other holder 's stop losses being triggered and shorters entering the market . If this continues it can cause panic and fear throughout security holders and cause the downtrend to accelerate . Think of it as an uptrend climbing up stairs and a downtrend falling off the cliff at the top . Fear tends to be a stronger emotion than greed . Something else to look out for just prior to the reversal is intraday highs not holding up by the close . If you look at a candlestick chart this is illustrated by long wicks on the up side with small real bodies . This may indicate that the bulls are trying to push the price higher during the day but the bears push it back down by the close . This is another indication that momentum in the uptrend may be drying up , especially if it occurs over a few consecutive days . If you get this behaviour followed by a drop in price on large volume , it may be the start of a steep reversal .
If you do n't know the refund amount - how exactly do you expect anything to be filed ? The CPA can not file anything on your behalf without you signing <URL> - which has the refund amount printed on it . You should have signed this form and received a copy of the tax return , otherwise - the CPA can not file anything . In case your CPA is a crook and filed your tax return without your authorization - you 'll see it on your IRS transcript . I wrote a <URL> . However , CPA doing so may very easily lose the license , so I doubt that it happened in your case . More likely than not your CPA just did n't do it on time . If it results in any penalties for you - you can demand the CPA to cover it ( but not the actual tax - that is yours ) . If you 're due refund there will be no penalties .
Forms 1095B and 1095C will be required for the <URL> , and are due to you by February 1 , 2016 ( basically the same deadline as your W-2 ) . If you 're provided minimum essential coverage by a plan ( including Medicaid ) , that plan is required to send you the appropriate form by that date . Employer sponsored plans , government plans , Marketplace plans , and any other plan all are subject to this requirement . Contact your insurer or the agency responsible for Medicaid , in order to obtain more information as to when that form will be available and to ensure your address is up to date . Finally , the IRS has indicated that you do not need to wait for these forms . Following the advice from <URL> , you may complete your tax returns without these forms so long as you have other information that proves you have coverage . You wo n't be prevented from filing ( as you 're basically checking a box ) , so long as you are n't enrolled in a marketplace plan .
When a stock is going to become public there 's a level of analysis required to figure out the range of IPO price that makes sense . For a company that 's somewhat mature , and has a sector to compare it to , you can come up with a range that would be pretty close . For the recent linkedin , it 's tougher to price a somewhat unique company , running at a loss , in a market rich with cash looking for the next great deal . If one gives this any thought , an opening price that 's so far above the IPO price represents a failure of the underwriters to price it correctly . It means the original owners just sold theirvshares for far less than the market thought they were worth on day one . The day of IPO the stock opens similar to how any stock would open at 9:30 , there are bids and asks and a price at which supply ( the ask ) and demand ( bid ) balance . For this IPO , it would appear that there were enough buyers to push the price to twice the anticipated open and it 's maintained that level since . It 's possible to have a different system in which a Dutch auction is used to make the shares public , in theory this can work , it 's just not used commonly .
83 ( b ) election is for restricted stocks , not options , so my answer assumes exercise at vest/at grant ( early exercise ) . Will I have to pay tax on ( 2000 * 8 = $ 16000 ) Yes . Will it be a regular income tax or AMT or a short term capital gain ? You have no gain . You vested at $ 10 and sold at $ 10 , you got a wash . The $ 16K you mentioned earlier is the benefit you got from the company , which is not a gain but your salary and is taxed as such ( including FICA etc ) . Also , I read that 83B does not make sense for vested stocks Indeed . In the above case , can I file 83B for the unvested 1000 stocks ? No , you can only file 83 ( b ) election within 30 days from the grant . By not filing it , you ended up with $ 16K being taxed at vest time as your salary ( i.e. : at marginal rates ) . Had you filed 83 ( b ) election on time , you 'd pay the tax on your benefit ( the $ 2 per option , if you did n't have to buy them ) , but all the gains on vesting would be capital gains ( likely long term ) . That ship has sailed , for that particular grant . Since in your case you can exercise the options , it is not as bad as it could have been . Consider a case where you got 1000 options at $ 0.01 , they vested at $ 1000 , you exercised them to get the stocks and you could n't sell any ( not yet public , ca n't sell privately , etc ) . You 'd be taxed on $ 1M when you never actually received any cash income , and you 'd have to chip out $ 300K on taxes on income you never had . By the time you could sell , the stocks can fall , say to $ 100 , leaving you with hundreds of thousands of capital loss that you can not deduct , and hundreds of thousands of taxes owed which you have no money to pay . That led to a lot of problems for people during the 90 's . com bubble and the subsequent crash .
Taxes are a tool for achieving social policy goals . While Americans consider " Socialism " to be a curse , the US is in fact quite socialistic . Mostly towards corporations , but sometimes even the normal people , not only the " Corporation are people , my friend " ( M. Romney ) get some discounts . The tax deduction on mortgage interest comes as a tool to encourage Americans to own their homes . It is important , socially , for people to own their home to be independent , and in general contributes to the stability of the society . As anything , when taken to the extreme , it in fact achieves exactly the opposite , as we 've seen in 2008 , but when balanced - works well . Capital gain is taxed in the US , because it is income . Generally , any income is taxed . However , gain sourced from the sale of primary residence is excluded , up to a certain ( quite large ) amount from this tax ( if lived in the residence long enough - 3 of the last 5 years prior to sale ) . This , again , to encourage Americans to upgrade their houses and make it easier for Americans to relocate when needed ( sell one house and buy another without losing cash on taxes ) . As to " asset producing income " - that is true in the US as well . You can not deduct your personal expenses , in general . Mortgage interest on primary residence is a notable exception , because it serves a social cause . Similarly , medical expenses are allowed as a deduction , if they 're above certain limit , and many other things ( for example - if a US person totals his car , and insurance does n't cover the loss - it is tax deductible , above certain limit , the higher the income - the higher the limit ) . These are purely social policy breaks . Socialism , something Americans like to have , and love to hate . Many " anti-socialists " in the US are in fact taking advantage of these specific tax breaks the most , because for rich folks these are limited or non-existent ( mortgage interest limited up to 1 million , medical expenses are allowed only above certain percentage of income , etc ) .
Prices quoted are primarily the offer prices quoted by the numerous market makers on the stock exchange ( s ) willing to sell you the stock . There is another price which generally is n't seen on these websites , the bid prices , which are lower prices quoted by buyers and market makers willing to buy your shares from you . You would n't see those prices , unless you login to your trade terminal . How meaningful are they to you depends on what you want to do buy or sell . If you want to buy then yes they are relevant . But if you want to sell , then no . And remember some websites delay market information by 15 minutes , in case of Google you might have seen that the volume is delayed by 15 minutes . So you need to consider that also while trading , but may n't be a concern unless you are trying to buy out the company .
There is no rule that says the dealer has to honor that deal , nor is there any that says he/she wo n't . However , if you are thinking of financing through though the dealership they are likely to honor the deal . They PREFER you finance it . If you finance it through the dealer the salesman just got TWO sales ( a car and a loan ) and probably gets a commission on both . If you finance it through a third party it makes no difference to the dealer , it is still a cash deal to them because even though you pay off the car loan over years , the bank pays them immediately in full .
There is no ETF that closely tracks oil or gasoline . This is because all existing oil and gasoline ETFs hold futures contracts or other derivatives . Storing the oil and gasoline would be prohibitively costly . Futures contracts are prone to contango and backwardation , sometimes resulting in large deviations from the price of the physical commodity . Contrast oil ETFs with metal ETFs , which track nicely . EDIT : <URL>
The " price " is the price of the last transaction that actually took place . According to <URL> : A stock price is determined by what was last paid for it . During market hours ( usually weekdays from 9:30 AM-4 :00 PM eastern ) , a heavily traded issue will see its price change several times per second . A stock 's price is , for many purposes , considered unchanged outside of market hours . Roughly speaking , a transaction is executed when an offer to buy matches an offer to sell . These offers are listed in the Order Book for a stock ( Example : <URL> ) . This is actively updated during trading hours . This lists all the currently active buy ( " bid " ) and sell ( " ask " ) orders for a stock , and looks like this : You 'll notice that the stock price ( again , the last sale price ) will ( usually * ) be between the highest bid and the lowest ask price . * Exception : When all the buy or sell prices have moved down or up , but no trades have executed yet .
Also , if a beneficiary claims that he / she did not receive the FTT and Bank B refuses to confirm , how do one settle such dispute ? If Beneficiary claims Non-Receipt , you can take this to your Bank A and mention that Beneficiary Claims Non-Receipt [ BCNR ] . Bank A then will contact Bank B and either reverse the funds if there was an issue or will provide you with evidence [ some ref numbers etc ] of the receipt by Beneficiary . Apart from asking the beneficiary directly , how can I confirm / validate if an FTT has been credited into the beneficiary 's bank account ? Generally if your Bank A does not come back , it can be assumed that the funds have been credited . It typically takes 2 days , adding cut-off time , holidays , etc , within 3-4 days the funds would have got credited . Bank B denied my request citing security reasons . Bank B is right . They have no obligation to you and do not know you . They only know Bank A and Beneficiary .
It is a must in most folks ' portfolios . If you invest in <URL> ETFs/funds , you 'll have a decent amount of healthcare . If you invest in actively managed value , blend , and growth mutual funds , you 'll also get healthcare . If you 're rolling your own portfolio ( in the US ) , you might consider starting with a general purpose health company ( e.g. J&amp;J ) , then maybe add a large pharma company ( e.g. Pfizer , Merck , etc ) , then top off with some more specialized/focused companies . Of course , you do n't want to put all of your portfolio in healthcare alone . There are other sectors that also have good long-term outlooks ( energy &amp; tech , as well ) . EDIT : Added link to Morningstar portfolio analysis for SPX .
Re : A trader when buying needs to buy at the ask price and when selling needs to sell at the bid price . So how can a trade happen ' in between ' the bid and ask ? Saying the trade can happen " in between " the bid &amp; ask is simplistic . There is a time dimension to the market . It 's more accurate to say that an order can be placed " in between " the current best bid &amp; ask ( observed at time T = 0 ) , thus establishing a new level for one or the other of those quoted prices ( observed at time T > 0 ) . If you enter a market order to buy ( or sell ) , then yes , you 'll generally be accepting the current best ask ( or best bid ) with your order , because that 's what a market order says to do : Accept the current best market price being offered for your kind of transaction . Of course , prices may move much faster than your observation of the price and the time it takes to process your order -- you 're far from being the only participant . Market orders aside , you are free to name your own price above or below the current best bid &amp; ask , respectively . If you were to enter an order to sell at a price that is lower than the current best ask , or , If you were to enter an order to buy at a price that is higher than the current best bid , ... then one could say that you are placing an order " in between " the bid and ask at the time your order is placed . However -- and this is key -- you are also moving one or the other of those quoted prices in the process of placing your above-bid buy order or your below-ask sell order . Then , only if somebody else in the market chooses to accept your new ask ( or bid ) does your intended transaction take place . And that transaction takes place at the new ask ( or bid ) price , not the old one that was current when you entered your order . Read more about bid &amp; ask prices at this other question : <URL> ( p.s. FWIW , I do n't necessarily agree with the assertion from the article you quoted , i.e. : " By looking for trades that take place in between the bid and ask , you can tell when a strong trend is about to come to an end . " I would say : Maybe , perhaps , but maybe not . )
Mutual funds are collections of investments that other people pay to join . It would be simpler to calculate the value of all these investments at one time each day , and then to deem that any purchases or sales happen at that price . The fund diversifies rather than magnifies risk , looking to hold rather than enjoy a quick turnaround . Nobody really needs hourly updated price information for an investment they intend to hold for decades . They quote their prices on a daily basis and you take the daily price . This makes sense for a vehicle that is a balanced collection of many different assets , most of which will have varying prices over the course a day . That makes pricing complicated . This <URL> explains mutual fund pricing and the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 , which mandates daily price reporting . It also illustrates the complexity : How does the fund pricing process work ? Mutual fund pricing is an intensive process that takes place in a short time frame at the end of the day . Generally , a fund 's pricing process begins at the close of the New York Stock Exchange , normally 4 p.m. Eastern time . The fund 's accounting agent , which may be an affiliated entity such as the fund 's adviser , or a third-party servicer such as the fund 's administrator or custodian bank , is usually responsible for calculating the share price . The accounting agent obtains prices for the fund 's securities from pricing services and directly from brokers . Pricing services collect securities prices from exchanges , brokers , and other sources and then transmit them to the fund 's accounting agent . Fund accounting agents internally validate the prices received by subjecting them to various control procedures . For example , depending on the nature and extent of its holdings , a fund may use one or more pricing services to ensure accuracy . Note that under Rule 22c-1 forward pricing , fund shareholders receive the next daily price , not the last daily price . Forward pricing makes sense if you want shareholders to get the most accurate sale or purchase price , but not if you want purchasers and sellers to be able to make precise calculations about gains and losses ( how can you be precise if the price wo n't be known until after you buy or sell ? ) .
Costs are almost entirely salaries Apart from all the usual costs incurred by running a large , complex , business , ManU are servicing debt that is getting up around the GBP500M mark . This is debt racked up by the Glazer family since purchasing the team , as well as debt they took with them to the team . What sort of factors would affect their share price ? Product endorsements , ticket prices , attendance , and merchandise sales are all important contributors . But also , performance in the domestic league and in domestic and European cups are also factors . Should their participation falter for any reason , that ripples through everything ( decrease in brand exposure ) - and this is , along with the debt problem , the biggest risk . Edit : By the way , you are aware that this is an NYSE IPO ; you can see how they have done on the FTSE over the past 10 years or so .
If your annual salary exceeded the maximum amount subject to Social Security tax for 2013 ( $ 113,700 as per JoeTaxpayer 's comment ) , then it is possible that the last paycheck is what put you over the limit . Thus , part of the salary on the last paycheck had Social Security tax withheld and part did not . As JoeTaxpayer points out , there is no limit on the earnings subject to Medicare tax , and so that amount should not have changed at all .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
Short answer The second article you linked to ( on <URL> ) states it best : In forward contracts , the forward price and the delivery price are identical when the contract begins , but as time passes , the forward price will fluctuate and the delivery price will remain constant . In short , the forward price only equals the delivery price the moment the contract is created . After that , they can , and almost certainly will , differ . Long answer My somewhat longer answer to this question addresses each of the three time periods in the life of a forward contract ; the following uses three assumptions/pieces of notation . The delivery price is fixed . The contract matures at time . is just a parameter that represents the current time . Those points look exceedingly basic , and they are . I point them out merely for the sake of completeness . The three key periods are the moment the contract begins ( ) , the life of the contract ( ) , and the contract at maturity ( ) . In each of these periods , different factors affect the forward price , and the implications for the relationship between the forward price and the delivery price are different in each period . Contract begins ( ) : This is the simplest case . Two parties agree on the contract and create it . As the Investopedia article states , the forward price equals the delivery price . Life of the contract ( ) Over the life of the contract , the forward price depends on <URL> , especially the <URL> of the underlying asset . Because constantly-changing factors like supply and demand affect the spot price , the forward price can , in turn , vary considerably over the life of the contract . The same rationale applies for other factors that affect the forward price , like the risk-free interest rate , the cost of carry , etc. . This implies that in this time period , the delivery price is still fixed at the price specified in the contract , but the forward price is fluctuating as the spot price and other values change . In other words , they are n't equal . Contract matures ( ) At maturity , the forward price converges to the spot price of the underlying asset . Investopedia has a <URL> , but a quick explanation is that if these two prices did n't converge , an arbitrage opportunity would exist , and traders would quickly act on this and remove any price differential . Forward contracts are non-standard , however , so it 's completely possible that multiple contracts on the same underlying asset , each specifying a different delivery price , are maturing on the same date ( presumably with different parties and counterparties involved ) . Since there can be multiple delivery prices somewhere in the market , but only one spot price of the underlying asset , these wo n't be equal for all forward contracts maturing on the same date . Therefore , at maturity , the forward price/spot price ( which are now the same ) wo n't necessarily equal the delivery price .
end question
start question
Can I claim GST/HST Input Tax Credits ( ITCs ) on Uber , taxi , or limousine fares ?
The Canada Revenue Agency describes in detail <URL> what information businesses must generally include on their invoices so that GST/HST registrants can claim Input Tax Credits ( ITCs ) for the expenses . Quote : Sales invoices for GST/HST registrants You have to give customers who are GST/HST registrants specific information on the invoices , receipts , contracts , or other business papers that you use when you provide taxable goods and services . This information lets them support their claims for input tax credits ( ITCs ) or rebates for the GST/HST you charged . [ ... ] The page quoted continues with a table describing what , specifically , needs to be on a sales invoice based on the total amount of the invoice ; the requirements differ for : total sale under $ 30 , total sale between $ 30 to $ 149.99 , and total sale $ 150 or more . For the total sale under $ 30 category , the only things a sales invoice must contain to support an ITC claim are ( 1 ) the provider 's business name , ( 2 ) the invoice date , and ( 3 ) the total amount paid/payable . i.e. . When the total sale is under $ 30 , there is no requirement for any GST/HST amount to be indicated separately , nor for a business number to be present on the invoice . Hence , IMHO ( and I am neither an accountant nor a lawyer ) , if your Uber rides are for $ 30 or less , then you should n't expect a GST/HST number anyway , and a simple invoice as described should be enough for you to claim your ITCs . Whether or not the provider is registered in fact for GST/HST is beside the point . For amounts over $ 30 , you need a bit more . While the page above specifies that the provider 's business number should be included beginning with the next level of total sales , there are exceptions to those rules described at another page mentioned , <URL> , that specifically apply to the taxi/limousine case . Quote : Exceptions to invoice requirements GST/HST registrants are required to keep the necessary documentation to support their claim for ITCs and rebates . In certain circumstances the documentation requirements have been reduced . [ ... ] For taxi or limousine fares your books and records must show : the supplier 's name or trade name ; the date of the supply ; the fare ; and the amount of GST/HST charged , or a statement that the fare includes GST/HST . [ emphasis mine ] So at a minimum , for fare in excess of $ 30 total , you should ask the driver to note either ( a ) the amount of GST/HST charged , or ( b ) a statement that the fare includes GST/HST . The driver 's business number need not be specified . Consequently , if your receipt for a ride in excess of $ 30 does not contain any such additional information with respect to GST/HST , then I would expect the receipt does not satisfy the CRA 's requirements for supporting your ITC claim . i.e. Keep your individual rides under $ 30 each , or else get a better receipt from the driver when it is above that amount . p.s. . It should go without saying , but your rides , of course , must be considered reasonable business expenses in order to qualify for GST/HST ITCs for your business . Receipts for rides of a personal nature are not eligible , so be sure to maintain proper records as to the business purpose and destination for each ride receipt so claimed .
The Canada Revenue Agency describes in detail <URL> what information businesses must generally include on their invoices so that GST/HST registrants can claim Input Tax Credits ( ITCs ) for the expenses . Quote : Sales invoices for GST/HST registrants You have to give customers who are GST/HST registrants specific information on the invoices , receipts , contracts , or other business papers that you use when you provide taxable goods and services . This information lets them support their claims for input tax credits ( ITCs ) or rebates for the GST/HST you charged . [ ... ] The page quoted continues with a table describing what , specifically , needs to be on a sales invoice based on the total amount of the invoice ; the requirements differ for : total sale under $ 30 , total sale between $ 30 to $ 149.99 , and total sale $ 150 or more . For the total sale under $ 30 category , the only things a sales invoice must contain to support an ITC claim are ( 1 ) the provider 's business name , ( 2 ) the invoice date , and ( 3 ) the total amount paid/payable . i.e. . When the total sale is under $ 30 , there is no requirement for any GST/HST amount to be indicated separately , nor for a business number to be present on the invoice . Hence , IMHO ( and I am neither an accountant nor a lawyer ) , if your Uber rides are for $ 30 or less , then you should n't expect a GST/HST number anyway , and a simple invoice as described should be enough for you to claim your ITCs . Whether or not the provider is registered in fact for GST/HST is beside the point . For amounts over $ 30 , you need a bit more . While the page above specifies that the provider 's business number should be included beginning with the next level of total sales , there are exceptions to those rules described at another page mentioned , <URL> , that specifically apply to the taxi/limousine case . Quote : Exceptions to invoice requirements GST/HST registrants are required to keep the necessary documentation to support their claim for ITCs and rebates . In certain circumstances the documentation requirements have been reduced . [ ... ] For taxi or limousine fares your books and records must show : the supplier 's name or trade name ; the date of the supply ; the fare ; and the amount of GST/HST charged , or a statement that the fare includes GST/HST . [ emphasis mine ] So at a minimum , for fare in excess of $ 30 total , you should ask the driver to note either ( a ) the amount of GST/HST charged , or ( b ) a statement that the fare includes GST/HST . The driver 's business number need not be specified . Consequently , if your receipt for a ride in excess of $ 30 does not contain any such additional information with respect to GST/HST , then I would expect the receipt does not satisfy the CRA 's requirements for supporting your ITC claim . i.e. Keep your individual rides under $ 30 each , or else get a better receipt from the driver when it is above that amount . p.s. . It should go without saying , but your rides , of course , must be considered reasonable business expenses in order to qualify for GST/HST ITCs for your business . Receipts for rides of a personal nature are not eligible , so be sure to maintain proper records as to the business purpose and destination for each ride receipt so claimed .
I found a page , <URL> , listing fuel taxes by province . Ontario 's gas prices already includes 14.7 cents per litre of provincial fuel tax , and comments noted " Additional taxes include 5 % GST . " For Nova Scotia and New Brunswick , where HST is in effect , comments noted " Additional taxes include 13 % HST . " That would seem to imply that if Ontario is introducing the HST , then there will be an additional 8 % added ( Ontario 's current PST ) to the price at the pump . I wanted definitive information , though , so I did a little more digging : First , I came across <URL> , at the Ontario Ministry of Revenue , confirming fuel tax of " 14.7 cents per litre of unleaded gasoline " . While it confirmed the fuel tax , it did n't mention GST or HST . Next I found <URL> , also from the Ontario MoR . That page lists goods &amp; services that wo n't be affected because they are already subject to both GST + PST , and then goes on to list those that will be affected since they are n't currently subject to PST . One item listed under " Change in Taxable Status " is gasoline : ... some goods and services that were not subject to the PST will be subject to the provincial portion ( eight per cent ) of the HST for the first time . ... Change in Taxable Status Electricity Gasoline Heating Fuels Internet Access Fees Personal Services ( e.g. , Hairstyling ) Professional Services ( e.g. , Legal , Accounting and Real Estate Fees and Commissions ) Tobacco So : I expect all-in fuel prices in Ontario to jump on July 1st , 2010 , when HST takes effect . Finally , here 's one more resource I came across : Petro Canada has a blog called <URL> with this post : <URL> ( March , 2009 ) . Relevant excerpt : ... Obviously there are many details yet to be released , so this is just for fun . If nothing were to change , simply adding the 8 % Ontario PST and applying it the same way as the GST is applied to today 's pump price in Ontario would add 6.6 cents in tax to a litre of gasoline . That means a pump price of about 92 cents per litre today in Toronto rather than 86 cents ... or about $ 2.64 more for that 40 litre fill-up . ...
I 'm afraid it 's not very easy . US tax code is very complex and has layers of conditions , exceptions , limitations , tweaks and twists , which may be very complex to navigate and easy to mess up . However , what you probably could do is take some tax preparation software - such as TurboTax , you can use it for free until you actually file and even file Federal for free , if I remember correctly . So , this software would have comprehensive itemized list of deductions , which you may browse freely or let it guide you through it . Each item usually is accompanies by explanations , what that one does , which forms you need to accompany it , what are conditions on it , etc. . Of course , it 's not very " simplified " , but it can be a start . You also could use the program to guide you and then decide if you want to pay to file or prepare your own return guided by the advice the program gives you .
Your tax bracket is determined by your total taxable income in a given year , where money drawn from a traditional-style deferred-tax 401k or IRA is taxable income . ( Money drawn from a Roth account was taxed before deposit and is not taxed when withdrawn after the relevant date . ) Your recent salary history has no effect on this , except salary in the same year -- and there is no advantage to be gained by taking a deliberate pay cut for its own sake .
As DJClayworth 's answer explains , normally you ca n't transfer personal allowances between people , whether married or not . However , as of April 2015 , it 's now possible to transfer a small part of your allowance to your husband or wife under certain circumstances . The main criteria are that One spouse needs to be earning less than the personal allowance The other spouse needs to be paying basic rate tax only The amount of allowance that you can transfer for the 2015-16 tax year is up to # 1,060 , so your spouse would end up saving # 212 in tax at the 20 % rate . The full conditions are <URL> : You 'll be able to claim Marriage Allowance if all the following apply : you 're married or in a civil partnership your annual income is # 10,600 or less , plus up to # 5,000 of tax-free savings interest your partner 's annual income is between # 10,601 and # 42,385 you were born on or after 6 April 1935 ( for people born before 6 April 1935 , there 's a separate but confusingly similarly named <URL> )
From the article <URL> The IRS has some advice for taxpayers who missed the tax filing deadline . File as soon as possible . If you owe federal income tax , you should file and pay as soon as you can to minimize any penalty and interest charges . There is no penalty for filing a late return if you are due a refund .
Follow the guidelines from the IRS . It is very straight forward . The purpose of exempt is to make it more likely that somebody who in not going to have to pay does n't have to file to get their withheld money back . If the situation changes because they work more hours , or they get a big raise just submit a new W-4 . The biggest risk is that they go over the limit , but the safe harbor rules will protect them . The general rule is that if you have withheld 100 % of the previous years tax you are protected . 100 % of $ 0 is still $ 0 . Employers are supposed to re-verify each year that a person is still exempt .
" non-resident aliens " to the US do not pay capital gains on US products . You pay tax in your home country if you have done a taxable event in your country . <URL> but if you hold dividends , you are subject to US dividend tax . The UK-US treaty should touch on that though .
Part 2 first : resale is exempt <URL> The new homes is a little messier <URL> goes into some detail . Effectively if the home is $ 400,000 or less , then a government rebate should offset the HST , to effectively be back to where you would have been with the old RST ( Retail Sales Tax ) . Excruciating details are <URL>
This depends on how your agreement with the US Company is structured . Consult a professional CA who will guide you . As you have stated , the entire amount of $ 1000 would be treated as income , for certain professions and type of activities , you can claim the tax paid in US and only pay additional in India , ie if you have paid 25 % in US and are liable for 30 % in India you just pay 5 % more .
Hourly rate is not the determinant . You could be selling widgets , not hours . Rather , there 's a $ 30,000 annual revenue threshold for GST/HST . If your business 's annual revenues fall below that amount , you do n't need to register for GST/HST and in such case you do n't charge your clients the tax . You could still choose to register for GST/HST if your revenues are below the threshold , in which case you must charge your clients the tax . Some businesses voluntarily enroll for GST/HST , even when below the threshold , so they can claim input tax credits . If your annual revenues exceed $ 30,000 , you must register for GST/HST and you must charge your clients the tax . FWIW , certain kinds of supplies are <URL> , but the kind of services you 'd be offering as an independent contractor in Canada are n't likely to be . There 's more to the GST/HST than this , so be sure to talk to a tax accountant . References : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
It depends on the State law , but in most sales tax is applied before any discount by the merchant , but after manufacturer 's discount . However , Groupon voucher in this case is not a discount , it is a credit , i.e. : form of payment . It does n't affect the price . Thus the sales tax would apply to the whole amount ( $ 20 ) and added to the total bill . You should be charged $ 21.60 , of which the Groupon voucher would cover $ 20 . Restaurants that give you the $ 0.00 bill are essentially absorbing the sales tax , or making a mistake ( if the the $ 1.60 never make it to the state ) which may cost them if audited . Keep in mind , also , that food is exempt from sales tax , and depending on the type of restaurant and the type of food served ( hot vs cold , for example ) - sales tax may not apply . That may also explain the different experiences . For restaurants , sales tax applies on the service ( warming up , serving , seating ) , but if you 're taking a to-go cold sandwich - that may be exempt by your state .
Short answer is no it is not province-restricted and you can claim federal and provincial tuition and education ( and textbook ) amounts against tax payable on any taxable income , regardless of what province you earned it in . N.B. : You should have earned both federal and provincial tuition credits in each year that you were in school . The crux is how the provincial credits are handled when moving . When moving from BC to Ontario , the form <URL> states that you can carry over your provincial credits as is . ( That is , unless you 're moving from Quebec , in which case your unused provincial amount must be set to your unused federal amount . ) A related example would be moving to Alberta , where <URL> states that your unused provincial amount should be set to your unused federal amount no matter what . This rule may change from year to year as well . So as long as you kept track of your provincial amounts when moving , you should be square .
<URL> is a great resource to help you understand what you can and ca n't deduct . It 's not a yes/no question , it depends on the exact company use , other use , and contemporaneous record keeping .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
I 'm a little confused on the use of the property today . Is this place going to be a personal residence for you for now and become a rental later ( after the mortgage is paid off ) ? It does make a difference . If you can buy the house and a 100 % LTV loan would cost less than 125 % of comparable rent ... then buy the house , put as little of your own cash into it as possible and stretch the terms as long as possible . Scott W is correct on a number of counts . The " cost " of the mortgage is the after tax cost of the payments and when that money is put to work in a well-managed portfolio , it should do better over the long haul . Do n't try for big gains because doing so adds to the risk that you 'll end up worse off . If you borrow money at an after-tax cost of 4 % and make 6 % after taxes ... you end up ahead and build wealth . A vast majority of the wealthiest people use this arbitrage to continue to build wealth . They have plenty of money to pay off mortgages , but choose not to . $ 200,000 at 2 % is an extra $ 4000 per year . Compounded at a 7 % rate ... it adds up to $ 180k after 20 years ... not exactly chump change . Money in an investment account is accessible when you need it . Money in home equity is not , has a zero rate of return ( before inflation ) and is not accessible except through another loan at the bank 's whim . If you lose your job and your home is close to paid off but is n't yet , you could have a serious liquidity issue . NOW ... if a 100 % mortgage would cost MORE than 125 % of comparable rent , then there should be no deal . You are looking at a crappy investment . It is cheaper and better just to rent . I do n't care if prices are going up right now . Prices move around . Just because Canada has n't seen the value drops like in the US so far does n't mean it ca n't happen in the future . If comparable rents do n't validate the price with a good margin for profit for an investor , then prices are frothy and can not be trusted and you should lower your monthly costs by renting rather than buying . That $ 350 per month you could save in " rent " adds up just as much as the $ 4000 per year in arbitrage . For rentals , you should only pull the trigger when you can do the purchase without leverage and STILL get a 10 % CAP rate or higher ( rate of return after taxes , insurance and other fixed costs ) . That way if the rental rates drop ( and again that is quite possible ) , you would lose some of your profit but not all of it . If you leverage the property , there is a high probability that you could wind up losing money as rents fall and you have to cover the mortgage out of nonexistent cash flow . I know somebody is going to say , " But John , 10 % CAP on rental real estate ? That 's just not possible around here . " That may be the case . It IS possible somewhere . I have clients buying property in Arizona , New Mexico , Alberta , Michigan and even California who are finding 10 % CAP rate properties . They do exist . They just are n't everywhere . If you want to add leverage to the rental picture to improve the return , then do so understanding the risks . He who lives by the leverage sword , dies by the leverage sword . Down here in the US , the real estate market is littered with corpses of people who thought they could handle that leverage sword . It is a gory , ugly mess .
No . Even if you were married , she ( and you , jointly ) still could not claim anything above $ 2500 for the two of you combined ( even if she separately had interest ) - the deduction is $ 2500 max regardless of married or single . See <URL> for more details . If you were her dependent ( and she claimed you as such ) , she could claim the deduction but not you ; but that 's only if you were her dependent ( and again , the max in total would still be $ 2500 ) . Further , the details include that the loan must have been taken out in your name , and the student must be you , your spouse ( not fiancée , sorry ) or dependent . As such , only one person ( or one married couple ) is ever eligible to deduct student loan interest from a particular loan .
<URL> . Travel expenses relating to the attendance at conferences , seminars and other work-related events are deductible to the extent that they relate to your income-producing activities . You will need to apportion your travel expenses where you undertake both work-related and private activities . Travel costs to and from the location of the work-related event will only be deductible where the primary purpose of the travel was to attend the event . Accommodation , food and other incidental costs must be apportioned between work-related and private activities taking into account the types of activities that you did on the day you incurred the cost . You might like to consider in advance what you would tell them if they questioned this - for instance you might say ( if they are true ) : I 've attended similar seminars previously , in other locations I never seriously considered going to Elbonia until after I heard about this seminar The work benefits of this seminar were as follows . . I 've strictly excluded the vacation-related expenses from my claim
Let 's define better the situation and then analyze it : Start with : End with : Process : So has the same amount of money , just in a different bank account , but and changed states . now does n't have money , and does , as the result of the transaction between , and . The gift tax issue I see is the transfer of money from ( you ) to ( your brother ) . If you 're a US tax resident then you have $ 14K exemption from gift tax per person per year . # 20K is more than that , so it will be subject to the tax . The fact that a third person was involved as an intermediary is irrelevant - for the purpose of gift tax there 's no distinction between using a bank for transfers or a private party . Keep in mind that paying tuition directly to the institution on behalf of your brother may help you mitigate your gift tax liability - tuition payment made on behalf of your brother is exempt from gift tax . But it has to be made directly to the institution , it can not pass through your brother .
end question
start question
Company buyout & I do n't qualify for the new company 's 401k ( too young ! ) . What are my options ?
It depends how you do it . If you roll it from your 401k directly to a Roth then you will have to pay the taxes . The contributions to the 401k are tax deferred . Meaning you do not owe taxes on the money until you collect it . Roth contributions are post tax but the gains are not taxed so long as they are disbursed under acceptable conditions according to the regulations . If you roll it directly from the 401k to a regular tax deferred IRA you should be able to do that with out penalties or taxes . You will still have to pay the taxes at disbursement . If you have the money disbursed to you directly then you will have to pay the penalties , fees , and taxes . Your contributions to an IRA will then be subject to limitations based on the IRA . It will literally be exactly like you are taking money from your pocket to invest in the IRA . Your company should give you the option of a rollover check . This check will be made out to you but it will not be able to be deposited in a regular account or cashed . It will only be redeemable for deposit into a retirement account that meets the regulatory requirements of the 401k rollover criteria . I believe the check I received a few years ago was only good for 60 days . I recall that after 60 days that check was void and I would receive a standard disbursement and would be subject to fees and penalties . I am not sure if that was the policy of T.Rowe Price or if that is part of the regulation .
Despite a fair number of views , no one besides @mbhunter answered , so I 'll gather the findings of my own research here . Hopefully , this will help others in similar situations . If you spot any errors , please let me know ! Exercising your options and taxes : If the strike price for your stock is S and the current fair market value is F , then the difference ( F - S ) is subject to taxes , even if you do n't actually sell the stock and realize that profit . Non-qualified stock options : are subject to income taxes , which roughly means you take the " profit " from ( 1 ) and add it to your income , as if it was part of your salary . This means it gets taxed at whatever tax bracket your salary + profit end up in , usually in the 10-35 % range . ISO stock options : are not subject to income taxes , but they do get counted when calculating AMT . Although most people are n't typically subject to AMT , if you make enough profit from ( 1 ) , you may be . Not sure what the rate is for AMT , but seems to be around 25 % . AMT calculation : fill out form 6251 or use software such as TurboTax ( it takes just a couple minutes using the latter ) . Selling your options : if you sell your options at price P , the difference between ( P - F ) also has tax implications . If ( P - F ) is negative - that is , you lost money - you can write it off . I believe the maximum write off is $ 3k per year . If ( P-F ) is positive - that is , you made a profit - it gets taxed . Short term capital gains tax : if you sell your options less than one year after exercising , the profit is subject to short term capital gains tax . Similar to ( 2 ) , this roughly means the profit is tacked onto your income as if it was part of your salary and depending on what bracket you end up in , gets taxed at 10-35 % . Long term capital gains tax : if you sell your options more than one year after exercising ( and two years after the options were granted ) , the profits are subject to long term capital gains tax , which is typically 15 % . Exercising options early : some companies allow you to exercise all your options early - that is , before they actually vest ( though you still wo n't be able to actually sell them until they vest ) . Advantages of exercising options early : as soon as you exercise , the " clock starts ticking " for when you get into long term capital gains territory and consequently , pay far less taxes when you sell your options . Moreover , if the fair market value is increasing , exercising sooner minimizes ( F - S ) and consequently , minimizes the " profit " that gets taxed at the relatively high rates of income/AMT taxes as described in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) . Exercising when F == S and waiting at least one year to sell your options keeps taxes to an absolute minimum . Disadvantages of exercising options early : to exercise your options , you must pay ( S * N ) + ( F - S ) ( N ) ( income tax or AMT rate ) where S = strike price , F = fair market value , N = number of shares . This may be a lot of money up front , especially given that you might not actually be able to sell these options for a long time . Moreover , by the time you can sell , it 's possible that the stock tanks - or perhaps the company does n't go public in the first place - at which point you 're out a lot of money .
I recommend an individual 401 ( k ) . The contribution limits are higher ( $ 17,500 in 2014 ) than an IRA , and there are no fees to set up and maintain the account from most of the investment firms out there like Fidelity and Schwab . Contributions are tax-deductible , and you can set up company matching as well for additional tax benefits . <URL>
Full payment is always better than auto-loan if you are prudent with finances . I.E if you take a loan , you are factoring the EMI hence your savings will remain as is . However if you manage well , you can buy the car with cash and at the same time put aside the notional EMI as savings and investments . The other factor to consider is what return your cash is giving . If this more than auto-loan interest rate post taxes , you should opt for loan . For example if auto-loan is 10 % and you are getting a return of 15 % after taxes on investment then loan is better . Company Car lease depends on terms . More often you get break on taxes on the EMI component . But you have to buy at the end of lease period and re-register the car in your name , so there is additional cost . Some companies give lease at very favourable rates . Plus if you leave the job lease has to be broken and it becomes more expensive .
You can look the Vanguard funds up on their website and view a risk factor provided by Vanguard on a scale of 1 to 5 . Short term bond funds tend to get their lowest risk factor , long term bond funds and blended investments go up to about 3 , some stock mutual funds are 4 and some are 5 . Note that in 2008 Swenson himself had slightly different target percentages out <URL> that break out the international stocks into emerging versus developed markets . So the average risk of this portfolio is 3.65 out of 5 . My guess would be that a typical twenty-something who expects to retire no earlier than 60 could take more risk , but I do n't know your personal goals or circumstances . If you are looking to maximize return for a level of risk , look into <URL> and the work of economist <URL> , who did extensive work on the topic of maximizing the return given a set risk tolerance . More info on my question <URL> . <URL> provides some great book resources for learning as well . You can also check out a great comparison and contrast of different portfolio allocations <URL> .
You ca n't roll it over to a Roth IRA without tax penalties . The best thing to do is roll it to an IRA that is n't tied to work at all . Second best is to roll it into your new employer 's 401k . The reason that an IRA makes sense is that it gives you the same tax savings as a 401k , but it allows you to remain in control of the money regardless of your employment status .
The average of a dozen good answers is close to what would be right , the wisdom of crowds . But any one answer will be skewed by one 's own opinions . The question is missing too much detail . I look at $ 400K as $ 16K/yr of ongoing withdrawals . How much do you make now ? When the kids are all in school full time , can your wife work ? $ 400K seems on the low side to me , especially with 3 kids . How much have you saved for college ? The $ 150K for your wife is also a bit low . Without a long tangent on the monetary value of the stay at home spouse , what will you spent on childcare if she passes ? Term life also has a expiration date . When my daughter was born , my wife and I got 20 year term . She is now 16 , her college account fully funded , and we are semi-retired . The need for insurance is over . If one of us dies , the survivor does n't need this big of a house , and will have more than they need to be comfortable in a downsized one . My belief is that the term value should bridge the gap to the kids getting through college and the spouse getting resettled . Too much less , I 'd have left my wife at risk . Too much more , she 'd be better off if I were dead . ( I say that half joking , the insurance company will often limit the size policy to something reasonable . )
Assuming that the will that bequeathed the money to your son did not stipulate any restrictions or set up a trust to hold the money until your son turns 25 , or something like that , I do n't think you have much choice except to put the money in a UTMA account ( which of course can be invested in whatever the trustee ( which could be you , or you and your wife jointly ) decides . Note : not a UGMA account since the money is not a gift . You also do n't have any option except to turn the account over to your son when he turns eighteen . The point is , the investment can be in anything as long as the account is registered as a UTMA account . But do remember also that your son is entitled to sue you for breach of fiduciary duty if you do n't take good care of the money , so that blowing it all in risky investments is also not a good idea . If you are worried about taxes and your son 's income being taxed at your rate , one way of deferring the issue is to buy US Savings Bonds . The interest can be deferred from taxation until the bonds are redeemed . Edit added in response to JoeTaxpayer 's comments : But a better strategy is to declare the accrued interest each year as unearned income of the child on the kiddie tax form that is part of your tax return , and pay the tax , if any , that results To ease your mind or conscience , think of the tax that you pay on your child 's behalf as a gift to your child ! In any case , there will likely not be much tax due since the first $ 950 of unearned income of a child is tax-free and the next $ 950 taxed at 10 % . Then , when the bonds are cashed in , the interest that accrued ( and was " taxed " ) in earlier years can be deducted from the interest ( cash in price minus purchase price ) that you ( or your son ) will be told is the interest that the bonds earned . Of course , if kiddie tax is not a concern ( and it should n't be , given the amount available for investment ) , an even better strategy is to set up the UTMA account ( s ) in long-term investments in low-cost index funds or ETFs ( as JoeTaxpayer suggests ) and pay the tax , if any , as it comes due .
No , sorry . A change of 401 ( k ) administrator is not an out , otherwise many would flee a bad plan . I 'd suggest you only deposit up to the match , but use an IRA if you 'd like to save more . A plan with high fees can easily negate the tax benefits and then some .
1 ) Does it make sense to invest more into my 401k beyond what my company will match ? Yes . The tax advantages of the 401k typically are worth it and especially so in an early retirement scenario . If you retire at 40 and have no income in year 41 you can spend year 41 converting money from your 401k into a Roth IRA and end up with money that you have never paid income tax on and will never pay income tax on ( assuming laws stay the same ) . 2 ) Are ETFs a bad choice for short term aggressive growth ? I ca n't seem to find any information on this . ETFs are a type of investment container . They have different goals and different expenses . It 's almost like asking if " Mutual Funds " are a good for short term aggressive growth . Here 's PIMCO 's BOND ETF : <URL> That would be a terrible choice for aggressive short term growth , but it is an ETF . 3 ) Is there any resources you can point me toward that provide realistic early retirement options ? Check out <URL> or <URL> or <URL> You are looking to search for " FIRE " or " Financial Independence/Retire Early " .
If you 're not a recognized non-profit organization then your income is taxable as earned income , or hobby income , depending on the circumstances . Some would say it may be classified as a " gift " , but I would argue that to be a dangerous proposition , and would advise against it .
Well , so long as the shares trade they are valued at greater than " worthless . " An important distinction . If truly worthless , you indicate a sell date of the day they were deemed worthless , and a sale price of zero . In your case , the broker should sell the shares for you . If the bid is zero and ask , say .1 cent , the broker should offer a courtesy purchase , i.e. they take the shares , so you can claim the loss . This loss is used to offset gains from other stocks you sold , if it 's greater than the gains , you take a $ 3000 loss again ordinary income and carry the rest forward , until you use it up against gains or $ 3000 each year .
according to the Options Industry council ( <URL> ) put options the shares ( and therefore the options ) may continue trading OTC but if the shares completely stop trading then : if the courts cancel the shares , whereby common shareholders receive nothing , calls will become worthless and an investor who exercises a put would receive 100 times the strike price and deliver nothing . The reason for this is that it is not the company whose shares you have the option on that you have a contract with but the counterparty who wrote the option . If the counterparty goes bankrupt then you may not get paid out ( depending on assets available at liquidation - this is counterparty risk ) but , unless the two are the same , if the company whose shares you have a put option on declares bankruptcy then you will get paid
Their <URL> links to what looks like a detailed run down of <URL> . Taking my own advice , here is a quick summary : 1 ) All products are available to : Active military Military veterans ( honorable discharge required for former military personnel ) Widows , widowers and un-remarried former spouses USAA members who have or had USAA auto or property insurance while married Individuals whose parents are or were USAA members Former members who had purchased auto or property insurance , while in an eligible category ( presumably the ones listed above ) 2 ) Spouses of members are limited in the insurance products available to them . Namely life insurance is available to them and auto &amp; property insurance is available to them through their eligible spouse . 3 ) Otherwise : USAA 's investment products , most checking and savings products , credit cards , life insurance , and shopping and discounts are available to other individuals . If that is n't enough for you , I suggest you call and ask . ( Or , apply and see what happens . I doubt that black helicopters will be circling overhead if you 're not eligible . )
Cart 's answer is basically correct , but I 'd like to elaborate : A futures contract obligates both the buyer of a contract and the seller of a contract to conduct the underlying transaction ( settle ) at the agreed-upon future date and price written into the contract . Aside from settlement , the only other way either party can get out of the transaction is to initiate a closing transaction , which means : The party that sold the contract buys back another similar contract to close his position . The party that bought the contract can sell the contract on to somebody else . Whereas , an option contract provides the buyer of the option with the choice of completing the transaction . Because it 's a choice , the buyer can choose to walk away from the transaction if the option exercise price is not attractive relative to the underlying stock price at the date written into the contract . When an option buyer walks away , the option is said to have expired . However -- and this is the part I think needs elaboration -- the original seller ( writer ) of the option contract does n't have a choice . If a buyer chooses to exercise the option contract the seller wrote , the seller is obligated to conduct the transaction . In such a case , the seller 's option contract is said to have been assigned . Only if the buyer chooses not to exercise does the seller 's obligation go away . Before the option expires , the option seller can close their position by initiating a closing transaction . But , the seller ca n't simply walk away like the option buyer can .
You 'll own whatever fraction you bought . To own the company ( as in , boolean - yes or no ) you need to buy 100 % of the outstanding stock . RE controlling the company , in general the answer is yes - although the mechanism for this might not be so straight forward ( ie . you may have to appoint board members and may only be able to do so at pre-set intervals ) and there may be conditions in the company charter designed to stop this happening . Depending on your jurisdiction certain ownership percentages can also trigger the need to do certain things so you may not be able to just buy 50 % - in Australia when you reach 20 % ownership you have to launch a <URL> .
This is a case where a snapshot of the quote page would make good sense . As you can see , even though I tried to choose a range of strikes that were active , around the current price , the volume is n't really impressive . One option at $ 6 is a $ 600 trade , so even the 40 volume is less than $ 40K dollars . With little volume the bid/ask can easily go stale . If it 's the ' last ' that you are focusing on , it could very easily have been a trade early in the day . If I understand your question correctly , the answer is , " if you got a current bid/ask for a series of strikes , indeed they would cluster around the theoretical nice curve you expect . I believe the bid/ask would straddle the line very neatly . But at any moment , the last sale or the stale bid/ask wo n't reflect that curve . If you see a bid/ask that looks advantageous and try to place a real order the bid/ask will quickly update to reflect reality . "
Specifically on the subject of maxing out your 401k , there are several downsides : The employer match usually only applies to the first 6 % . Some employers offer no match at all . You listed the match as a pro , but I think it should be pointed out that you can usually get this benefit without maxing out your plan . The investment options are limited . Usually there is at least one fund available from all the common investment classes , but these may not be your preferred funds if you were able to choose for yourself . Fees can be very high . If you are working for a small to medium size company , the fees for each fund will often be higher than for the same funds in a plan offered by a large company . Fees are usually related to the dollar amount of assets under management . Each person has a different tax situation , so if you are single and making 6 figures , you might still be in the 25 % bracket even after maxing out your 401k , but the same person filing jointly with a spouse that makes less could get down to the 15 % bracket with a smaller contribution . I meet my retirement savings goals without maxing out the 401k . As long as the amount is above the employer match amount , my second priority is to funnel as much money as possible in to my IRA ( because I get lower fees and better investment options from Vanguard ) .
When buying a house or piece of property , does the Title Company work for the buyer , the seller , or are they neutral , just playing the part of administering the deal ? It depends on what you mean by title company . In one case they are the company handling the closing . Some call this a settlement company , but many have the word Title in the name . In my real estate transactions the buyer has paid for the service a part of the settlement costs . Who is picked is a negotiation between buyer and seller . On a day I sold one house and bought another having them back-to-back in the same office was the most convenient . The Title company agent may be a lawyer , but at least in Virginia they do n't have to be . But even if they are a lawyer they do n't represent either party . They are making sure all the proper forms and money is ending up in the correct place at the correct times . They will facilitate the transaction , but they do n't protect either side from a bad deal . The other use of the term Title company may mean Title Insurance Company . They are a company that insure the lender , in case there is a problem with the ownership of the property . The lender will make you buy the Title insurance policy . They will dictate who to use , and the term of the policy . The buyer of the property can also buy an optional policy to protect themselves if the title is bad . The lender does n't require you to purchase this policy . Title policies protect the lender and you when the ownership is not clear . The ex-spouse may claim ownership , the homeowners association may claim back dues owed , a construction company may claim that they were never paid . In some cases the issue could have occurred years before your transaction , and were missed during the title search . Without a policy the ownership could revert to the previous party . The lender wants their policy to make sure they do n't lose their money , you want a policy to make sure you do n't lose the equity and the roof over your head .
The " $ 1000 is no money at all " people are amusing me . Way back in the mists of time , a very young me invested on the order of ~ $ 500 in a struggling electronics manufacturer I had a fondness for . An emotional investment , not much money , but enough that I could get a feel for what it was like owning stock in something . That stock 's symbol was AAPL . This is admittedly a rare outcome , but $ 1000 invested over the long term is n't not worth doing . If for no other reason then when the OP has " real " money , he 'll have X + $ 1000 invested rather than X , assuming 0 % return , which I doubt . It 's a small enough amount that there are special considerations , but it 's a solid opportunity for learning how the market works , and making a little money . Anyway , my advice to the OP is as follows : All of this assumes you have enough money to live on , and this $ 1000 is indeed " play money " . If you need this money for books , rent , etc. put it in a savings account . Putting $ 1000 into the market , and then needing to tap high interest credit card debt to make ends meet is losing money . Consider opening a Roth IRA . If you 've already got the money , you 've already been taxed on it , and as a non-working student , your tax rate is as low as its likely going to be . Consider how much risk you 're willing to shoulder . Are you alright with having $ 0 at the end of all this ? Take a look at index ETFs and mutual funds . While these do n't have a spectacular return , at least recently , the market as of Fall 2011 is unusually highly correlated , which means it 's unlikely that you 'll do much worse or staggeringly better unless you 're lucky . Pay special attention to commissions and expenses with these , as they can eat into your returns , which will admittedly be small . An $ 10 commission on a $ 10,000 investment is much less of a big deal than it is on a $ 1,000 investment . Some discount brokerages even have mutual funds that are themselves baskets of index funds ( instant diversification ) , and if you 're a client with them , these have low minimum investments and fairly small fees , which are properties you 're looking for . Which brings me to the last bit . Whatever you end up doing , hold it . Actively trading with as little money as you have will devour your returns with transaction fees .
end question
start question
Is there a problem with buying small amounts of a no-fee mutual fund every two weeks ?
Aside from asking why you chose a fund that has an .80 % expense , I see no issue with frequent deposits . If this is actually being treated as a retirement account , you should make sure it fits into your overall asset allocation goals .
My experience with leaving a job and COBRA coverage matches your understanding . Approximately 3 weeks after my last day I received the paperwork , the deadline for completing the paperwork was 45 days after the end of the insurance coverage . Therefore I had coverage with the new employer for several weeks before I had to decide if I retroactively needed the COBRA coverage . Because my family did n't have any major medical issues during that window I never had to purchase the coverage . I have used the same logic during my lat 3 job changes . Though now with the Affordable care Act if you needed coverage the national or state exchange is another source of insurance that you may have .
Toward the philosophical side of your question , it seems to me that what is most important is knowing how well your fund is performing versus it 's benchmark . This is an actionable piece of information that can help you get out of an under-performing fund , although if you 're already using Vanguard it 's likely a low cost and broadly diversified fund . Ultimately , what you want to avoid over the long term is under-performing the market due to high fees , market timing , poor fund selection etc. , and selecting a fund that closely tracks the market seems to be the best way to achieve this , assuming that you intend to be a passive investor . I do n't see a clear benefit to calculating a personal rate of return . If the fund is performing well versus its benchmark , you are likely to stay with it , and if it is performing poorly , you are likely to pull out . At the end of the day , the complicated accounting wo n't actually change the amount you 've got in your account , so I 'd recommend picking a good fund , checking up on it once in a great while , and putting your time to better purpose .
It 's called Parkinson 's law of triviality . From <URL> : Parkinson 's law of triviality , also known as bikeshedding , bike-shed effect , and the bicycle-shed example , is [ the ] 1957 argument that organisations give disproportionate weight to trivial issues . Also : The time spent on any item of the agenda will be in inverse proportion to the sum [ of money ] involved . Admittedly , this " law " applies to organisations rather than individuals , but it appears to fit the question .
The Federal Trade Commission has a page on <URL> . According to them , under the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( FCRA ) both the credit reporting agency and the information provider ( credit card company ) are responsible for correcting the error on your credit report . They recommend contacting both in writing , and even have sample letters that you can use . Specifically , when you contact the credit reporting agency in writing , they are required to investigate and get back to you . Since you 've already seen that the accounts are marked as disputed on your credit report , perhaps contacting the credit reporting agencies is unnecessary . But it would n't hurt . At the very least , it might be worth a phone call to the credit reporting agencies to ask them if they need a letter from you . Something else you could try is the FTC 's recently updated <URL> . This allows you to report the identity theft and offers you information on the recommended steps you should take . I do n't know what exactly it does , but I see that " open a fraudulent credit card account " is one of the choices for reporting . Identitytheft.gov also has a <URL> .
There 's nothing to rebalance , the index fund rebalances itself to continue matching the index . However , you need to understand that such an investment is not diversified and you only invest in a very specific market , and very specific stocks on that market . S&amp;P 500 is large ( 500 different companies , most of the time ) , but still not as broadly diversified as your retirement investment portfolio should be . You should talk to a financial adviser ( CFP for example ) , many companies provide access to these for 401k plan participants . But in any case , I 'd suggest considering " target date " funds - funds that are investing based on your expected retirement year , and become more conservative as you get closer to that year .
The problem would not only be that of Kyle but also that of American Express . When Kyle pays by credit card , American Express pays the bills out of their pockets on his behalf and then forwards the bill to Kyle . The issuer of a credit card takes the risk that the holder of the card wo n't pay the credit card bill . In practice there are safeguards in place which prevent a company like AE to pay such huge sums in one day through an automated process . Credit card companies have sophisticated algorithms to determine unusual spending patterns and block any transactions which appear unusual . Also , after a few billions their bank will likely block them and prevent them from paying any more bills . But let 's play along and pretend these safeguards would n't exist . That means after Kyle 's spending spree , American Express will be trillions in debt , with their main debitor being a 10 year old boy who wo n't ever be able to pay . Kyle will have to declare personal bankruptcy . There are various variants of bakruptcy in the US , but they basically all boil down to him paying everything he can pay ( not much considering that he is 10 ) and then defaulting on his debt . Afterwards he is debt-free . That means the debt is now that of American Express . American Express will not be able to pay that debt with their bank ( s ) either , so they will have to declare bankruptcy and default on their debt too . This domino effect passes the burden on to the banks which can not carry a trillion-level debt either . A bank going bankrupt is a serious issue because it means they can not pay back any of the money in the saving accounts hold by companies or private people with them . So the problem would return to those people Kyle wanted to help in the first place . Also , the collapse of one bank will often result in the collapse of further banks , resulting in a collapse spiral destroying the whole world-wide finance system . Nothing would be gained .
There 's no catch . Banks need to acquire customers just like any other business . One common way to acquire new customers is by advertising on the radio , TV , print , etc. . Another common way to acquire new customers is by offering incentives like the one you linked to . Basically , PNC is confident that they will make more than $ 100 in profit over the entire lifetime of a customer . This is a very reasonable assumption , considering that : In the second quarter of 2010 , PNC Financial reported <URL> in net income . According to <URL> , they have approximately 5M customers . Therefore , net income per customer was $ 172 for just April through June 2010 .
The funds often have a lower minimum for IRAs , or a lower minimum if you commit to a certain monthly deposit , say $ 200 per month .
None of the above . The fair value is a term used to describe an analytical result of projecting the company 's future dividends and profits into a present value . Such estimates are published by the likes of Morningstar , S&amp;P and Value Line . It is quite common for a stock to trade well above or below such estimated fair values .
Index funds may invest either in index components directly or <URL> ( like ETFs , index options , futures , etc. ) which are highly correlated with the index . The specific fund prospectus or description on any decent financial site should contain these details . Index funds are not actively managed , but that does not mean they are n't managed at all - if index changes and the fund includes specific stock , they would adjust the fund content . Of course , the downside of it is that selling off large amounts of certain stock ( on its low point , since it 's being excluded presumably because of its decline ) and buying large amount of different stock ( on its raising point ) may have certain costs , which would cause the fund lag behind the index . Usually the difference is not overly large , but it exists . Investing in the index contents directly involves more transactions - which the fund distributes between members , so it does n't usually buy individually for each member but manages the portfolio in big chunks , which saves costs . Of course , the downside is that it can lag behind the index if it 's volatile . Also , in order to buy specific shares , you will have to shell out for a number of whole share prices - which for a big index may be a substantial sum and wo n't allow you much flexibility ( like " I want to withdraw half of my investment in S&amp;P 500 " ) since you ca n't usually own 1/10 of a share . With index funds , the entry price is usually quite low and increments in which you can add or withdraw funds are low too .
The fund is a " <URL> " , a type of legal entity . Partners are akin to shareholders in corporations . In non-limited partnership , each partner has executive authorities . You 're probably meeting with one of the decision makers .
Risk is the capital you have staked in pursuit of profit . The danger is that you lose what you have risked . For some bets ( risks ) , you can get insurance to cover for losses . Now the " game " of Landlord and Tenant requires you to play fully by the rules set forth by your legislators . In your case , that is the legislators of the State of Texas . Without knowing those rules , you could be liable ( open to civil prosecution ) for violating those rules . Tenants could be savvy to those rules or savvy enough to hire someone , a lawyer , who knows those rules . As well , in the game of Landlord and Tenant , you must ascertain the creditworthiness of your would-be tenant . If the tenant fails to pay rent , that tenant can detain the residence . You will incur additional outlays to gain possession of your property ( ownership in your rental ) . Now the game of Landlord vs Landlord is different . You ca n't pick up houses easily enough and even if you could , likely the expense of doing so could wipe out any would profits from having the house as a rental . So , in Landlord vs Landlord , you get constrained by where your rental sits . Thus you must forecast what will the neighborhood look like in five , ten , fifteen years . Will population swell and rents outrun the effects of cash accretion by the banking system ( aka inflation ) ? Will population fall and along with it employers and jobs ? Will there be more rentals than needed for a shrinking head count ? Could landlords move into the area in a few years , build new rental units that offer more at a better price than I can ? What will a capital improvement schedule look like to keep my rental unit competitive vis-a-vis other rental units ? How will the sum of a capital improvement schedule and other outlays affect return ? Will I earn any profit at all ? How does a 10-year future of earnings compare to taking the same sum and buying 10 year Treasury bonds ?
As Michael Pryor answered , a bond fund is a mutual fund that invests in bonds . I 'd also consider an ETF based on bonds to be a bond fund , but I 'm not sure that all investors would consider these as " bond funds " . Not all bond funds are the same -- just like stock funds . You can classify bond funds based on the issuer of the bonds : Government bond funds ( as described in the U.S. ) invest primarily in bonds issued by the U.S. Federal Government . These may be tax advantaged . Municipal bond funds ( aka " Munis " ) invest primarily in bonds issued by municipalities ( cities , counties ? ) . These may be tax advantaged . Corporate bond funds invest primarily in bonds issued by corporations . There are different " grades " of corporate bonds , based on the <URL> applied to the companies by ratings agencies like Moody 's or Fitch . An " AAA " fund would invest primarily in bonds issued by highly rated companies . High yield bond funds invest primarily in bonds issued by corporations with low ratings . ( These bonds are also called " junk bonds " . ) These bonds typically have a higher yield ( i.e. they pay a higher interest rate ) , but they also have a higher risk of default ( i.e. the issuer goes bankrupt and does n't pay back the principal ) . You may also find bond funds based on debt issued by foreign governments , I 'm not familiar with these . " Blended " funds are very common -- these would invest in two or more of the categories above . You can also classify funds based on the time to maturity : Short term bonds will mature in less than a year . You might also find " ultra short " or other descriptions . All else equal , shorter times to maturity mean a higher likelihood of repayment and less interest rate risk . Medium term bonds will mature in more time . There 's a correspondingly higher risk of default and adverse affects from interest rate changes . Long term bonds will mature in ten or more years . These are the most exposed to interest rate fluctuations . Except for funds that focus on a certain maturity , most funds will spread the maturities out to spread the risk out . In general , bond funds have lower risk and lower expected return than stock funds . Sometimes bond funds have price movements that are not tightly correlated to the price movements in the equity markets . This can make them a decent hedge against declines in your equity investments . See Michal Pryor 's answer for some info on how you can get tax free treatment for your bond fund investments .
Everybody else also knows about the change in the index . It does n't just impact ETFs but also all the index funds . Many funds will spread the transactions out . Many times there is a gap of weeks between the announcement and the change .
The most basic way of determining whether a specific fund is a dud or not is to compare it to a correponding ETF or index . For example , if you are invested in an emerging market fund , compare your results to the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund ( EEM ) . If you are not getting the same return over time , or are incurring significantly more risk , I would question the value of staying in that particular fund .
Self employment is typically harder to qualify with than W2 income . In general the bank is going to want 2 years of tax returns . You will be asked to sign a 4506-T that allows the bank to get the records directly from the IRS . Self employment income will be averaged across the 2 years , I do n't think a 20 % drop in profits is large enough to cause concern but it might . I would plan on being able borrow against the lowest year just in case . If you get a W2 job you will be able to count the income immediately assuming it is not a temporary position . The bank will ask for the offer letter . If you have decent credit and 20 % down , you should be able to get a mortgage either way . A W2 is typically less paperwork and you would get to claim your current income assuming that is higher than your past income .
Paypal has an account called " <URL> " for those who have a lot of transaction under $ 10 with " better " commission structure , 5 % +5 c per transaction ( rather than 2.9 % + 30c with regular merchant accounts )
As I recall , the Scottrade minimum is only $ 500 . ( By the way , Scottrade has a feature to automatically reinvest any dividends which the securities pay ) Once you have an account , you can buy into an index fund . SPY tracks the S&amp;P 500 . It is also currently paying nearly 2 % in dividends . You can shop for other alternatives here : <URL>
The question reads " could " , not would for a reason - you do n't have to include him as a dependent if you do n't want to , but if you are allowed - he can not claim the exemption . So yes , he has to amend and fix it whether you actually claim him or not . If you do claim him , it will be very easy for the IRS to notice the discrepancy and come to him asking questions .
end question
start question
Are PINs always needed for paying with card ?
There generally is n't much in the way of real identity verification , at least in the US and online . The protection you get is that with most credit cards you can report your card stolen ( within some amount of time ) and the fraudulent charges dropped . The merchant is the one that usually ends up paying for it if it gets charged back so it 's usually in the merchant 's best interest to do verification . However the cost of doing so ( inconvenience to the customer , or if it 's an impulse buy , giving them more time to change their mind , etc ) is often greater than the occasional fraudulent charge so they usually do n't do too much about it unless they 're in a business where it 's a frequent problem .
In case one card is rejected for a payment , whether for a valid or invalid reason In case one card company suffers an IT failure and that card ca n't be used at all So that on holiday you can carry one card with you and keep the other in your hotel safe , and you wo n't be left without means of payment if your wallet is stolen To get a higher credit limit than one card alone will give you
There generally is n't much in the way of real identity verification , at least in the US and online . The protection you get is that with most credit cards you can report your card stolen ( within some amount of time ) and the fraudulent charges dropped . The merchant is the one that usually ends up paying for it if it gets charged back so it 's usually in the merchant 's best interest to do verification . However the cost of doing so ( inconvenience to the customer , or if it 's an impulse buy , giving them more time to change their mind , etc ) is often greater than the occasional fraudulent charge so they usually do n't do too much about it unless they 're in a business where it 's a frequent problem .
TL ; DR summary : 0 % balance transfer offers and " free checks usable anywhere " rarely are a good deal for the customer . 0 % rate balance transfer offers ( and the checks usable anywhere including payment of taxes ) come with a transaction fee because the credit card company is paying off the balance on the other card ( or the tax or the electric bill ) in the full amount of $ X as stated on the other card statement or on the tax/electric bill ) . This is in contrast to a purchase transaction where if you buy something for $ X , you pay the card company $ X but the card company pays the merchant something less than $ X$ . ( Of course , the merchant has jacked up the sale price of the item to pass on the charge to you . ) Can you get the credit card company to waive the transaction fee ? You can try asking them but it is unlikely that you will succeed if your credit score is good ! I have seen balance transfer offers with no transaction fees made to people who have do n't have good credit scores and are used to carrying a balance on their credit cards . I assume that the company making the offer knows that it will make up the transaction fee from future interest payments . A few other points to keep in mind with respect to using a 0 % balance transfer offer to pay off a student loan ( or anything else for that matter ) : The unpaid part of the 0 % rate balance becomes subject to an interest rate that might be higher than the regular interest rate once the 0 % period expires . So , do n't pay off more of the student loan than you could have managed to pay directly over the 0 % rate period or you will be in a bigger hole when the 0 % rate period expires . After you accept a 0 % offer , your card 's status changes to " Did n't pay off last month 's statement due in full by the due date " and so interest is charged on new purchases from the date of purchase , that is , there is no " grace period " of 25 days to pay off the credit card without having to pay interest . The only way to avoid interest charges on purchases is to pay off in timely fashion the entire balance ( including the 0 % rate balance ) shown on the first monthly statement that you receive after acceptance of the offer ( balance transfer or check usage ) . So , at best , the transaction fee will be prepaid interest for a period of 55 days or so , making the APR much more than stated in Dheer 's answer . Of course , if you have a zero balance on the card , and can put away your credit card and not use it at all during the 0 % interest rate period , you can make this work in your favor . ( There is an answer somewhere on money.SE by Moderator @JoeTaxpayer that describes how he paid off a huge chunk of his mortgage via a 0 % rate loan , but very few of us can match his savvy or his iron discipline ) . If you are used to interest being charged from Day One of each purchase and rarely pay off the monthly statement in full , then be aware that if only the minimum payment due is made , that amount will be applied to the 0 % balance . Meanwhile , all your purchases and finance charges on them will continue to accrue unpaid . The CARD Act of 2009 mandates that the part of the payment that exceeds the minimum required payment must be applied to the part of the balance that has the highest interest rate . But , the minimum payment due ( or any lesser amount ) can be applied to whichever part of the balance the credit card company chooses , and they invariably choose to apply it to the lowest interest rate balance .
For a basic introduction you may want to check out <URL> . To keep up to date with the quant world you check out <URL> magazine .
From the comments , it sounds like you have a technical background . So I 'm going to suggest you think of this as a technical problem : it 's an optimization problem , where the variable you 're trying to optimize for is total interest paid over the lifetime of the loans . Step 1 is making sure you 're using the credit available to you most efficiently . If there 's room in the credit limit for card # 1 to move more of your debt there , then definitely move your balances from the higher-interest cards . However , be careful ; some cards will have different interest rates for balance transfers or cash advances . And definitely do n't move any principal from Card # 3 until the 0 % interest rate expires . Pursuing a bank loan as part of step 1 is valid as well . You could start with the bank you use for your checking account today . Credit unions can be a good source of lower-interest loans as well . Ensure that you fully understand the terms and interest rates , particularly if they change . Just be careful about applying for them ; too many rejections can affect your credit rating negatively . You also mention in the comments that you 're paying " her " mortgage . I do n't know how the ownership is set up there , but either refinancing or taking out a home equity loan can be a way to consolidate debt . The interest rate on a home loan will almost assuredly be less than on your higher rate cards , especially taking the tax deduction into account . Step 2 is paying down the debt efficiently . The rule here is simple : Pay the minimum payment on all cards except for the one with the highest interest rate ; any money you have above the minimum payments should go into paying down the principal on that one . In your case , that 's Card # 2 . Good luck !
To be clear , a 401K is a vehicle , you make investments WITHIN it , if you choose poorly such as say putting all your money into company stock when working for the next Enron , you can still get hurt badly . So it is important to have diversity and an appropriate risk level based on your age , tolerance for risk , etc. . That said , as vehicles go it is outstanding , and the ' always max your 401K ' is very very common advice for a large number of investing professionals , CFA 's , pundits , etc. . That said there are a few priorities to consider here . First priority , if there is some level of company matching , grab that , it 's hard to beat that kind of ' return ' in almost any other case . Second , since you never want to tap into a 401K ( if you can at all avoid it ) before you are ready to retire , you should first be sure you have a good 'em ergency fund ' set aside in the event you lose your job , or some other major catastrophy happens . Many recommend setting aside at least 6 months of basic living expenses . Third , if you have any high interest debt ( like credit card debt ) pay that stuff down as fast as you can . You 'll save a ton of interest ( it 's pretty much the same as investing the money you use to pay it down , and getting a return equal to the interest rate you are paying , with zero risk . . ca n't be beat . You 'll also end up with a lot better cash flow , and the ability to start saving first and spending out of savings , so you earn interest instead of paying it . Once you have those things out of the way , then it is time to think about fully funding the 401K . and keep in mind , since you do n't pay taxes on it , the ' felt effect ' to you pocket is about 80 % or even less , of what goes into the account , so it 's not as painful as you might think , and the hit to your take home may be less than you 'd expect . Contributing as much as you can , as early as you can also lets you benefit from the effect of compounding , and has a far larger affect on the balance than money put into the account closer to retirement . So if you can afford to max it out , I surely would advise you to do so .
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
They will credit your account and it will be applied to future purchases . If the credit card is not used for several months , they will send you a check or transfer it to your bank account . Some people on this site have actually considered sending money to the credit card company in advance , so that the amount that can be charged is temporarily inflated . Keep in mind they will eventually refund the money . Plus you will not earn interest on the refund .
The most popular method of doing a debt snowball is to to pay your debts in order from smallest to largest , regardless of their interest rate . The idea behind this is that you get a boost from seeing progress , and stick with it . It 's popular for a reason -- it 's very effective . However sometimes people just ca n't stand the thought of paying extra interest . If you 're very highly motivated and able to stick with something long term despite seeing only a small amount of visible progress at a time , you can do the debt snowball from highest interest rate to lowest interest rate . It seems that people tend to stick with the first method more though , and oftentimes the difference in interest rate is not really that great . ( Especially if you hit the debts hard . ) In either case , it works like this : You organize your debts in the desired order . You pay minimum payments on all debts . You pay as much extra as possible each month to the first debt in the list until it is gone . Once the first debt is paid off , you add the amount you had been paying to that debt to the next debt in the list , and throw as much money at that debt as possible . Repeat the process until all debts are repaid . You can organize your debts yourself , or you can use things like What 's the Cost , Pay Off Debt , or Dave Ramsey 's Total Money Makeover to help .
The word you are looking for is " budget " You ca n't pay off debt if you are spending more than you earn . Therefore , start a budget that you both work on at the same time , and both agree 100 % with . Evaluate your progress on that budget on a regular basis . From your question , you understand what your obligations are and you seem to manage money pretty well . Therefore your key to retirement is just the ticket you need . As newlyweds , you both have to be VERY aware that the main reason a marriage fails in the US is money issues . Starting out with a groundwork where you both agree to your budget and can keep it will help you a lot in your upcoming life . Then , for some details Take any match the employer provides on the 401K . Make sure you have $ 0 in long term debt . If you have unsecured debt , setup your budget to aggressively remove it If you debt is " cheap " like 2 % interest on a student loan , pay it as agreed Save up 6 months of your monthly living expenses as your emergency fund . ( This is to be kept in a savings or checking account which earns basically nothing . Sorry . ) Fully fund a ( Roth/Traditional ) IRA for the both of you . ( $ 10K / year ) FOR EXAMPLE : Start your IRA with Vanguard . Invest your money in the Star Fund . Of course your actual investment goals , tolerance for risk and other factors will determine the best company and fund for you . If right now you just need a place to start , a Vangaurd Star Fund is a safe bet and a good starting point . Feed it monthly . If you ca n't fully fund it right away ( I still ca n't ) add another percent of your pay every 6 months until you do . ( littleadv ) The decision re Roth vs Traditional IRA should be made based on your current and potential future tax rate . Generally , if your current tax rate is lower than the rate you expect at your retirement - Roth makes sense . Otherwise , go with Traditional . Roth would also make sense when you can not contribute to the Traditional due to the limitations on your income . Also , if you decide to go with Traditional IRA and your current tax rate goes down , you can convert from Traditional to Roth and utilize the lower tax rate that you 'd have . Once you 're Roth - you can not go back . ( / littleadv ) Save up money for your house , car , new business , monster truck or whatever . Spend this money regularly , because if you are doing the other things , you are doing good with money and you should enjoy your life . I still do n't have all these things done , it is just my plan If you still have all of your money accounted for , congrats . Feed your 401K to the max . Sprinkle your charitable donations anywhere in the list where you feel it is important .
Well , so long as the shares trade they are valued at greater than " worthless . " An important distinction . If truly worthless , you indicate a sell date of the day they were deemed worthless , and a sale price of zero . In your case , the broker should sell the shares for you . If the bid is zero and ask , say .1 cent , the broker should offer a courtesy purchase , i.e. they take the shares , so you can claim the loss . This loss is used to offset gains from other stocks you sold , if it 's greater than the gains , you take a $ 3000 loss again ordinary income and carry the rest forward , until you use it up against gains or $ 3000 each year .
The short answer : it depends . The long answer . . Off the top of my head , there are quite a number of factors that an analyst may look at when analyzing a stock , to come up with a recommendation . Some example factors to look at include : Trading volume Moving average Fundamental analysis Price momentum Credit worthiness Strength of balance sheet Future outlook for the sector Product pipeline Dividend growth Employee turnover rate Sales per Square Meter of store space Asset turnover Age of capital assets Supply pipeline ( e.g. does the company buy supplies ( inputs ) for its products from only ethical sources ? ) ... etc. . The list goes on . Quite literally , any and all factors are fair game for a recommendation . So , the question is n't really what analysts do with financial data , it is what do analysts do with financial data that meets your investment needs ? As an example , if you have two analysts , one who is focused on growth stocks , and one who is focused on dividend growth , they may have completely different views on a company . If both analysts were to analyze Apple ( AAPL ) 5 years ago , the dividend analyst would likely say SELL or at the most HOLD , because back then Apple did not have a dividend . However , an analyst focused on growth would likely have said BUY , because Apple appeared to be on a clear upward trend in terms of growth . Likewise , if you have analysts who are focused on shorting stocks , and ones who are focused on deep value investing , the sell analyst may be selling SELL because they are confident the stock will go down in price , so you can make money on the short position . Conversely , the deep value investor may be saying BUY , because they believe that based on the companies strong balance sheet , and recent shake-ups in management the stock will eventually turn around . Two completely different views for the same company : the analyst focused on shorting is looking to make money by capitalizing on falling share price , while the analyst focused on deep value is looking for unloved companies in a tailspin whom s/he believe will turn around , the thesis being that if you dollar-cost-average as the price drops , when it corrects , you 'll reap the rewards . That all said , to answer the question about what analysts look for : A growth analyst may be focused on things such as future earnings growth , future revenue growth , mixed with decreasing operational costs , and product pipeline : earnings growth roughly translates into higher share prices , and if you are chasing growth , you want companies whose bottom lines are going up on a consistent basis . An analyst focused on dividends may be focused on the dividend payout ratio , dividend growth history , and earnings growth . They would n't necessarily care about capital appreciation vis-a-vis a rising stock price , since they are concerned primarily with the income stream a company produces , the and the probability that the dividend will increase ( or at least be maintained ) . An analyst in the health care sector may be interested in the product pipeline , the company 's history of R&amp;D , the company 's history of acquisitions ( e.g. buying new products vs. building new products ) , or the probability of that company being bought out by a larger competitor ( e.g. . A firm in Stage III of clinical , with a relatively small valuation would be a great takeover target for a larger pharmaceutical ) . So really , you should be looking for analysts who align with your investment style , and use those recommendations as a starting point for your own purchases . Personally , I am a dividend investor , so I have passed many BUY recommendations from analysts and my former broker because those were based on growth stories . That does not mean that the analysts , my former broker , or myself , are wrong . But we were all incorrect given the context of how I invest , and what they recommend .
If the stock has low liquidity , yes there could be times when there are no buyers or sellers at a specific price , so if you put a limit order to buy or sell at a price with no other corresponding sellers or buyers , then your order may take a while to get executed or it may not be executed at all . You can usually tell if a stock has low liquidity by the small size of the average daily volume , the lack of order depth and the large size of the gap between bids and offers . So if a stock for example has last sale price of $ 0.50 , has a highest bid price of $ 0.40 and a lowest offer price of $ 0.60 , and an average daily volume of 10000 share , it is likely to be very illiquid . So if you try to buy or sell at around the $ 0.50 mark it might take you a long time to buy or sell this stock at this price .
No , SPDR ETFs are not a good fit for a novice investor with a low level of <URL> . In fact , there is no investment that is safe for an absolute beginner , not even a savings account . ( An absolute beginner could easily overdraw his savings account , leading to fees and collections . ) I would say that an investment becomes a good fit for an investor as soon as said investor understands how the investment works . A savings account at a bank or credit union is fairly easy to understand and is therefore a suitable place to hold money after a few hours to a day of research . ( Even after 0 hours of research , however , a savings account is still better than a sock drawer . ) Money market accounts ( through a bank ) , certificates of deposit ( through a bank ) , and money market mutual funds ( through a mutual fund provider ) are probably the next easiest thing to understand . This could take a few hours to a few weeks of research depending on the learner . Equities , corporate bonds , and government bonds are another step up in complexity , and could take weeks or months of schooling to understand well enough to try . Equity or bond mutual funds -- or the ETF versions of those , which is what you asked about -- are another level after that . Also important to understand along the way are the financial institutions and market infrastructure that exist to provide these products : banks , credit unions , public corporations , brokerages , stock exchanges , bond exchanges , mutual fund providers , ETF providers , etc. .
You 'd be moving from 33.5 K of taxable income + 16.5 K of untaxable income , to 65K of taxable income ( worst case ) . So the question is whether the net from the extra 31.5 K of taxable income is more than the 16.5 K , and since marginal tax rates in the relevant brackets are no more than 32 % according to the table you posted ( 22 % federal and 10 % provincial ) , it 's definitely a win to move jobs . More precisely , the marginal tax rate is 25 % on the first 8044 ( 41544-33500 ) and 32 % on the rest , making for total extra tax of about 9.5 K and thus net income ( beyond the 33.5 K baseline ) of 22K . Compared to the 16.5 K this leaves you 5.5 K up . If you end up at the 70K end , you 're another 3.4 K up beyond that .
No , it does n't look like you can use the employee benefit to pay for parking near your home . The definition for " qualified parking " is in the <URL> ( f ) ( 5 ) ( c ) : ( C ) Qualified parking The term " qualified parking " means parking provided to an employee on or near the business premises of the employer or on or near a location from which the employee commutes to work by transportation described in subparagraph ( A ) , in a commuter highway vehicle , or by carpool . Such term shall not include any parking on or near property used by the employee for residential purposes . Parking near your home is explicitly excluded . Your employer 's human resources department can probably provide information on the details of where you can park and get reimbursement .
I bought a car a few years ago . The salesman had the order , I knew the car I wanted and we had a price agreed on . When I refused the payment plan/loan , his manager came over and did a hard sell . " 99 % of buyers take the financing " was the best he could do . I told him I was going to be part of the 1 % . With rates so low , his 2 or 3 % offer was higher than my own cost of money . He went so far as to say that I could just pay it off the first month . Last , instead of accepting a personal check and letting me pick up the car after it cleared , he insisted on a bank check to start the registration process . ( This was an example of one dealer , illustrating the point . ) In other cases , for a TV , a big box store ( e.g. Best Buy ) is n't going to deal for cash , but a small privately owned " mom and pop " shop might . The fees they are charged are pretty fixed , they do n't pay a higher fee cause I get 2 % cash back , vs your mastercard that might offer less .
A simple response is that it 's a good political/strategic move . Ford have effectively said , " We know we still have debt , but we think the long term future is so good we can go back to paying dividends . " It builds investor confidence and attracts new money . It can also be seen as a way of Ford indicating that they believe the type of debt ( regardless of the amount ) is okay for them to carry .
Risk is reduced but is n't zero The default risk is still there , the issuer can go bankrupt , and you can still loose all or some of your money if restructuring happens . If the bond has a callable option , the issuer can retire them if conditions are favourable for the issuer , you can still loose some of your investment . Callable schedule should be in the bond issuer 's prospectus while issuing the bond . If the issuer is in a different country , that brings along a lot of headaches of recovering your money if something goes bad i.e. forex rates can go up and down . YTM , when the bond was bought was greater than risk free rate ( govt deposit rates ) Has to be greater than the risk free rate , because of the extra risk you are taking . Reinvestment risk is less because of the short term involved ( I am assuming 2-3 years at max ) , but you should also look at the coupon rate of your bond , if it is n't a zero-coupon bond , and how you invest that . would it be ideal to hold the bond till maturity irrespective of price change It always depends on the current conditions . You can not be sure that everything is fine , so it pays to be vigilant . Check the health of the issuer , any adverse circumstances , and the overall economy as a whole . As you intend to hold till maturity you should be more concerned about the serviceability of the bond by the issuer on maturity and till then .
end question
start question
Is selling your house without an agent worth the hassle ?
I wo n't discuss the current market as much as I will address the title question . Is selling your house without an agent worth the hassle ? It depends on who you are . Take a good hard look at yourself and ask yourself - do I know anything about houses ? the market ? the paperwork involved in a sale ? do I like talking with people I do n't know ? am I comfortable sharing my opinions , advising others , negotiating ? does anyone ever say I could sell ice to an Eskimo ? am I familiar with other neighbourhoods , features , benefits , nearby amenities , comparable homes , design elements , etc ? Am I available , do I have time to do showings , can I handle the communication , appointments , etc necessary to show the home ? What is a reasonable asking price ? How did I arrive at it ? How will I justify it to a buyer ? There is a great deal more involved with selling a home than many people think . If you read through the above list and think , I do n't even know where I would start to talk about any of this , chances are you either need an agent , or assistance from someone you trust who can help you in these areas . I watched a neighbour sell his home privately a year or two ago . He wrote up a great ad with a popular company that supports private sellers . The home had undergone many upgrades , the ad raved about them and all other related info , the price was realistic in the market at the time , and he was a gregarious , confident guy who worked in sales . He had no problem taking calls , answering questions , and had enough handyman experience and reno background that he could speak confidently about the condition of the home . He got a great price , over asking , in about 20 days . Contrast this to another person I watched list her home privately . She was quiet , a teacher , with an unassuming , though lovely personality . The home needed some upgrading but was solid and attractive , the ad was more generic , the photos were flat and unexciting . Same great neighbourhood , but you 'd never guess it from the ad . Same website . Similar market timing . She reduced , then reduced again . I think it took six months before it finally sold . I could n't have imagined her selling anything , much less a house . Or negotiating . Some people just do n't have that sales personality . Of course it 's much , much cheaper to do it on your own . But first ask yourself , are you up for the challenge ?
Well , the answer for which ones you should consider modifying is easy . You ca n't drop liability insurance since it 's a legal requirement , so you can consider dropping collision , comprehensive , and/or uninsured motorist covnerage . The first thing to look at it whether your insurance company allows you to choose these independently . Some companies , for instance , wo n't allow you to get collision coverage without also getting comprehensive coverage . From what I saw , the nature of uninsured motorist insurance varies from state to state , so you should look at your policy to see what it covers compared to collision ( e.g. , whether it covers hit-and-run collisions ) . Whether you should actually drop any of these is harder to say , since it depends on your personal judgment of how likely various possibilities are , and how much you could afford to spend . Obviously the most expensive one is collision coverage , so that 's the one to look at most carefully . If you google for " when should you drop collision coverage " or the like you can find many pages discussing the issue . ( <URL> is one . ) I found a couple that suggest dropping collision coverage when your annual premium is more than 10 % of your vehicle 's value . From what you say , you 're quite a ways from that point . One thing you could do is begin saving money into an account earmarked for car repairs/replacement . As time passes , you will build up money in the account , and your car 's value will decrease . Once you have built up enough money in this account relative to your car 's value to feel comfortable , you could cancel collision coverage . ( You would n't necessarily need to build up as much as the whole value of the car , assuming you have an adequate general emergency fund . The idea would be that if your car was totaled , you could dip into your emergency fund , because that would be more of a " real " emergency . But if your car was damaged in an accident but still required a fairly expensive repair , you could use your car fund to pay for the repairs . ) Another option to look into is raising your deductible . You 'd have to look at what deductibles your insurance company allows . Depending on how much you want to reduce your premiums , you may be able to satisfy yourself by taking a higher deductible .
Yes . I heard back from a couple brokerages that gave detailed responses . Specifically : In a Margin account , there are no SEC trade settlement rules , which means there is no risk of any free ride violations . The SEC has a FAQ page on <URL> , which states that it applies specifically to cash accounts . This led me to dig up the text on <URL> which gives the " free-riding " rule in § 220.8 ( c ) , which is titled " 90 day freeze " . § 220.8 is the section on cash accounts . Nothing in the sections on margin accounts mentions such a settlement restriction . From the <URL> , the margin agreement implicitly covers settlement . " Buying Power " does n't seem to be a Regulation T thing , but it 's something that the brokerages that I 've seen use to state how much purchasing power a client has . Given the response from the brokerage , above , and my reading of Regulation T and the relevant Wikipedia page , proceeds from the sale of any security in a margin account are available immediately for reinvestment . Settlement is covered implicitly by margin ; i.e. it does n't detract from buying power . Additionally , I have personally been making these types of trades over the last year . In a sub - $ 25K margin account , proceeds are immediately available . The only thing I still have to look out for is running into the day-trading rules .
No , in the vast majority of cases . ( I +1 with littleadv but I wanted to add another idea ) If you happen to have a reason to suspect somebody you know will be attempting to steal your identity as a means of revenge , having a monitoring service might provide you peace of mind . ( Or you know you have been exposed via other criminal activity ) You can also get free monitoring from Credit Karma ( which is run by Transunion I think ) . It wo n't be all inclusive as it is only one agency , but I do n't see the harm . But the best solution for almost everybody is to <URL> . Freezing your credit will prevent the most harmful shenanigans that a credit monitoring service will only be able to tell you about after the fact . Freezing is typically cheaper as well . You ca n't have credit opened in your name you do n't know about , so monitoring your existing statements and a freeze will keep you as protected as any service I know of .
I think I understand what you 're trying to achieve . You just want to see how it " feels " to own a share , right ? To go through the process of buying and holding , and eventually selling , be it at a loss or at a gain . Frankly , my primary advice is : Just do it on paper ! Just decide , for whatever reason , which stocks to buy , in what amount , subtract 1 % for commissions ( I 'm intentionally staying on the higher side here ) , and keep track of the price changes daily . Instead of doing it on mere paper , some brokers offer you a demo account where you can practice your paper trading in the same way you would use a live account . As far as I know , Interactive Brokers and Saxo Bank offer such demo accounts , go look around on their web pages . The problem about doing it for real is that many of the better brokers , such as the two I mentioned , have relatively high minimum funding limits . You need to send a few thousand pounds to your brokerage account before you can even use it . Of course , you do n't need to invest it all , but still , the cash has to be there . Especially for some younger and inexperienced investors , this can seduce them to gambling most of their money away . Which is why I would not advise you to actually invest in this way . It will be expensive but if it 's just for trying it on one share , use your local principal bank for the trade . Hope this gets you started !
Your best approach is to assess rent levels in your local area for offices of a similar size . You need to take into account all the usuals - amenities , parking , etc , just as if your home-office was provided by a third-party . Get your $ / sq ft and work out the monthly amount . With this figure , you need to then work out what % of it you can charge . If the space is used exclusively for the business , charge 100 % . If it 's used about half the time , charge 50 % , etc. . I would strongly advise you to do two things - 1 . make sure your accountant and your attorney help you get this squared away . 2 . document everything about how you arrived at the cost . Nothing fancy , but dates , realtors , addresses , $ / sq foot . A simple table will do . By doing these two things , if the IRS should come around to chat , you should be covered .
In the long term , Loss or Theft of your credit card ( whether used or not ) will not affect your credit report or score . You are not liable for the charges made and your credit report is the report of your credit usage . Not the report of an identity theft 's use of credit . That being said , in the short term fraudulent charges and accounts could be opened which will be reported to your credit report ( and affect your credit score ) until you contact the Fraud Victim departments of the appropriate accounts and report the error . You would also contact the credit reporting bureaus and have them remove the offending accounts . Unfortunately , this is the victim part of identity theft and while it will have no long term affect , it may take a while to clear this up . I 've had identity theft problems crop up during a home loan refinancing . While the theft did not stop my refinance , it did cause me to take extra steps to convince them I did n't own a home in another state where the loan paperwork used my social security number . Someone else using my social security number for a mortgage and a credit card did not affect my credit score at all in the long term , but did cause me some minor headaches in the short term .
These are two rather distinct questions ; only one of which is relevant to a Money web site . In general , the investment is questionable . Leaving aside the green feel-good factor , you need to look at a total cost of ownership ( TCO ) and payback on the asset . Neither is cheap as such . There are DIY windmill plans , but you likely still need a commercial battery charger/inverter/controller setup . Government incentives , depending on where you live , may change the story considerably . Many jurisdictions around the globe have both incentives to install and then power-feed-in tariffs if you sell back excess power . Your latitude also has an impact on your total available solar energy , along with regular weather patterns for both cloud cover and wind . One of the cheapest solar projects can be hot-water . Particularly if you have a pool , or even for domestic use , if you use a lot . All that said , given the green feel-good factor , if you want a small set of solar panels and have the space/budget , go ahead ! You can add more later . For the second question : it is indeed possible to live off grid . Some remote houses do just this , and the methods to accomplish it vary . The number one thing you need to do is work on a power budget ; and be both ruthless as well as realistic . Fridge , freezer , AC , furnace , plasma TV , etc. . Depending on your climate and preferences , these may not all be possible for an off-grid lifestyle . ( Of course , if you get a propane fridge and have a truck come by once a month , does that count as off-grid ? )
No . A deposit to an IRA must be in cash . A conversion from traditional IRA to Roth can be " in kind " i.e. . As a stock transfer . Last , any withdrawals can also be in stock or funds . IRS Publication 590 , so important , it 's now in 2 sections <URL> and <URL> , addresses IRA issues such as this as well as most others . By the way - now on page 7 - " Contributions , except for rollover contributions , must be in cash . "
The below assessment is for primary residences as opposed to income properties . The truth is that with the exception of a housing bubble , the value of a house might outpace inflation by one or two percent . According to the US Census , the price of a new home per square foot only went up 4.42 % between 1963 and 2008 , where as inflation was 4.4 % . Since home sizes increased , the price of a new home overall outpaced inflation by 1 % at 5.4 % ( <URL> ) . According to Case-Shiller , inflation adjusted prices increased a measly .4 % from 1890-2004 ( see graph <URL> ) . On the other hand your down payment money and the interest towards owning that home might be in a mutual fund earning you north of eight percent . If you do n't put down enough of a down payment to avoid PMI , you 'll be literally throwing away money to get yourself in a home that could also be making money . Upgrades to your home that increase it 's value - unless you have crazy do-it-yourself skills and get good deals on the materials - usually do n't return 100 % on an investment . The best tend to be around 80 % . On top of the fact that your money is going towards an asset that is n't giving you much of a return , a house has costs that a rental simply does n't have ( or rather , it does have them , but they are wrapped into your rent ) - closing costs as a buyer , realtor fees and closing costs as a seller , maintenance costs , and constantly escalating property taxes are examples of things that renters deal with only in an indirect sense . NYT columnist David Leonhart says all this more eloquently than I ever could in : <URL> <URL> But then using his own criteria , eventually determined that it was acceptable to buy for reasons other than money without loosing money and wrote about it in <URL> . There 's an <URL> at the NYT that helps you apply Leonhart 's criteria to your own area . None of this is to say that home ownership is a bad decision for all people at all times . I 'm looking to buy myself , but I 'm not buying as an investment . For example , I would never think that it was OK to stop funding my retirement because my house will eventually fund it for me . Instead I 'm buying because home ownership brings other values than money that a rental apartment would never give me and a rental home would cost more than the same home purchase ( given 10 years ) .
Is this just appealing to potential sellers ' need for instant gratification , or am I missing something here ? Timing matters for some people . If you are moving cross country , it 's important to be able to sell your house quickly if you want to sell . This can also matter if the seller is interested in buying another home . If their existing home takes three months to sell and they have already picked a home they want , it can make the timing of funds transfers quite inconvenient - often people need to sell their existing home in order to make a down payment on a future home .
No , but it is certainly a possibility . the efficient market hypothesis would say that this means that the market perceives the present value of all future earning as negative . These earnings might take the form of a writedown of assets at some point . ( Companies carry a goodwill asset that is generally imaginary . They book that asset when they buy companies for more than they are worth . ) It would be as if PRUN was a stock tracking my life . If I bought my house in 2006 for $ 1 million cash . I might have a book value of $ 1 million . However , PRUN might trade at $ 500k because the market knows that my asset is n't really worth $ 1 million and at some point my earnings will take a hit to reflect that . It might also mean that future " real " earnings " ie actual profit and loss on sales " are going to be negative . This would mean bankruptcy is more likely .
Generally not , however some brokers may allow it . My previous CFD Broker - CMC Markets , used to allow you to adjust the leverage from the maximum allowed for that stock ( say 5 % ) to 100 % of your own money before you place a trade . So obviously if you set it at 100 % you pay no interest on holding open long positions overnight . If you ca n't find a broker that allows this ( as I do n't think there would be too many around ) , you can always trade within your account size . For example , if you have an account size of $ 20,000 then you only take out trades that have a face value up to the $ 20,000 . When you become more experienced and confident you can increase this to 2 or 3 time your account size . Maybe , if you are just starting out , you should first open a virtual account to test your strategies out and get used to using leverage . You should put together a trading plan with position sizing and risk management before starting real trading , and you can test these in your virtual trading before putting real money on the table . Also , if you want to avoid leverage when first starting out , you could always start trading the underlying without any leverage , but you should still have a trading plan in place first .
The two factors that will hurt you the most is the age of the credit account , and your available credit to debt ratio . Removing an older account takes that account out of the equation of calculating your overall credit score , which can hurt significantly , especially if that is the only , or one of just a couple , of open credit lines you have available . Reducing your available credit will make your current debt look bigger than what it was before you closed your account . Going over a certain percentage for your debt to available credit can make you look less favorable to lenders . [ As stated above , closing a credit card does remove it from the credit utilization calculation which can raise your debt/credit ratio . It does not , however ; affect the average age of credit cards . Even closed accounts stay on your credit report for ten years and are credited toward average age of cards . When the closed credit card falls off your report , only then , will the average age of credit cards be recalculated . ] And may I suggest getting your free credit report from <URL> . It 's the only place considered ' official ' to receive your free annual credit report as told by the FTC . Going to other 3rd party sites to pull your credit report can risk your information being traded or sold . EDIT : To answer your second point , there are numerous factors that banks and creditors will consider depending on the type of card you 're applying for . The heavier the personal rewards ( cash back , flyer miles , discounts , etc. ) the bigger the stipulation . Some factors to consider are your income to debt ratio , income to available credit ratio , number of revolving lines of credit , debt to available credit ratio , available credit to debt ratio , and whether or not you have sufficient equity and/or assets to cover both your debt and available credit . They want to make sure that if you go crazy and max out all of your lines of credit , that you are capable of paying it all back in a sufficient amount of time . In other words , your volatility as a debt-consumer .
The length of ownership matters - it 's capital gain . Because it is not primary residence , you do n't get the $ 250K capital gain exclusion ( more for married ) . By the way , for the matter of sale " primary residence " is a house you own and in which you lived 2 of the last 5 years prior to sale . So even if it is not your primary residence now , if it was recently - you can take the exclusion .
I see three options , none of them ideal : Walk away from the mortgage and be willing to endure the consequences of a lousy credit record for 7 years . Take out an unsecured personal loan so you can make a lump sum payment at closing to pay off the balance . You 'll have to pay it back with interest , so this is expensive too . If you are selling because you need to relocate , you could consider retaining ownership and renting out the house . Obviously this is n't an option if you just want to get out of home ownership . And if you 're moving away , you 'll have to hire local management to deal with tenants , you may not be able to get enough in rent to cover your costs , etc. . But it could be a way to avoid a new loan or a default .
It depends on how complex your return is . If the only reason you are not using the 1040EZ is because you are over the $ limits , you probably do n't need the audit insurance . Look at the sources of your income . A W-2 per person , some 1099 's from your bank , and you take the standard deduction because you rent , you probably do n't need it . If you are a day trader , and you claim to have a home office , and your return runs dozens of pages , it might not be a bad deal .
The only " smallest amount " issue , as far as I know , is that some of these funds or their brokers may require a minimum initial investment to justify their effort in setting up the account . I believe my funds required that I start them with somewhere between one and five thousand dollars . Other than that , gains ( or loses , in a bad period ) from a fund are directly proportional to the amount of money you have invested in that fund . It 's just that 8 % of $ 500 is a much less impressive absolute number that 8 % of $ 500,000 ... But the way you get the $ 500,000 is a combination of ongoing deposits and compound interest over a decade or three .
April 18 is the deadline to either e-file your taxes or postmark your mailed copy , or to file an extension request ( in which case you have until October ) . ( This assumes you are a US resident ; if you 're a non-resident citizen , you may have a different , later deadline . ) <URL> Your return is considered filed timely if the envelope is properly addressed and postmarked by the due date . Whether or not you submit an extension request , you must submit your payment similarly by April 18th ( mail it or e-send it ) in order to avoid penalties . Even if you file for an extension , you must send money equal to what you expect to owe approximately in order to avoid underpayment penalties . When you owe a balance - You may pay any balance you owe via Direct Pay . Alternatively , you may enclose a check or money order with your paper return or , if you filed electronically , with the 2015 Form 1040-V ( PDF ) , Payment Voucher And You will owe interest on any past-due tax and you may be subject to a late-payment penalty if the payment of tax is not made by the original due date of your return . You will not get a physical bill , unless you fail to pay your owed taxes , in which case you will eventually get the collections department coming after you as with any other unpaid bill . See <URL> If you are not able to pay the tax you owe by your original filing due date , the balance is subject to interest and a monthly late payment penalty . There is also a penalty for failure to file a tax return , so you should file timely even if you can not pay your balance in full . It is always in your best interest to pay in full as soon as you can to minimize the additional charges .
You ca n't actually transfer shares directly unless they were obtained as part of an employee share scheme - see the answers to questions 19 and 20 on this page : <URL> Q. Can I put shares from my employee share scheme into my ISA ? A . You can transfer any shares you get from an HMRC approved SAYE share option scheme run by your employer ( that is , a savings related share option - ' Sharesave ' ( or profit sharing scheme ) a Share Incentive Plan into a stocks and shares component of an ISA without having to pay Capital Gains Tax - provided your ISA manager agrees to take them . The value of the shares at the date of transfer counts towards the annual limit . This means you can transfer up to # 11,520 worth of shares in the tax year 2013-14 ( assuming that you make no other subscriptions to ISAs , in those years ) . You must transfer the shares within 90 days from the day they cease to be subject to the Plan , or ( for approved SAYE share option schemes ) 90 days of the exercise of option date . Your employer should be able to tell you more . Q. Can I put windfall or inherited shares in my ISA ? A. No . You can only transfer shares you own into an ISA if they have come from an employee share scheme . Otherwise , the ISA manager must purchase shares on the open market . The situation is the same if you have shares that you have inherited . You are not able to transfer them into an ISA .
end question
start question
" Simple interest rate of 0.10 % " corresponds to " APY of 2.54 % -5.00 % " ... how ?
Aganju 's response above is spot-on . The rationale for the range of APY is ' banking compliance regulations . ' Our regulators require for the disclosure of what APY you could earn . Our Ultimate Account has tiered interest rates so if your balance was $ 5,000 all month , you could earn 5.00 % . But if your balance was $ 10,000 then the corresponding APY would be 2.54 % . Obviously there are countless iterations you could insert here for every balance possibility but the disclosure copy you see on our website is what our compliance folks felt best addressed the required deposit product advertising regulations . I realize the explanation above may not have cleared up how the numbers are what they are but it should explain why you see a range of APY figures quoted . Sincerely , Bill Clancy , Northpointe Bank
Mortgage or other interest rates are determined by the banks on cost of funds , risk and operating cost . The Fed raises money from the markets by issuing Tresury Bonds at a specified rate . This rate at which it raises money varies depening on the economy . Thus there are 2 rates : the rate at which banks can borrow money from the Fed , which is higher than the rate that the Fed would give banks for excess money deposited with them . So if the cost of borrowing is less , banks can borrow this money from the Fed and loan it to individuals at a slightly higher rate that would cover their costs plus a small profit . The risk associated with a mortgage is less , and hence these would be cheaper , then say a personal loan . If the cost of borrowing goes up , the mortgage rate will go up . If the cost of borrowing money goes down , the cost would come down . Banks may not always borrow money to lend . If they have existing money , they can either park it with the Fed for a lower interest rate , or loan it to individuals for a rate higher than what they would have received from the Fed .
Well , in math terms , it 's the reciprocal . A 20 % drop ( 80 % of original value ) needs a 25 % increase to break even . .8 and 1.25 are reciprocals .
Take the equation 1 + r _ { annual } = ( 1 + r _ { monthly } ) ^ 12 Notice , the right hand side is just compounding the rate 12 times . We can rearrange the equation to solve for the monthly rate : r _ { monthly } = ( 1 + r _ { annual } ) ^ ( 1/12 ) - 1 Substituting in r _ { annual } = .12 , we have r _ { monthly } = 0.00949 . So , for an annual rate of 12 % , that corresponds to a monthly rate of about 0.949 % .
Aganju 's response above is spot-on . The rationale for the range of APY is ' banking compliance regulations . ' Our regulators require for the disclosure of what APY you could earn . Our Ultimate Account has tiered interest rates so if your balance was $ 5,000 all month , you could earn 5.00 % . But if your balance was $ 10,000 then the corresponding APY would be 2.54 % . Obviously there are countless iterations you could insert here for every balance possibility but the disclosure copy you see on our website is what our compliance folks felt best addressed the required deposit product advertising regulations . I realize the explanation above may not have cleared up how the numbers are what they are but it should explain why you see a range of APY figures quoted . Sincerely , Bill Clancy , Northpointe Bank
As always , it depends . Variable rates , over the long haul are almost always lower ; and result in an overall faster repayment . In any specific timespan , however , it is generally possible to pick a point where a smart lock-in would have been a better decision , but these points are only apparent in retrospect . Given the current rate climate , where there seems to be a general consensus that rates will rise , a lock-in would seem prudent . But that will only really be proven several years from now . My tip on this , like most other investing advise , is " do what you need to do so that you can sleep at night " . If you want or need some sense of security , then by all means , lock in . If you want the absolute lowest rate , and have some room to maneuver in your finances , you might be willing to take the risk .
When a stock is going to become public there 's a level of analysis required to figure out the range of IPO price that makes sense . For a company that 's somewhat mature , and has a sector to compare it to , you can come up with a range that would be pretty close . For the recent linkedin , it 's tougher to price a somewhat unique company , running at a loss , in a market rich with cash looking for the next great deal . If one gives this any thought , an opening price that 's so far above the IPO price represents a failure of the underwriters to price it correctly . It means the original owners just sold theirvshares for far less than the market thought they were worth on day one . The day of IPO the stock opens similar to how any stock would open at 9:30 , there are bids and asks and a price at which supply ( the ask ) and demand ( bid ) balance . For this IPO , it would appear that there were enough buyers to push the price to twice the anticipated open and it 's maintained that level since . It 's possible to have a different system in which a Dutch auction is used to make the shares public , in theory this can work , it 's just not used commonly .
You should n't liquidate a strong investment purely because it 's denominated in the same currency . You do n't want to look at the worsening CAD-USD conversion , but the fees charged by the broker . The worsening rate just means that your USD investments are a slightly bigger proportion of your overall assets . And if you expect the CAD-USD to continue the trend , then selling out USD means you are selling an appreciating investment . You should use the assets that you expect to give you the least return in the future , such as uninvested cash ( if any ) . You 're really looking at two questions : ( 1 ) should we pay off the loan now or make regular payments , and ( 2 ) if paying it off , should we liquidate the US index fund to do it ? The analysis for whether to pay it off is how you expect the costs to rise in the future ( conversion rate , loan interest ) versus the opportunity cost of paying it off ( the ROI you could 've gotten with the money if you did n't pay your loan , plus the flexibility and convenience of having the assets in the interim ) . If you decide to pay off now , then deciding which assets to use should turn more on their expected future performance than the conversion rate . If USD is going to continue rising relative to CAD , then do n't sell USD investments .
That 0.625 % is the annual interest rate you 'll receive . It is paid out in two , semi-annual payments . That is , every six months you 'll receive a check for roughly 0.3125 % . <URL>
I am trying to come up with the equation which will give me the total interest to be paid on something given a fixed interest rate with a fixed payment for a given period of time . given all of the known variables : Total Due Fixed Monthly Payment Fixed Interest Rate ( % of Remaining ) Number of Months Total Interest paid = ( fixed monthly payment * number of months ) - Initial balance Example : Total Due $ 20,000 for a car loan Fixed Monthly Payment : $ 572.85 Fixed Interest Rate ( % of Remaining ) 2.0 % Number of Months 36 ( 3 years ) Total interest paid = ( 572.85 * 36 ) -20,000 = 20,622.66 -20,000 = 622.66 Using the mehod using Impt in Excel and summing the results $ 622.66
Contextualization First of all I think I 'll clear off some confusion in the topic , the Sterling Ratio is a very simple investment portfolio measurement that fits nicely to the topic of personal finance , although not so much to a foreign exchange trading system . The Sterling Ratio is mainly used in the context of hedge funds to measure its risk-reward ratio for long term investments . To do so it has been adapted to the following in order to appear more like the <URL> : I Suppose this is why you question the Average Largest Draw-down . I 'll come back to that later . It 's original definition , suggested by the company Deane Sterling Jones , is a little different and perhaps the one you should use if you want to measure your trading system 's long term risk-reward ratio , which is as followed : Note : Average Annual Draw-down has to be negative on the above-mentioned formula . This one is very simple to calculate and the one to use if you want to measure any portfolio 's long-term results , such an example of a 5 or 10 years period and calculate the average of each years largest drawdown . To answer @Dheer 's comment , this specific measurement can also be used in personal investments portfolio , which is considered a topic related to personal finance . Back to the first one , which answers your question . It 's used in most cases in investment strategies , such as hedging , not trading systems . By hedging I mean that in these cases long term investments are made in anti-correlated securities to obtain a diversified portfolio with a very stable growth . This one is calculated normally annually because you rely on the Annual Risk-Free Rate . Answer to Your Question : Having that in mind I think you can guess that the Average Largest Drawdown is the average between the Largest/Maximum Drawdown from each security in the portfolio . And this does n't make sense in a trading system . Example : If you have invested in 5 different securities where we calculated the Largest Draw-down for each , such as represented in the following array : , in this case your Average Largest Draw-down is the that equals 0.172 or 17,2 % If your portfolio 's annual return is 15 % and the Risk-free Rate is 10 % , your Sterling Ratio , which result to 0.29 . The higher the rate better is the risk-reward ratio of your portfolio . Note : I suggest in your case to only use the original Sterling Ratio to calculate your long-term risk-reward , in any other case I suggest looking at the <URL> and <URL> ratios instead .
The only reason for you to ask for it is so that you could forward it to law enforcement if for some reason they can not get it on their own . You may be able to identify the thief if it is someone you know ( recognize the hand writing , style , address , phone , etc ) and report to the detective handling your case . Other than that - not much use to you .
The name on the Form 1098 that the mortgage lender sends you . That 's the SSN and payments reported to the IRS .
You are correct , but I can explain what they 're trying to do . They do n't need to ask for your income because they ask for your tax bracket instead . The default value assumes 25 % marginal tax rate . The amount you save is really calculated as : So if you pay $ 10k in interest this year and you 're in the 25 % bracket , you save $ 2500 on your tax bill . That is why the calculator does n't ask for your income . However , this is n't perfectly accurate , because if you are on the edge of a tax bracket then your deduction will actually change your marginal tax rate . This is a little more complicated scenario . Let 's say you are a single filer making $ 85k per year and are paying $ 10k in interest . You 'd put 28 % tax bracket into the calculator , and it would tell you that you are saving : But actually this is n't right , because you 're only paying 28 % on income beyond $ 83600 ( the lower limit of the 28 % bracket ) and you 're paying % 25 on income between $ 34500 and $ 83600 ) . The accurate calculation has to take this into account : So you may actually save less if you are near the edge of a tax bracket than what that calculator is estimating . In my mind , it would make a lot more sense for them to ask for your income , for two reasons : It leads to a more accurate calculation . Most people know their income , but may not know their marginal tax rate .
The interest rate is 13.5 % The Reserve Bank of India has made it mandatory to quote all variable loans as " Base Rate + Spread " . The Reserve Bank has given a guideline / formula to calculate the Base Rate . All loans should be above Base Rate . Currently the Base Rate for SBI is at 10 % . So you are getting a variable rate of Interest . If the base rate changes from 10 to 11 % , your interest will become 14.5 % . If the base rate goes down from 10 to 9 % , you rate will become 12.5 % . If you make monthly re-payments on time throughout the loan duration , then you will get a discount of 1 % in the rate of interest .
It depends on your situation . For families with small amounts over the FDIC limit , there 's account structures that let you get multiple coverages . Things like holding 100k in an account in joint with your wife , each of you holding 100k in individual accounts etc. . For larger sums and institutions , there 's <URL> . This system spreads your money out to multiple institutions with an eye to FDIC insurance limits . Some people feel this system is abusing FDIC , so I suppose it 's possible it gets outlawed / shut down some day . Alternatively , you can just invest it yourself . Treasury Direct allows small buyers to buy US govt bonds at finished auction rates , or submit a qualified bid at auction . You wo n't get great rates , but Treasuries are about as good as dollars .
Take another job . From a personal finance perspective this is the wrong reason to dip into a retirement account . You will lose so much ground towards actually retiring . Sure you wo n't be taxed , but you will be missing so much opportunity where that money wo n't be working for your retirement . The off-topic answer to take to the start-ups stackexchange site is : do n't quit your day job until your business plan is written out and you have an idea of where to get your startup capital .
All aspects of the savings accounts being equal other than the one having a drastically better interest rate , go with the higher interest rate . As to " earning more " before you deposit , you will earn more by making the higher interest rate deposit . If you are putting away savings it does n't matter if you have $ 10 or $ 10,000 put away what you have as soon as you can so it can work for you . Waiting gains you nothing .
Unless you are getting the loan from a loan shark , it is the most common case that each payment is applied to the interest accrued to date and the rest is applied towards reducing the principal . So , assuming that fortnightly means 26 equally-spaced payments during the year , the interest accrued at the end of the first fortnight is $ 660,000 x ( 0.0575 / 26 ) = $ 1459.62 and so the principal is reduced by $ 2299.61 - $ 1459.62 = $ 839.99 For the next payment , the principal still owing at the beginning of that fortnight will be $ 660,000 - $ 839.99 = $ 659,160.01 and the interest accrued will be $ 659,160.01 x ( 0.0575 / 26 ) = $ 1457.76 and so slightly more of the principal will be reduced than the $ 839.99 of the previous payment . Lather , rinse , repeat until the loan is paid off which should occur at the end of 17.5 years ( or after 455 biweekly payments ) . If the loan rate changes during this time ( since you say that this is a variable-rate loan ) , the numbers quoted above will change too . And no , it is not the case that just % 5.75 of the $ 2300 is interest , and the rest comes off the principle ( sic ) ? Interest is computed on the principal amount still owed ( $ 660,000 for starters and then decreasing fortnightly ) . not the loan payment amount . Edit After playing around with a spreadsheet a bit , I found that if payments are made every two weeks ( 14 days apart ) rather than 26 equally spaced payments in one year as I used above , interest accrues at the rate of 5.75 x ( 14/365 ) % for the 14 days rather than at the rate of ( 5.75 / 26 ) % for the time between payments as I used above each 14 days , $ 2299.56 is paid as the biweekly mortgage payment instead of the $ 2299.61 stated by the OP , then 455 payments ( slightly less than 17.5 calendar years when leap years are taken into account ) will pay off the loan . In fact , that 455-th payment should be reduced by 65 cents . In view of rounding of fractional cents and the like , I doubt that it would be possible to have the last equal payment reduce the balance to exactly 0 .
Part 1 Quite a few [ or rather most ] countries allow USD account . So there is no conversion . Just to illustrare ; In India its allowed to have a USD account . The funds can be transfered as USD and withdrawn as USD , the interest is in USD . There no conversion at any point in time . Typically the rates for CD on USD account was Central Bank regulated rate of 5 % , recently this was deregulated , and some banks offer around 7 % interest . Why is the rate high on USD in India ? - There is a trade deficit which means India gets less USD and has to pay More USD to buy stuff [ Oil and other essential items ] . - The balance is typically borrowed say from IMF or other countries etc. - Allowing Banks to offer high interest rate is one way to attract more USD into the country in short term . [ because somepoint in time they may take back the USD out of India ] So why is n't everyone jumping and making USD investiments in India ? - The Non-Residents who eventually plan to come back have invested in USD in India . - There is a risk of regulation changes , ie if the Central Bank / Country comes up pressure for Forex Reserves , they may make it difficut to take back the USD . IE they may impose charges / taxes or force conversion on such accounts . - The KYC norms make it difficult for Indian Bank to attract US citizens [ except Non Resident Indians ] - Certain countries would have explicit regulations to prevent Other Nationals from investing in such products as they may lead to volatility [ ie all of them suddenly pull out the funds ] - There would be no insurance to foreign nationals . Part 2 The FDIC insurance is not the reason for lower rates . Most countires have similar insurance for Bank deposits for account holdes . The reason for lower interst rate is all the Goverments [ China etc ] park the excess funds in US Treasuries because ; 1 . It is safe 2 . It is required for any international purchase 3 . It is very liquid . Now if the US Fed started giving higher interest rates to tresaury bonds say 5 % , it essentially paying more to other countries ... so its keeping the interest rates low even at 1 % there are enough people [ institutions / governemnts ] who would keep the money with US Treasury . So the US Treasury has to make some revenue from the funds kept at it ... it lends at lower interest rates to Bank ... who in turn lend it to borrowers [ both corporate and retail ] . Now if they can borrow cheaply from Fed , why would they pay more to Individual Retail on CD ? , they will pay less ; because the lending rates are low as well . Part 3 Check out the regulations
end question
start question
What US tax laws apply to a 13 year old game developer ?
After doing a little research , I was actually surprised to find many internet resources on this topic ( including sites from Intuit ) gave entirely incorrect information . The information that follows is quoted directly from <URL> First , I will assume that you are not living on your own , and are claimed as a " dependent " on someone else 's tax return ( such as a parent or guardian ) . If you were an " emancipated minor " , that would be a completely different question and I will ignore this less-common case . So , how much money can you make , as a minor who is someone else 's dependent ? Well , the most commonly quoted number is $ 6,300 - but despite this numbers popularity , this is not true . This is how much you can earn in wages from regular employment without filing your own tax return , but this does not apply to your scenario . Selling your products online as an independent game developer would generally be considered self-employment income , and according to the IRS : A dependent must also file a tax return if he or she : Had wages of $ 108.28 or more from a church or qualified church-controlled organization that is exempt from employer social security and Medicare taxes , or Had net earnings from self-employment of at least $ 400 . So , your first $ 400 in earnings triggers absolutely no requirement to file a tax return - blast away , and good luck ! After that , you do not necessarily owe much in taxes , however you will need to file a tax return even if you owe $ 0 , as this was self-employment income . If you had , for instance , a job at a grocery store , you could earn up to $ 6,300 without filing a return , because the store would be informing the IRS about your employment anyway - as well as deducting Medicare and Social Security payments , etc. . How much tax will you pay as your income grows beyond $ 400 ? Based upon the IRS pages for <URL> and <URL> , while you will not likely have to pay income tax until you make $ 6,300 in a year , you will still have to pay Social Security and Medicare taxes after the first $ 400 . Roughly this should be right about 16 % of your income , so if you make $ 6000 you 'll owe just under $ 1000 ( and be keeping the other $ 5000 ) . If your income grows even more , you may want to learn about business expense deductions . This would allow you to pay for things like advertisement , software , a new computer for development purposes , etc , and deduct the expenses out of your income so you pay less in taxes . But do n't worry - having such things to wonder about would mean you were raking in thousands of dollars , and that 's an awfully good problem to have as a young entrepreneur ! So , should you keep your games free or try to make some money ? Well , first of all realize that $ 400 can be a lot harder to make when you are first starting in business than it probably sounds . Second , do n't be afraid of making too much money ! Tax filing software - even totally free versions - make filing taxes much , much easier , and at your income level you would still be keeping the vast majority of the money you earn even without taking advantage of special business deductions . I 'd recommend you not be a afraid of trying to make some money ! I 'd bet money it will help you learn a lot about game development , business , and finances , and will be a really valuable experience for you - whether you make money or not . Having made so much money you have to pay taxes is not something to be afraid of - it 's just something adults like to complain about :) Good luck on your adventures , and you can always come back and ask questions about how to file taxes , what to do with any new found wealth , etc !
The top long-term capital gains tax rate will rise to 20 % effective 1 Jan , 2011 , unless Congress decides to do something about it before then . ( Will they ? Who knows !! There 's been talk about it , but , well , it 's Congress . They do n't even know what they 're going to do . ) Anyway . The rules about when you can sell stock are mostly concerned with when you can realize a capital loss : if you sell a stock at a loss and then re-buy it for tax purposes within 30 days , it 's a wash sale and not eligible for a deduction . However , I do n't believe this applies to any stocks once you realize a gain - once you 've realized the gain and paid your tax for it , it 's all yours , locked in at whatever rate . Your replacement stock will be subject to short-term capital gains for the next year afterwards , and you might need to be careful with identifying the holding period on different lots of your stock , but I do n't believe there will be any particular trouble . Please do not rely entirely on my advice and consult also with your tax preparer or lawyer . :) And the IRS documentation : <URL> Special Addendum for Nov/Dec 2012 ! Spoiler alert ! Congress did indeed act : they extended the rates , but only temporarily , so now we 're looking at tax hikes starting in 2013 instead , only the new top rate + + will be something like 23.8 % on account of an extra 3.8 % medicare tax on passive earnings ( brought to you via Obamacare legislation ) . But the year and the rates ' specifics aside , same thing still applies . And the Republican house and Democratic senate/President are still duking it out . Have fun . + + 3.8 % surtax applies to the lesser of ( a ) net investment income ( b ) income over $ 200,000 ( $ 250k if married ) . 20 % tax rate applies to people in the 15 % income tax bracket for ordinary income or higher . Additional tax discounts for property held over 5 years may be available . Consult tax law and your favorite tax professional and prepare to be confused .
From the <URL> : Subject to the provisions of Articles 16 ( Directors ' Fees ) , 17 ( Artistes and Athletes ) , 18 ( Pensions , Annuities , Alimony , and Child Support ) , 19 ( Government Service ; Social Security ) , and 20 ( Visiting Professors and Teachers ; Students and Trainees ) , salaries , wages , and other similar remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State , unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting State . Looks like you 're out of luck on this . You have to pay the US taxes .
If you are married , your wife is not your dependant . You said you file jointly , that wo n't change . In effect , the income gets stacked on top of yours , whatever bracket you were at with no income from your wife , all of her income starts at that bracket . You should understand the W4 process and try to get your combined withholdings to be close to what 's due .
This depends on the country ( ies ) involved . US citizen/resident giving gifts is required to pay a <URL> . The recipient of the gift , however , pays nothing . The value of the gift at the time of the gift-giving is used to determine the tax , and an exclusion of $ 14000 per person per year ( as of 2013 ) is available to allow smaller gifts to be given without too much of a red tape . There 's also a lifetime exemption which is shared between the gift tax and the estate tax . This exemption is $ 5.25 M in 2013 . The reason the gift tax exists in the US is because the US tax code is very aggressive . This is basically double taxation , similarly to estate tax . Gifts/estates are after-tax money , i.e. : income tax has been paid on them , yet the government taxes them again . Why ? The excuse is to disallow shifting of income : if one person has high income tax brackets , he may give some of his income-producing property to another person with lesser brackets who would then pay less income taxes ( for example , parents would transfer property to children ) . Similarly capital gains could be shifted . Generation-skipping tax is yet another complication to disallow people use gifts to avoid estate taxes : a grandparent would gift stuff to grandchildren , thus skipping a level of estate taxes ( the parents in between ) . In other countries the tax codes may be less aggressive , and not tax gifts/inheritance as this money has been taxed before . This is a more fair situation , IMHO , yet it means that wealth moves from generation to generation without the " general public " benefiting from it . So if you 're a US person and considering giving or receiving a gift - you need to consult with a tax adviser about the consequences . Similarly with other countries , if you are subject to their tax laws .
The address on your tax return is where they will send correspondence , including refund checks . If you do n't want to use either your old U.S. address or your current foreign address as a permanent mailing address , you might want to use a mailing service , or a friend/family member that you trust . Occasionally the IRS or a state will question your residency based on the address used , though the IRS might figure it out if you file Form 2555 to claim the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion . Some states will wonder why you 're not filing resident returns if the mailing address for you is in that state . If that happens , ( 1 ) make sure it 's not a domicile state and you really are n't a resident , and ( 2 ) send them a letter saying that you are living overseas and that the address they have is only your mailing address , and give them your foreign residence address .
Late-payment fees , damage to your credit , and the risk that you might not actually get to sell and may therefore miss more than just one or two payments .
Why do people keep talking about 401K 's at work ? That is NOT dollar cost averaging . DCA refers to when you have a large sum of money . Do you invest it all at once or spread it out over several smaller purchases over a period of time ? There really is n't a " when " should I use it . It is simply a matter of where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . DCA has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a tradeoff . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
The Expedited Funds Availability Act is your source of information . I 'm generally reluctant to use Wikipedia as a resource , but they do have a handy table of holds and availability : <URL> If you want it from the horse 's mouth , see section 603 of the Expedited Funds Availability Act : <URL> With regards your second question , it 's final once cleared unless there is " fraud " involved . It looks - although I ca n't find an authoritative source - like banks can dishonour checks several years after deposit when fraud is involved . If I can find a source I 'll edit this post .
Yes , you can continue to contribute to the new ISA after the transfer . You can also transfer a cash ISA from this year to a stocks and shares ISA and then open a new cash ISA .
$ 50k is a big unsecured loan -- not sure where you 'll find someone willing to do that . I 'd say your best bet is to start paying down the smallest accounts , regardless of rate , to free up cash flow . Having paid off credit lines will help you maintain an ok debt to credit line ratio . As far as consolidation loans , I would try to find a lender that will let you swap high interest loans with lower interest loans in the 9-14 % range , my guess is that you 'll get no more than $ 10k . You 'll probably want to start talking to local credit unions and small banks and find out what products they have to help you . It 's critical to stay current with all accounts , as things will spiral out of control once you default -- the other banks will start cutting your credit lines and hitting you with overlimit fees and interest rate hikes .
In the short run , its better you get a credit card from India . Generally most cards issued in India can be used internationally . Use this for initial few months in the US till you get a credit card in US .
There is no " Married " filing status ; there are " Married Filing Jointly " and " Married Filing Separately " . As you are married as of the end of 2016 , you may only file 2016 taxes as Married Filing Jointly or Married Filing Separately ( or in certain situations if you have a dependent , you might be able to choose Head of Household ) , and can not file as Single . You are a resident alien for 2016 , as you pass the green card test . I will assume that your wife has n't been to the US much , so she is a nonresident alien for 2016 , because she does not pass the green card test or the substantial presence test . In this case , there are basically two ways the two of you can do it : File as Married Filing Separately . This basically means you file as Married Filing Separately and she almost certainly does not have to file as nonresident aliens are only taxed on income connected to the US , and I 'm assuming that she does n't have any . Note that the tax calculated for Married Filing Separately is almost always worse than for Married Filing Jointly , especially if the two people 's incomes are very different . File as Married Filing Jointly . Since one of you is a resident alien and the other is a nonresident alien , this will involve using the <URL> election . Your wife will be treated as a resident alien for all of 2016 . As a resident alien , her worldwide income is subject to US tax , and will need to be reported on the tax return , but she should be able to use the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion to exclude the first about $ 100k of her foreign earned income , since she was outside the US for virtually all of the year . If she does n't already have a Social Security Number , she will have to apply for an ITIN together with filing of the tax return . Note that you could also file separately at first , and then ( within 3 years ) amend the tax return to file jointly when it is more convenient ( e.g. after she gets a Social Security Number , so she wo n't have to go through the hassle of applying for an ITIN while abroad ) .
The calculators on this site should help : <URL> They allow you to choose a currency ( only about half a dozen are available ) , enter an amount and the years to compare , and then provides feedback in a table . Obviously you will need to be careful which calculator you choose . If they do n't cover the currencies you are dealing with , see this site : <URL> They provide numerous links that , while they do n't provide sleek calculators per se , they do offer guidance on how to handle conversions yourself . Regarding comparing the cost to something like gold , to try and help younger readers , I think it 's a good idea but gold is not the ideal choice for comparison . I 'd recommend something more tangible like household goods - what a Playstation would have cost in 1930s money etc. . In short : the value of gold is esoteric even for most adults - concrete examples would be better .
The deadline for each year is June 30th of the next year . So if you became US resident in 2014 - the first FBAR has to be filed by June 30th , 2015 . As with tax returns , FBAR is filed for the previous calendar year .
Is there an option to dispute this record online since I have never lived in Ohio state ? Start with getting a US-licensed CPA/EA in India , or a CPA/EA working in Ohio , contacting them on your behalf and getting more details . Why did they put the lien ? They probably think you earned money in the State/while resident of the State , and did n't pay taxes . Why would they think that ? Could there be any chance that this was put by mistake ? I still find it hard to believe that the state authorities took my credit card address as a proof of residence . Obviously , unless you did n't tell us something in your question , this is some kind of mistake . But mistake can be not theirs - someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to steal your identity . Someone may have made a mistake and used your SSN to file a fraudulent tax return and got refunds they were not supposed to get If there is no option to dispute , what is the worst that can happen if I do n't pay it and enter the US in 2020 ? If you do n't do anything , someone else 's mistake will become your mistake . Your credit will be ruined , the statute of limitations to dispute the assessment will have passed and the State will attempt to collect on you . The statute of limitations on collections depends on the State laws , but it is much longer than the statute of limitations on assessments , so while you may not be able to argue you do n't owe the dept by 2020 - the State will probably be able to garnish your wages and freeze your bank accounts . Deal with this , ASAP .
In general , yes , the interest portion of student loan payments is tax deductible , but this is not always the case , as tax law ( as always ) is more complicated than it could be : Review <URL> for the details of when it is tax deductible There are income restrictions - if you make more than $ 75,000 as a single income or $ 150,000 while married the interest payments are not tax deductible Remember that you 'll have to itemize to get this deduction . The standard deduction is $ 5,700 for a single person , and usually you 'll have to either give a lot of money to charity or have a mortgage where mortgage interest is tax deductible in order to see any benefit ( for example , are you actually paying more than $ 5700 in student loan interest per year ? That 's a lot of loans ) . For all the possible tax deductions/credits , see the entire <URL>
The US does n't have a Value Added Tax , which is the one usually refundable upon departing the country ... so sales taxes you pay in this country stay in this country and you do n't get a refund . Just remember to treat the tax as an implied part of the price . ( And be aware that state and local taxes may vary , so the total price may be higher in one place than in another . New York City adds a few percent on top of the state sales tax , for example . ) If you are n't sure how much tax would be , do n't be afraid to ask .
You are not allowed to have any of your own dependents if you are a dependent ( or can possibly be claimed , even if not claimed ) on someone 's return . You can not claim any dependents if you ( or your spouse , if filing jointly ) could be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer . <URL> If you are considered to be a qualifying child of another tax payer , you are not allowed to claim the Earned Income credit . If you are a qualifying child of another taxpayer , you can not claim the EIC . This is true even if the person for whom you are a qualifying child does not claim the EIC or meet all of the rules to claim the EIC . Put " No " beside line 64a ( Form 1040 ) or line 38a ( Form 1040A ) . <URL> . In addition , the standard deduction that can be claimed is less than that for a single taxpayer that is not a dependent . The standard deduction for an individual who can be claimed as a dependent on another person 's tax return is generally limited to the greater of : $ 1,000 , or The individual 's earned income for the year plus $ 350 ( but not more than the regular standard deduction amount , generally $ 6,100 ) . However , if the individual is 65 or older or blind , the standard deduction may be higher . <URL>
IRS refunds are not taxable . State/local refunds are taxable , if you itemized your deductions for that year , to the extent that the overpayment provided tax benefit . IRS <URL> to calculate that . Just to clarify : this is taxable in the year received . You do not need to amend the prior years . So if you received a $ 100 refund for State taxes you paid in 2010 in the year 2012 - it will appear on your 1040 for the year 2012 , no need to amend 2010 .
end question
start question
Designating a Roth contribution to the 2010 tax year : How does it work ?
Contributions are post-tax , so there 's no direct tax benefit to choosing a year . I just made a 2010 contribution today , and the institution 's form explicitly asks me if I want it on 2010 or 2011 . The primary advantage of backdating like this is being able to contribute 5k more over your lifetime than otherwise possible , under the timing constraints . While there may be a year in the future which you do n't contribute the max , contributing now lets you build up earnings tax free . For '10 vs ' 11 , you 're probably holding cash so it 's not a big deal , but over five years is a long time to hold cash or invest with tax penalty .
Ask your company just to make sure . My experience has been that it is based on the date of the check , not the end of the pay period or the date the 401K deposit was made . To verify this look at the stub for the paychecks at the end of 2012 and start of the new year , and compare them to your W2 . The first check for 2013 will restart all your year-to-date totals .
To me this sounds like a transaction , where E already owns a company worth 400k and can therefore pocket the money from D and give D 25 % of the profits every year . There is nothing objective ( like a piece of paper ) that states the company is worth 400K . It is all about perceived value . Some investors may think it is worth something because of some knowledge they may have . Heck , the company could be worth nothing but the investor could have some sentimental value associated to it . So is it actually the case that E 's company is worth 400k only AFTER the transaction ? It is worth what someone pays for it when they pay for it . I repeat - the 400K valuation is subjective . In return the investor is getting 25 % ownership of the product or company . The idea is that when someone has ownership , they have a vested interest in it being successful . In that case , the investor will do whatever he/she can to improve the chances of success ( in addition to supplying the 100K capital ) . For instance , the investor will leverage their network or perhaps put more money into it in the future . Is the 100k added to the balance sheet as cash ? Perhaps . It is an asset that may later be used to fund inventory ( for instance ) . ... and would the other 300k be listed as an IP asset ? No . See what I said about the valuation just being perception . Note that the above analysis does n't apply to all Dragons Den deals . It only applies to situations where capital is exchanged for ownership in the form of equity .
It 's a form of debt issued by the United States Treasury . As the name implies , a 10-year note is held for 10 years ( after which you get the face value in cash ) , and it pays interest twice per year . It 's being used in the calculator to stand for a readily available , medium-term , nearly risk-free investment , as a means of " discounting " the value that the company gains . The explanation for why the discounting is done can be found on the page you linked . As a Canadian you could use the yield of comparable Canadian treasury securities as quoted by Bank of Canada ( which seem to have had the bottom fall out since the new year ) , although I do n't suppose American notes would be hard for a Canadian investor to come by , so if you wanted to be conservative you could use the US figure as long as it 's higher .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
One option is to look at the <URL> - As George Marian notes , this is by no means a perfect way to " estimate " how much you 'll owe . Other key questions for you to answer : Have you setup the proper number of deductions for you and your family ? E.g. if you have a partner ( wife or husband ) who doesnt have a job , do you have 2 federal and 2 state deductions noted ? Take 30 minutes to identify the major tax deductions that you qualify for . For example , do you typically itemize your deductions or take the standard deduction ? Do you invest money into IRA 's , 401k 's , HSA 's , or any other tax deferred investment vehicle ? Do you pay any interest on student loans ? Here is the <URL> on tax deductions . Another decent website lists the <URL> . It is n't hard to find these type of websites , all I did was to google " <URL> " . There 's no silver bullet here . The best you can do is to understand the key inputs into how your taxes are calculated , and then identify the most important tax deductions that you might take . Then pray that you have n't missed some nuance and use a tax program early in January to check your assumptions so you 're not completely surprised when April rolls around . A final suggestion : do your own taxes using a website like TurboTax . Take the time to " itemize " your tax deductions just to learn what is tax deductible . You can figure out how the big parts of tax law works by just looking at what you could deduct in the future .
There are no " rules " about how the price should act after an IPO , so there are no guarantee that a " pop " would appear at the opening day . But when an IPO is done , it 's typically underpriced . On average , the shares are 10 % up at the end of the first day after the IPO ( I do n't have the source that , I just remember that from some finance course ) . Also , after the IPO , the underwriter can be asked to support the trading of the share for a certain period of time . That is the so called stabilizing agent . They have few obligations like : Providing liquidity to avoid strong price movement . Supporting the price by buying the share below a certain level . This price support in often done by a repurchase of some of the shares of poorly performing IPO . EDIT : Informations about the overallotment pool . When the IPO is done , a certain number of client buy the shares issued by the company . The underwriter , with the clients , can decide to create an overallotment pool , where the clients would get a little more shares ( hence " overallotment " ) , but this time the shares are not issued by the company but by the underwriter . To put it another way , the underwriter oversell and becomes short by a certain number of shares ( limited to 15 % of the IPO ) . In exchange for the risk taken by this overallotment , the underwriter gets a greenshoe option from the clients , that will allows the underwriter to buy back the oversold shares , at the price of the IPO , from the clients . The idea behind this option is to avoid a market exposure for the underwriter . So , after the IPO : If the price goes down , the underwriter buys back on the market the overshorted shares and makes a profits . If the price goes up , the company exercise the greenshoe option buy the shares at the IPO prices ( throught the overallotment pool , that is , the additional shares that the clients wanted ) to avoid suffering a loss .
How do the mint set the value ? Surely it can not be a value plucked from the sky . Actually , that 's exactly how it is set - plucked from the sky . Not by the mint , though , by Congress ( in the case of the US , similarly in other countries ) . The US mint merely executes orders given by the US Congress and signed into law by the US President . For example , the wildly popular <URL> coin is authorized by the <URL> . The act specifies the denomination ( $ 1 in this case ) , the metal composition ( 99.9 % pure silver , in this case ) and the visual appearance . See <URL> . ALL the US coins that are minted - are minted exactly <URL> , and that includes the denomination . Precious metal coins are not intended for circulation , but rather for collectors . Thus , the denomination does n't correspond to the coins ' real ( intrinsic ) value - the actual value of the metal is significantly higher than the denomination of the coin ( with the notable exception of the Canadian <URL> series ) . Furthermore , what does the value imply to the bearer ? Is it redeemable for $ 25 at any time ? Yes , they 're legal tender . Obviously it would be ridiculous to do that since the metal content worth much more than the denominated value . It has also been set as a legal precedent that payment with these coins can not be taken at face value , but rather at their real ( metal content ) value , <URL> .
Just the principal contribution counts towards the limit . In your example , if you contribute 30,000 and you earn 20,000 , only the 30,000 counts . To find out exactly how much room you have , you can log into CRA 's MyAccount and it will tell you : <URL>
Contributions are post-tax , so there 's no direct tax benefit to choosing a year . I just made a 2010 contribution today , and the institution 's form explicitly asks me if I want it on 2010 or 2011 . The primary advantage of backdating like this is being able to contribute 5k more over your lifetime than otherwise possible , under the timing constraints . While there may be a year in the future which you do n't contribute the max , contributing now lets you build up earnings tax free . For '10 vs ' 11 , you 're probably holding cash so it 's not a big deal , but over five years is a long time to hold cash or invest with tax penalty .
Unemployment insurance provides a temporary safety net to workers who lose their jobs by replacing a portion of their salary for certain periods . Each state administers its own unemployment insurance program so some rules may vary from state to state . Eligibility To receive unemployment insurance payments , you must have lost your job through no fault of your own . If you quit your job or lost it because of poor performance or another justifiable reason , you are not eligible for unemployment insurance benefits . State unemployment insurance programs require claimants to have worked sufficiently before they can claim benefits . Verification As soon as you apply for unemployment insurance , an agency with the state in which you live will verify that you were a victim of a layoff by contacting your previous employer and making sure you lost your job due to lack of work and not an action within your control . Calculation After the state verifies you were indeed the victim of a layoff , your weekly payment is calculated . Your payment will be a percentage of what you made in your previous job , generally between 20 percent and 50 percent , depending on your state . Unemployment insurance replaces only a portion of your previous pay because it is intended to pay only for the essentials of living such as food and utilities until you find new employment . Waiting Period Before you begin receiving benefits , you must complete a waiting period of typically one or two weeks . If you find a new job during this period , you will not be eligible for unemployment benefits , even if the job does not pay you as much as your previous job . After the waiting period , you will begin to receive your weekly payments . Employers pay for unemployment insurance through payroll taxes . So , while employees ' work and earnings history are important to funding their unemployment benefits , the money does not come from their pay . Employer unemployment insurance contributions depend on several factors , including how many former employees have received benefits . Base Wages Employers pay taxes on an employee 's base wages , which vary by state . California , for example taxes employers on the first $ 7,000 of an employee 's annual earnings , while neighboring Oregon taxes up to $ 32,000 of wages . Employers must set aside funds each payroll period and then report taxes and pay their states quarterly . State Rate Categories States have several categories of tax rates they charge employers . New businesses and those first adding employees pay the " new rate , " which is typically lower and geared toward small businesses . Established businesses who have n't paid their taxes recently or properly are usually assessed the " standard rate " -- the highest possible tax rate , which in 2010 ranged from 5.4 percent in several states including Georgia , Hawaii and Alaska to 13.56 percent in Pennsylvania . Businesses in good standing may receive discounts under the " experienced rate . " Depending on the number of employees a business has and how many former employees have claimed unemployment , states can give sizable rate reductions . The fewer claims , the lower the rate a business pays in unemployment insurance taxes . As a result of the economic crisis legislation has been passed to extend Unemployment benefits . Regular unemployment benefits are paid for a maximum of 26 weeks in most states . However , additional weeks of extended unemployment benefits are available during times of high unemployment . The unemployment extension legislation passed by Congress in February 2012 changed the way the tiers of Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) are structured . A tier of unemployment is an extension of a certain amount of weeks of unemployment benefits . There are currently four tiers of unemployment benefits . Each tier provides extra weeks of unemployment in addition to basic state unemployment benefits . Emergency Unemployment Compensation ( EUC ) Tiers June - August 2012 : Tier 1 : 20 weeks Tier 2 : 14 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 6 % or higher Tier 3 : 13 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 7 % or higher Tier 4 : 6 weeks if the state unemployment rate is 9 % or higher Source and further information can be found here - <URL> - About.com Sources : <URL> - US Dept. of Labor <URL> - eHow <URL> - eHow Additional Info : You can file for UI over the internet here are some useful resources . <URL> <URL> - About.com <URL> - eHow
There is a large market where notes/bills/bonds are traded , so yes you can sell them later . However , if interest rates go up , the value of any bond that you want to sell goes down , because you now have to compete with what someone can get on a new issue , so you need to ' discount ' the principal value of your bond in order for someone to want to buy it instead of a new bond that has a higher interest rate . The reverse applies if interest rates fall ( although it 's hard to get much lower than they are now ) . So someone wanting to make money in bonds due to interest rate changes , generally wants to buy at higher interest rates , and then sell their bonds after rates have gone down . See my answer in this question for more detail <URL> To answer ' is that good ' the answer depends on perspective : For someone wanting to buy a bond and get a return on their investment beyond the security that comes with T-notes/bills/bonds , it 's not good at all . It means very low returns right now for risk adverse investors , in some cases not even keeping pace with inflation . For the Government , and taxpayers , it 's good because the government can finance the national debt ( either items coming due , or new debt ) for almost free , and that means we are not taking an even larger hit out of the budget for finance charges on the debt . So for taxpayers and the Government that 's been on a spending spree ( with the brief exception of a few years during the clinton era ) since Reagan was elected , the low rates are a good thing . If we step beyond Treasury issues , it 's also good for Business that wants to finance new projects , capital improvements , etc , since it also means they can get money fairly cheaply via the corporate bond market .
There 's a bit of confusion here . Michael 's article you linked is focused on the issue of post-tax 401 ( k ) deposits . For those new to this , it sounds like we are talking about Roth 401 ( k ) money . Not so . The Roth IRA was introduced in 1998 , and the Roth 401 ( k ) in 2006 . Before ' 06 , people had the ability to deposit more to their 401 ( k ) than the pretax limit of $ 15,000 into the account as " after tax " deposits . My understanding is that these funds were analogous to the non-deducted IRA deposits for those outside the income limits . Michael goes on the point out that now , with the addition of Roth 401 ( k ) and Roth IRAs , there are folk with pre and post Tax 401 ( k ) funds and trying to crack them for transfer to Traditional IRA and Roth IRA may be problematic . Aside from a <URL> , there are separate accounts for the Roth 401 ( k ) and Traditional 401 ( k ) , and it 's possible for the traditional to contain post tax money , which , given the recent <URL> , should be easily addressable .
As per RBI regulations , all transaction originated in India [ i.e. Merchants in India ] and cards issued in India . As of now if a merchant is not in India , then OTP or additional password is not required . The Financial Institutions had contended that making changes for Gateways outside of India would be a technical challenge . This was accepted by RBI as it was deemed that number of user 's doing international transaction is small and hence the chances of fraud are less . Quite a few companies , UberCabs for example switched the gateway to US so that they could bill customers without OTP .
Deposits are contributions . You deposit say , $ 5000 , and over time you have $ 6000 . The $ 5000 can be withdrawn any time with no issue . It 's tracked via <URL> . With this in mind , I wrote an article <URL> , suggesting that since one can withdraw deposits with no issue , the Roth can be used to hold emergency money .
The estate tax laws change almost year to year , so an explanation of bypass trust is probably in order . For this example , assume a $ 1 million estate exemption . If a couple has $ 2 million in assets , you 'd think they can pass it along with no estate tax . But when the husband dies , and the wife has $ 2M in assets , on her death , the excess million is subject to estate tax . Enter the bypass trust . On hubby 's death , the maximum exemption amount ( here , the million ) goes into the trust . The wife is permitted limited withdrawal , usually just interest , but the principal is out of her estate . Now , to answer the question , no , the annual limit does n't apply , but as the trust is not irrevocable , the lifetime limit does n't come in to play . Often , these trusts are worded so the limit in effect the year you die is the amount that funds the trust . Else , one might need an attorney visit every year .
how is the money the FDIC has collected Fees collected from the banks : The FDIC receives no Congressional appropriations -- it is funded by premiums that banks and thrift institutions pay for deposit insurance coverage and from earnings on investments in U.S. Treasury securities . <URL> They also use the proceeds from liquidating the assets of failed banks to make payouts . Are there country specific agencies with a similar mission ? <URL> <URL> ( Mexico ) <URL> ( UK ) not quite like the FDIC You 'll have to search for others yourself . :) Most importantly , are there any examples of a similar system that has failed ? As the Mythbusters say , " failure is always an option . " There is a statement on FDIC 's website to the effect that they are backed by the " full faith and credit " of the U.S. government . That said , the FDIC maintains its own fund to make insurance payouts . Granted , in the shakiness of the 2008-2009 financial crisis they did start waving a red flag about their realistic ability to cover their obligation . Practically speaking , the government will likely step in if necessary . <URL> regarding a propsed revamp of the UK 's FSCS should be of general interest to you on this topic , though it does not answer the question of failed systems . ( Well , as far as I know . I have only skimmed the article . )
No one is quite sure what happened ( yet ) . Speculation includes : Automatic trades gone wild Typo by a trader ( Rumor is that a trader at Citigroup hit " B " for Billion instead of " M " for Million ) Straight up computer glitch The interesting thing is that Procter &amp; Gamble stock got hammered , as did Accenture . Both of which are fairly stable companies , that did n't make any major announcements , and are n't really connected to the current financial instability in Greece . So , there is no reason for there stock prices to have gone crazy like that . This points to some kind of screw up , and not a regular market force . <URL> Edit # 1 : One thing that can contribute to an event like this is automatic selling triggered by <URL> . Say someone at Citi makes a mistake and sells too much of a stock . That drives the stock price below a certain threshold . Computers that were pre-programmed to sell at that point start doing their job . Now the price goes even lower . More stop-loss orders get triggered . Things start to snowball . Since it 's all done by computer these days something like this can happen in seconds . All the humans are left scratching their heads . ( No idea if that 's what actually happened . ) Edit # 2 : IEEE Spectrum has a pretty concise <URL> . It also includes some links to follow . Edit # 3 ( 05/14/2010 ) : <URL> that a trader at Waddell &amp; Reed triggered all of this , but not through any wrongdoing . Edit # 4 ( 05/18/2010 ) : <URL> The House Financial Services Subcommittee investigated , but <URL> I think at this point , people have pretty much <URL> trying to figure out what happened . Edit # 5 ( 07/14/2010 ) : <URL> I 'm giving up . :-)
Box 1 on your w2 is gross pay minus pre-tax deductions , like 401k ( traditional 401ks , not Roth ) , so you are correct with that assumption . With that in mind , it was my experience that the bank only looked at gross pay from my previous two months of paychecks . Double check with a loan officer , but mortgage applications only take gross income into account so a deduction wo n't affect your dti . Also , mortgage apps usually assume that you can liquidate or borrow some large percentage of your 401k to add to your cash on hand for a down payment and closing costs . Something to keep in mind .
What you are missing is " leverage " , which is the typical case for real estate purchases . Buyers usually only put a percentage of the cash down , not the whole amount . So instead you have something like this : Year 0 : Buy $ 100,000 house for 10,000 down . $ 10,000 equity , $ 90,000 debt . Year 5 : Sell house for $ 300,000 . Even if the debt was not payed down and ignoring fees/expenses , that means you have $ 210,000 in cash at sale . 300,000 sale - 90,000 debt = $ 210,000 , so 200,000 profit out of your starting 10k in cash . So , let 's say the $ 150,000 house also tripled to $ 450,000 . When you first bought you could only obtain a $ 90,000 loan with your $ 10k cash , but at the same 90 % loan-to-value ratio $ 210,000 could now secure you a house costing $ 2.1 million . That 's leverage in action . You could also put all the cash down on the expensive house and it is now available to you with a ~ 50 % loan , whereas previously it could not be purchased at all . Note that the " upgrade " still increases your debt and overwhelms your equity , so you go from being up 200k after the sale to being in debt by millions after the purchase , and it also increases your expenses . This is why this is a dangerous game . If your plan was to " upgrade " again at year 10 , or at least cash out and enjoy being a millionaire , what if house prices fell , flat-lined , only grew very slowly - and something happened to your income and you could n't keep up those huge debt payments ? If things go as planned , though , leverage is what delivers the theoretically big upgrade . House prices grow by a percentage of their value - regardless of the percentage of the value you have in equity at the beginning , and regardless of how big the theoretical loan is . If housing prices increase faster than the yearly interest ( which is certainly not guaranteed ! ) you pay on the loan , every year is a paper profit and your buying power increases . In fast-growing housing areas , this was what created the " property ladder " . You bought a house , and in a few years it was worth vastly more - and your income was probably higher now , because the economy was booming . So you bought a bigger , fancier house and in a few more years sold that too ( or just refinanced ) and bought another . 20-30 years of regular living produced millions in profits once it was time to sell the great big house , downsize , and enjoy your retirement . This has lots of assumptions - from higher income to fast growing housing markets , to employment stability , ease of selling or refinancing , etc. . Do n't assume what works on paper necessarily will work in practice !
end question
start question
Are there benefits to purchasing term life insurance with an option to convert to whole life , and what type of consumers should purchase it ?
Whole Life is just an insurance product and an investment product wrapped into a single package . The only advantage is that since you 're forced to make payments to maintain the insurance , you 're forced to invest . It 's really just the " Christmas Club " or payroll-deduction idea , though it tries to claim otherwise . If you 're unable to make yourself set aside money for the future without that pressure , this advantage may have some value . Otherwise , probably not . And there are significant disadvantages . You 're giving up the ability to control your own investments , and paying for the convenience of not having to ( or being able to ) think about them . Not just in the agent 's commission , but in paying a relatively high ongoing rate for the investment " brokerage " service -- and keeping those fees low would make a significant difference in actual rate of return , which compounded over the years can make a large difference in actual earnings . There 's no free lunch . The insurance companies offer this because it makes a profit for them . That profit can ONLY come out of your pocket .
Answer all of their questions honestly and as accurately as you can , but do n't stress too much about it . If you do n't know the answer to something , ask the insurance agent what it means ; that 's what they 're there for . ( If you 're doing this online , email the support , or the ' live chat ' feature many of them have . Or , do n't do it online , if you feel better having an agent in person ; nowadays , most of the major insurers are similar on price so it 's not a massive savings to skip the agent . ) As far as whether it 's important to pick a specific insurer - that 's really your call . Read reviews , understanding that folks with bad experiences are more likely to write reviews than the 90 % of folks who get no benefit from homeowner 's insurance . You need to make the decision as to how important reputation and ease of claims process is versus price . That 's why there are multiple insurers , after all - you can decide how important it is to you . It sounds like you would prefer a simpler claims process , so perhaps you should go with someone who is known for an easier claims process ( understanding that no insurer is always going to agree with every claimant 100 % ) .
They generally approve for basic options trading ( buying calls ) based on overall experience and will grant more rights as you build experience . I 'd question how you have " more than the average investor 's knowledge " about options if you 've never traded them before , but that really does n't matter . They 're trying to protect you from yourself and satisfy legal requirements to that effect . If you want access , just lie and say you 've been trading for a decade , hundreds of times a year . They ca n't verify it and wo n't ask for proof . Source : I did this
Here 's an easy 2 question test : ( 1 ) Is there anyone who relies on your income for their general welfare ? ( 2 ) Is it worth the premium amount to you to make sure they are n't left out in the cold ? If you can answer yes to both questions , buy ( term ) life insurance .
This is going to vary tremendously from country to country ( and even from state to state , in some cases ) . In general , though : Sole proprietorship : Easy to form : requires little , or limited , paperwork and you 'll register directly as a taxpayer ; Difficult to sell : it is much harder to sell a sole proprietorship ( or manage successsion planning , inheritence , that sort of thing ) - you end up selling your assets but can not sell the legal structure ( since contracts and legal responsibilities will be in the owner 's name ) ; Taxable deductions limited : because your salary and the business ' profits are the same , you 'll find it difficult to keep savings in reserve for capital growth as you 'll be paying taxes at a higher rate . LLC : Administrative overhead : depending on local laws , even a small company may be required to submit to a statutory annual audit or financial review , you 'll also find this obligates you to keeping financial records ( this is not , necessarily , a bad thing ) ; Separation of interests : it 's always a good idea to have a separate bank account and structure for a business , an LLC imposes this on the owner - and , yes , this does mean that the LLC can own both fixed and moveable property ( like a car ) ; Financial planning : an LLC allows you to pay yourself a proper salary as well as to save additional profits for capital growth ; this should result in a lower overall cost of taxation as you can also pay yourself dividends from the unallocated profits ; Easy succession planning : selling an LLC is as simple as setting a price and changing the share-ownership ; the new owner buys existing contractual and legal rights by virtue of owning the company . There are a lot of permutations depending on local law . One thing that is n't actually much of an advantage is the " limited liability " component of the LLC . Simply put : for a really small company the majority shareholders are usually going to be " forced " to stand surety for the company in their personal capacity . Limited liability only becomes available once the company has quite a lot of cash/assets ( or the illusion of a lot of cash/assets ) . Update - noticed two further questions that appear very similar : <URL> <URL> Should all of these be merged ?
Index funds may invest either in index components directly or <URL> ( like ETFs , index options , futures , etc. ) which are highly correlated with the index . The specific fund prospectus or description on any decent financial site should contain these details . Index funds are not actively managed , but that does not mean they are n't managed at all - if index changes and the fund includes specific stock , they would adjust the fund content . Of course , the downside of it is that selling off large amounts of certain stock ( on its low point , since it 's being excluded presumably because of its decline ) and buying large amount of different stock ( on its raising point ) may have certain costs , which would cause the fund lag behind the index . Usually the difference is not overly large , but it exists . Investing in the index contents directly involves more transactions - which the fund distributes between members , so it does n't usually buy individually for each member but manages the portfolio in big chunks , which saves costs . Of course , the downside is that it can lag behind the index if it 's volatile . Also , in order to buy specific shares , you will have to shell out for a number of whole share prices - which for a big index may be a substantial sum and wo n't allow you much flexibility ( like " I want to withdraw half of my investment in S&amp;P 500 " ) since you ca n't usually own 1/10 of a share . With index funds , the entry price is usually quite low and increments in which you can add or withdraw funds are low too .
Yes you can sell the property while it is being rented . The new owner has to honor the current lease agreements . Expect to provide copies of the leases to the potential buyer so they can review the contracts before committing to the purchase . The current owner is n't obligated to inform the renters that the property is for sale , though being able to show rented units would require notification in advance . The rules for notification may be discussed in the lease documents , or local law . It is not unheard of for the new owners to offer incentives to the current renters to either leave early , or to encourage them to not renew . This is so they can either renovate a building or convert the building to another use . Renters in a month-to-month mode have to understand that they could receive their notice to not extend at any time , with the notice following the rental contract provisions .
If you invest inside an HSA , it is very similar to investing inside an IRA . Any distributions stay in the HSA . If you sell an investment , the proceeds stay in the HSA . The only way you get any money out of an HSA without penalty before age 65 is to pay for qualified medical expenses . If you still have money in there at age 65 , you can withdraw it without a qualified medical expense , but you have to pay tax on the distributions ( just like with a traditional IRA ) . So , an HSA gives you tax-free gains if you spend it on qualified medical expenses , and tax-deferred gains if you withdraw it after age 65 without a qualified medical expense . <URL> has more details .
Welcome to Money.SE . Please take a look at the recent question , <URL> . Much of the discussion of risk applies to this question as well . The numbers look like your mortgage is closer to 10 % of gross income . Life insurance in your case is a personal decision . In my opinion , life insurance should be to help loved ones left behind not experience financial trauma . The single wager earner dies , and leaves a non-working spouse with 2 toddlers and a mortgage ? Trauma . Your situation ? Not so much . You should start to plan your mortgage needs based on the kids you expect to have . When running the numbers after we got married , we had a house that we each could n't afford alone , and were planning a child that would go to college . If I were you , I 'd look at the worst case numbers , and price out term that will cover your planned children , but perhaps not buy the policies until the first one is born . House contents is purely up to you . You should ask your insurer what contents insurance for fire/theft will cost . Some people are minimalists , and can replace their entire furniture collection with a single paycheck . Others love there $ 10K leather sofa . If , as you suggest , you can self-insure contents , and would lose too much sleep repurchasing the contents after the house is re-built , that 's fine . To answer the original question - Term insurance . I 'd never buy a policy tied to a loan balance . To clarify - as time passes , the mortgage payment is less painful , its real value dropping with inflation and your salary increases . But the very fact that you are earning more , and more valuable to your spouse and children points toward needing more insurance , not less . An the house , while it 's great to kill that mortgage , has higher property taxes , along with higher maintenance costs as things need a round of repair or renovation . The need for insurance is more of a step function , and the use of multiple term policies can be timed to give you the right coverage depending on the stage of your life .
Life insurance is not required to be used to pay the debts of the estate . Life insurance proceeds are not part of your estate . They go directly to the beneficiary , and are their property . Your daughter can do whatever she wants with the proceeds . She can pay off your credit cards if she wants , but she does n't have to , even if your will said she should use the insurance money to pay your debts . If that 's what you really want , you should make your estate -- not your daughter -- the beneficiary of your insurance policies . Then , the proceeds will become part of your estate , so they 'd be available to repay your debts . <URL> ... if the deceased owned life insurance and nominated a beneficiary of the policy , the proceeds of that policy would not pass into the deceased 's estate , but would go directly to the nominated beneficiary <URL> The amount of the life insurance is included in the estate for the purpose of calculating estate tax , but not for the purpose of debt repayment . The estate for the purpose of estate tax is called the " Gross estate " and includes many things that are not included in a " probate " estate . <URL>
Assuming nothing changes between now and then , you will want to file and suspend your benefits at your earliest opportunity . Your wife can then file for spousal benefits , and your benefits will continue to accrue until you file again at 70 . There are several reviews of Social Security benefits calculators that discuss the common strategies for maximizing your benefit , you may wish to visit some of them and enter your numbers at 2 WSJ articles <URL> and <URL> . Edit : It looks like congress moved quite suddenly to close the file and suspend option just now , so unless you are already turning 62 in 2015 , this option may not be available .
They do " Hibah " ( " gift " ) : <URL> Basically , the bank rewards you , with a " gift " , for the profits that it makes from your deposits but without specifying those details in contract . So , unlike a non-islamic deposit you ca n't have any garantee about when or how much the reward will be . In that way it 's more like a dividend .
Does you employer offer a Flexible spending account ? If so , you deposit pretax funds to this account and are reimbursed for your ( medical ) insurance premiums . <URL> indicates <URL> shows what items are covered . I 'm sorry if this seems convoluted . Otherwise , health care is deductible as an itemized deduction only to the extent it exceeds 7.5 % of your AGI . For most , this does n't make the cut . CORRECTION - another question here <URL> resulted in the conclusion one can not use the FSA to pay insurance premiums . One can look at <URL> on the top of page 17 , " You can not receive distributions from your FSA for the following expenses . • Amounts paid for health insurance premiums . "
The standard answer I have heard is that if you were to purchase term life insurance and invest the difference between the cost of the policies , your investments would grow larger than the cash value of the insurance . Also when you take cash out of CVLI the insurance value drops by a like amount . So you ca n't have your cake and leave it to your heirs too . Either you get the cash value OR they get the insurance value . Hopefully , there could be some of both . Although I believe the philosophy of that answer I have two issues with it . First , you must be dedicated enough to invest the difference every month . I can imagine that might be tough to do consistently and if you take breaks from the investing will you still accumulate more than you would have with the insurance ? Second , for the past couple of years all of my investments in mutual funds have lost value . My life insurance has continued to grow cash value over the same time period . Hmm , maybe there is n't a one size fits all solution . If you need a large amount of insurance , term life will certainly be more affordable . However , considering this as an investment I would not expect that to be a deciding factor . Good luck with your decision . It is great that at such a young age you are concerned about investments .
If you can get a rate of savings that is higher than your debt , you save . If you ca n't then you pay off your debt . That makes the most of the money you have . Also to think about : what are you goals ? Do you want to own a home , start a family , further your education , move to a new town ? All of these you would need to save up for . If you can do these large transactions in cash you will be better off . If it were me I would do what I think is a parroting of Dave Ramsay 's advice Pay off credit cards and other unsecured debt . Save up several months of living expenses as cash . Put that in an accessible place and earn a bit on it . Contribute 100 % to a retirement account . ( If you start now , you can achieve amazing things when you retire ) Pay off that low interest debt Invest a little for fun Save up for a big purchase Enjoy your extra money . Congratulations by the way . It is n't easy to do what you have accomplished and you will lead a simpler life if you do n't have to worry about money everyday .
For personal investing , and speculative / highly risky securities ( " wasting assets " , which is exactly what options are ) , it is better to think in terms of sunk costs . Do n't chase this trade , trying to make your money back . You should minimize your loss . Unwind the position now , while there is still some remaining value in those call options , and take a short-term loss . Or , you could try this . Let 's say you own an exchange traded call option on a listed stock ( very general case ) . I do n't know how much time remains before the option 's expiration date . Be that as it may , I could suggest this to effect a " recovery " . Do n't sell your call options , AND , If available in sufficient quantity , borrow and sell the underlying security that the call option was written on ( short sell it ) . You 'll be long the call and short the stock . This is called a delta hedge , as you would be delta trading the stock . Delta refers to short-term price volatility . In other words , you 'll short a single large block of the stock , then buy shares , in small increments , whenever the market drops slightly , on an intra-day basis . When the market price of the stock rises incrementally , you 'll sell a few shares . Back and forth , in response to short-term market price moves , while maintaining a static " hedge ratio " . As your original call option gets closer to maturity , roll it over into the next available contract , either one-month , or preferably three-month , time to expiration . If you do n't want to , or ca n't , borrow the underlying stock to short , you could do a synthetic short . A synthetic short is a combination of a long put and a short call , whose pay-off replicates the short stock payoff . I personally would never purchase an unhedged option or warrant . But since that is what you own right now , you have two choices : Get out , or dig in deeper , with the realization that you are doing a lot of work just to trade your way back to a net zero P&amp;L . * While you can make a profit using this sort of strategy , I 'm not certain if that is within the scope of the money.stachexchange.com website .
John 's answer is similar to what I was thinking . You should invest in insurance " because there 's an insurance salesman who needs to pay to send his kid to college . " I will never be a fan of any type of permanent insurance , and I think it wrong to sell a single person with no dependents such a policy . I 've used the expression " Variable Annuities are sold , not bought . " I feel the same about these insurance policies . The best advice I can offer in a short reply is this : If you need life insurance , buy term . Save as much as you can , 10 % minimum , more if you are able . A young person should be saving for retirement and to position them self to buy their first house , if that 's what they wish . What good is a full up Whole Life policy when you need to raise $ 40K to put down on a house ? Sorry to sound like I 'm lecturing , this is one of my hot points .
I think the answer to this is just " no . " It 's not commonly available to have the option to obtain a mortgage at a fixed amount and fixed rate , especially over a timeframe like the 5 yrs you mentioned in your question . There would be several practical problems with such a thing , including but not limited to : It 's not clear that the market for such an instrument is large enough to make it worth any institution creating it . The options contract would have to have a lot of terms that covered your suitability for having such a loan not just now but in the future . These terms would tend to make the option less useful . Alternatively significant risks ( such as a drop in your income over the next 5 yrs ) would need to be priced into the contract . I do n't think anyone knows how to do that pricing , and even if they did the cost of buying the contract might be prohibitive . ( The Black-Scholes equation used to price stock options , for example , would not apply because many of the assumptions do not hold in your mortgage scenario . ) The contract would need to specify also where the house is to be purchased , not just the amount . Rates and terms vary by location even under normal circumstances , and any risks associated with these factors would only be greater over a multi-year period . Usually with any sort of " standardized " option , you can sell your rights to someone else . This is part of what makes the risk of paying the premium acceptable . You would not be able to sell your option for a mortgage to someone else because it would be tied to your personal credit worthiness . As was noted in a comment to your question , it is common to be able to " lock " a rate over a period of days to weeks . This is n't the same as what you asked though , because it 's much shorter term and it 's typically tied to having an offer accepted on a specific house .
As some of the comments indicated , you could ask your employer to give you a book buying budget , but if not ... As a developer there are books that should sit on your shelf , one those being Design Patterns . A quick search of Amazon or Half.com show these books retail new for about $ 40 , or you can buy used for $ 20 or less . Buy used and realize your savings that way . Another way to realize tax savings is to setup a company and do some side work . Any money you earn could be used to offset the cost of books or other resources and part or all of some of your expenses can be written off . The ability to write off work related expenses has basically disappeared , unless you have a lot of them and you itemize your taxes .
Health &amp; Medical Insurance are same and cover the eventuality incase one gets ill and needs a major surgery/treatment/hospitalization . Life Insurance on the other hand covers the eventuality of death , where the sum assured goes to the Nominee . The money would be handy for the dependents incase of your untimely death . One needs to have both the covers . Medical and Life Insurance are covered under different sections for exemptions . For medical one can have upto INR 25,000 rebate for self and dependents . The Life Insurance is covered under 80c upto INR 1,00,000 . Do not buy a life insurance for tax saving , there are other instruments that would suffice your needs . Once typically needs to buy cover of 8 to 10 times you gross annual income . Term plans are the best plans and come very cheap . As your wife is not working , only a Medical insurance/policy would be sufficient . Edit : Based on Yishai comment . One typically ignores Term policy for non-working spouse . However quite a few cases it may mean additional expenses , i.e. if children are small the need for additional house hold help , or the need of a vehicle / driver or may mean the surviving spouse need to cut-down on work time and reduced pay or any such needs have to be evaluated and based on it a term policy for spouse may well be advisable .
end question
start question
Will safe deposit boxes go to creditors when a bank in the United States goes bankrupt ?
Safe deposit boxes are rented out to customers , and their content is not bank 's property . Money deposits are not being taken by the creditors if a bank goes bankrupt , for the same reason - its not bank 's money , it belongs to the depositors . However , frequently banks go bankrupt because they do not have enough cash at hand to pay back the depositors . In this case , unless insured ( up to $ 250K in the US , EUR100K in EU ) , some or all of the deposits may not be immediately ( or even at all ) available . Depositors become creditors of the bank in the bankruptcy proceedings . Safe deposit box , however , is rented to the customer , and the content is not removed by the bank to be used elsewhere , as happens with monetary deposits . So even if the bank is bankrupt and does n't have enough money to cover the monetary deposits , the content of the safe deposit boxes does n't magically disappear , and the owner can get it back . The access to the deposit box itself may be limited due to the bankruptcy , but the content will remain there waiting for its owners . In the United States , when a bank goes bankrupt , FDIC takes over it and its assets . Safe deposit box rental contract is an asset . It is taken over by the FDIC and will be sold to a buyer ( usually as a part of the whole branch where the box is located ) , who will continue operating/servicing it .
This is just a guess but I would imagine that it has to do with risk . The deposits in Banks are usually as safe as government bonds ( broad oversimplification ) as : Usually bank deposits are insured by local equivalent of FDIC . I 'm not sure about local regulation but it means that they are backed partially by the government - at least this is the case in US and EU . If government is close to default it can and do freeze the Bank assets . For example see Cyprus bank tax in 2013 . The US government is considered the most trustworthy - even in unlikely event of being close to default it would be rescued by FED ( so it can just print the money ) . So the banks at the same time have very low competition regarding government bonds and the investments they can do have relatively low ROI so they can not offer much more competitive rates . On the other hand Ukrainian bonds have current rating Caa3/CCC - / CCC - i.e. the Goverment is judged to be likely to default ( as you pointed out there is war going on ) and in result the government bonds are considered highly speculative . Therefore to attract foreign investors they need to have high interest rating . Similarly the CDs at the banks can be considered at the risk of being lost so to prevent flight of capital overseas ( or people keeping USD in cash form at home ) they need to offer rates that reflect the risk .
According to the New York Attorney General 's <URL> : Landlords , regardless of the number of units in the building , must treat the deposits as trust funds belonging to their tenants and they may not co-mingle deposits with their own money . Landlords of buildings with six or more apartments must put all security deposits in New York bank accounts earning interest at the prevailing rate . Each tenant must be informed in writing of the bank 's name and address and the amount of the deposit . So you have to keep it separate , you ca n't spend it , and if you own more than six units , you have to put it in a bank account . ( The guide goes on to explain that the interest should be paid to the tenant . )
I disagree with the IRA suggestion . Why IRA ? You 're a student , so probably wo n't get much tax benefits , so why locking the money for 40 years ? You can do the same investments through any broker account as in IRA , but be able to cash out in need . 5 years is long enough term to put in a mutual fund or ETF and expect reasonable ( > 1.25 % ) gains . You can use the online " analyst " tools that brokers like ETrade or Sharebuilder provide to decide on how to spread your portfolio , 15K is enough for diversifying over several areas . If you want to keep it as cash - check the on-line savings accounts ( like Capitol One , for example , or Ally , ING Direct that will merge with Capitol One and others ) for better rates , brick and mortar banks can not possible compete with what you can get online .
The <URL> is roughly analogous to the FDIC for investments . There are some important differences like a lack of 100 % guarantee you get all of your funds back . The SIPC understands you invested knowing there was some risk , and therefore you take that same risk in getting your money from a failed brokerage . However there is still a level of commitment and trust that lessen the risk of investing in the wrong place . Also , do not typo the acronym at your work computer . In the US ( and perhaps elsewhere ) it is a racist term , and you are likely to get some bad search results . <URL>
It varies per state . In NY I could do 6 or 12 months when I lived there . In NC was the same , at least a few years ago . In KY , to the best of my knowledge , you do a year . There are also variations between states as to whether the car or the driver are required to be insured ( NY is car , NC is driver , for example ) .
I do n't see countries switching to the USD , I see countries moving away from it . The US has the largest peace time debt ever , is not being even close to fiscally responsible ( approving ~ 4 trillion budget ! ) and is faced with 100 trillion in future commitments ( social security , medicare ) with a workforce ( tax base ) that is decreasing as the baby boomers retire . When the US can not meet those obligations ( and most experts agree there is no hope of that anymore ) they will have to print money and devalue the currency .
Nowadays , the field is irrelevant for processing the transfer and completely ignored by the banks . Pretty much the only purpose it has is for documenting whom you intended to send the transfer to . If you mistakenly send a transfer to the wrong person ( which is becoming extremely unlikely with the IBAN due to the builtin check digits ) then they are mandated by law to give it back to you . If they refuse to do so and you end up going to court , the content of that field could be important to prove them wrong if they claim they are the rightful recipient .
Where goes the Delta ? To the sea , of course . Your question is very valid and for once , I think most of the answers are too involved into mechanical details and are badly missing the big picture . At the risk of over simplifying things , let me try to describe the situation in broad strokes : Inflation : the volume of money grows faster than production ( including services ) . Deflation : production increase faster than the volume of money . Imagine an economy with 10 products and $ 10 . 1 product = $ 1 . In an inflationary scenario , money available increase : $ 20 for 10 products . 1 product = $ 2 . In a deflationary scenario , money available decrease : $ 5 for 10 products . 1 product = $ 0.5 . So far , it 's pretty textbook . Now onto the stuff that you do n't usually read in textbooks : Time . Say 10 people are attending an auction , each with $ 10 bucks . 10 items are for sale . $ 100 and 10 items . Item price is $ 10 . Now , if just before opening the bidding , you go around and give each person $ 40 , every one has $ 50 . Each product sells for $ 50 . That 's the picture people have of inflation . Prices have increased , but everybody has more money , so it comes down to the same thing . Now , let 's bring this example closer to reality : You have to distribute $ 400 , so the total amount of money is $ 500 , which means that the normal price of each item should be $ 50 . Now , imagine that instead of giving money to everyone at the same time , you started by giving $ 40 to 1 guy who was hanging out in front . The auction starts . While you go around distributing the money , the first guy manages to buy 2 items at $ 10 each . Now , there is $ 480 in the market , and only 8 items , making each item $ 60 on average . The next guy to get money manages to snap 2 items at $ 15 . 6 items left and $ 450 in play . Each item now costs $ 75 ... and keep increasing in price as things move along . People who get the money early buy items under their real value , and people who get paid at the end pick up the tab , because by then , there are only a few items left . Back to reality , while inflation means that wages eventually increase ( and they do ) , actual purchasing decrease for most people due to this simple trick . Employees are pretty much at the end of the chain . Income tax Another major source of " signal loss " is income tax . It works by brackets , as you certainly know . Simplifying again because I am lazy : Take a guy who earns $ 100 . Pays no taxes . Can buy 100 products at $ 1 each . Now , put in some inflation ... He earns $ 500 . He pays $ 50 in taxes and can buy 90 products at $ 5 each . By the time he earns $ 10,000 , he can only buy 50 products on account of income tax . So this is another area where you are bleeding purchasing power , and why income tax , which was originally presented as a tax for the ultra-rich is now a fact of life for most people ( except the ultra-rich , of course ) . Money as debt Next stop : Money itself . Money is created as debt in our society . At the risk of over-simplifying things again , let 's say Bank A has $ 1000 in assets . In the fractional reserve system ( our current system ) , Bank A can lend out many times over that amount . Let 's say $ 9,000 , for a total of $ 10,000 ( much more in reality ) . And of course , it lends that money at interest . When bank A has made $ 10,000 available through 10 % interest loans , the total amount of money has increased by $ 10,000 , but when the loans are paid back , $ 11,000 must be paid to the bank , so the net result of the operation is that $ 1,000 get taken out of the market . This system explains why almost all companies and governments have huge debts , and why most of the world 's large companies belong to financial institutions of some kind , and why most of the world 's wealth rest in very very few hands . To fully answer your question and provide details and references and names , one would have to write a book or 5 . There is a lot more than can be said on the subject , and of course , all the examples given here are extremely simplified , but I think they illustrate the key issues pretty well . Bottom-line is that our system is designed that way . Our economic system is rigged and the delta bleeds out on automatic .
Your idea is a good one , but , as usual , the devil is in the details , and implementation might not be as easy as you think . The comments on the question have pointed out your Steps 2 and 4 are not necessarily the best way of doing things , and that perhaps keeping the principal amount invested in the same fund instead of taking it all out and re-investing it in a similar , but different , fund might be better . The other points for you to consider are as follows . How do you identify which of the thousands of conventional mutual funds and ETFs is the average-risk / high-gain mutual fund into which you will place your initial investment ? Broadly speaking , most actively managed mutual fund with average risk are likely to give you less-than-average gains over long periods of time . The unfortunate truth , to which many pay only Lipper service , is that X % of actively managed mutual funds in a specific category failed to beat the average gain of all funds in that category , or the corresponding index , e.g. S&amp;P 500 Index for large-stock mutual funds , over the past N years , where X is generally between 70 and 100 , and N is 5 , 10 , 15 etc. . Indeed , one of the arguments in favor of investing in a very low-cost index fund is that you are effectively guaranteed the average gain ( or loss :-( , do n't forget the possibility of loss ) . This , of course , is also the argument used against investing in index funds . Why invest in boring index funds and settle for average gains ( at essentially no risk of not getting the average performance : average performance is close to guaranteed ) when you can get much more out of your investments by investing in a fund that is among the ( 100-X ) % funds that had better than average returns ? The difficulty is that which funds are X-rated and which non-X-rated ( i.e. rated G = good or PG = pretty good ) , is known only in hindsight whereas what you need is foresight . As everyone will tell you , past performance does not guarantee future results . As someone ( John Bogle ? ) said , when you invest in a mutual fund , you are in the position of a rower in rowboat : you can see where you have been but not where you are going . In summary , implementation of your strategy needs a good crystal ball to look into the future . There is no such things as a guaranteed bond fund . They also have risks though not necessarily the same as in a stock mutual fund . You need to have a Plan B in mind in case your chosen mutual fund takes a longer time than expected to return the 10 % gain that you want to use to trigger profit-taking and investment of the gain into a low-risk bond fund , and also maybe a Plan C in case the vagaries of the market cause your chosen mutual fund to have negative return for some time . What is the exit strategy ?
From a user perspective , my standpoint is to use the cheapest available to me , that the receiver will find acceptable .
No , it is not a reimbursement . Monetary awards , including punitive damages , are taxable . The only exception is when the damages are your health ( physical injuries/illness ) . You either report them as taxable income , or reduce your basis in the property to which the award refers . See <URL> .
In the US , for most mortgages : You have a right to have PMI cancelled when you reach 80 % LTV . The bank must cancel PMI for you at 77-78 % LTV , unless you are behind on payments . The bank must cancel PMI at the midpoint of the loan amortization . The rules for how you compute LTV vary . Usually it 's based with current value . With FHA loans , you can not have the property re-assessed -- LTV is based on the original loan amortization . Note that in the wake of the housing crisis , assessors have suddenly become very conservative with valuations , so be prepared to fight over the valuation .
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
It generally does n't matter since the Government guarantees accounts at most banks . Just make sure it is FDIC insured ( or NCUA if it is a credit union ) and you will be fine even if the bank goes insolvent . In any event , I 'd strongly suggest joining a credit union instead of a bank . The fees are much lower and I 've found them much more customer service oriented . As to the morons who caused the bank mess , you may be in trouble there . I 'd argue that Gov ' t policies were probably more to blame for that than banks . Regardless of fault , and even during the worst of that mess there was never any hint that anyone 's bank accounts were at risk . The problem was that a lot of people had loans they could n't afford to pay because there was too much incentive to make risky loans and not enough downside to the banks originating the loans when those loans went predictably bad .
FICO score tracks credit , not checking or savings . Unless there was a credit line attached , no impact at all .
Mortgage rates are determined in what is known as the " TBA " ( to be announced ) market . Most indices are in some way a function of the rate determined in this underlying market . From <URL> : Pass-through securities issued by Freddie Mac , Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae trade in the TBA market . The term TBA is derived from the fact that the actual mortgage-backed security that will be delivered to fulfill a TBA trade is not designated at the time the trade is made . The securities are " to be announced " 48 hours prior to the established trade settlement date . The mortgage rates determined in this market do correlate rather closely to rates in the parallel Treasury market , as many TBA traders are active in both markets ( usually for hedging duration , or overall interest rate risk , with Treasuries , in the case of mortgage traders ) and most traders think of the market in terms of their " spread " over Treasuries ( although there is no universal way to measure this spread , many models exist ) .
What you mentioned is good to put in there . Putting a copy of your will ( not the original ) is also good . The reason why you do n't put the original in there is because the box will be sealed upon your death , and it will be a mess to get the will out . It 's good off-site storage for small stuff you do n't want lost . A fireproof safe might work , or it might not . I would n't do valuables , though . Under certain conditions <URL> if they 're in a safety deposit box .
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
I found this on the California Franchise Tax Board web at <URL> : If a taxpayer chooses to defer to 2011 and 2012 and the taxpayer leaves California in one of those years how is the conversion treated for California purposes ? Similarly , how is the conversion treated if a nonresident moves into California ? In Legal Ruling 98-3 , Taxation of IRA Distributions Rolled Over to a Roth IRA Followed by a Change of Residence Status , we provided guidance as to the tax treatment of California residents who converted a traditional IRA to Roth IRA in 1998 and then change residence during the ratable period between 1999 and 2001 , as well as the tax treatment of non California residents who converted an IRA to Roth IRA in 1998 and then become California residents in the period between 1999 and 2001 . The analysis in this ruling remains applicable to the new deferral rule allowing taxpayers to report the income from the conversion of a traditional IRA ratably over the two years following the conversion . Outbound taxpayers must include in gross income only those portions of the taxable distribution reportable under the two year rule before they became nonresidents . Under R&amp;TC section 17952.5 the gross income of a nonresident does not include qualified retirement income including income from an IRA , received on or after January 1 , 1996 . R&amp;TC 17952.5 prevents the imposition of California tax on the portions of the IRA distribution recognized after an individual becomes a nonresident . California will allow for the proration of the taxpayer 's income from the conversion based upon the number of days a taxpayer is within California during the two years of the proration . An individual who makes a rollover contribution from an IRA to a Roth IRA before January 1 , 2011 and changes residency in 2011 , must include in California adjusted gross income one half of the taxable portion of the distribution multiplied by a fraction , the denominator of which is the total number of days in the taxable year and the numerator of which is the number of days in the year in which the individual is a California resident . If the taxpayer changes residency during the second year , the amount included in California adjusted gross income for the year of the change in residency is one half of the taxable distribution multiplied by a fraction , the denominator of which is the total number of days in the taxable year and the numerator of which is the number of days in the year in which the individual is a California resident .
end question
start question
Costs associated with starting an LLC in Massachusetts ?
Looks like it 's $ 500 to start ( certificate of organization ) and $ 500 per year after that ( for an annual report ) . Start here : <URL> And that 's just for the state to recognize you as an LLC .
Did it show just your address , or was your name on it as well ? You did n't share how long you 've lived at the address either , so it makes me wonder whether a former tenant is the one who filed that paperwork . It 's also possible that someone used your address when making a filing . Whether that was deliberate or accidental is hard to discern , as is their intent if it was intentional . It could be accidental -- someone picked " CA " for California when they meant to pick " CO " for Colorado or " CT " for Connecticut ... These things do happen . It ca n't make you feel any better about the situation though . You should be able to go online to the California Secretary of State 's website ( <URL> ) and look up everything filed by the LLC with the state . That will show who the founders were and everything else that is a matter of public record on the LLC . At the very least , you can obtain the registered agent 's name and address for the LLC , which you can then use to contact them and ask why your address is listed as the LLC 's business address . Once you have that info , you can then contact the Secretary of State and tell them it is n't you so they can do whatever is necessary to correct this . This does n't sound like a difficult matter to clear up , but it 's important to do your homework first and gather as much information as you can before you call the state . Answering " I do n't know " wo n't get you very far with them compared to having the best answers you can about where the mistake started . I hope this helps . Good luck !
Depends on the State . In California , for example , you pay a franchise tax of $ 800 every year just for having LLC , and in addition to that - income tax on gross revenue . But in other States ( like Wyoming , for example ) there 's no taxes at all , only registration fees ( which may still amount to ~ $ 100-300 a year ) . IRS does n't care about LLC 's at all ( unless you chose to treat is as a corporation ) . You need to understand that in the US we have the " Federal Government " ( IRS is part of that ) and the " State Government " that deals with business entities , in each of the 50 States . Since you 're talking about Italy , and not EU , you should similarly be talking about the relevant State , and not US .
Probably none . First , you need to itemize . But then , this deduction is subject to a 2 % floor , i.e it 's only deductible to the extent it exceeds 2 % of your AGI . If these fees were on the high side , some might have exceeded this floor . And in that case you can use the entire amount spent when you start the math . Update - David , I 'm sorry if my answer appeared curt . All expenses you paid in 2014 are part of the math when doing your return due 4/15/15 , even though the work was for older returns the tax guy worked on . The rest of my answer should be that you need to study where on Schedule A this flows to - There are a few things that add up for this category . It then gets grouped and only what exceeds 2 % of your AGI flows to the Schedule A numbers . For those already in the black via line 21 , the result is all cost flows to the deduction . Without that , there 's a good chance little to none will be helpful to you .
Usually backtests for ( long-term ) strategies are evaluated on a end-of-day basis where you only consider close prices . If your strategy performs well in these backtests , hopes are that if you use a <URL> order your performance will not diverge too much from the backtest . The fact that it wo n't diverge much is important if you keep backtesting the strategy along with the real trading to see regime changes or similar . If you used end-of-day prices for the backtests but some arbitrary intraday market order , you 'd have some difficulties to explain deviations between the two . What it is : MOC orders can be submitted during the day , but they wo n't be executed until shortly before the market ( or more precise the current session ) closes .
Unfortunately , It would be very unusual if you were able to roll a 401k out of your current employer . Details are plan specific , so you should check with your plan administrator .
The primary advantage is protection of your personal assets . If your LLC gets sued , they ca n't take your house/car/dog / wife . There are n't really any financial incentives to be an LLC ; because of the pass-thru taxing structure , you wind up paying the same in taxes either way . " The cost " will depend on where you 're located , and usually involves a few factors -- Expect to pay $ 300-500 to start it , depending on your state and who you register with ( technically , you can usually register for free at the secretary of state , but would n't you rather pay an expert ? ) , and " State Franchise Tax " , which will can be a minimum of up to $ 1000/year depending on the state , plus even more if your LLC earns more than $ xxx ,000 . EDIT -- As an aside , I 'll mention that I 'm based in California , and our state franchise tax starts at $ 800/yr . I 'm all-web-based , so I 've been investigating incorporating in Nevada or Delaware instead ( no franchise tax , lower filing fees ) , but from what I 've found , it 's hardly worth the trouble . In addition to having to pay a Registered Agent ( someone to act as my permanent mailing address in that state for ~ $ 100/yr ) , apparently California likes to search for people just like me , and charge them $ 800 anyway . You can fight that , of course , and claim that your business really is done in Nevada , but do you really want to ?
I called the help line . They instructed me to use their Basic PAYE Tools to do an earlier year update with ' Final submission because scheme ceased ' box ticked , roughly as per <URL> .
That is correct , the SS cap is on total wages , not each wage . When you create an LLC ( as a disregarded entity ) , you do n't pay yourself with a W2 , all the LLC earnings are your earnings . So instead of Social Security deductions , you will be paying <URL> ( which totals to the same amount as you would be paying with W2 to yourself , just under different name ) . Note that S-Corp is a pass-through entity for Federal taxes , so there 's not much difference from LLC being taxed as LLC ( other than extra complexity , for S-Corp you need to file additional forms while LLC is completely invisible on your Federal taxes ) . It may be different on a state level , but probably not much as well . S-Corp existed when there were no LLC 's , but now I do n't see a reason to ever deal with S-Coprs unless you 're dealing with shareholders and shares . Something to take into the account : if you 're paying yourself with W2 - you 'll have to deduct the FICA taxes on all your earnings , and then get credit on your 1040 . With LLC - you wo n't have to pay and wait for refunds .
As I recall , the Scottrade minimum is only $ 500 . ( By the way , Scottrade has a feature to automatically reinvest any dividends which the securities pay ) Once you have an account , you can buy into an index fund . SPY tracks the S&amp;P 500 . It is also currently paying nearly 2 % in dividends . You can shop for other alternatives here : <URL>
Credit card issuers do not report whether you paid the balance in full to the credit reporting agencies . What is reported each month is your balance and whether you made the required payment , but not the size of the payment . From what I can tell , this is reported to the credit reporting agencies at about the same time as your monthly bill is issued , i.e. , it 's your statement balance . If your monthly balance is reported as $ 4500 one month and then $ 4000 the next , there is no way to tell from your credit report whether you paid the $ 4500 in full and ran up another $ 4000 the next month , or made a single $ 500-ish payment and are carrying the balance . Since this information is not on your credit report , it can not ( and does not ) affect your credit score . If the balance is higher than it otherwise would be because you are carrying multiple months of spending on the card rather than paying it off each month , this can affect your credit score because it increases utilization . The less utilization , the higher the score . It used to be that utilization did n't have too significant of an impact on your score until it reached 50 % , but apparently it has some effect at 20 % .
Basically , yes . Do n't use your business account for personal spending because it may invalidate your limited liability protection . Transfer a chunk of money to your personal account , write it down in your books as " distribution " ( or something similar ) , and use it in whatever way you want from your personal account . The IRS does n't care per se , but mixing personal and business expenses will cause troubles if you 're audited because you 'll have problems distinguishing one from another . You should be using some accounting software to make sure you track your expenses and distributions correctly . It will make it easier for you to prepare reports for yourself and your tax preparer , and also track distributions and expenses . I suggest GnuCash , I find it highly effective for a small business with not so many transactions ( if you have a lot of transactions , then maybe QuickBooks would be more appropriate ) .
You do n't need to notify the IRS of new members , the IRS does n't care ( at this stage ) . What you do need , if you have a EIN for a single-member LLC , is <URL> since your LLC is now a partnership ( a different entity , from IRS perspective ) . From now on , you 'll need to file form 1065 with the IRS in case of business related income , on which you will declare the membership distribution interests on Schedules K-1 for each member .
IRAs have huge tax-advantages . You 'll pay taxes when you liquidate gold and silver . While volatile , " the stock market has never produced a loss during any rolling 15-year period ( 1926-2009 ) " <URL> . This is perhaps the <URL> for retirement accounts over at I Will Teach You To Be Rich . An IRA is just a container for your money and you may invest the money however you like ( cash , stocks , funds , etc ) . A typical investment is the purchase of stocks , bonds , and/or funds containing either or both . Stocks may pay dividends and bonds pay yields . Transactions of these things trigger capital gains ( or losses ) . This happens if you sell or if the fund manager sells pieces of the fund to buy something in its place ( i.e. transactions happen without your decision and high turnover can result in huge capital gains ) . In a taxable account you will pay taxes on dividends and capital gains . In an IRA you do n't ever pay taxes on dividends and capital gains . Over the life of the IRA ( 30 + years ) this can be a huge ton of savings . A traditional IRA is funded with pre-tax money and you only pay tax on the withdrawal . Therefore you get more money upfront to invest and more money compounds into greater amounts faster . A Roth IRA you fund with after-tax dollars , but your withdrawals are tax free . Traditional versus Roth comparison <URL> . Here are a bunch more IRA and 401k <URL> . Take a look at the IRA tax savings for various amounts compared to the same money in a taxable account . Compounding over time will make you rich and there 's your reason for starting young . Increases in the value of gold and silver will never touch compounded gains . So tax savings are a huge reason to stash your money in an IRA . You trade liquidity ( having to wait until age 59.5 ) for a heck of a lot more money . Though is n't it nice to be assured that you will have money when you retire ? If you are n't going to earn it then , you 'll have to earn it now . If you are going to earn it now , you may as well put it in a place that earns you even more . A traditional IRA has penalties for withdrawing before retirement age . With a Roth you can withdraw the principal at anytime without penalty as long as the account has been open 5 years . A traditional IRA requires you take out a certain amount once you reach retirement . A Roth does n't , which means you can leave money in the account to grow even more . A Roth can be passed on to a spouse after death , and after the spouse 's death onto another beneficiary . more on IRA <URL> .
Out of your seven recommendations one is up 14 % , one up 6 % , four are either even or down slightly and one is down a whopping 40 % . This reminds me of a recommendation earlier in the year provided by The Motley Fool to buy XRO.AX when it was around the $ 40 mark . I had a quick look at it and thought " gee there is no way I am buying those shares " . Now they are just below $ 15 . See the chart below : You have just learnt a valuable lesson by testing these recommendations without your real money - never trust investment recommendations from analysts ( or anyone else ) . Get yourself educated so you understand what analysts are talking about and you can make a decision for yourself . Better still learn about technical analysis so you can decide for yourself whether it is the right time to buy or sell .
No , the expense ratio would be something you would n't be charged . If you bought shares of the ETF long , then the dividends are usually reduced by the expense ratio if you wanted to know where to find that charge in general . You would have to make up for any dividends the underlying stocks as part of general shorting since the idea is that once you buy to put back the shares , it has to appear as if they were n't missing in the first place . No , the authorized participant would handle changes to the underlying structure if needed .
Can he use an existing credit card in his name for all his business expenses , or does that pierce the corporate veil ? That would be a question to a lawyer , since there 's no definitive answer but rather circumstantial . Generally it is safer to separate the finances completely than to try and guess what the court would rule if it comes to that . It is not hard to get a separate card for a LLC ( especially if it is a sole proprietorship ) . We are going to buy a house soon , so I do n't want any extra inquiries . I guess it depends on the bank and the type of card . My Citi business card does n't show up on my personal credit report .
The two factors that will hurt you the most is the age of the credit account , and your available credit to debt ratio . Removing an older account takes that account out of the equation of calculating your overall credit score , which can hurt significantly , especially if that is the only , or one of just a couple , of open credit lines you have available . Reducing your available credit will make your current debt look bigger than what it was before you closed your account . Going over a certain percentage for your debt to available credit can make you look less favorable to lenders . [ As stated above , closing a credit card does remove it from the credit utilization calculation which can raise your debt/credit ratio . It does not , however ; affect the average age of credit cards . Even closed accounts stay on your credit report for ten years and are credited toward average age of cards . When the closed credit card falls off your report , only then , will the average age of credit cards be recalculated . ] And may I suggest getting your free credit report from <URL> . It 's the only place considered ' official ' to receive your free annual credit report as told by the FTC . Going to other 3rd party sites to pull your credit report can risk your information being traded or sold . EDIT : To answer your second point , there are numerous factors that banks and creditors will consider depending on the type of card you 're applying for . The heavier the personal rewards ( cash back , flyer miles , discounts , etc. ) the bigger the stipulation . Some factors to consider are your income to debt ratio , income to available credit ratio , number of revolving lines of credit , debt to available credit ratio , available credit to debt ratio , and whether or not you have sufficient equity and/or assets to cover both your debt and available credit . They want to make sure that if you go crazy and max out all of your lines of credit , that you are capable of paying it all back in a sufficient amount of time . In other words , your volatility as a debt-consumer .
I made this <URL> for analysing such question on renting vs buying . If you 're simply looking at a $ 1500/month mortgage ( for say 20 years ) vs $ 1500/month in rent then there is no break-even unless property depreciates 10 % pa , in which case either scenario leaves you with nothing after the term of the mortgage . The screenshot below shows an idealised 100 % mortgage for $ 230,000 costing $ 1503 per month with 2 % property appreciation . After 20 years the buyer owns the property while the renter has nothing . <URL> Edit further to OP providing property price A property price of $ 300,000 at say 6 % <URL> - equivalent to 5.84 % nominal annual interest compounded monthly - will cost $ 2,121.88 per month for a 20 year 100 % mortgage , ( neglecting fees and duty ) . To make this a fair comparison , say the renter also utilises $ 2,121.88 per month by paying $ 1500 rent and putting the remaining $ 621.88 into a savings account or fund at a deposit ( or return ) rate of 4 % effective annual interest . Taking into account property appreciation at 2 % per annum and rent inflation at 2 % per annum , the scenarios play out as shown below . After 20 years when the term of the mortgage is finished the buyer owns the house , now valued at $ 445,784 while the renter has $ 120,348 in savings . Lets suppose they both continue to utilise $ 2121.88 for the next 20 years . The buyer can put it all into savings while the renter has to continue paying rent . After 40 years the buyer has $ 1,436,966 in savings and appreciated property value while the renter has $ 66,136 in savings . <URL> <URL>
This is going to vary tremendously from country to country ( and even from state to state , in some cases ) . In general , though : Sole proprietorship : Easy to form : requires little , or limited , paperwork and you 'll register directly as a taxpayer ; Difficult to sell : it is much harder to sell a sole proprietorship ( or manage successsion planning , inheritence , that sort of thing ) - you end up selling your assets but can not sell the legal structure ( since contracts and legal responsibilities will be in the owner 's name ) ; Taxable deductions limited : because your salary and the business ' profits are the same , you 'll find it difficult to keep savings in reserve for capital growth as you 'll be paying taxes at a higher rate . LLC : Administrative overhead : depending on local laws , even a small company may be required to submit to a statutory annual audit or financial review , you 'll also find this obligates you to keeping financial records ( this is not , necessarily , a bad thing ) ; Separation of interests : it 's always a good idea to have a separate bank account and structure for a business , an LLC imposes this on the owner - and , yes , this does mean that the LLC can own both fixed and moveable property ( like a car ) ; Financial planning : an LLC allows you to pay yourself a proper salary as well as to save additional profits for capital growth ; this should result in a lower overall cost of taxation as you can also pay yourself dividends from the unallocated profits ; Easy succession planning : selling an LLC is as simple as setting a price and changing the share-ownership ; the new owner buys existing contractual and legal rights by virtue of owning the company . There are a lot of permutations depending on local law . One thing that is n't actually much of an advantage is the " limited liability " component of the LLC . Simply put : for a really small company the majority shareholders are usually going to be " forced " to stand surety for the company in their personal capacity . Limited liability only becomes available once the company has quite a lot of cash/assets ( or the illusion of a lot of cash/assets ) . Update - noticed two further questions that appear very similar : <URL> <URL> Should all of these be merged ?
end question
start question
Can I cancel a credit card without negatively affecting my credit ?
I wrote <URL> which shows that 15 % of your score is based on credit history . This chart ( courtesy of my friends at <URL> ) shows how the average age of open credit lines impacts your score . So , the answer to you is " it depends . " If the account was well aged , it can hurt to cancel . If it was pretty new , or below the average age , it will actually improve the score .
The credit card may have advantages in at least two cases : In some instances ( at least in the US ) , a merchant will put a " hold " on a credit card without charging it . This happens a lot at hotels , for example , which use the hold as collateral against damages and incidental charges . On a credit card this temporarily reduces your credit limit but never appears on your bill . I 've never tried to do it on a debit card , but my understanding is that they either reject the debit card for this purpose or they actually make the withdrawal and then issue a refund later . You 'll actually need to account for this in your cash flow on the debit card but not on the credit card . If you get a fraudulent charge on your credit card , it impacts that account until you detect it and go through the fraud resolution process . On a debit card , the fraudulent charge may ripple through the rest of your life . The rent payment that you made by electronic transfer or ( in the US ) by check , for example , is now rejected because your bank account is short by the amount of the fraud even if you did n't use the debit card to pay it . Eventually this will probably get sorted out , but it has potential to create a bigger mess than is necessary . Personally , I never use my debit card . I consider it too risky with no apparent benefit .
If this is a pre-authorized automatic billing , and if you have signed any contract with the merchant , cancelling may not block any future charges from the merchant . Happens with gyms , magazines , memberships quite often . There is a time period after the cancellation this will occur , then it 'll be completely dead .
Is it possible to pay off my balance more than once in a payment period in order to increase the amount I can spend in a payment period ? Yes you can pay off the balance more than once even if its not due . This will get applied to outstanding and you will be able to spend again . If so , is there a reason not to do this ? There is no harm . However note that it generally takes 2-3 days for the credit to be applied to the card . Hence factor this in before you make new purchases . I just got a credit card to start rebuilding my credit . Spending close to you credit limit does not help much ; compared to spending less than 10 % of your credit limit . So the sooner you get your limit on card increased the better .
The two factors that will hurt you the most is the age of the credit account , and your available credit to debt ratio . Removing an older account takes that account out of the equation of calculating your overall credit score , which can hurt significantly , especially if that is the only , or one of just a couple , of open credit lines you have available . Reducing your available credit will make your current debt look bigger than what it was before you closed your account . Going over a certain percentage for your debt to available credit can make you look less favorable to lenders . [ As stated above , closing a credit card does remove it from the credit utilization calculation which can raise your debt/credit ratio . It does not , however ; affect the average age of credit cards . Even closed accounts stay on your credit report for ten years and are credited toward average age of cards . When the closed credit card falls off your report , only then , will the average age of credit cards be recalculated . ] And may I suggest getting your free credit report from <URL> . It 's the only place considered ' official ' to receive your free annual credit report as told by the FTC . Going to other 3rd party sites to pull your credit report can risk your information being traded or sold . EDIT : To answer your second point , there are numerous factors that banks and creditors will consider depending on the type of card you 're applying for . The heavier the personal rewards ( cash back , flyer miles , discounts , etc. ) the bigger the stipulation . Some factors to consider are your income to debt ratio , income to available credit ratio , number of revolving lines of credit , debt to available credit ratio , available credit to debt ratio , and whether or not you have sufficient equity and/or assets to cover both your debt and available credit . They want to make sure that if you go crazy and max out all of your lines of credit , that you are capable of paying it all back in a sufficient amount of time . In other words , your volatility as a debt-consumer .
* Full disclosure * I am not personally familiar with U.K. law and am not even a U.K. resident so this answer should not be taken as authoritative in any way . It it simply provided to perhaps help " point the way " . If you believe your credit report has been accessed illegally , I would check with a solicitor or barrister to see if they might recommend legal action . Is it legal to do a credit check without my permission ? And what can be done , should I not be informed prior to the check taking place ? A quick Google search seems to indicate that access to your credit report may be fairly limited . <URL> is from the <URL> site : " A company must always get your permission to check your credit report . When you apply for credit you will usually consent to the lender checking your report at various stages in their relationship with you [ ... ] [ i ] mportantly , if a debt is sold on to a debt collection firm , this consent stays with the debt . This gives the collection firm the right to access your credit report to assess your overall financial situation [ ... ] Now , if there is a dispute about whether you owe the money in question then the firm should look into this for you [ ... ] [ i ] f , however , you actually dispute any connection with the debt at all -- perhaps it 's a case of mistaken identity ? -- you should make this clear to them and they should take prompt action to rectify the situation . If it is n't your debt then the debt collection firm should certainly not be checking your credit report . [ emphasis added ] <URL> states the following regarding <URL> : " No , searches can only be made with your consent . This is usually given at the time you apply to a lender . " <URL> : " No , you can only order your own credit report . " <URL> : " Under article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights , you have the right to privacy . However , whenever you apply for credit you will give the lender permission to share information about you with credit reference agencies and others . This will be part of the contract between you and the lender . [ emphasis added ] However , you can contact lenders directly and ask them not to use information about you for marketing purposes . " That said , you can apparently <URL> ( at least with Experian ) : " Whenever someone accesses or searches your information on the Experian database , a search record , or ' footprint ' , is created . These records show which company has accessed/searched your personal information and when , and are kept on record for one year . " Finally , while I 'm not sure it applies to credit reports , <URL> was found in the <URL> ( apparently <URL> ) . It seems to echo similar language that consent is needed to access personal ( financial ? ) information . As far as whether you should be notified , this likely then depends on who you did ( or did n't ) allow access to this information in the first place . Likewise , it 's possible certain state agencies might have a bit more leeway in this area than private companies or individuals . Finally , while I was n't able to find any good evidence to back this up , given this repetition of needed consent , I would suspect that employers are probably limited as well , but that is 100 % pure speculation .
If they told you that the move wo n't affect your credit score , it wo n't . As you noted , neither MasterCard or Visa are the ones that hold your account ; the bank is . They are telling you that it is a new account , but that is just bookkeeping . As far as you are concerned , it is the same account , as all your history is moving from the old account to the new . If the bank is reporting it to the credit agencies in the same way , it wo n't affect your score . The fact that the account number is changing does n't matter ; credit card account numbers change all the time .
This kind of thing happens a lot in the credit card industry . The bank ( Citi ) tries to get the best deal they can for themselves . My guess is Mastercard is charging Citi less fees than Visa was willing to charge them so they switched . Your only real option is to close your account and switch to a different card that is a Visa . But I do n't think there is a big difference between Visa and Mastercard . Most are accepted just about everywhere . It also could be related to the fact that Citi owns a big portion of Mastercard ( source <URL> ) . So Citi would rather give their business to a company they own instead of Visa .
Magstripe : No . ( And maybe not even that much . ) Chip : Gods only know , but I doubt it . The purpose of the chip is to provide secure authentication of the card . It has no reason to do more than that .
Yes , cancelling the credit card can affect your credit history negatively , if it was your oldest credit card . The length of time you 've been using credit is one metric that is used to calculate your credit score . I agree with Alexey - keep it if there 's no annual fee .
The credit file is a history of your use of credit . It has the good and the bad info that covers a period of years . There is a process of getting incorrect info either changed , or removed . But there is no procedure for getting correct information removed . Lenders want to know your history so they determine if you generally pay your debts . They then look at your income and other expenses to see if you have the cash flow or the reserves to pay back the loan . The decision to lend is based on those two analyses . Removing bad history would provide a false impression to the lender . Now when you apply for credit the lender can decide to loan the money even if you do n't have perfect credit . They may decide the risk is still good , or they could raise the rate , or they could lower the maximum they will lend . Some lenders will allow you to submit to them a written explanation of any ding on the report . They do this so they can document their decision to overlook a few small issues .
You can have an american credit card with a foreign billing address . I had two credit cards ( USAA and Chase ) with billing addresses in the UK . I already had both cards while living in the US ( not sure about setting up cards with the original address out of the country ) and then just updated my billing information online . If you can , I would also recommend keeping a card with a US billing address , as mentioned previously , since quite a few websites wo n't allow you to enter a non-US address at all . This depends on having somebody ( parents ? friends ? ) with an address in the states . Also , you can use sites like amazon.com instead of amazon.co.uk to get better deals and / or send gifts home without having to do any currency conversion . Check for foreign transaction fees and try to find a card that has no ( or very small ) fees .
In the long term , Loss or Theft of your credit card ( whether used or not ) will not affect your credit report or score . You are not liable for the charges made and your credit report is the report of your credit usage . Not the report of an identity theft 's use of credit . That being said , in the short term fraudulent charges and accounts could be opened which will be reported to your credit report ( and affect your credit score ) until you contact the Fraud Victim departments of the appropriate accounts and report the error . You would also contact the credit reporting bureaus and have them remove the offending accounts . Unfortunately , this is the victim part of identity theft and while it will have no long term affect , it may take a while to clear this up . I 've had identity theft problems crop up during a home loan refinancing . While the theft did not stop my refinance , it did cause me to take extra steps to convince them I did n't own a home in another state where the loan paperwork used my social security number . Someone else using my social security number for a mortgage and a credit card did not affect my credit score at all in the long term , but did cause me some minor headaches in the short term .
No . Higher credit limit is good for your credit score . It 's a good sign that the credit card company thinks you are low credit risk . Especially if they are not pulling your credit reports , enjoy the higher credit limit . Keep in mind that in general the higher your total credit line , the lower your debt , hence the lower the " utilization " , the better it is for your credit score . See this <URL> and this <URL> .
The transfer may impact utilization , as discussed in <URL> ? My accepted answer discusses that aspect of this question . Of course , applying for that card ( if new ) will impact other aspects of the scoring such as credit inquiries and average account age . One thing to keep in mind , if it 's not obvious , the score is a snapshot , changing as any balances are reported , weekly or more often depending on how many accounts there are . Balances and their impact will change as they are paid . So doing anything to save interest is money in your pocket , and once paid off , your score returns to normal . Credit inquiries have a long ( two year ) effect , and things like missed payments and unpaid cards .
AutoPay vs. paying manually It does n't make a difference if the bill is paid by auto pay or you go in and manually make a payment . If you are concerned about checking the website a day late , use auto pay . If you want to make sure you check for unknown charges pay manually . But it has no impact on the credit score . Paying off balance every few days ( manually ) vs. paying off balance once a month after statement arrives ( manually ) . The only day that matters ( except paying late ) is the day your balance is reported , which generally is a day or two after the statement date . If you wait for it to arrive by mail you are probably paying it down after they have reported it . If you pay it right after the statement date you might get it to zero . Paying off ONLY statement balance ( manually ) vs. paying off all purchases including those that have n't hit a statement yet ( manually ) This is overkill . You are trying to make sure you always have a zero balance . Even in a month where you achieve perfect utilization the benefit will go away the next month . If one month you you are out of the perfect zone the few points you drop will bounce back the next month . There utilization rate is a snapshot , not an average or a trend . If you were applying for a mortgage , or a car loan in the next month or two ; then making sure your utilization rate gives you an above average boost makes sense . But if you are n't applying for credit you are just wasting energy . Of course if you have a balance you are paying down , then paying sooner than the due date can save you money .
For safety , I would always go with a credit card . The fraud protection is generally better , although that gap is closing and many debit cards include similar fraud protection now as well . The key though is that in the event of a dispute , your money is at stake when you use a debit card ( those funds might be unavailable for you to use ) , while on a credit card , it 's the issuing bank 's funds , and that 's the bigger advantage I think . Also many credit cards offer cash back/points on grocery store purchases so that 's a possible advantage but not really relevant to the fraud/safety concern .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
Yes . In my legendary blog article <URL> I mention how I had a card with a 10 % cash rebate , but only for 90 days . I bought $ 50,000 in debit cards in less than 90 days even though the card limit was $ 10,000 , by doing what you suggested , paying mid-cycle , freeing up the credit , then going back for more . The cards were for $ 500 and had a 1 % fee . A total cost of $ 50,500 and $ 5050 cash back . We used them up over the next 18 months or so .
As long as the refund is received prior to the due date of your credit card , it will be counted as a payment . However , you may owe interest for the balance during that time frame . Since you do n't know exactly when the credit will be performed , I 'd recommend against counting on it . Pay the balance shown on your statement and let the credit go towards your next month 's spending .
end question
start question
Strategies to recover from a bad short-term call options purchase where the underlying dropped instead ?
For personal investing , and speculative / highly risky securities ( " wasting assets " , which is exactly what options are ) , it is better to think in terms of sunk costs . Do n't chase this trade , trying to make your money back . You should minimize your loss . Unwind the position now , while there is still some remaining value in those call options , and take a short-term loss . Or , you could try this . Let 's say you own an exchange traded call option on a listed stock ( very general case ) . I do n't know how much time remains before the option 's expiration date . Be that as it may , I could suggest this to effect a " recovery " . Do n't sell your call options , AND , If available in sufficient quantity , borrow and sell the underlying security that the call option was written on ( short sell it ) . You 'll be long the call and short the stock . This is called a delta hedge , as you would be delta trading the stock . Delta refers to short-term price volatility . In other words , you 'll short a single large block of the stock , then buy shares , in small increments , whenever the market drops slightly , on an intra-day basis . When the market price of the stock rises incrementally , you 'll sell a few shares . Back and forth , in response to short-term market price moves , while maintaining a static " hedge ratio " . As your original call option gets closer to maturity , roll it over into the next available contract , either one-month , or preferably three-month , time to expiration . If you do n't want to , or ca n't , borrow the underlying stock to short , you could do a synthetic short . A synthetic short is a combination of a long put and a short call , whose pay-off replicates the short stock payoff . I personally would never purchase an unhedged option or warrant . But since that is what you own right now , you have two choices : Get out , or dig in deeper , with the realization that you are doing a lot of work just to trade your way back to a net zero P&amp;L . * While you can make a profit using this sort of strategy , I 'm not certain if that is within the scope of the money.stachexchange.com website .
According to Clark Howard . The best mix is to have at least two reward cards for no other reason than rewards , but you actually should have more as far as credit score goes . 30 % of your credit score is based on how much of your credit that you use . I had only 17k in credit . I usually spend 6k a month and pay it off every month . I went to 4 credit cards got the total line up to over 40k and because my usage went down to about 12 % of total credit , my credit score went up about 40 points to mid 700 's after two months Long story short the more credit cards you have the better for your credit score . You should use each one twice a year to keep them active . ( Not relevant for a store credit card , you do n't want to buy something from macy 's for the sake of keeping the card active )
The rules are quite different . There is no special home purchase penalty-free withdrawal . In the case that your account has been open for five years , you can withdraw the principal ( but not the earnings ) without penalty . You may want to talk to a professional for further details . The real question is : why do you want to borrow against your future to finance your present ? Your down payment funds should come from another source than your retirement . Retirement funds should only be touched in the direst financial straights .
The " risk " , other than losing principal ( especially when rates go up ) is capital gains . As with any mutual fund , this one might need to sell assets for cashflow . In which case the taxes on the sales are shifted to the investors . So you may end up with the fund losing value due to price fluctuations , yet you 'll have capital gains ( probably with a significant short term part since the maturity periods are relatively short ) to pay taxes on . To what extent that may happen depends on the fund 's cashflow ( influx of money vs. withdrawals ) . Capital gains reduce your basis ( since no money is actually distributed ) , but if you hold the fund for more than a year - you lose the difference between the short term and the long term tax for the short term portion of the gains .
This is a gross simplification as there are a few different ways to do this . The principle overall is the same though . To short a stock , you borrow X shares from a third party and sell them at the current price . You now owe the lender X shares but have the proceeds from the sale . If the share price falls you can buy back those shares at the new lower price , return them to the lender and pocket the difference . The risk comes when the share price goes the other way , you now owe the lender the new value of the shares , so have to find some way to cover the difference . This happened a <URL> when Porsche made a fortune buying shares in Volkswagen from short sellers , and the price unexpectedly rose .
PE in isolation does not tell anything . A higher PE as mentioned by oldergod just means that the market is believing that this company will do good in future
Banks have a financial , and regulational duty called " <URL> " , established to avoid a number of historical problems occurring again , such as money laundering , terrorism financing , fraud , etc. . Thanks to the scale , and scope of the problem ( millions of customers , billions of transactions a day ) , the way they 're handling this usually involves fuzzy logics matching , looking for irregular patterns , problem escalation , and other warning signs . When exceeding some pre-set limit , these signal clues are then filtered , and passed on for human inspection . Needless to say , these algorithms are not perfect , although , thanks to financial pressure , they are improving . In order to understand why your trading account has been suspended , it 's useful to look at the incentives : false positives - suspending your trade , and assuming you guilty until proven otherwise - could cost them merely your LTV ( lifetime value of customer - how much your business brings in as profit ) ; while false negatives - not catching you while engaging in activities listed above - might cost them multi-month investigations , penalties , and court . Ultimately , this is n't against you . I 've been with the bank for 15 years and the money in the accounts has been very slowly accumulated via direct-deposit paychecks over that time . From this I gather the most likely explanation , is that you 've hit somekind of account threshold , that the average credit-happy customers usually do not exceed , which triggered a routine checkup . How do you deal with it ? <URL> There is only one way to survive angry customers emotionally : you have to realize that they 're not angry at you ; they 're angry at your business , and you just happen to be a convenient representative of that business . And since they 're treating you like a puppet , an iconic stand-in for the real business , you need to treat yourself as a puppet , too . Pretend you 're a puppeteer . The customer is yelling at the puppet . They 're not yelling at you . They 're angry with the puppet . Your job is to figure out , " gosh , what can I make the puppet say that will make this person a happy customer ? " In an investigation case , go with boredom : The puppet does n't care , have no feelings , and is eternally patient . Figure out what are the most likely words that will have the matter " mentally resolved " from the investigator 's point of view , tell them what they have to hear , and you 'll have case closed in no time . Hope this helps .
Not necessarily . The abbreviation " ESOP " is ambiguous . There are at least 8 variations I know of : Employee [ Share / Stock ] [ Owership / Option ] [ Plan / Program ] . You 'll find references on Google to each of those , some more than others . For fun you can even substitute the word " Executive " for " Employee " and I 'm sure you 'll find more . Really . So you may be mistaken about the " O " referring to " options " and thereby implying it must be about options . Or , you may be right . If you participate in such a plan ( or program ) then check the documentation and then you 'll know what it stands for , and how it works . That being said : companies can have either kind of incentive plan : one that issues stock , or one that issues options , with the intent to eventually issue stock in exchange for the option exercise price . When options are issued , they usually do have an expiration date by which you need to exercise if you want to buy the shares . There may be other conditions attached . For instance , whether the plan is about stocks or options , often there is a vesting schedule that determines when you become eligible to buy or exercise . When you buy the shares , they may be registered directly in your name ( you might get a fancy certificate ) , or they may be deposited in an account in your name . If the company is small and private , the former may be the case , and if public , the latter may be the case . Details vary . Check the plan 's documentation and/or with its administrators .
Suppose there is suddenly a high demand for a 30-day oil futures contract . Will that push up the spot price on oil YES : This would definitely push up the spot prices . As the tendency would be if its very expensive tommorow , buy today when its cheap , we would anyway be needing it / consuming it . So to this extent speculators would definitely influence the prices . However if the demand is entirely due to speculation , and not real , then the prices would get corrected and fall as when its time of execution , there would be no buyers at the premium price . Thus speculators at times create volatility in various markets and hence time to time various regulators ( not in context of Oil prices , but other financial markets ) takes steps to curb speculators
Two options you can try : Go to the store and ask them to refund the difference . They might not , but it does n't hurt to ask . Often stores will do this if you are within the return window because it saves them some hassle over you returning the used item and then buying a new item at the lower price . Buy the identical item again at the new price , then return it using the old receipt . I do not recommend any cheating or fraud . Please let me explain further what you might do . First , attempt # 1 above . It is very common for stores to give you a refund shortly after the purchase . Why ? Because this is an easier and better option for everyone than any of the other options . The store wants to keep its customers happy ; that is why it has the generous return policy in the first place . If the store employee does n't go for this , ( perhaps he does n't know how to properly enter this into the register ) , tell him that you would like to buy the item today at the new price and return it at the old price with your old receipt . This may not have occurred to the employee as an option , and it might help the employee figure out how to enter this transaction and give you your refund . If the store employee does n't like this , tell him that you are planning on purchasing the new item today and returning the old item tomorrow . At this point , the store employee might realize that the store is better off keeping their new item on the shelf than they are exchanging a new item for a used item , and allow you to do the second option right there . It 's possible that they wo n't go for this either . Now , if you purchase the new item , you 'll have a decision to make . You need to return one of the items with packaging using one of the receipts . If the store is logging serial numbers on the receipt , it may not be an option to return the new item with the old receipt . If the receipt does not contain the serial number , I would argue that there is no fraud or cheating going on by returning the new item with the old receipt . If the receipt does contain the serial number but the packaging does not , then you should be able to use the new packaging to return the old item .
Just speaking from my experience here . When I was younger ( lol only 23 now ) , I did n't really get pocket money . If I wanted something I had to work for this , luckily at 13 I scored a paper round gaining # 10 per week . I would personally say to encourage children to do some " work " , whether its a paper round , or even just house chores . I learned early on , that to get money you have to work for it . I 've always had a job since 13 , most of my college years I held 2 jobs at a time , even 3 at 1 point . Many of my friends did n't work for their pocket money , they relied on handouts , quite a few of these friends have later on in life taken the easy route , not working and rely on state ( pocket money ) , or still have mummy and daddy pay for everything So my moral is ; do n't just give out willy-nilly , teach some value to money and it will go a long way ;) / 2 cents
<URL> is a great resource to help you understand what you can and ca n't deduct . It 's not a yes/no question , it depends on the exact company use , other use , and contemporaneous record keeping .
As per <URL> Temporary disability , such as an injury , serious medical condition , or even pregnancy , short-term disability payments can be obtained through private insurers , and they may be part of an employer 's compensation to employees . Whether the payments are taxable depends on how and when they are paid . Employer disability benefits If you and your employer share the cost of a disability plan , you are only liable for taxes on the amount received due to payments made by your employer . So , if you pay the entire cost of a sickness or injury plan with after-tax money , you do not need to report any payments you receive under the plan as income . If your employer pays half the cost of premiums and does not deduct these payments from your pay , then you most likely must report half the payments received as income . Reimbursement of medical costs you 've paid for after the plan was established are not taxable , but may reduce the amount of your medical costs deduction . As per <URL> Finally , the applicable statutes and regulations do not distinguish between short-term and long-term disability plans . Thus , if an employer offers both short-term and long-term disability plans and permits employees to separately elect the contribution payment method for each plan , the law does not require aggregation of the contributions paid for each plan in determining the taxation of benefits . Benefits paid under a short-term or long-term disability plan will be taxed according to the contribution payment election made for each type of coverage .
For personal investing , and speculative / highly risky securities ( " wasting assets " , which is exactly what options are ) , it is better to think in terms of sunk costs . Do n't chase this trade , trying to make your money back . You should minimize your loss . Unwind the position now , while there is still some remaining value in those call options , and take a short-term loss . Or , you could try this . Let 's say you own an exchange traded call option on a listed stock ( very general case ) . I do n't know how much time remains before the option 's expiration date . Be that as it may , I could suggest this to effect a " recovery " . Do n't sell your call options , AND , If available in sufficient quantity , borrow and sell the underlying security that the call option was written on ( short sell it ) . You 'll be long the call and short the stock . This is called a delta hedge , as you would be delta trading the stock . Delta refers to short-term price volatility . In other words , you 'll short a single large block of the stock , then buy shares , in small increments , whenever the market drops slightly , on an intra-day basis . When the market price of the stock rises incrementally , you 'll sell a few shares . Back and forth , in response to short-term market price moves , while maintaining a static " hedge ratio " . As your original call option gets closer to maturity , roll it over into the next available contract , either one-month , or preferably three-month , time to expiration . If you do n't want to , or ca n't , borrow the underlying stock to short , you could do a synthetic short . A synthetic short is a combination of a long put and a short call , whose pay-off replicates the short stock payoff . I personally would never purchase an unhedged option or warrant . But since that is what you own right now , you have two choices : Get out , or dig in deeper , with the realization that you are doing a lot of work just to trade your way back to a net zero P&amp;L . * While you can make a profit using this sort of strategy , I 'm not certain if that is within the scope of the money.stachexchange.com website .
I will assume that by STRIP you mean a zero-coupon bond . Once upon a time , long-term bonds were engraved documents which had coupons attached to them that little old ladies could clip out and take to the bank each month/quarter/year to " deposit " into their savings accounts . The bank would collect the interest represented by the coupon from the bond issuer and deposit the cash into said LOLs ' accounts . These days , all this is done electronically for the most part and there are few coupons to physically clip from an engraved bond to take to the bank any more . Anyway , many big players in the bond market buy jumbo-size long-term bonds for which each " coupon " represents a sizeable chunk of money and then sell the " coupon " as a zero-coupon bond to investors at a discounted price , with the discount depending on when the coupon becomes payable and the current interest rate . For example , a brokerage may buy ( say ) a one-million-dollar thirty-year Treasury bond at 2 % annual interest ( paid semi-annually ) that will pay $ 10K as the coupon interest every six months , and thus have sixty $ 10K zero-coupon bonds ( STRIPs ) to sell with maturities from six months to thirty years . The bond represented by each coupon pays no interest as cash ( hence the name zero-coupon ) to the purchaser ; it is merely a promissory note that X years from now , the bond-holder will receive $ 10K . Those unwilling to wait X years to collect their just deserts can sell the bond on the open market . Now , the the bond itself increases in value as the maturity date approaches till it reaches the full face value on the date the underlying coupon is payable , but this value may or may not be realizable on the open market depending on current market conditions and investor confidence . The IRS takes the position that the imputed interest of the bond is taxable income to the bond-holder ( unless it is a municipal bond ) . For this reason , many people prefer to hold zero-coupon bonds in their tax-sheltered accounts . There are other exceptions to the imputed interest rule too . US Savings Bonds are effectively zero-coupon bonds bought at 50 % discount from face value , but the owner has the option of including the imputed interest as taxable income each year ( good idea if the bond was purchased in the name of a child ) or in one swell foop when the bond is cashed in ( easier to work with when one holds lots of US Savings Bonds , often because of purchases via payroll deduction ) . With this as prologue , the price of a long-term zero-coupon bond is less than that of a short-term bond and it also fluctuates more wildly . Would you be willing to pay more to get a piece of paper ( or a few bits in your broker 's computer ! ) that promises to pay $ 10K in thirty years ' time than you would for a similar object that will pay $ 10K in just six months ?
What I 've found works best when working on my personal budget is to track my income and spending two different ways : bank accounts and budget categories . Here is what I mean : When I deposit my paycheck , I do two things with it : It goes into my checking account , so the balance of my checking account goes up by the amount of my paycheck . I also " deposit " the money from my checking account into my various budget category balances . This is separate from my bank account balances . Some of my paycheck money goes into my groceries category , some goes into clothing , some into car fuel , entertainment , mortgage , phone , etc. . Some goes into longer range bills that only happen once or twice a year , such as car insurance , life insurance , property tax , etc. . Some goes into savings goals of ours , such as car replacement , vacation , furniture , etc. . Every dollar that we have in a bank account or in cash in our wallets is also accounted for in a budget category . If you add up the balances of our bank accounts and cash , and you add up the balances of our budget categories , they add up to the same number . When we make a purchase , this also gets accounted for twice : The appropriate bank account ( or cash wallet ) balance gets reduced by the purchase amount . The appropriate budget category gets reduced by the purchase amount . In this way , we do n't really need to worry about having separate bank accounts for different purposes . We do n't need to put our savings goal money in a separate bank account from our grocery money , if we do n't want to . The budget category accounting keeps track of how much money is allocated to each purpose . Now , the budget category amounts are not spent yet ; the money in them is still in our bank account , and we can move money around in the categories , if we change our mind on how to allocate them . For example , if we do n't spend all of our gas money for the month , we can either keep that money in the gas category , or we can move it to a different category , such as the car replacement category or the vacation category . If the phone bill is more than we expect , we can move money around from a different category to cover it . Now , back to your question : We allocate some money from each paycheck into our furniture category . But the money is not really spent until we actually buy some furniture . When we do , the furniture category balance and bank account balance both go down by the amount of the purchase . All of this can be kept track of on the computer in a spreadsheet . However , it 's not easy to keep track of so many categories and bank balances . An easier solution is custom budgeting software designed for this purpose . I use and recommend YNAB .
There are two components of option valuation , the value that 's " in the money " and the " time value . " In the case of the $ 395 put , that option was already in the money and it will move less than the stock price by a bit as there will still be some time value there . $ 22.52 is intrinsic value ( the right word for ' in the money ' ) and the rest is time . The $ 365 strike is still out of the money , but as jldugger implied , the chance of it going through that strike is better as it 's $ 6.66 closer . Looking at the options chain gives you a better perspective on this . If Apple went up $ 20 Monday , and down $ 20 Tuesday , these prices would be higher as implied volatility would also go higher . Now , I 'd hardly call a drop of under 2 % " tanking " but on the otherhand , I 'd not call the 25 % jump in the option price skyrocketing . Options do this all the time . Curious what prompted the question , are you interested in trading options ? This stock in particular ?
I commend you for your desire to be a smart and engaged investor . Regarding the other comments , yes the market is unpredictable and dangerous , but such is everything that leads to profit . I am currently reading , <URL> - mighy be at your local library . The book is helpful because in explaining the options market , it covers basic stock methodologies and then builds on them as it pursues a quant 's math/computation based view of the market . The book is highly math oriented and discusses authors ' custom design scripts/alogrithms to analyze market behavior . See <URL> about technical analysis ( since it often directs short term trading decisisions ) .
It has more to do with who is paying the credit processors for the service , than what the goods really are . Essentially speaking , when you purchase goods worth $ 100 using your card , the store has to pay about $ 2 for the transaction to the company that operates that stores ' credit card terminal . If you withdraw cash from an ATM , you might be charged a fee for such a transaction . However , the ATM operator does n't pay the credit processor such a transaction fee - thus , it is classified as a cash transaction . It 's an attempt to discourage certain behavior . It is also used ( at least deciding to accrue interest immediately ) to prevent users from paying back one CC using a cash advance from another - this way one could run on grace periods indefinitely . Additionally , performing cash advances off a CC is a rather good indicator of a bad financial health of the user , which increase the risk of default , and in some institutions is a factor contributing to their internal creditworthiness assessment .
The Money Market is a place where one trades Instruments . The market is similar to that of the Stock Market . The instruments traded in Money Markets include Short Term Debt Instruments as well as FX Swap Instruments and Mortgage &amp; Asset Backed Securities . The FX &amp; Mortgage Securities are not Debt instruments per se . They also include other custom created instruments that are traded . The definition of Short Term debt is any guaranteed instrument with a maturity of less than a year . These instruments are used in various transactions , including retail and the Money Market is not the only place these are traded .
end question
start question
How to tell if HOA for a prospective condo purchase is financially healthy ?
You can ( and should ) request the HOA disclosure information . It should include the HOA financials , the reserve state , litigation that the HOA is involved in ( both as plaintiff and as the defendant ) , and assessment information ( both current and expected future ) . Also , you should get information about the seller 's state with the HOA ( current/late/liens ) . If you do n't know how to read all that - ask your realtor to help you . If your realtor does n't know how to read all that - find another realtor . Its their job . In many states HOA disclosures are mandatory ( although may cost some ) , but in some states they may not be and you have to ask for them explicitly . Make sure your purchase contract is contingent on the HOA disclosures , so that if you find stuff hidden in there that you do n't like you could back off from the contract . As a side note - indoor/rooftop pools are hardly surprising . Liability suits are surprising . And are much harder to notice .
The cost to you for selling is 3/8 % of a years salary , this is what you wo n't get if you sell . Tough to calculate the what-if scenarios beyond this , since I ca n't quantify the risk of a price drop . Once the amount in he stock is say ,10 % , of a years salary , if you know a drop is coming , a sale is probably worth it , for a steep drop . My stronger focus would be on how much of your wealth is concentrated in that one stock , Enron , and all .
Look for people who have done business with them . If you do n't know anyone who has used their services , look for a company that at least has a brick and mortar branch in your area . Being able to deal with them face to face is a must . Have you checked with your local bank ?
I 'm a retired stockbroker/Registered Investment Advisor . My initial discussions with prospects never had a fee . Restricted stock is unsaleable without specific permission from the issuing company , and typically involves time specifc periods when stock can be sold and/or amounts of stock that can be sold . Not for DIY . Financial planners may be able to assist you , if they are conversant in restricted stock , though that 's not a common situation for most clients . Any stockbroker at a major firm ( Merrill Lynch , UBS , Royal Bank of Canada , Morgan Stanley , JP Morgan , etc. ) will be knowledgeable and advise you ( w/o charge ) how to trade the stock . Always talk to more than one firm , and do n't be in a hurry . If you feel comfortable with the discussion , you can pursue a deeper relationship . In my professional experience , clients valued service , accessibility , knowledge . Price was way down on the list ; many of my clients were not wealthy people - they just needed help navigating a very confusing ( and necessary ) part of their lives . Good luck .
Only if ( or to put it even more bluntly , when ) they default . If your friend / brother / daughter / whoever needs a cosigner on a loan , it means that people whose job it is to figure out whether or not that loan is a good idea have decided that it is n't . By co-signing , you 're saying that you think you know better than the professionals . If / when the borrower defaults , the lender wo n't pursue them for the loan if you can pay it . You 're just as responsible for the loan payments as the original borrower , and given that you were a useful co-signer , probably much more likely to be able to come up with the money . The lender has no reason to go after the original borrower , and wo n't . If you ca n't pay , the lender comes after both of you . To put it another way : Do n't think of cosigning as helping them get a loan . Think of it as taking out a loan and re-loaning it to them .
Your best bet is to call your credit card . However , it 's extremely unlikely that your phone would be covered unless you bought it , straight out , on your credit card . The situation you are describing is one where you do not buy the phone ( until your contract is up ) , and so you should not expect your extended warranty to apply . Note that it is often cheaper , over the course of the contract , to purchase an unsubsidised phone and take advantages of discounts most Canadian carriers offer , rather than lock in to a two year contract . Of course , this relies on you having the money up-front .
A good way to measure the performance of your investments is over the long term . 25-30 % returns are easy to get ! It 's not going to be 25-30 % in a single year , though . You should n't expect more than about 4 % real ( inflation-adjusted ) return per year , on average , over the long term , unless you have reason to believe that you 're doing a better job of predicting the market than the intellectual and investment might of Wall Street - which is possible , but hard . ( Pro tip : It 's actually quite easy to outdo the market at large over the short term just by getting lucky or investing in risky askets in a good year . Earning this sort of return consistently over many years , though , is stupidly hard . Usually you 'll wipe out your gains several years into the process , instead . ) The stock market fluctuates like crazy , which is why they tell you not to invest any money you 're likely to need sooner than about 5 years out and you switch your portfolio from stocks to bonds as you approach and enter retirement . The traditional benchmark for comparison , as others have mentioned , is the rate of return ( including dividends ) from the Standard and Poors 500 Index . These are large stable companies which make up the core of larger United States business . ( Most people supplement these with some smaller companies and overseas companies as a part of the portfolio . )
I would suggest opening a new account ( credit card and bank ) for just your business . This protects you in multiple ways , but is no bigger burden for you other than carrying another card in your wallet . Then QB can download the transactions from your website and reconciling is a cinch . If you got audited , you 'd be in for a world of pain right now . From personal experience there are a few charges that go unnoticed that reconciling finds every month at our business . We have a very strict process in place , but some things slip through the cracks .
zPesk has a great answer about dividends generally , but to answer your question specifically about yield traps , here are a few things that I look for : As with everything , if it looks too good to be true , it probably is . A 17 % yield is pretty out of this world , even for a REIT . And I <URL> on it holding up . Compare a company 's yield to that of others in the same industry ( different industries have different " standards " for what is considered a high or low yield ) Dividends have to come from somewhere , and that somewhere is cash flow . Look at the company 's financial statements . Do they have sufficient cash flow to pay the dividend ? Have there been any recent changes in their cash flow situation ? How are earnings holding up ? Debt levels ? Cash on hand ? Sudden moves in stock price . A sudden drop in the stock price will cause the yield to rise . Sometimes this indicates a bargain , but if the drop is due to a real worry about the company 's financial health ( see # 2 ) it 's probably an indication that a dividend cut is coming . What does their dividend history look like ? Do they have a consistent track record of paying out good dividends for years and years ? Companies with a track record of paying dividends consistently and/or increasing their dividend regularly are likely to continue to do so .
You ask two questions , which I answer in order . You may or may not have something to worry about . The fact that the market value has dropped could mean either that interest rates in general have risen ( you may suffer regret , but no reason to worry ) or that the credit quality of the issuer has deteriorated ( you are less likely to get your money back ) . In the case of the latter , you write " but I still believe they would be able to pay . " That 's nice , but does the market agree ? Perhaps the market knows something you do n't . Or , perhaps you know something the market does n't , in which case this is actually an opportunity ( to buy more ) . When the bond matures , your bank or investment company will handle the payment from the issuer to your account ( provided the issuer does not default , of course ) .
Also , if a beneficiary claims that he / she did not receive the FTT and Bank B refuses to confirm , how do one settle such dispute ? If Beneficiary claims Non-Receipt , you can take this to your Bank A and mention that Beneficiary Claims Non-Receipt [ BCNR ] . Bank A then will contact Bank B and either reverse the funds if there was an issue or will provide you with evidence [ some ref numbers etc ] of the receipt by Beneficiary . Apart from asking the beneficiary directly , how can I confirm / validate if an FTT has been credited into the beneficiary 's bank account ? Generally if your Bank A does not come back , it can be assumed that the funds have been credited . It typically takes 2 days , adding cut-off time , holidays , etc , within 3-4 days the funds would have got credited . Bank B denied my request citing security reasons . Bank B is right . They have no obligation to you and do not know you . They only know Bank A and Beneficiary .
You can ( and should ) request the HOA disclosure information . It should include the HOA financials , the reserve state , litigation that the HOA is involved in ( both as plaintiff and as the defendant ) , and assessment information ( both current and expected future ) . Also , you should get information about the seller 's state with the HOA ( current/late/liens ) . If you do n't know how to read all that - ask your realtor to help you . If your realtor does n't know how to read all that - find another realtor . Its their job . In many states HOA disclosures are mandatory ( although may cost some ) , but in some states they may not be and you have to ask for them explicitly . Make sure your purchase contract is contingent on the HOA disclosures , so that if you find stuff hidden in there that you do n't like you could back off from the contract . As a side note - indoor/rooftop pools are hardly surprising . Liability suits are surprising . And are much harder to notice .
The mathematical answer is for you to have a diversified portfolio in your ISA . But that 's easier said than done .
You are correct , but I can explain what they 're trying to do . They do n't need to ask for your income because they ask for your tax bracket instead . The default value assumes 25 % marginal tax rate . The amount you save is really calculated as : So if you pay $ 10k in interest this year and you 're in the 25 % bracket , you save $ 2500 on your tax bill . That is why the calculator does n't ask for your income . However , this is n't perfectly accurate , because if you are on the edge of a tax bracket then your deduction will actually change your marginal tax rate . This is a little more complicated scenario . Let 's say you are a single filer making $ 85k per year and are paying $ 10k in interest . You 'd put 28 % tax bracket into the calculator , and it would tell you that you are saving : But actually this is n't right , because you 're only paying 28 % on income beyond $ 83600 ( the lower limit of the 28 % bracket ) and you 're paying % 25 on income between $ 34500 and $ 83600 ) . The accurate calculation has to take this into account : So you may actually save less if you are near the edge of a tax bracket than what that calculator is estimating . In my mind , it would make a lot more sense for them to ask for your income , for two reasons : It leads to a more accurate calculation . Most people know their income , but may not know their marginal tax rate .
For personal investing , and speculative / highly risky securities ( " wasting assets " , which is exactly what options are ) , it is better to think in terms of sunk costs . Do n't chase this trade , trying to make your money back . You should minimize your loss . Unwind the position now , while there is still some remaining value in those call options , and take a short-term loss . Or , you could try this . Let 's say you own an exchange traded call option on a listed stock ( very general case ) . I do n't know how much time remains before the option 's expiration date . Be that as it may , I could suggest this to effect a " recovery " . Do n't sell your call options , AND , If available in sufficient quantity , borrow and sell the underlying security that the call option was written on ( short sell it ) . You 'll be long the call and short the stock . This is called a delta hedge , as you would be delta trading the stock . Delta refers to short-term price volatility . In other words , you 'll short a single large block of the stock , then buy shares , in small increments , whenever the market drops slightly , on an intra-day basis . When the market price of the stock rises incrementally , you 'll sell a few shares . Back and forth , in response to short-term market price moves , while maintaining a static " hedge ratio " . As your original call option gets closer to maturity , roll it over into the next available contract , either one-month , or preferably three-month , time to expiration . If you do n't want to , or ca n't , borrow the underlying stock to short , you could do a synthetic short . A synthetic short is a combination of a long put and a short call , whose pay-off replicates the short stock payoff . I personally would never purchase an unhedged option or warrant . But since that is what you own right now , you have two choices : Get out , or dig in deeper , with the realization that you are doing a lot of work just to trade your way back to a net zero P&amp;L . * While you can make a profit using this sort of strategy , I 'm not certain if that is within the scope of the money.stachexchange.com website .
There is a whole pile of information on TFSAs <URL> . I recommend reading it . There is no penalty for withdrawing money from a TFSA as such . You can withdraw from it at any time . The only restriction is that you ca n't put the money you took out back in the same year ( unless you have sufficient contribution room for it to be considered an additional contribution ) . <URL> explains it . There may be penalties for withdrawing money from the investment vehicle into which you paid the TFSA contents . For example your TFSA contents may be in a mutual fund , or in an interest-bearing savings account . If those have restrictions on how much you can withdraw , or have penalties for withdrawl , then you will have to abide by the rules and pay any penalties .
If you received a distribution to buy , build , or rebuild a first home and the purchase or construction was canceled or delayed , you generally can contribute the amount of the distribution to an IRA within 120 days of the distribution . This contribution is treated as a rollover contribution to the IRA . This is from my friend , <URL> . See Page 51 , next to ' TIP ' in second col.
You 'll have to talk to your mortgage lender about that , I doubt there is a ' generic ' answer to it . I do currently have a house in another country that I 'm paying a mortgage on , but the lender was n't too happy with that . They still did accept it , but the bigger problem for me is refinancing it as an investment property when you 're not in the country . Also , it probably depends on what your plans are - are you planning to go abroad for a few years , then return ? Emigrate for good ? Rent out the place while you 're gone ? As I can attest to , even with a local agent a house 5000 miles away can be more of a pain in the posterior than you 'd expect it to be .
Wikipedia has a nice definition of <URL> ( emphasis below is mine ) : [ ... ] refers to an individual 's ability to make informed judgments and effective decisions about the use and management of their money . Raising interest in personal finance is now a focus of state-run programs in countries including Australia , Japan , the United States and the UK . [ ... ] As for how you can become financially literate , here are some suggestions : Learn about how basic financial products works : bank accounts , mortgages , credit cards , investment accounts , insurance ( home , car , life , disability , medical . ) Free printed &amp; online materials should be available from your existing financial service providers to help you with your existing products . In particular , learn about the fees , interest , or other charges you may incur with these products . Becoming fee-aware is a step towards financial literacy , since financially literate people compare costs . Seek out additional information on each type of product from unbiased sources ( i.e. sources not trying to sell you something . ) Get out of debt and stay out of debt . This may take a while . Focus on your highest-interest loans first . Learn the difference between good debt and bad debt . Learn about compound interest . Once you understand compound interest , you 'll understand why being in debt is bad for your financial well-being . If you are n't already saving money for retirement , start now . Investigate whether your employer offers an advantageous matched 401 ( k ) plan ( or group RRSP/DC plan for Canadians ) or a pension plan . If your employer offers a good plan , sign up . If you get to choose your own investments , keep it simple and favor low-cost balanced index funds until you understand the different types of investments . Read the material provided by the plan sponsor , try online tools provided , and seek out additional information from unbiased sources . If your employer does n't offer an advantageous retirement plan , open an individual retirement account or IRA ( or personal RRSP for Canadians . ) If your employer does offer a plan , you can set one of these up to save even more . You could start with access to a family of low-cost mutual funds ( examples : <URL> for Americans , or <URL> for Canadians ) or earn advanced credit by learning about discount brokers and self-directed accounts . Understand how income taxes and other taxes work . If you have an accountant prepare your taxes , ask questions . If you prepare your taxes yourself , understand what you 're doing and do n't file blind . Seek help if necessary . There are many good books on how income tax works . Software packages that help you self-file often have online help worth reading -- read it . Learn about life insurance , medical insurance , disability insurance , wills , living wills &amp; powers of attorney , and estate planning . Death and illness can derail your family 's finances . Learn how these things can help . Seek out and read key books on personal finance topics . e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> Seek out and read good personal finance blogs . There 's a wealth of information available for free on the Internet , but do check facts and assumptions . Here are <URL> and <URL> . Subscribe to a personal finance periodical and read it . Good ones to start with are <URL> in the U.S. and <URL> in Canada . The business section in your local newspaper may sometimes have personal finance articles worth reading , too . Shameless plug : Ask more questions on this site . The Personal Finance &amp; Money Stack Exchange is here to help you learn about money &amp; finance , so you can make better financial decisions . We 're all here to learn and help others learn about money . Keep learning !
Letting idle space is always worth a look , Kaushik . The trick is to find the right mix of the tenant 's needs and your needs . Having been through something similar , here 's a few key points I took away from the experience : It has to feel like an office space/work space for the tenant . This means you will have to consider furniture placement and removal of personal items from the " space " that the tenant will be using . Define the space . Saying something vague like " condo available " will never fly . What space in the condo is available ? What services are available - water , electricity , use of the bathroom ( which one ( s ) ) , etc ? What equipment will they be bringing in with them ? How can the tenant advertise ? What can they say about the setting that wont upset you ( and your neighbours ) ? Who will they be bringing into the premises ? How many at a time ? Will they have assistants with them ? How many parking spaces will they be using ( always more than people think ) ? What are your use expectations ? Trash removed at the end of the day ? Their equipment gone from the premises entirely , or stowed in a closet somewhere ? etc etc Be formal . Have a written agreement that clearly spells out all the details , including an opt-out clause for both parties . In terms of who to look for - that 's an individual decision ( on one hand ) and a business decision ( on the other ) , both in terms of what works for you and what will work for them . Artists , yoga teachers , tutors ( educators ) , music teachers ( probably not drums ) , etc are all good choices . Depending on where the condo is , professional services such as speech/language pathologists , and ed psychs might also work ( you would be looking at subsets for some of these professions - you probably wont want a behavioral specialist working in your condo ) . It does require some planning and thought , but it can be a very good situation for all involved . Specific pros - some minor income for you , the place being looked after while you 're out . Specific cons - tenants can be unpredictable , setting and meeting expectations can be two different things . Treat it formally and you will minimise the surprises .
end question
start question
Rules and tax impact of rolling over my work 401 ( k ) to a self-employed 401 ( k ) ?
According to TD Ameritrade , 401 ( k ) Savings ( among others ) are generally eligible to be rolled over into your qualified retirement plan , in this case a Simplified Standardized Individual 401 ( k ) Profit Sharing Plan . You may need to do an intermediate roll-over , but check with your plan holder . <URL>
Usually the best advice is to find a company that offers IRAs containing low-cost index funds . <URL> is a noted example . Open a rollover IRA there and invest in funds the <URL> way . Pick an allocation by using the <URL> tag here to get the information you need about international stocks , domestic stocks , bonds , risk tolerance , and where you can find way more information . Rebalance that allocation every 12-18 months . Other than that , ignore the market . Unless you have the resources of a hedge fund manager , and maybe not even then , you wo n't be able to beat indexes like the S&amp;P 500 on their performance . Why should you go this route ? A little-touted fact about retirement investing is that one of the best ways to grow your money is to choose funds with the lowest expense ratio ( percentage of your earnings that go to the fund managers ) . See these questions : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Could it possibly be detrimental and possibly negatively impact my cash secured cards from " maturing " to unsecured cards ? In theory moving could impact getting an unsecured card , but that is going to be if you move to a state where the company does not offer unsecured cards . But if you are just looking to move off campus not out of state then this should not be an issue . Could it possibly lead to me being turned down if I wanted to increase my credit lines or apply for a new loan ( like a car loan , a new phone contract etc ? ) Moving itself will not affect this . However moving creates expenses and opportunities to create debt . Having more debt impacts your debt/income ratio . That can impact your credit score ( both positively and negatively ) . So it can indirectly affect these but will not directly affect them .
Some do exist that allow people under age 21 to enroll The IRS a few years ago <URL> here is what they found : Age and Service Eligibility Requirements to Make Elective Deferral Contributions A section 401 ( k ) plan may require that an employee meet specified age and/or service requirements to be eligible to participate in the cash or deferred arrangement . Code section 401 ( k ) ( 2 ) ( D ) provides that such requirements may not exceed age 21 and one year of service . Figure 2 shows the percentage of section 401 ( k ) plans that utilize various age requirements for eligibility to make elective deferral and other employee contributions .
He will be able to collect the full amount . From <URL> , emphasis added : If you were born January 2 , 1943 , through January 1 , 1955 , , then your full retirement age for retirement insurance benefits is 66 . If you work , and are full retirement age or older , you may keep all of your benefits , no matter how much you earn . If you 're younger than full retirement age , there is a limit to how much you can earn and still receive full Social Security benefits . If you 're younger than full retirement age during all of 2015 , we must deduct $ 1 from your benefits for each $ 2 you earn above $ 15,720 . If you reach full retirement age during 2015 , we must deduct $ 1 from your benefits for each $ 3 you earn above $ 41,880 until the month you reach full retirement age .
A 401k plan will ask you to name a beneficiary who will receive the funds if you do n't withdraw them all before death . Usually , a primary beneficiary and a secondary beneficiary is requested . If you do n't specify a beneficiary , your estate is the beneficiary by default . Note that the name supplied to the 401k plan is who will get the money , and you can not change this by bequeathing the money in your will . For example , if you neglected to change the beneficiary upon divorce , it is useless to say in your will that the money in the 401k plan goes to your new wife ; the 401k plan will give it to your ex-wife who still remains the beneficiary of your 401k Money in a 401k plan is what is called income with respect to a decedent ( IRD ) on which income tax is levied , and it is also is part of your estate and thus liable to be subject to estate tax . The latter is true even if the 401k plan assets are not mentioned anywhere in your will , and even if the assets got sent to your ex-wife which is not what you wanted to have happen . There are various estate tax exceptions for spouse beneficiaries ( no estate tax due now , but will be charged when the spouse passes away ) . With regard to income tax , the beneficiaries of a 401k plan ( similarly IRAs , 403b plans etc ) generally get to take the whole amount and pay the income tax themselves . Edit in response to littleadv 's comments : Each 401k plan is different , and some plans , especially the smaller ones , may prefer to distribute the 401k assets as a lump sum rather than allow the beneficiaries to withdraw the money over several years ( and pay income tax on the amount withdrawn each year ) . This is because there are far too many rules and regulations to trip over when making withdrawals over several years . The lump sum distribution can be transferred into a newly established Inherited IRA ( see the Nolo article linked to in @littleadv 's answer for some details and some pitfalls to avoid ) and the income tax is thus deferred until withdrawals occur . Spouse beneficiaries are entitled to more generous rules than non-spouse beneficiaries . If your heirs are otherwise well provided for and you are in a philanthropic mood ( or you do n't want to give 'em a dime , the ungrateful ... who never call , not even on Father 's Day ! ) , one way of avoiding a lot of tax is to make the beneficiary of your 401k be one or more of your favorite charities . In fact , if your testamentary inclination is to make some charitable bequests as part of your will , it is much more advantageous to give money from a tax-deferred account to the charity ( size of estate is reduced , no income tax paid by anyone on amount given ) , and bequeath assets in non-retirement accounts to one 's heirs ( bequests are not taxable income , and heirs get a step up in basis for assets that have appreciated ) rather than the other way around ( heirs pay income tax as they withdraw the money from tax-deferred account ) Estate planning is a complicated business , and you really should talk to a professional about such matters and not rely on advice from an Internet forum .
In the US you can get a <URL> when you buy a house that will cover major repairs for the first few years of owning a home . The costs vary based on age and the results of the home inspection . Ours cost ~ $ 250 a year . This was put into our closing costs . Unfortunately this market does have some disreputable companies that come im with prices that seem too good to be true . As is usually the case they are . Do research on the company you are getting the home warrenty from to make sure you are dealing with a reputable company that will honor its commitments . By having 20 % down you will avoid needing Mortgage insurance which will save you a considerable amout . My PMI cost me about $ 70 a month . However once you get to 20 % equity in your home the pmi drops off . So if you can put down 15 % you should be able to get out from under your pmi in a few years if you want to keep that 5 % cushion while making extra payments . The question is how much do you feel you need . So far owning a 70 year old home my extra maintence costs have been around 2500 a year . But they seem to be in 1k chunks every 4 or 5 months .
I do n't have all the information yet , but I 'm struggling with this one myself . If Obama 's deal w / the Republicans ( to extend the Bush era tax cuts for 2 more years ) does go through , then doing this conversion will be a bit cheaper , since your marginal tax rate on regular income ( which is , I believe , how the funds converted would be characterized ) would remain a few % lower for 2011 and 2012 ( vs the increase going into effect in 2011 without that deal ) . Forget about that for a second though . The big thing about doing the conversion in 2010 vs. 2011 is that if you do it in 2010 , you get to defer half of the taxable income the conversion creates by 1 year . So if you converted $ 50,000 in 2010 , instead of adding $ 50,000 taxable income all in one year , you spread that $ 50,000 ( evenly ) over 2 tax years . That 's a double win : * you do n't owe taxes on that 2nd half ( $ 25k ) of the funds converted for a whole extra year * spreading out that peak in income may allow me to avoid hitting a higher tax bracket , so I 'll pay less absolute taxes overall If you 're in the 25 % federal tax bracket , that let 's you defer the payment of $ 6,250 ( 25 % of $ 25k taxable income deferred ) in taxes by one year . If you 're debt free and you had enough cash flow to cover that payment now , then at least you get to invest that money for another year . For others though , this deferral may be a deciding factor in whether they can afford to do the conversion at all , or allow them to pay down high interest debts ( almost always the highest-yielding investment decision a person can make ) . After Dec 31st of this year though , you have to take 100 % of the conversion as taxable income all in one year .
Donations , particularly those in the context of you providing a free service ( software , libraries , etc. ) are a notable grey area in tax code . Simply naming a button " Donate " does n't necessarily classify the money transfer as a " gift " . The IRS can decide that it 's money you 're being paid to continue your excellent work/service , making it taxable income ( unless you 're a registered non-profit organization ) . In the instance of Patreon , and many other crowd-funding services , you 're providing a certain level of " service " for each tier of donations ( such as early access or something , I 'm not sure what you 're offering ) , which means they 're receiving consideration for their donations , which most likely makes it fall into taxable income ( again , unless you 're a registered non-profit organization ) . State tax law is even more convoluted , and you should consult your tax professional for clarification on your specific situation .
I wrote a brilliant guest post at Do n't Mess With Taxes , titled <URL> . ( Note - this article now reflects 2012 rates . Just updated ) Simply put , it 's an ongoing question of whether your taxes will be higher now than at any point in the future . If you are in the 25 % bracket now , it would take quite of bit of money for your withdrawals to put you in that bracket at retirement . In the case of the IRA , you have the opportunity to convert in any year between now and retirement if your rate that year drops for whatever reason . The simplest case is if you are now in the 25 % bracket . I say go pre-tax , and track , year by year what your withdrawal would be if you retired today . At 15 % , but with a good chance for promotion to the 25 % bracket , start with Roth flavor and then as you hit 25 % , use a combination . This approach would smooth your marginal rate to stay at 15 % . To give you a start to this puzzle , in 2012 , a couple has a $ 11,900 standard deduction along with 2 exemptions of $ 3800 each . This means the first $ 19,500 in an IRA comes out tax free at retirement . If you believe in a 4 % withdrawal rate , you need a retirement account containing $ 500K pretax to generate this much money . This tick up with inflation , 2 years ago , it was $ 18,700 and $ 467K respectively . This is why those who scream " taxes will go up " may be correct , but do you really believe the standard deduction and exemptions will go away ? Edit - and as time passes , and I learn more , new info comes to my attention . The above thoughts not withstanding , there 's an issue of taxation of Social Security benefits . This creates a <URL> which I recently wrote about . A single person with not really too high an income gets thrust into the 46 % bracket . Not a typo , 46.25 % to be exact .
One way to analyze the opportunity cost of using a 401K loan would be to calculate your net worth after using a 401K loan . If your net worth increases then the 401K loan would be advisable . Note that the calculations provided below do not take into account tax considerations . A net worth calculation is where you add all your assets and then subtract all your liabilities . The resulting number is your net worth . First , calculate the net worth of not taking the loan and simply paying the credit card interest . This means you only pay the interest on the credit card . In addition to the parameters identified in your question , two additional parameters will need to be considered : Cash and the market rate of return on the 401K . Scenario 1 ( only pay credit card interest ) : After 12 months all you have paid is the interest on the credit card . The 401K balance is untouched so it will hopefully grow . The balance on the credit card remains at the end of 12 months . Scenario 2 ( use 401K loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from your 401K to pay the credit card balance . You will have to pay $ 5,000 plus the 401K interest rate back into your 401K account . Use the following equation to determine when Scenario 2 increases your net worth more than scenario 1 : Thus , if your credit card interest rate is greater than the rate you can earn on your 401K then use the 401K loan to pay off the credit card balance . Another scenario that should be considered : borrow money from somewhere else to pay off the credit card balance . Scenario 3 ( external loan to pay credit card balance ) : You borrow $ 5,000 from somewhere besides your 401K to pay off the credit card balance . The following is used to determine if you should use an external loan over the 401K loan : This means you should use an external loan if you can obtain an interest rate less than the rate of return you can earn on your 401K . The same methodology can be used to compare Scenario 3 to Scenario 1 .
Your # 1 is essentially correct except that the doubling of the SS tax rate is actually two different taxes in equal amounts ; the SS tax that you pay as an employee ( of yourself ) and the SS tax that your employer ( you again ! ) pays on the wages paid to an employee . Both of these taxes are computed on <URL> ( as well as the employee 's and employer 's share of Medicare taxes ) and included in the amount that you list on page 2 of Form 1040 as self-employment taxes that are due . On the other hand , you get to deduct half of the SS ( and Medicare ) tax computed on Schedule SE from your income in arriving at your Adjusted Gross Income ( AGI ) , and hence from taxable income . To ameliorate matters a little more , you ( as an employer ) do n't need to issue a W-2 form to yourself ( as an employee ) with Copy A to IRS , Copies B , C and 2 to you etc. . As mhoran_psprep points out , each of the other employers paying you W-2 wages must withhold Social Security taxes until the wages that each is paying exceeds the limit , without regard to what any other employer ( including you ) might be paying you . The excess withholding , if any , gets credited to you on your Form 1040 ( thus reducing the income tax due or increasing the refund ) . To the best of my knowledge , those other employers get no corresponding refund of the employer 's share of Social Security tax that they paid to the IRS on the wages that they paid you .
No , your accountant is completely incorrect . They have no relation to each other . Traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs share the same contribution limit , but this has nothing to do with 401 ( k ) s. Traditional 401 ( k ) s and Roth 401 ( k ) s share a separate contribution limit , but this has nothing to do with IRAs . The only thing that can limit your Roth IRA contribution in your case is if your income is hitting the income limit .
You should get this information from your new employer 's plan manager . If they do n't have this information ( they should have instructions on incoming rollovers ... ) - talk to the benefits manager at your new employer , they 'll have it for you . The name must match perfectly the official name of the plan , so asking here wo n't help you much .
Separate from some of the other considerations such as the legality , it is likely going to be worth your will if you employer has company matching even if you have to pay the early withdraw penalty because the matching funds from your employer can be viewed as gains on the money deposited . For example , using round numbers to make the math easy : No 401 ( k ) Deposit Gross Pay : $ 1000.00 Taxes ( 25 % ) : $ 250.00 Net Pay : $ 750.00 Take Home : $ 750.00 With 401 ( k ) Deposit Gross Pay : $ 1000.00 401 ( k ) Withdraw ( 5 % ) : $ 50.00 Taxes ( 25 % ) : $ 237.50 Net Pay : $ 712.50 401 ( k ) Account Employee Contribution : $ 50.00 Employer Contribution : $ 50.00 Balance : $ 100.00 Withdraw Taxes ( 25 % ) : $ 25.00 Withdraw Penalty ( 10 % ) : $ 10.00 Withdraw Net : $ 65.00 Take Home : $ 777.50 So as you can see there is a benefit to deferring some of the earnings to the 401 ( k ) account due to the employer matching but the actual dollar amount that you would be able to take home will be different based upon your own circumstances . Depending upon what the take home would be at the end of the day the percentage return may or may not be worth the time involved with doing the paperwork . However , all of this only applies if you have to pull the money out early as once you hit 59.5 years old you can start withdrawing the money without the tax penalty in which case the returns on your initial deposit will be much more .
tl ; dr : Please please please do the conversion first . JoeTaxpayer 's answer is correct , but I am of the opposite opinion . First , there 's just about no reason to have post-tax dollars in a Traditional IRA . You 'll eventually have to pay tax on the earnings those dollars generate , so it 's essentially the same as having that money in a regular taxable account . Meanwhile , if you roll those dollars into a Roth IRA , you get to earn tax-free money on them for the rest of your life ( and even after your death ) ! Second , even if you did have some reason for keeping those post-tax dollars where they are , the last thing you ever want to do is mix them with pre-tax dollars ( from , say , your 401k ) . As soon as you mix them , all the dollars become subject to pro-rata taxation ( as Joe mentioned ) , so any future decision you were planning to make about what to do with just your post-tax dollars is moot -- you have given away your right to think separately about your pre - and post-tax dollars . As an example , let 's say the accounts you want to combine look like this : Annoying consequence ( no more post-tax-only dollars ! ) In the future you decide you want to move $ 2,000 from the above account into a Roth . Because you mixed the money , the IRS insists that your rollover consists of : So now you owe tax ( and it 's regular income tax , I believe , not even capital gains tax ) on $ 1,500 . That was money that you socked away specifically to avoid taxes , and now you 've gone and paid taxes on it ! Now , there are valid arguments for intentionally moving pre-tax dollars from a Traditional to a Roth like this , but the point is that you should n't even have to be having that argument -- you have post-tax dollars in your Traditional IRA that almost certainly belong in a Roth . By mixing your 401k into your Traditional IRA , you can no longer do anything with just the post-tax dollars . The IRS will forever insist that you do these pro-rated calculations . Really annoying consequence ( no back-door Roth for you ! ) Say in the future you suddenly realize that a Roth is much better for your financial situation than a Traditional IRA . ( Or you might still prefer a Traditional IRA , but as explained in the next sentence it 's not available to you . ) Unfortunately , because you 're covered by a ( new ) 401k -- or maybe because you earn too much money to contribute pre-tax dollars to either a Traditional or Roth IRA -- you 're out of luck . You 're simply not allowed to contribute to a Roth . Most people in this situation can make use of what 's called a back-door Roth . They contribute up to the maximum amount per year ( $ 5,500 or whatever it is now ) post-tax to a Traditional IRA and then immediately roll it over to their Roth . You can still try this , but guess what ? Yep , because you 're mixing these new post-tax dollars with pre-tax money in your Traditional IRA , every year your rollover will be tainted with that pre-tax money , diluting the whole point of the back-door Roth . You 'll be paying taxes on money you never wanted to pay taxes on , and you 'll be leaving post-tax money behind in your traditional IRA . ( If it sounds like I 'm annoyed about this situation from personal experience , it 's because I am . :) Bottom line By doing the conversion first , you never mix pre - and post-tax money , and your money goes where you want it . Of course , assuming you eventually do roll over your 401 ( k ) into a Traditional IRA , the Really Annoying Consequence above will still plague you , but at least you 'll have cleanly converted that first post-tax amount .
No , your 401 ( a ) contributions will not count against your Roth IRA limit . Contributing to other IRA accounts can reduce how much you can contribute to a Roth account , but 401 ( a ) / 401 ( k ) and other employer sponsored plans do not count against the Roth IRA limit . The IRS publishes a lot of really good information on this topic , which you can find <URL> . It 's pretty long though , so it 's best used as a reference .
The I-9 form is required because you are working . It is kept by the employer as proof that you have the proper documents to work . If the government was to inspect their records they can be fined if they do n't have those document , in fact they have to keep them for several years after your employment is done . A w-4 form is a federal tax form . There also was probably a state version of the form . When you completed the w-4 it is used by your employer to determine how much in taxes need to be withheld . Employers do n't know your tax situation . Even though you are on work study , you still could have made enough money over the summer to pay taxes . But if this is your only job , and you will not make enough money to have to pay taxes , you can fill out the form as exempt . That means that last year you did n't make enough money to have to pay taxes , and you do n't expect to make enough to have to pay taxes this year . If you are exempt , no federal income tax will be withheld . They might still withhold for social security and medicare . The state w-4 can also be used to be exempt from state taxes . If they withhold any income taxes you have to file one of the 1040 tax forms to get that income tax money back . You will have to do so for the state income tax withholding . A note about social security and medicare . If you have an on campus job , at the campus you attend , during the school year ; they do n't withhold money for social security and medicare . That law applies to students on work study jobs , and on non-work-study jobs . <URL> the federal threshold where you must file is : > You must file a return if any of the following apply . Your unearned income was more than $ 1,000 . Your earned income was more than $ 6,200 . Your gross income was more than the larger of -- a. $ 1,000 , or b. Your earned income ( up to $ 5,850 ) plus $ 350 .
Some more considerations : ( 1 ) Tax rates ( both ordinary and capital gains ) are likely to be different when you retire . ( 2 ) Your marginal tax rate may be different when you retire depending on how much income you have at the time . In retirement your income may be structured completely differently than when you are working . For example , you may also have a Roth IRA/401K to pull from .
There are several options ( very simplified ) : Traditional IRA - you can deduct IRA contributions from your taxable income up to a certain level , and contribute up to 5000 to IRA per year . SEP-IRA - IRA for self-employed , has higher contribution limits that can be deducted from the taxes . You can also do " profit sharing " through this plan , but be careful - if you have employees they must be eligible . Solo 401k - a 401k plan for self-employed ( for a single member , generally ) . Same as a regular 401k , except that you 're the employee and the employer , so you can match your own contributions . As with SEP-IRA , if you have employees they can not be discriminated . Solo 401k is easier to manage than a regular 401k , as long as the plan assets are kept below certain level ( $ 250K IIRC ) . It might be better for you if your self-employment income is not that high ( SEP-IRA has limits calculated based on the self employement income , 401k has this limit on matching only ) . Manage your own retirement savings without a dedicated program . You wo n't have any limitations and wo n't require to allow participation for your employees , but you lose the tax benefits . Here 's <URL> .
end question
start question
What is the difference between " good debt " vs. " bad debt " ?
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
You can not carry a balance on a charge card ; the total balance is due as the payment each period . I guess some government use charge cards . There is no interest to be paid on them , so it is cheaper , but the credit companies still make some money on transaction fees . <URL> <URL> <URL>
It has to do with return . I do n't know if Canada has a matching feature on retirement accounts , but in the US many companies will match the first X % you put in . So for me , my first $ 5000 or so is matched 100 % . I 'll take that match over paying down any debt . Beyond that , of course it 's a simple matter of rate of return . Why save in the bank at 2 % when you owe at 10-18 % ? One can make this as simple or convoluted as they like . My mortgage is a tax deduction so my 5 % mortgage costs me 3.6 % . I 've continued to invest rather than pay the mortgage too early , as my retirement account is with pre-tax dollars . So $ 72 will put $ 100 in that account . Even in this last decade , bad as it was , I got more than 3.6 % return .
Yes , as long as you write a call against your stock with a strike price greater than or equal to the previous day 's closing price , with 30 or more days till experation there will be no effect on the holding period of your stock . Like you mentioned , unqualified covered calls suspend the holding period of your stock . For example you sell a deep in the money call ( sometimes called the last write ) on a stock you have held for 5 years , the covered call is classified as unqualified , the holding period is suspened and the gain or loss on the stock will be treated as short-term . Selling out of the money calls or trading in an IRA account keeps things simple . The details below have been summarized from an article I found at investorsguide.com . The article also talks about the implications of rolling a call forward and tax situations where it may be advantageous to write unqualified covered calls ( basically when you have a large deferred long term loss ) . <URL> Two criterion must be met for a covered call to be considered a qualified covered call ( QCC ) . 1 ) days to expiration must be greater than 30 2 ) strike price must be greater than or equal to the first available in the money strike price below the previous day 's closing price for a particular stock . Additionally , if the previous day 's closing price is $ 25 or less , the strike price of the call being sold must be greater than 85 % of yesterday 's closing price . 2a ) If the previous day 's closing price is greater than 60.01 and less than or equal to $ 150 , days to experation is between 60-90 , as long as the strike price of the call is greater than 85 % of the previous days close and less than 10 points in the money , you can write a covered call two strikes in the money 2c ) If the previous day 's closing price is greater than $ 150 and days till expiration is greater than 90 , you can write a covered call two strikes in the money .
I found this very succinct answer at <URL> ( travel insurance comparison site ) : The " trip cancellation " benefit covers you in the event you have to cancel your trip due to a covered reason listed in your travel insurance policy prior to your departure date . Trip interruption benefit covers you in the event you have to interrupt your trip for the same covered reasons after your departure date , but before your scheduled return date . You should definitely check the specific policy 's terms and conditions though , because there is a lot of conflicting info out there .
A bond has a duration that can be easily calculated . It 's the time weighted average of all the payments you 'll receive and helpful to understand the effect a change in rates will have on that instrument . The duration of a stock , on the other hand , is a forced construct to then use in other equations to help calculate , say , the summation of a dividend stream . I can calculate the duration of a bond and come up with an answer that 's not up for discussion or dispute . The duration of a stock , on the other hand , is n't such a number . Will J&amp;J last 50 more years ? Will Apple ? Who knows ?
Before the prevalence of electronic trading , trading stocks was very costly , <URL> . <URL> When orders were negotiated exclusively by humans , stocks used to be quoted in fractions rather than decimal , such as $ 50 1/2 instead of something more precise like $ 50.02 . That necessary ease of negotiation for humans to rapidly trade extended to trade size as well . Traders preferred to handle orders in " round lots " , 100 shares , for ease of calculation of the total cost of the trade , so 100 shares at $ 50 1/2 would have a total cost of $ 5,050 . The time for a human to calculate an " odd lot " of 72 shares at $ 50.02 would take much longer so would cost more per share , and these costs were passed on to the client . These issues have been negated by electronic trading and simply no longer exist except for obsolete brokerages . There are cost advantages for extremely large trades , well above 100 shares per trade . Brokerage fees today run the gamut : they can be as insignificant as what Interactive Brokers charges to as high as a full service broker that could charge hundreds of USD for a few thousand USD trade . With full service brokerages , the charges are frequently mystifying and quoted at the time a trade is requested . With discount brokerages , there is usually a fee per trade and a fee per share or contract . Interactive Brokers will charge a fee per share or option only and will even refund parts of the liquidity rebates exchanges provide , as close as possible to having a seat on an exchange . Even if a trader does not meet Interactive Brokers ' minimum trading requirement , <URL> that it is possible that a buy and hold investor could benefit from the de minimis trade fees . It should be noted that liquidity providing hidden orders are typically not rebated but are at least discounted . The core costs of all trades are the exchange fees which are per share or contract . Over the long run , costs charged by brokers will be in excess of charges by exchanges , and Interactive Brokers ' fee schedule shows that it can be reduced to a simple markup over exchange fees . Exchanges sometimes have a fee schedule with lower charges for larger trades , but these are out of reach of the average individual .
The word " good " was used in contrast to " bad " but these words are misused here . There are three kinds of debt : Debt for spending . Never go into debt to buy consumables , go out for a good time , for vacations , or other purchases with no lasting financial value . Debt for depreciating assets , such as cars and sometimes things like furniture . There are those who put this in the same category as the first , but I know many people who can budget a car payment and pay it off during the life of the car . In a sense , they are renting their car and paying interest while doing so . Debt for appreciating , money-making assets . Mortgage and student loans are both often put into the good category . The house is the one purchase that , in theory , provides an immediate return . You know what it saves you on the rent . You know what it costs you , after tax . If someone pays 20 % of their income toward their fixed rate mortgage , and they 'd otherwise be paying 25 % to rent , and long term the house will keep up with inflation , it 's not bad in the sense that they need to aggressively get rid of it . Student loans are riskier in that the return is not at all guaranteed . I think that one has to be careful not to graduate with such a loan burden that they start their life under a black cloud . Paying 10 % of your income for 10 years is pretty crazy , but some are in that position . Finally , some people consider all debt as bad debt , live beneath their means to be debt free as soon as they can , and avoid borrowing money .
It would be quite the trick for ( a ) the government to run all year and get all its revenue in April when taxes are due and ( b ) for people to actually save the right amount to be able to cut that check each year . W2 employers withhold the estimated federal and state taxes along with the payroll ( social security ) tax from each paycheck . Since the employer does n't know how many kids you have , or how much mortgage interest , etc you will take deductions for , you can submit a <URL> to adjust withholdings . The annual Form 1040 in April is to reconcile exact numbers , some people get a refund of some of what they paid in , others owe some money . If one is self-employed , they are required to pay quarterly estimated taxes . And they , too , reconcile exact numbers in April .
CFD stands for <URL> and is an agreement between you and your broker . When the contract is closed the broker promises to pay a certain amount for every <URL> the bought currency has moved in your favour , if it moved against you it 's you who pays the broker . The term comes from the fact that upon closing the position you take the difference between the closing price and the opening price and that money is transferred/deducted to/from your account . It is important to note that at no point you actually physically or virtually possess the bought currency , nor must you deliver the sold currency . The FX spot market differs from that in the last point : You physically or virtually exchange currencies . This means you receive/pay interest on the bought/borrowed currencies if held overnight . And also this implies that there 's no " open position " like in the CFD case ( put differently your USD balance does n't remember if it came about by selling AUDs or EURs ) . Some platforms , however , have a " close everything " button , i.e. to sell all currencies that are n't your base currencies . In this regard perhaps even more surprising but depending on your broker , and whether or not they grant you direct market access and , if so , the actual market ( <URL> ) , you will trade in <URL> , that means the quotes you see are only valid for when you trade exact multiples of the lot sizes of the currencies involved ( so called even-lot trade ) . Anything odd needs to be traded in an odd lot order for which there 's either a surcharge or wider spreads .
Hedging - You have an investment and are worried that the price might drop in the near future . You do n't want to sell as this will realise a capital gain for which you may have to pay capital gains tax . So instead you make an investment in another instrument ( sometimes called insurance ) to offset falls in your investment . An example may be that you own shares in XYZ . You feel the price has risen sharply over the last month and is due for a steep fall . So you buy some put option over XYZ . You pay a small premium and if the price of XYZ falls you will lose money on the shares but will make money on the put option , thus limiting your losses . If the price continues to go up you will only lose the premium you paid for the option ( very similar to an insurance policy ) . Diversification - This is when you may have say $ 100,000 to invest and spread your investments over a portfolio of shares , some units in a property fund and some bonds . So you are spreading your risks and returns over a range of products . The idea is if one stock or one sector goes down , you will not lose a large portion of your investment , as it is unlikely that all the different sectors will all go down at the same time .
Health &amp; Medical Insurance are same and cover the eventuality incase one gets ill and needs a major surgery/treatment/hospitalization . Life Insurance on the other hand covers the eventuality of death , where the sum assured goes to the Nominee . The money would be handy for the dependents incase of your untimely death . One needs to have both the covers . Medical and Life Insurance are covered under different sections for exemptions . For medical one can have upto INR 25,000 rebate for self and dependents . The Life Insurance is covered under 80c upto INR 1,00,000 . Do not buy a life insurance for tax saving , there are other instruments that would suffice your needs . Once typically needs to buy cover of 8 to 10 times you gross annual income . Term plans are the best plans and come very cheap . As your wife is not working , only a Medical insurance/policy would be sufficient . Edit : Based on Yishai comment . One typically ignores Term policy for non-working spouse . However quite a few cases it may mean additional expenses , i.e. if children are small the need for additional house hold help , or the need of a vehicle / driver or may mean the surviving spouse need to cut-down on work time and reduced pay or any such needs have to be evaluated and based on it a term policy for spouse may well be advisable .
What if XOM has 400B in revenue and 40B in profit . Does a $ 360 billion difference sound synonymous to you ? Revenue can most easily be thought of as the top line of an income statement or profit and loss statement . Revenue is the total amount of income generated by the sale of goods or services related to the company 's primary operations . Profit , conversely , is the infamous bottom line . This is called net profit , because it is the amount of income that remains after accounting for all expenses , debts , additional income streams and operating costs .
<URL> does a perfectly fine job of explaining it : The percentage difference in current yields of various classes of high-yield bonds ( often junk bonds ) compared against investment-grade corporate bonds , Treasury bonds or another benchmark bond measure . So ... if a lot of people are buying junk bonds ( i.e. reach [ ing ] for yield ) , those bonds ' prices go up ( due to supply-and-demand ) and their yields go down ( by definition ) , meaning the difference ( spread ) between investment-grade bond yields ( which have presumably not changed ) and junk bond yields is reduced ( compressed ) . Therefore , the compression in the yield spread means that a lot of people are so hungry for high returns that they 're ignoring the high risk of junk bonds and buying them anyway .
In broad terms , Child Benefit is a universal benefit paid to anyone earning up to # 50-60 ,000 a year * whilst Child Tax credit is primarily means tested ( for no/low incomes really ) . Both are payable provided the young person is under 20 ( not 18 ) and is in full time non advanced ( up to " A level " standard ) education or certain types of training . Child benefit is reduced in stages if someone in the household has a taxable income over # 50,000 , down to 0 at # 60,000 . Child Tax Credit is being phased out and replaced as a part of " Universal Credit " . It 's quite specific and a little complex so read the official sites : - Child Benefit <URL> - Child Tax Credit <URL> Another site worth trying is <URL> ( not a government site ) but it will point out any benefits , etc that you may be ' entitled to ' from all the available government resources . Do n't be afraid to call HMRC for advice - they 're pretty good when they eventaully answer ! And Citizens Advice and Money Advice Service are free resources that are always handy . Google gave me these as good results : <URL> and <URL> from the well-respected Which ? site . I must end with a disclaimer though : everyone 's situations are different and the benefits system here in the UK is very complex at times . Always seek proper advice and use this type of forum merely as a pointer to the ball-park area . Best of luck .
Initially most funds operated 2 or 3 different plans . Regular [ Read meant for Retail ] Institutional Super Institutional Although all these invested in the same / similar underlying type of assets , the Mutual Funds kept the expense ratio low for the Institutional Funds and slightly higher for Regular . Further the entry , i.e. Minimum amount to be invested into Regular was kept low and that for Institutional kept very high . The way Mutual Funds were trying to play out was , attract large money and indirectly promise them low expense ratio to get more funds invested . While ignore the Retail investor . SEBI has hence [ quite some time back ] asked all Mutual Funds to Stop this . So essentially now there is no difference . i.e. an individual can invest in Institutional fund as well . The minimum entry is also nominal as prescribed by SEBI . Most funds rather than going through name change ... kept the name same , i.e. you can still see " Institutional " , " Super Institutional " in the name , but they are like " Regular " there is no barrier left .
For all practical purposes the words mean the same thing . Shares are just stock in a particular company whereas stock can refer to shares over many companies . Investopedia has a <URL> . If you are a financial journalist you might want to make sure you are using the right term at the right time , but otherwise they are synonyms .
Coins are legal tender . They 're authorized by governments and have a face value . Rounds are simply coined pieces of metal minted by private manufacturers . They do not have any face value and are not legal tender . Rounds are used to own metal , they have no value other than the value of the metal in them . Any premium you pay over the price of the metal is the mint 's profit . Coins are also used as bulions ( i.e. : to own metal and create profits for the government ) , but many times coins have limited issue and become valuable because of the rarity , specific issues with a specific coin ( mistakes , impurities , exclusive designs ) , etc. . So they also may have some numismatic value ( depends on the specific coin ) . Coins also have the assurance of quality of the authorizing government ( and fakes are dealt with by the law as forgery of coins is illegal and is a crime ) , rounds however do not enjoy such protection , and any one can mint them ( only copyright/trademark protections apply , where the enforcement is by the owner and not the government ) . Re the advantages - coins ( if you pick the right ones ... ) appreciate much more than the metal . However , this is mostly in hindsight , and most of the " bulion " coins do not appreciate significantly beyond the price of the metal unless there 's something else significant about them ( first year of issue , high quality certification , etc ) . Rounds on the other hand are cheaper ( 1 oz round will be significantly cheaper than 1 oz coin ) , and monitor more closely the price of the metal . It is unlikely for rounds to significantly deviate from the spot price ( although this does happen occasionally , for specific designs or if a mint goes out of business ) .
An IFA ( Independent Financial Advisor , not Institute of Financial Accountants ! ) will give you financial advice and potentially set up certain investments for you . They are regulated by the FCA in terms of what types of products they are permitted to advise on ; anyone who is not regulated as a Financial Advisor ( Independent or otherwise ) may only offer INFORMATION , not ADVICE . An accountant is a more general term for someone who will actually complete paperwork ( whether that be company accounts , personal tax returns , whatever ) and help with questions about your existing situation . They will generally not be permitted to offer advice on which investment products to choose for a new investment . Of course some accountancy firms may offer both types of service . It sounds as though the one you are looking at does n't offer what you need , but you could always ask - as they are so heavily regulated by the FCA they will have to tell you if they ca n't provide what you are asking for ! The Money Advice Service has advice on choosing an advisor : <URL> unbiased.co.uk has an overview of the different types of professional help : <URL>
Before filing your first business tax return , you will need to choose a taxation method , either corporation or partnership . If you choose a partnership , then it 's moot - your business income flows through to your personal taxes via form K-1 . Also , regardless of your taxation method , you should consult a legal expert , since having your business pay off your personal debt would almost always be counted as income to you , and may cause you to lose the personal liability protections provided by the LLC ( aka " piercing the corporate veil " ) . Having a single-member LLC with no employees , you have to be very careful how you manage the finances of the business . Any commingling of personal and business could jeopardize your protections .
end question
start question
Is Insurance policy money received taxable ?
Currently certain money back policies are tax free and a vast majority are taxable . There are revised guidelines that would govern which policies are tax free . At a broad level the rule is that the sum assured under the policy should be 10 times the premium paid . There is no distinction of single premium or yearly . Hence certain policies of single premium are taxable . Further there is a TDS also in place from this year . <URL> gives a good overview . You should consult the documentation of your specific policy and check with your insurance company or CA .
Assuming you 're a US citizen/tax resident filing a form 1040 , it is . Unless your country has a tax treaty with the US to say otherwise . Most countries that do have a tax treaty with the US , have a special clause that discusses this type of income , however not every country has a tax treaty with the US ( most do n't , in fact ) , and not every country that does extends this provision on US citizens ( most do ) . Specifically to Israel : Bituah Leumi ( Social Security ) payments are exempt under the Israeli-US tax treaty . You 're receiving it from Israel , and for the purposes of the US tax law - you 're a resident of the US , thus you qualify under article 21 . In fact , the treaty says that neither country will tax that , so you should check with the Bituah Leumi office about this ( maternity payment is otherwise taxable income in Israel ) .
It depends on how complex your return is . If the only reason you are not using the 1040EZ is because you are over the $ limits , you probably do n't need the audit insurance . Look at the sources of your income . A W-2 per person , some 1099 's from your bank , and you take the standard deduction because you rent , you probably do n't need it . If you are a day trader , and you claim to have a home office , and your return runs dozens of pages , it might not be a bad deal .
I can say that I got X dollars from an account like " Income : Benefits " ... but where do I credit that money to ? " Expenses : Groceries " Yes does n't feel right , since I never actually spent that money on food , You did , did n't you ? You got food . I 'm guessing there 's an established convention for this already ? Doubt it . Established conventions in accounting are for businesses , and more specifically - public companies . So you can find a GAAP , or IFRS guidelines on how to book benefits ( hint : salary expense ) , but it is not something you may find useful in your own household accounting . Do what is most convenient for you . Since it is a double-booking system - you need to have an account on the other side . does n't feel right ? Add or or whatever . When you do your expense and cash-flow reports - you can exclude both the income and the expense benefits accounts if you track them separately , so that they do n't affect your tracking of the " real " expenses .
T4A is " Statement of Pension , Retirement , Annuity , and Other Income " Other Income includes scholarship and certain grant . If the amount is exactly $ 890 and the payer is Ministry of Training , Colleges and Universities , it is 30 % Off Ontario Tuition Grant . If the amount is exactly $ 1000 and the payer is Canada Student Loans Program , it is Canada Student Grant for Persons from Low-Income Families . if the payer is University of X , it is scholarship received between Sep 2014 and Dec 2014 .
It 's a fake ! Do n't fall for it or you 'll regret it ! This is a classic example of what is called a phishing attack . A phishing attack is a form of social engineering or pretexting where you are led to believe through an official-looking email that the notice is from a legitimate source when , in fact , it is not . Cyber-criminals and online organized crime try to use phishing attacks to trick you into revealing your credit card number , your bank account information , your Social Security Number ( SSN , United States ) or Social Insurance Number ( SIN , Canada ) or any other kind of personal information . Your bank , credit card company , or other financial account provider should never ask you in an email to visit their site through a link provided in the email . Never trust a hyperlink provided in an email -- odds are good it leads to a fake site created by criminals ! When in doubt about such a message , do n't click anything . Contact your financial service provider by phone to inquire .
Per-diem is not taxable , if all the conditions are met . Conditions include : Expense report from the employee , which includes the dates , business purpose and receipts for lodging ( if meal only per diem is provided ) . Per diem is less or equal to the Federal per-diem rate . Report submitted within reasonable period ( usually within 60 days of the trip ) You can find this and more in this <URL> .
As you say life insurance is about covering the loss of income , so unless your child is an actor or musical prodigy or similar and already earning money , there is no income to cover , and in fact you would have less of a financial commitment without a child to provide for . The other angle is that child life insurance is cheap and they 'll have lower premiums than an adult . I 'll quote the referenced article directly to address that : Another ploy is that children 's life insurance is cheap . It is inexpensive compared to adult life insurance because , plain and simply , children rarely die . While the numbers that the sales agent puts together may make children 's life insurance sound like a great deal , take the time to run what you 'd have if you instead invested the exact same amount used on the insurance fees into a Roth IRA and you 'll find the true cost of purchasing this type of life insurance .
Usually services like Western Union or MoneyGram only give the recipient the money , not the information about who and when sent it . But you can verify with them directly . However , for legal/tax reasons , your friend might have to declare that it was a gift , and where it came from . So depending on the country of the destination you might not be able to completely " hide " from the recipient , even if the transfer service technically allows that . In any case , when you transfer the money out from the US you 'll have to provide your personal identification and information . Since the <URL> , it is impossible to transact " anonymously " ( not sure if it ever was possible in the US , actually ) .
Here are some ways my family saves money on our home insurance : We shopped around , then ended up purchasing our insurance through a group affinity program offered by our university alumni association . We combined our home and car insurance with that same insurer . They gave us a special combination discount . We installed a monitored home security system and monitored smoke alarm . Our insurer has an additional discount for these systems . We raised our deductibles . From time to time , we look around to make sure we 're still getting a good deal . Here are a couple of good articles on the subject : <URL> <URL> <URL> . Finally - make sure you get adequate coverage ! Make sure you consider your real insurance needs , and not just the cost of the insurance . If the worst happens , you 'll want good coverage with a good company .
Yes you should get rental insurance . It covers more than you think , much more than just belongings . Replacement cost for all your property in event of damage or theft . This one 's been mentioned a couple times . Do you really want to buy everything twice ? Replacement cost for items that are damaged or stolen outside your house . For example , this will cover bike theft if you 've locked it up downtown while on errands . Liability if you are responsible for damaging property of others in the building ( or injuring them ) . Like you start a fire or clog the drains which causes flooding . Living expenses if some incident or someone damages your apartment and you need a temporary place to stay . They start the fire , pipes burst , etc. . Liability and medical coverage if someone injures themselves in your apartment . Say they slip on the stairs or trip on a carpet and decide to sue you . You can add additional coverage for high-value items like jewelry , boats , art , etc. . Californians may be able to tack on earthquake insurance You may be able to also tack on flood insurance Of course read the coverage details of any plans your are considering . You may get a discount if you have other policies with the company . You may get a discount if you have a burglar alarm system , have a fire hydrant on your block , stuff like that . When you buy the house and shop for homeowner 's insurance you 'll find a lot of coverage similarities .
We ca n't give you specific advice without a ton more details , and even then the " right " answer depends on your own preferences . You need to determine your own goals . I can make a couple of observations you might think about , though . Frequently , career progress and lifetime wealth are completely compatible goals , but they may be incompatible with current income . That is , the best way to maximize your wealth is often to take a career-advancing job that may not pay highly , work it for a few years , then change jobs and repeat . Each time you change , make sure you are landing at a higher position than your last . If you are successful you will end up making a lot of money and truly advancing your career . What you give up is stability and comfort . Normally I 'd say if you are experiencing financial distress , it 's time to take a high paying job for at least a while while you get your feet under you . However , since you mention you are a student , I infer that you are young and may be in a position to borrow or just live a very poor life while you get established . These are both normal for that time of life . Just because a job does n't involve working on a team does n't mean it wo n't advance your career . Advancing your career frequently means having lots of lines of relevant work on your resume . You should keep each job for at least a few years ( maybe 3 ) so you do n't look like a quitter , but in terms of marketability , lots of different kinds of experiences are good , including working alone . You have n't mentioned your alternative jobs . If the question is whether to take a job that 's not so great or to be unemployed , the not-so-great job is pretty much always better . You wo n't enhance your career at all by not working . In terms of worrying , I 'd say having a successful and ambitious life will always involve worry . You need to channel that energy to something positive . Make a plan of what you want to do with your life , when you will pay off your debts , and what your ultimate career goal is . Make a budget and figure out how you will get by . Write it down . This will help turn unhelpful stress into helpful action . Good luck .
The standard answer I have heard is that if you were to purchase term life insurance and invest the difference between the cost of the policies , your investments would grow larger than the cash value of the insurance . Also when you take cash out of CVLI the insurance value drops by a like amount . So you ca n't have your cake and leave it to your heirs too . Either you get the cash value OR they get the insurance value . Hopefully , there could be some of both . Although I believe the philosophy of that answer I have two issues with it . First , you must be dedicated enough to invest the difference every month . I can imagine that might be tough to do consistently and if you take breaks from the investing will you still accumulate more than you would have with the insurance ? Second , for the past couple of years all of my investments in mutual funds have lost value . My life insurance has continued to grow cash value over the same time period . Hmm , maybe there is n't a one size fits all solution . If you need a large amount of insurance , term life will certainly be more affordable . However , considering this as an investment I would not expect that to be a deciding factor . Good luck with your decision . It is great that at such a young age you are concerned about investments .
Some very general advice . Lifestyle borrowing is almost always a bad idea . You should limit your borrowing to where it is an investment decision or where it is necessary and avoid it when it is a lifestyle choice . For example , many people need to borrow to have a car/house/education or go without . Also , if you are unemployed for a long period of time and ca n't find work , charging up the credit cards seems very reasonable . However , for things like entertainment , travel , and other nice-to-haves can easily become a road to crushing debt . If you do n't have the cash for these types of things , my suggestion is to put off the purchase until you do . Note : I am not including credit cards that you pay off in full at the end of the month or credit used as a convenience as " borrowing "
The difference is that the GI Bill is a VA program , and by statute , veteran 's benefits are not taxed . The SLR is an army program , so it 's treated like compensation .
Answer all of their questions honestly and as accurately as you can , but do n't stress too much about it . If you do n't know the answer to something , ask the insurance agent what it means ; that 's what they 're there for . ( If you 're doing this online , email the support , or the ' live chat ' feature many of them have . Or , do n't do it online , if you feel better having an agent in person ; nowadays , most of the major insurers are similar on price so it 's not a massive savings to skip the agent . ) As far as whether it 's important to pick a specific insurer - that 's really your call . Read reviews , understanding that folks with bad experiences are more likely to write reviews than the 90 % of folks who get no benefit from homeowner 's insurance . You need to make the decision as to how important reputation and ease of claims process is versus price . That 's why there are multiple insurers , after all - you can decide how important it is to you . It sounds like you would prefer a simpler claims process , so perhaps you should go with someone who is known for an easier claims process ( understanding that no insurer is always going to agree with every claimant 100 % ) .
Investing is good . Insurance when you have something to insure is good . But using a single account for investing and insurance is not so good . You need to determine how much you need to invest for retirement . You also need to determine if you need life insurance . As a single person you might determine that you do n't have a great need for life insurance . If you get married , or have kids , your needs may grow . So you will want to revisit your decisions every so often . You may need to save for retirement , or setup a college fund . You may need to protect your spouse or children in case you die . It does n't seem to make sense to invest and insure in a plan with complicated rules , fees and schedules . What happens if in 3 years you need to blow it up and start over ? What surrender charges will they hit you with ?
My understanding is this is considered a " rebate . " I view the cash reward as recovering part of the merchant fee charged for the use of my card . It 's not income because it 's my own money . Now , when I use the card for business items that I 'm reimbursed from my employer 100 % , in theory those rebates should be taxed , in practice , there 's no tracking . Note - I am in the US . My current card gives me 2 % back , up to $ 1500/yr . This goes into a 529 account ( A college savings account ) which as of mid-2015 passed $ 26,000 in value .
Is there a word for that $ 20k owed ? Trade Receivables , Accounts Receivables , or just Receivables Is there a different word for that $ 30k " hypothetical " total ? Current Assets ( Includes Inventory and other short term assets )
What you need will depend on a number of factors that are n't clear from the question . This coverage is simply called " Vacant home insurance " , but not all companies are willing to offer this coverage . Unfortunately , in New York , insurers can also legally drop your standard homeowners ' coverage if they become aware that your property has become vacant for 30 days or more . The Insurer 's Concerns Typically , a " standard " homeowners policy will have an exclusion clause for vacant homes . The insurance company 's concern is that without someone in the home , they will be at risk for break-ins , squatters and vandalism . If you 've ever seen " Flip Men " on Spike , you 'll know this is a serious concern ( great show , by the way ) . They will use a risk model to calculate an estimated risk for the property ( this is why a seasonal vacation home in a sparsely-populated area is often less of a concern than a family home in an urban area ) . If they estimate the risk to be low , some insurance companies will allow to you buy back that exclusion so that vacant properties are covered . In your case , they have probably decided that either : They think the risk of damage that would result in a claim is too high , or They already have too much exposure to vacant homes , or They do n't have the expertise to properly assess the risk , or They are n't in a financial position to cover the extra risk Your Options First , you need to find a company that is comfortable with taking on the extra risk of a vacant home . This will vary quite a bit by location , but the main ones are Farmer 's ( they use the Foremost brand name in New York ) and Castle Rock . There are lots of insurance agencies that also advertise these products , but most of them are middlemen and use one of these two companies to actually write the coverage . Additionally , since this is a specialty policy , make sure you understand all of the details of the policy , and how they vary from a regular policy including : State-specific eligibility requirements for what is legally consided " vacant " Return of Premium - if you sell the house before your coverage ends , will they refund any portion of the premium for the months on which you do n't need coverage ? Policy duration - some companies may only be willing to write short-term policies Variations in covered Perils - some companies do n't cover certain risks you may consider essential ( such as vandalism ) . Make sure you can afford to cover a worst-case scenario before you agree to take on any excluded perils . Cash versus Replacement Value - make sure you know what your reimbursement would be under both scenarios Higher Cost - according to Castle Rock 's website , coverage for vacant properties can be 150 % to 300 % of the cost of a standard homeowners ' policy . Ultimately , you will need to make a decision on how to balance all the costs of maintaining a vacant home versus how much you 'd lose if you were to sell the property quickly but below it 's true market value . How to Reduce your Premium costs These are general tips from the Murray Group 's website ( an independent broker in NY ) on how to lower the additional cost of vacant coverage : Make sure you have a centralized security system including fire alarms installed such that authorities will be notified in the event of a fire or break-in Have deadbolts on every entry point Winterize the house , especially the water pipes to avoid bursts Board up the windows to avoid glass breakage and unauthorized entry Hire a monitoring service to check up on the house and inspect regularly This may sound expensive , but these steps will all reduce the risk of something really bad happening when you 're not there . Additionally , do you know anyone you completely trust ( relative , unemployed friend ) that might want to live in your old house rent-free for a while ? This could work out for you if they are willing to keep the place 100 % clean around the clock so that you can show the house at any time . If you have additional/specific questions , you should be able to find an independent insurance broker in your area that would be willing to advise you on your specific situation for a flat fee . Best of luck with getting the home covered and sold quickly !
end question
start question
How much would it cost me to buy one gold futures contract on Comex ?
When you buy a futures contract you are entering into an agreement to buy gold , in the future ( usually a 3 month settlement date ) . this is not an OPTION , but a contract , so each party is taking risk , the seller that the price will rise , the buyer that the price will fall . Unlike an option which you can simply choose not to exercise if the price goes down , with futures you are obligated to follow through . ( or sell the contract to someone else , or buy it back ) The price you pay depends on the margin , which is related to how far away the settlement date is , but you can expect around 5 % , so the minimum you could get into is 100 troy ounces , at todays price , times 5 % . Since we 're talking about 100 troy ounces , that means the margin required to buy the smallest sized future contract would be about the same as buying 5 ounces of gold . roughly $ 9K at current prices . If you are working through a broker they will generally require you to sell or buy back the contract before the settlement date as they do n't want to deal with actually following through on the purchase and having to take delivery of the gold . How much do you make or lose ? Lets deal with a smaller change in the price , to be a bit more realistic since we are talking typically about a settlement date that is 3 months out . And to make the math easy lets bump the price of gold to $ 2000/ounce . That means the price of a futures contract is going to be $ 10K Lets say the price goes up 10 % , Well you have basically a 20:1 leverage since you only paid 5 % , so you stand to gain $ 20,000 . Sounds great right ? WRONG . . because as good as the upside is , the downside is just as bad . If the price went down 10 % you would be down $ 20000 , which means you would not only have to cough up the 10K you committed but you would be expected to ' top up the margin ' and throw in ANOTHER $ 10,000 as well . And if you ca n't pay that up your broker might close out your position for you . oh and if the price has n't changed , you are mostly just out the fees and commissions you paid to buy and sell the contract . With futures contracts you can lose MORE than your original investment . NOT for the faint of heart or the casual investor . NOT for folks without large reserves who can afford to take big losses if things go against them . I 'll close this answer with a quote from the site I 'm linking below The large majority of people who trade futures lose their money . That 's a fact . They lose even when they are right in the medium term , because futures are fatal to your wealth on an unpredicted and temporary price blip . Now consider that , especially the bit about ' price blip ' and then look at the current volatility of most markets right now , and I think you can see how futures trading can be as they say ' Fatal to your Wealth ' ( man , I love that phrase , what a great way of putting it ) This <URL> has a pretty decent primer on the whole thing . their view is perhaps a bit biased due to the nature of their business , but on the whole their description of how things work is pretty decent . <URL> has a more detailed ( and perhaps more objective ) tutorial on the futures thing . Well worth your time if you think you want to do anything related to the futures market .
The simple answer : Because you believe every other option can yield greater losses ... So the thinking is ; Lend it to France you 'll get your money back . Put your money in a bank and there 's a chance you wo n't get it back if the bank goes bust . Investors also believe that rates will continue to go more negative , in which case they will actually MAKE money . It 's a momentum play which will eventually reverse but since the Bond market is extremely liquid , it 's a bet that can quickly be unwound . Another theory floating around is that if the weaker countries of the euro leave ( e.g. Greece , etc ) and the core keep the euro , then the value of the euro will actually rise . So by putting your money in French or German bonds you would also be securing cash in French or German euro 's . - <URL> - Gavyn Davies
It would be preferable to purchase a bond with a negative yield if the negative yield was the smallest compared to similar financial securities . The purchase or sale of a security is rarely a mutually exclusive event . An individual may have personal reasons or a desire to contribute to the activity the bond is financing . To an entity , the negative yield bond may be part of a cost averaging plan , diversification strategy , a single leg of a multi-leg transaction , or possibly to aid certainty as a hedge in a pairs trade . And of course there may be other unique situations specific to the entity . Said another way , is the Queen of Spades a good card ? It depends on the game being played and what is in your hand .
MD-Tech <URL> : The answer is in your question : derivatives are contracts so are enforced in the same way as any other contract . If the counterparty refuses to pay immediately they will , in the first instance be billed by any intermediary ( Prime Broker etc. ) that facilitated the contract . If they still refuse to pay the contract may stipulate that a broker can " net off " any outstanding payments against it or pay out using deposited cash or posted margins . The contract will usually include the broker as an interested party and so they can , but do n't need to , report a default ( such that this is ) to credit agencies ( in some jurisdictions they are required to by law ) . Any parties to the trade and the courts may use a debt collection agency to collect payments or seize assets to cover payment . If there is no broker or the counterparty still has not paid the bill then the parties involved ( the party to the trade and any intermediaries ) can sue for breach of contract . If they win ( which would be expected ) the counterparty will be made to pay by the legal system including , but not limited to , seizure of assets , enforced bankruptcy , and prison terms for any contempts of court rulings . All of this holds for governments who refuse to pay derivatives losses ( as Argentina did in the early 20th century ) but in that case it may escalate as far as war . It has never done so for derivatives contracts as far as I know but other breaches of contract between countries have resulted in armed conflict . As well as the " hard " results of failing to pay there are soft implications including a guaranteed fall in credit ratings that will result in parties refusing to do business with the counterparty and a separate loss of reputation that will reduce business even further . Potential employees and funders will be unwilling to become involved with such a party and suppliers will be unwilling to supply on credit . The end result in almost every way would be bankruptcy and prison sentences for the party or their senior employees . Most jurisdictions allow for board members at companies in material breach of contract to be banned from running any company for a set period as well . edit : netting off cash flows netting off is a process whereby all of a party 's cash flows , positive and negative , are used to pay each other off so that only the net change is reflected in account balances , for example : company 1 cash flows +1.2 M : co2 +1.1 M : co3 -5 oo K : co4 -3 M : co5 +1.2 M : co3 netting off the total outgoings are 3M + 500k = 3.5 M and total incomings are 1.2 M + 1.1 M + 1.2 M = 3.5 M so the incoming cash flows can be used to pay the outgoing cash flows leaving a net payment into company1 's account of 0 .
They have forever to collect a balance from you . Furthermore they can add whatever penalties and fees they wish to increase that balance . Worst of all , they do n't have to remind you or send you bills or any other notification . You owed it when you left the office . ( There very well could be local laws that require notifications , but that is n't really the issue here . ) That dentist has every right to deny you service until you settle the account . Forever . The question you want to know is how long can they sue you for the debt . The statute of limitations on collecting that debt via court : <URL> Which covers the rules on HOW LONG they have to collect the debt . Owing the money is one thing , but the rules and tools that you creditor has to collect the debt are another . You are probably worried about them suing you . But if you do n't pay the debt ( or settle in some way ) , that dentist can refuse to provide services to you , even if they write off the debt . Ways you can be punished by your dentist for not paying the bill are : Credit Reporting : Depending on your jurisdiction and/or type of debt , they typically only report it on your credit ( if they are reporting at all ) for 7 years . Even if you pay and settle the account , it will still be reported on your credit report for 7 years . The difference is how it is reported . They can report that " user133466 is a super reliable person who always pays debts on time " . They can say " user133466 is a flake who pays , but takes a while to pay " . Or they can say " user133466 is a bad person to provide services before collecting money , because user133466 do n't pay bills " . Other people considering lending you money are going to read these opinions and decide accordingly if they want to deal with you or not . And they can say that for 7 years . The idea of credit reporting is that you settle up as soon as possible and get your credit report to reflect the truth . Getting a Judgement Against You to Collect : One popular way to collect a debt to is to sue you for it . There , each state has a different time period on how long a creditor has to sue you for a debt . <URL> If you pay part of the debt , that will often reset the clock on the statute of limitations , so be sure any partial or negotiated settlements state very clearly , in writing , that payment is considered payment in full on the debt . Then you keep that record forever . They Can Hassle You For The Money : There are other interesting points in the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act . See <URL> . They can only contact you in certain ways , they must respond to you in certain ways , and they have limits on what they can say , who they can say it to , and when they can say it . There are protections from mean or vicious bill collectors , but that does n't sound like who you are dealing with . I do n't know that the FDCPA is a tool you need to use in this case . Bottom line - You Should Pay : You should negotiate your debt and try your best to settle up . From your post , both parties dropped the ball , and both parties should give a little . You should pay no or minor late fees , and the doctor should report your credit positively when you do so . If you both made honest mistakes , they both parties should acknowledge that and be fair , and not defensive . This is not legal advice . But you owe the debt , so you should settle up . I do n't think it is fair for you to not pay because they did n't mail you a paper . However I also do not think it is fair for the doctor to run up fees and not remind you of the bill . Finally , you did n't bring up insurance or many other details . Those details can change the answer .
There is no simple way to calculate how much house any given person can afford . In the answer keshlam gave , several handy rules of thumb are mentioned that are used as common screening devices to reject loans , but in every case further review is required to approve any loan . The 28 % rule is the gold standard for estimating how much you can afford , but it is only an estimate ; all the details ( that you do n't want to provide ) are required to give you anything better than an estimate . In the spirit of JoeTaxpayer 's answer I 'm going to give you a number that you can multiply your gross income by for a good estimate , but my estimate is based on a 15 year mortgage . Assuming a 15 year mortgage with a 3 % interest rate , it will cost $ 690.58 per $ 100,000 borrowed . So to take those numbers and wrap it up in a bow , you can multiply your income by 3.38 and have the amount of mortgage that most people can afford . If you have a down-payment saved add it to the number above for the total price of the home you can buy after closing costs are added in . Property taxes and insurance rates vary widely , and those are often rolled into the mortgage payment to be paid from an escrow account , banks may consider all of these factors in their calculators but they may not be transparent . If you ca n't afford to pay it in 15 years , you really ca n't afford it . Compare the same $ 100k loan : In 30 years at 4 % you pay about $ 477/month with a total of about $ 72k in interest over the life of the loan . In 15 years at 3 % you pay about $ 691/month but the total interest is only $ 24k , and you are out of the loan in half of the time . The equity earned in the first 5 years is also signficantly different with 28.5 % for the 15 year loan vs. 9.5 % on the 30 year loan . Without straying too far into general economics , 15 year loans would also have averted the mortgage crisis of 2008 , because more people would have had enough equity that they would n't have walked out on their homes when there was a price correction .
HSAs are very similar to IRAs . Any investment returns grow tax-deferred and once you reach age 59 1/2 65 , you can withdraw the funds for any purpose ( subject to ordinary income tax ) , just like a traditional IRA . If you can afford to do so , I would recommend you to pay medical expenses out-of-pocket and let the funds in your HSA accumulate and grow . In general , the best way to allocate your funds is in the following order : Contribute to a 401 ( k ) if your employer matches funds at a substantial rate Pay off high-interest debt ( 8 % of more in current environment in 2011 ) Contribute to an IRA ( traditional or Roth ) Contribute to an HSA Contribute to a 401 ( k ) without the benefit of employer matching One advantage of HSAs versus IRAs is that you do n't have to have earned income ( salary or self-employment income ) in order to contribute . If you derive income solely from rents , interest or dividends , you can contribute the maximum amount ( $ 3,050 for individuals in 2011 ) and get a full deduction from your income ( Of course , you will need to maintain a high-deductible health plan in order to qualify ) . One downside of HSAs is the lack of competitively priced providers . Wells Fargo offers HSAs for free , but only allows you to keep your funds in cash , earning a very measly interest rate , or invest them in rather mediocre and expensive Wells Fargo mutual funds . Vanguard , known for its low-fee investment options , provides HSAs through a partner company , but the account maintenance charges are still quite high . Overall , HSAs are a worthwhile option as part of your investment plan .
You need to watch out for a couple landmines before embarking on this . Firstly , you need to avoid affirming the debt . When you affirm the debt it gives them grounds to restart the clock and if your negotiations fail , you do n't want that . Secondly , you do n't want to pay them until you have , in writing , a statement of what you 're getting in consideration for paying . In other words , if you call your creditor and say " I will pay in full if you remove this from my credit report " and they say " ok great we 'll certainly do that , I can take payment over the phone " . Stop right there . Six months after this happens you do n't want to find out that the person you spoke to thought you meant marking the debt as paid as opposed to fully removing it . You need to demand that they give you written notice that they will be removing the collection record from ALL of your credit reports and that the debt will be fully settled . As a side note , you can start negotiations by offering a lower amount than full . For example you might say something like " I see on my credit report that you 've listed this collection account against me . I can not affirm that that debt is valid but if you agree to take 50 % and remove the record from my credit report " . From here they could say anything but at least you 've given yourself room to negotiate . Edit : To get back to your original question . The impact to your score will probably be pretty big if you are successful in having all of your collection accounts removed . Creditkarma will provide you with a free FAKO score and can give you what your score would be if you do certain things ( like pay off collections accounts ) . As far as how fast the score will be updated , it 'll be updated as fast as the collector removes your account . I 'm guessing the process would take around a month . I 'm basing that on how long it takes to do a credit report dispute . It could be less time if all your creditors do their reporting very quickly . It could be more if they do n't do what they 're supposed to and you have to do a dispute .
Great question . There are several reasons ; I 'm going to list the few that I can think of off the top of my head right now . First , even if institutional bank holdings in such a term account are covered by deposit insurance ( this , as well as the amount covered , varies geographically ) , the amount covered is generally trivial when seen in the context of bank holdings . An individual might have on the order of $ 1,000 - $ 10,000 in such an account ; for a bank , that 's basically chump change , and you are looking more at numbers in the millions of dollars range . Sometimes a lot more than that . For a large bank , even hundreds of millions of dollars might be a relatively small portion of their holdings . <URL> ( I just pulled a big bank out of thin air , here ; no affiliation with them that I know of ) states that as of December 2011 , their excess liquidity was 171,581 million US dollars ( over 170 billion dollars ) , with a bottom line total assets of $ 923,225 million ( a shade under a trillion dollars ) book value . Good luck finding a bank that will pay you 4 % interest on even a fraction of such an amount . GS ' income before tax in 2011 was a shade under 6.2 billion dollars ; 4 % on 170 billion dollars is 6.8 billion dollars . That is , the interest payments at such a rate on their excess liquidity alone would have cost more than they themselves made in the entire year , which is completely unsustainable . Government bonds are as guaranteed as deposit-insurance-covered bank accounts ( it 'll be the government that steps in and pays the guaranteed amount , quite possibly issuing bonds to cover the cost ) , but ( assuming the country does not default on its debt , which happens from time to time ) you will get back the entire amount plus interest . For a deposit-insured bank account of any kind , you are only guaranteed ( to the extent that one can guarantee anything ) the maximum amount in the country 's bank deposit insurance ; I believe in most countries , this is at best on the order of $ 100,000 . If the bank where the money is kept goes bankrupt , for holdings on the order of what banks deal with , you would be extremely lucky to recover even a few percent of the principal . Government bonds are also generally accepted as collateral for the bank 's own loans , which can make a difference when you need to raise more money in short order because a large customer decided to withdraw a big pile of cash from their account , maybe to buy stocks or bonds themselves . Government bonds are generally liquid . That is , they are n't just issued by the government , held to maturity while paying interest , and then returned ( electronically , these days ) in return for their face value in cash . Government bonds are bought and sold on the " secondary market " as well , where they are traded in very much the same way as public company stocks . If banks started simply depositing money with each other , all else aside , then what would happen ? Keep in mind that the interest rate is basically the price of money . Supply-and-demand would dictate that if you get a huge inflow of capital , you can lower the interest rate paid on that capital . Banks do n't pay high interest ( and certainly would n't do so to each other ) because of their intristic good will ; they pay high interest because they can not secure capital funding at lower rates . This is a large reason why the large banks will generally pay much lower interest rates than smaller niche banks ; the larger banks are seen as more reliable in the bond market , so are able to get funding more cheaply by issuing bonds . Individuals will often buy bonds for the perceived safety . Depending on how much money you are dealing with ( sold a large house recently ? ) it is quite possible even for individuals to hit the ceiling on deposit insurance , and for any of a number of reasons they might not feel comfortable putting the money in the stock market . Buying government bonds then becomes a relatively attractive option -- you get a slightly lower return than you might be able to get in a high-interest savings account , but you are virtually guaranteed return of the entire principal if the bond is held to maturity . On the other hand , it might not be the case that you will get the entire principal back if the bank paying the high interest gets into financial trouble or even bankruptcy . Some people have personal or systemic objections toward banks , limiting their willingness to deposit large amounts of money with them . And of course in some cases , such as for example retirement savings , it might not even be possible to simply stash the money in a savings account , in which case bonds of some kind is your only option if you want a purely interest-bearing investment .
If your requirements are hard ( must have $ 1000/month , must have the same or bigger in capital at the end ) , stocks are a poor choice of investment . However , in many cases , people are willing to tolerate some level of risk to achieve the expected returns . You also do not mention inflation , which can take quite a lot out of your portfolio over the course of ten years . If we make some simplifying assumptions , you want to generate $ 12,000 a year . You can realistically expect the ( whole ) stock market , long term ( i.e. over time periods substantially longer than 10 years ) , to return approximately 4 - 5 % after factoring in inflation . That means an investment of $ 240,000 - $ 300,000 ( the math is simplified somewhat here ) . If you do n't care about inflation , you can up the percentage rather somewhat . According to <URL> , the S&amp;P 500 returned an average of 11.31 % from 1928 through 2010 ( not factoring in inflation ) , which would require an investment of approximately $ 106,100 . But ! This opens you up to substantial risk . The stock market may go down 30 % this year ! According to the above article , the S&amp;P returned only 3.54 % from 2001 to 2010 . Long-term , it goes up , but your investment case is really unsuited to investing in an index to the entire stock market given your requirements . You may be better suited investing primarily in stable bonds , or perhaps a mix of bonds and stocks . Alternatively , you may want to consider even more stable investments such as treasury notes . Treasury notes are all but guaranteed , but with a lousy rate of return . Heck , you could consider a GIC ( that may be Canada-only ) or even a savings account . There 's also the possibility of purchasing an annuity , though almost everyone will advise against such . Personally , I 'd go for a mutual fund which invested approximately 70 % bonds and the rest in stocks over such a time period . Something like <URL> , if you were in Canada . It substantially lowers your expected return but also lowers your risk . I ca n't honestly say what the expected return there is ; at this point , it 's returned 4 % per year ( before inflation ) , but has been around only since the beginning of 2008 . And to be clear , this is absolutely not free of risk .
<URL> has a likely scenario for when Greece defaults on its sovereign debt : What happens when Greece defaults . Here are a few things : Every bank in Greece will instantly go insolvent . The Greek government will nationalise every bank in Greece . The Greek government will forbid withdrawals from Greek banks . To prevent Greek depositors from rioting on the streets , Argentina-2002-style ( when the Argentinian president had to flee by helicopter from the roof of the presidential palace to evade a mob of such depositors ) , the Greek government will declare a curfew , perhaps even general martial law . Greece will redenominate all its debts into " New Drachmas " or whatever it calls the new currency ( this is a classic ploy of countries defaulting ) The New Drachma will devalue by some 30-70 per cent ( probably around 50 per cent , though perhaps more ) , effectively defaulting 0n 50 per cent or more of all Greek euro-denominated debts . As <URL> says , there 's more at the link , all depressing . I think you 're focusing too much on Greece leaving the euro and not enough on why Greece would leave the euro . Greece would leave the euro precisely so that it could pay back its debt in a new currency worth less than valuable euros . The new currency will devalue , since that 's the point of leaving . Along the way the government forces its citizens to take the new currency . The money they have in Greek banks will be converted to the new currency : The citizens do n't have a choice to keep their euros .
There are several reasons it is not recommended to trade stocks pre - or post-market , meaning outside of RTH ( regular trading hours ) . Liquidity is very low compared to RTH Fills of market orders can be way off your ordered price ( = possibly higher slippage than in RTH ) because of low Liquidity If you use a leveraged account , pre - and post-market margins are significantly higher than during RTH Since your question is not very detailed I have to assume you trade with a time horizon of at least more than a day , meaning you do not trade intra-day . If this is true , all of the above points are a non-issue for you and a different set of points becomes important . Enter and exit trades during post-market or enter and exit trades at market open , using orders you enter one day before in the post-market session - those orders will be executed automatically or enter trades via Limit and Stop Limit Orders exclusively As a general rule , using ( 3 ) is the safest regardless of what and how you trade because you get price guarantee in trade for execution guarantee . In the case of mid to longer term trading ( 1 week + ) any of those points is viable , depending on how you want to do things , what your style is and what is the most comfortable for you . A few remarks though : ( 2 ) are market orders , so if the open is quite the ride and you are in the back of the execution queue , you can get significant slippage . ( 1 ) may require ( live ) data of the post-market session , which is often not easy to come by for the entire US stock universe . Depending on your physical execution method ( phone , fax , online ) , you may lack accurate information of the post-market . If you want to execute orders based on RTH and only want to do that after hours because of personal schedule constraints , this is not really important . Personally I would always recommend ( 3 ) , independent of the use case because it allows you more control over your orders and their fills . TL ; DR : If you are trading long-term it does not really matter . If you go down to the intra-day level of holding time , it becomes relevant .
How long is a piece of string ? This will depend on many variables . How many trades will you make in a day ? What income would you be expecting to make ? What expectancy do you need to achieve ? Which markets you will choose to trade ? Your first step should be to develop a Trading Plan , then develop your trading rules and your risk management . Then you should back test your strategy and then use a virtual account to practice losing on . Because one thing you will get is many losses . You have to learn to take a loss when the market moves against you . And you need to let your profits run and keep your losses small . A good book to start with is Trade Your Way to Financial Freedom by Van Tharp . It will teach you about Expectancy , Money Management , Risk Management and the Phycology of Trading . Two thing I can recommend are : 1 ) to look into position and trend trading and other types of short term trading instead of day trading . You would usually place your trades after market close together with your stops and avoid being in front of the screen all day trying to chase the market . You need to take your emotion out of your trading if you want to succeed ; 2 ) do n't trade penny stocks , trade commodities , FX or standard stocks , but keep away from penny stocks . Just because you can buy them for a penny does not mean they are cheap .
Major brokerages may offer an account type for international trading . In the US , E * Trade offers a " Global Trading " account that can be used to hold foreign stocks . You may need to shop around to find a similar offering in Portugal .
Without getting into whether you should invest in Gold or Not ... 1 . Where do I go and make this purchase . I would like to get the best possible price . If you are talking about Physical Gold then Banks , Leading Jewelry store in your city . Other options are buying Gold Mutual Fund or ETF from leading fund houses . 2 . How do I assure myself of quality . Is there some certificate of quality/purity ? This is mostly on trust . Generally Banks and leading Jewelry stores will not sell of inferior purity . There are certain branded stores that give you certificate of authenticity 3 . When I do choose to sell this commodity , when and where will I get the best cost ? If you are talking about selling physical gold , Jewelry store is the only place . Banks do not buy back the gold they sold you . Jewelry stores will buy back any gold , however note there is a buy price and sell price . So if you buy 10 g and sell it back immediately you will not get the same price . If you have purchased Mutual Funds / ETF you can sell in the market .
What you 're talking about is called " tax gain harvesting , " and it is considered good tax management . From The Oblivious Investor , <URL> . For an interesting take on <URL> , check out Go Curry Cracker . You can claim up to $ 70,000 or so in capital gains before paying any taxes if you are the 10 % or 15 % tax bracket .
Depends upon where you are in the United States but I 've heard everything not tipping them in the case of a fairly straightforward move to up to $ 50 per mover if they are outstanding in terms of performance or you have an especially complex move for some reason . In the New England area the rule of thumb seems to be that you should have some sort of beverage ( i.e. water , soda , etc ) on hand to offer them while they are loading and unloading the truck or packing and then once the move is complete to tip them between $ 20 and $ 50 per person . In general though , avoid giving them a tip as a percentage of the cost of the move and give the tip directly to each person as opposed to the foreman to be split among the movers .
When determining if you should refinance , you need to figure out how long it will take to make up the closing costs from interest saved under the new loan . At 4.5 % you are currently paying approx . $ 586 in interest each month . At 3.25 % you would be paying approx . $ 423 to begin with . So , the first month , you will save about $ 160 in interest . The amount of interest paid each month will change based on how much principal you apply to the loan . However , you will be around $ 160/mo in interest savings for the first several months . This would mean you break even point would be around 6 months . I would recommend the refinance to 3.25 % assuming the $ 800 figure for closing costs is accurate . You will save several thousand dollars in interest payments over the next 5 years if you do refinance .
Did you read your own question out loud ? Holy cow . Two years to pay off $ 1700 !? Get a part time job , sell some stuff on eBay , and cut your lifestyle . You can be done with this in two months . Despite the math , you 'd be better off to cut your 401 ( k ) contributions to zero until the balances are paid off . That sense of loss of the 9 % income will motivate you to get this nonsense cleaned up , and will probably preclude you from borrowing money at 17.9 % again . The course of action you are proposing is not the smartest . In two years , you have a decent chance of being laid off or changing jobs . Once that happens your 401 ( k ) loan is due in 60 days , or it is considered a withdrawal . Tack on another 40 % to your loan balance . You also have to consider the behavior aspect of your plan . If you solve this problem in a painless way will you likely borrow again ? Yep . So now you will have a 401 ( k ) loan for $ 1700 and probably your credit cards will have a similar balance to what they are today . Still , it was good of you to ask .
CQM noted Interactive Brokers . There will be others as well that have access to the bonds directly . An easier ways to get short exposure might be through the bund futures market which will be accessible through many brokers . Even easier could be shorting a bund etf . However , remember to <URL> unless you really know what you are doing . Finally , I could n't help notice that this question arrived soon after <URL> . While I do n't disagree with the point directly , it is worth noting that many people have gone broke waiting for markets to correct themselves especially with shorts and especially when the government is intervening . While it may cost Mr. Gross very little to work this trade for the average retail investor this trade could be very expensive to put in place and to hold over time .
end question
start question
re balancing portfolio by only buying more or by both selling and buying under and over allocated assets ?
Whether it is better or depends on : the tax costs or benefits of selling assets the possibly greater cost of your time in choosing which assets to sell etc , vs just directing new contributions to the underweight asset the friction of paying the costs ( fees , spread , brokerage etc ) of two transactions ( sell-buy ) My feeling is that generally you not sell but rather just redirect new contributions , unless that is not going to bring you back in balance within a reasonable time frame , or there is some other compelling reason to change . As you 're currently contributing 7.5 % of your portfolio value every year it seems likely that you will be able to rebalance using contributions alone . ( If you were older and were contributing only 1 % of your portfolio value every year that would probably not be enough . ) One compelling reason to change would be a tax benefit . Another is that you may have decided you no longer like one investment provider ( eg high fees , whatever ) and you are going to take the opportunity of moving away from them to rebalance . You could say that if any asset class is more than say 10 % higher than it should be , you will sell ; otherwise just redirect new contributions .
For me , it would be hard to leave all forms of money at home ( cash , credit card , debit card . ) There are times when you simply need to have money on hand . But , here 's a simple idea I have that lets you bring your cards with you , yet still puts up a hurdle to curb impulse buying . Get a sheet of paper , scissors , pen , and tape . Craft a small envelope just the right size to hold a credit card . Put your credit card in this new envelope and tape it shut ; i.e. no easy access . On both sides write : Do you really need it ? Repeat for each of the cards you need to carry . When you 're in a situation where you want to buy something , the card that 's in your wallet/purse will be wrapped in your crafted " reminder envelope . " You 'll see the reminder , which is hopefully enough . Then , in order to make a purchase you 'll need to tear it open . That should get you to think twice . The one problem with the above is online purchases : If you have memorized your card information , add this rule for yourself : No online purchases without the payment card present and visible . ( i.e. you also must tear open the envelope for online purchases . )
I 'm a little confused on the use of the property today . Is this place going to be a personal residence for you for now and become a rental later ( after the mortgage is paid off ) ? It does make a difference . If you can buy the house and a 100 % LTV loan would cost less than 125 % of comparable rent ... then buy the house , put as little of your own cash into it as possible and stretch the terms as long as possible . Scott W is correct on a number of counts . The " cost " of the mortgage is the after tax cost of the payments and when that money is put to work in a well-managed portfolio , it should do better over the long haul . Do n't try for big gains because doing so adds to the risk that you 'll end up worse off . If you borrow money at an after-tax cost of 4 % and make 6 % after taxes ... you end up ahead and build wealth . A vast majority of the wealthiest people use this arbitrage to continue to build wealth . They have plenty of money to pay off mortgages , but choose not to . $ 200,000 at 2 % is an extra $ 4000 per year . Compounded at a 7 % rate ... it adds up to $ 180k after 20 years ... not exactly chump change . Money in an investment account is accessible when you need it . Money in home equity is not , has a zero rate of return ( before inflation ) and is not accessible except through another loan at the bank 's whim . If you lose your job and your home is close to paid off but is n't yet , you could have a serious liquidity issue . NOW ... if a 100 % mortgage would cost MORE than 125 % of comparable rent , then there should be no deal . You are looking at a crappy investment . It is cheaper and better just to rent . I do n't care if prices are going up right now . Prices move around . Just because Canada has n't seen the value drops like in the US so far does n't mean it ca n't happen in the future . If comparable rents do n't validate the price with a good margin for profit for an investor , then prices are frothy and can not be trusted and you should lower your monthly costs by renting rather than buying . That $ 350 per month you could save in " rent " adds up just as much as the $ 4000 per year in arbitrage . For rentals , you should only pull the trigger when you can do the purchase without leverage and STILL get a 10 % CAP rate or higher ( rate of return after taxes , insurance and other fixed costs ) . That way if the rental rates drop ( and again that is quite possible ) , you would lose some of your profit but not all of it . If you leverage the property , there is a high probability that you could wind up losing money as rents fall and you have to cover the mortgage out of nonexistent cash flow . I know somebody is going to say , " But John , 10 % CAP on rental real estate ? That 's just not possible around here . " That may be the case . It IS possible somewhere . I have clients buying property in Arizona , New Mexico , Alberta , Michigan and even California who are finding 10 % CAP rate properties . They do exist . They just are n't everywhere . If you want to add leverage to the rental picture to improve the return , then do so understanding the risks . He who lives by the leverage sword , dies by the leverage sword . Down here in the US , the real estate market is littered with corpses of people who thought they could handle that leverage sword . It is a gory , ugly mess .
Generally in the US , tax withholdings are calculated by extrapolating the check amount against the number of pay roll periods in a year , then considering the standard deduction and number of exemptions you 've claimed . If you receive a retroactive raise and , as a result an abnormally high paycheck , your withholdings will likely be over-estimated on that particular check . Your company 's payroll vendor will likely just assume this check amount is the new normal and calculate accordingly . This is just a withholding , if it 's too much or too little it will be settled when you file your tax return .
Of course . The rationale is exactly the same as always : profit is taxed . The fact that you use intermediate barter to make that profit is irrelevant . To clarify , as it seems that you think it makes a difference that no money " changed hands " . Consider this situation : You produced item X , which cost you $ 100 to produce . You have 100 of those in stock . You priced each item X at $ 200 in your store . So far your cost is $ 10000 . You sold 100 units of item X to a customer who paid you with gold coins worth $ 20000 . How did the customer come up with the amount of gold ? Easy : converted your price for the items based on the current gold spot price , whatever it is . You did n't get any $ $ $ , you only got some gold coins , but the value of the gold you got is " accidentally " exactly the same as the value of $ $ $ you would get had you sold your merchandise for $ $ $ . How will the tax authority address this ? They will look at the fair market value of the barter . You got gold worth of $ 20000 . So from their perspective , you got $ 20000 , and immediately exchanged it into gold . What does it mean for you ? That you 're taxed on the $ 10000 gain you made on your product X ( the $ 20000 worth of barter that you received minus the $ 10000 worth of work/material/expenses that you spend on producing the merchandise ) , and that you have $ 20000 basis in the gold that you now own . If in a year , when you plan to sell the gold , its price drops - you can deduct investment losses . If its price goes up - you 'll have investment gain . But for the gain you 're making on your product X you will pay taxes now , because that 's when you realized it - sold the merchandize and received in return something else of a value .
I would recommend using growth/value/income / bond based asset allocation because your goal is to find asset classes that have different performance trends ( when 1 is up , the other is down and vice-versa ) . If you chose Domestic , US stocks and diversified between Med Cap and Large Cap stocks , they would not exactly mirror each other , but they would roughly rise and fall at the same time , preventing you from taking full advantage of diversification , increasing risk and lowering returns .
In general , you most definitely can . In some cases you must . However for each State you 'll have to check whether you can choose how to depreciate . Many States require you to take the same depreciation as on the Federal schedule , including Sec . 179 , others wo n't allow Sec . 179 at all . Specifically to PA , I have n't found any current guidance , but <URL> in the bucket that requires you to take the same Sec . 179 on the State return as appears on your Federal return . If you elect to expense Section 179 Property for FIT purposes , you are required to expense the property for PIT purposes . However PA limit for Sec . 179 is $ 25K , so if your Federal deduction is larger - you can depreciate the rest . Check with a PA-licensed CPA or EA for a more reliable opinion , since I 'm not a tax adviser . Just googled it .
There are two sets of tax implications : ongoing yearly taxes , and tax when you sell . On an ongoing basis , I 'm assuming that your city , county , and/or state will extract property tax payment ( s ) from you on the additional property . According <URL> , this payment would be deductible : Deductible real estate taxes are generally any state , local , or foreign taxes on real property . ( But the deductibility is only going to matter if you are itemizing deductions . If you are n't , it 's just another expense . ) The second set of tax implications come when you decide to sell the lot : There will be ( federal ) capital gains tax associated with this , since it is not your primary residence . ( You could try to merge the lot with yours to avoid this tax , but I have no idea how this works in your area or if it would even be worth it in the end -- seems like there would be some other trade-offs . ) You may also have local capital gains taxes . Your locality may have a real estate transfer tax .
Seems like the straightforward answer is to call the provider and ask . They should be able to tell you if you owe them or not . Unfortunately , with small providers there is always a chance they wo n't get even that right ; I would confirm exactly why they think you do n't owe them anything if in fact you do n't . Medical providers can go after you for years later , depending on your state ; so do n't assume just because it 's been months that they wo n't eventually . Smaller providers are n't terribly organized , but they do usually eventually go after most of those who owe them .
Let 's look at some numbers . These are just example rates that I found online . You can substitute your own quotes and compare yourself . I 'm not going to name the company , but these advertised rates are all from one nationally-known company for a 25-year old female . Whole life : $ 78.13 / month for $ 100,000 of coverage . 10-year term : $ 15.00 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . 20-year term : $ 15.45 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . 30-year term : $ 20.23 / month for $ 250,000 of coverage . If you went with the whole life option , you would be paying $ 937.56 per year . The policy builds a cash value ; the amount this grows can vary greatly , and you 'll need to look at the fine print to see how it will grow , but let 's pretend that after 30 years , the cash value of the policy is $ 50,000 ( a reasonable guess , in my opinion ) . Let 's look at what this means : You can cash out your policy , but at that point , you 'll stop paying payments , and your heirs wo n't get your $ 100,000 death benefit . You can borrow against it , but you 'll have to pay it back . You could use it to pay your premium , in which case you 'll stop paying payments . However , keep in mind that if you do pass away , you lose the cash value you 've built up ; your beneficiaries only get the $ 100,000 death benefit . Now let 's look at the term insurance option . We 'll go with the 30-year term . It will only cost you $ 242.76 per year , and the death benefit is more than double the whole life coverage . If you were to take the difference between the two premiums ( $ 58 per month ) and invest it in a mutual fund growing at 8 % per year , you would have $ 86,441 in your account after 30 years . This money is yours ( or your heirs ) , whether or not you pass away before your term is up . After the 30 years is up , your insurance is over , but you are now almost all the way up to the death benefit of the whole life policy anyway . In my opinion , term life insurance is better than whole life for just about everybody . I do n't want to be morbid here , but the earlier someone dies , the more benefit they get with term insurance vs whole life . If someone does have reason to believe that his life expectancy is shorter than average , term insurance makes even more sense , as he is more likely to get the death benefit for much less money in premiums than he would in whole life .
IANAL ( and nor am I an accountant ) , so I ca n't give a definitive answer as to legality , but AFAIK , what you propose is legal . But what 's the benefit ? Avoiding corporation tax ? It 's simplistic -- and costly -- to think in terms like that . You need to run the numbers for different scenarios , and make a plan . You can end up ahead of the game precisely by choosing to pay some corporate tax each year . Really ! Read on . One of the many reasons that self-employed Canadians sometimes opt for a corporate structure over being a sole proprietor is to be able to not pay themselves everything the company earns each year . This is especially important when a business has some really good years , and others , meh . Using the corporation to retain earnings can be more tax effective . Example : Imagine your corporation earns , net of accounting &amp; other non-tax costs except for your draws , $ 120,000 / year for 5 years , and $ 0 in year 6 . Assume the business is your only source of income for those 6 years . Would you rather : Pay yourself the entire $ 120,000 / yr in years 1-5 , then $ 0 in year 6 ( living off personal savings you hopefully accumulated earlier ) , subjecting the $ 120,000 / yr to personal income tax only , leaving nothing in the corporation to be taxed ? Very roughly speaking , assuming tax rates &amp; brackets are level from year to year , and using <URL> calculator ( which simplifies certain things ) , then in Ontario , then you 'd net ~ $ 84,878 / yr for years 1-5 , and $ 0 in year 6 . Overall , you realized $ 424,390 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600,000 was 29.26 % . vs. Pay yourself only $ 100,000 / yr in years 1-5 , leaving $ 20,000 / yr subject to corporation tax . Assuming a 15.5 % combined federal/provincial corporate tax rate ( includes the <URL> ) , then the corp. is left with $ 16,900 / yr to add to retained earnings in years 1-5 . In year 6 , the corp. has $ 84,500 in retained earnings to be distributed to you , the sole owner , as a dividend ( of the non-eligible kind . ) Again , very roughly speaking , you 'd personally net $ 73,560 / yr in years 1-5 , and then on the $ 84,500 dividend in year 6 , you 'd net $ 73,658 . Overall , you realized $ 441,458 . Drawing the income in this manner , the average tax rate on the $ 600K was 26.42 % . i.e. Scenario 2 , which spreads the income out over the six years , saved 2.84 % in tax , or $ 14,400 . Smoothing out your income is also a prudent thing to do . Would you rather find yourself in year 6 , having no clients and no revenue , with nothing left to draw on ? Or would you rather the company had saved money from the good years to pay you in the lean one ?
Yes . See for instance <URL> , which says in part : You 're covered by an employer retirement plan for a tax year if your employer ( or your spouse 's employer ) has a : Defined contribution plan ( profit-sharing , 401 ( k ) , stock bonus and money purchase pension plan ) and any contributions or forfeitures were allocated to your account for the plan year ending with or within the tax year ;
Assets held within an ISA or New ISA <URL> , so you wo n't have to pay either income tax or capital gains tax .
In the United States taxes on the sale of a principal residence are based on the difference between the sale price and the cost of the home . Assuming you meet the requirements you can shelter 250,000 or 500,000 of gains from the sale of your principal residence . This calculation is not related to the loan balance . The basic equation is sales price minus purchase price . It get a little more complex because some costs to purchase and sell the home are included in the calculation , or if you made renovations to the house that will increase your costs and decrease your gains . Trying to decrease the loan balance just before selling the house would just be paying yourself that money at the settlement table . It could save you some money on interest between now and settlement but emptying your bank account to save a few bucks does n't seem worth it . I would also prefer to have the money in the bank to pay for some expenses that will popup getting the house sold , you moving , and the settlement date .
In the early years of saving for retirement you need to build net worth . Once you get closer to needing the money you will start focusing more on cash flow to be able to live off the savings you have accumulated . I think the answer depends on how close to retirement you are . If you are talking about investing in general and not just retirement savings then I prefer to focus on a hybrid . Building net worth with part of my portfolio and generating cash flow with the rest .
As weird as it seems , 5 years is not a long term investment . Furthermore investing is about accepting risk . Based on your criteria for the alternative to a down payment , I think your only choice is to make the larger down payment . However If however , you were willing to invest that money for the long term ( in a retirement account or an educational account for example ) then I would definitely encourage you to invest . I think the chance that a long term investment in a diversified investment account will exceed 3.25 % is pretty high . However , that is only my opinion , and I am not clairvoyant , so your let your personal tolerance to risk be your guide . In summary But again , based on the way you asked it , down payment all the way . Your time frame means you are not an investor . Therefore your only option for risk free storage of money is an FDIC insured account , which might pay a little less than 1 % for the next 5 years . A bigger down payment will have a 3.25 % return in this case . Also , make sure the following is true : Taking any match available at work via a 401K No unsecured debt ( like credit cards ) or bad debt ( high interest car loans or student loans ) A fully funded emergency fund that is 6 months of your expenses . Especially important if you own a house . Pay off any other loan ( student loan , car payments or peronal debt ) Maxing out a Roth IRA if you are eligable Maxing out a Traditional IRA Spending some of your money to have fun . In that order . # 4 and # 5 could be swapped if the interest rate on the loans is really low .
If the document must be postmarked by a specific date or there are dire consequences then use a method of mailing that gives you that dated postmark receipt . <URL> Your return is considered filed timely if the envelope is properly addressed and postmarked no later than April 15 <URL> : Taxpayers or Tax Professionals can use certain private delivery services designated by the IRS to meet the " timely mailing as timely filing/paying " rule for tax returns and payments . These private delivery services include only the following : DHL Express ( DHL ) : DHL Same Day Service . Federal Express ( FedEx ) : FedEx Priority Overnight , FedEx Standard Overnight , FedEx 2Day , FedEx International Priority , and FedEx International First . United Parcel Service ( UPS ) : UPS Next Day Air , UPS Next Day Air Saver , UPS 2nd Day Air , UPS 2nd Day Air A.M. , UPS Worldwide Express Plus , and UPS Worldwide Express . The private delivery service can tell you how to get written proof of the mailing date . What would be dire consequences ? Having to report a 83-b election within thirty days of the transaction . Failure to do so would impact your tax situation for years . Owing a large sum of money and wanting to wait until the last day to send it in . If there are no dire consequences for hitting a specific date then regular mail is fine . In some cases electronic submission is even better because of the electronic receipt . If you are concerned about the check falling into the wrong hands you could also pay by credit card or debit card . But that also has risks and costs .
Your mother 's proposal is fraud . Once your mom liquidates her assets by transferring them to you , she 'll get on a Section-8 list if her income is less than like $ 26,000-30 ,000 / year . In some areas , the waiting list is long , and prioritized for families . If she falsely reports that she does n't own her home , she 'll get disqualified for lying . If she transfers the home to you and rents it at a below market rate , she is falsifying her application by not reporting income . What happens next is that she will need to enroll in Medicaid . Medicaid does a multi-year lookback , and they will notice that you bought her house for $ 1 . Once that happens , the Feds and the local Social Services department will be looking to you to pony up for the housing , food , and medical benefits . Best case scenario , you 're writing a big check for money you do n't have . ( ie . You 'll be paying alot of taxes on the house sale ) This is also a crime . The best thing that your mom can do is to just sell her house , spend down her money on rent and living expenses , and enroll in safety net programs if and when she needs to . She should be able to find a good apartment for seniors that has rent linked to income . It 's nice that she wants to leave some money to you , but committing a crime to do so is a not-so-good idea .
It depends on the deal : and you did n't give any details . That said , there are some things that stand out regardless , and some more specific answers to your questions . First , Mortgage rates ( at the bank ) are absurdly low right now . Like 4 % -5 % ; less than 4 % for excellent credit . You say your credit is ok , so unless your landlord is willing to do a deal where they get no benefit ( beyond the price of the house ) , the bank is the way to go . If you do n't have much for a down payment , go with an FHA loan , where you need only 3.5 % down . Second , there is another option in between bank mortgage and rent-to-own . And that is that where your landlord " carries the note " . Basically , there is a mortgage , and it works like a bank mortgage , but instead of the bank owning the mortgage , your landlord does . Now , in terms of them carrying all of it , this is n't really helpful . Who wants to make 3-4 % interest ? But , there is an interesting opportunity here . With your ok credit , you can probably get pretty close to 4 % interest at the bank IF the loan is for 80 % LTV ( loan to value ; that is , 20 % equity ) . At 80 % LTV you also wo n't have PMI , so between the two that loan will be very cheap . Then , your accommodating landlord can " carry " the rest at , say , 6-7 % interest , junior to the bank mortgage ( meaning if you default , the bank gets first dibs on the value of the house ) . Under that scenario , your over all interest payment is very reasonable , and you would n't have to put any money down . Now for your other questions : If we rent to own are we building equity ? Not usually . Like the other posters said , rent-to-own is whatever both parties agree on . But objectively , most rent-to-own agreements , whether for a TV or a house , are set up to screw the buyer . Sorry to be blunt , and I 'm not saying your landlord would do that , this is just generally how it is with rent to own . You do n't own it till you make the last payment , and if you miss a payment they repo the property . There is no recourse because , hey , it was a rental agreement ! Of course the agreements vary , and people who offer rent to own are n't necessarily bad people , but it 's like one of those payday loan places : They provide a valid service but no one with other options uses them . If we rent to own , can we escape if we have to ( read : ca n't pay anymore ) . Usually , sure ! Think about what you 're saying : " Here 's the house back , and all that money I paid you ? Keep it ! " It 's a great deal if you 're on the selling side . How does rent to own affect ( or not ) our credit ? It all depends on how it 's structured . But really , it comes down to are they going to do reporting to the credit bureaus ? In a rent-to-own agreement between individuals , the answer is no . ( individuals ca n't report to a credit bureau . it 's kind of a big deal to be set up to be able to do that )
It costs money to invest in an asset . That cost is called an interest rate . It is the rate at which you would borrow ( e.g. to buy gold ) , or take out of your bank accounts . Either way , you would buy gold only if you thought its price rise would be greater than the interest rate you 'd earn on your money . Gold prices are believed to rise with inflation , either real or perceived . So the critical relationship is whether " inflation " ( actual or perceived ) will be higher than the going interest rate . If you subtract the inflation rate from the stated interest rate , you get the " real " interest rate . Ideally , this number should be zero or negative for gold to rise . <URL> is about the Fed 's buying banks ' paper assets , and thereby expanding the money supply . All other things being equal , this tends to lower real interest rates , and thereby lift the price of gold .
end question
start question
Does The ( US ) ' First Time Home Buyer 's Credit ' Still Exist ?
It appears that there is some kind of a state-sponsored program in IL , not sure about the details . It is not a tax credit , though . Read about it at the <URL> . First-time homebuyers in Boone , Cook , DeKalb , Fulton , Kane , Marion , McHenry , St. Clair , Will or Winnebago counties can get $ 7,500 in down payment assistance with a competitive interest rate for a secure , 30-year fixed rate mortgage . 1STHomeIllinois is tailored for first-time homebuyers , Veterans , or anyone who has n't owned a home in the last three years living in one of the above 10 counties . The Federal tax credit was indeed only for 2008-2010 .
Unfortunately private label brands are like a badly kept secret . People can guess who 's actually manufacturing a product but no one will confirm directly . The manufacturer and the retailer typically have an agreement not to disclose the information . The are several reasons for this : The manufacturer makes a premium version of the product and does not wish to see sales lost to the normally lower cost alternative . The retailer wishes to capitalize on its branding . The retailer may wish to have the flexibility to change manufacturers at any time . This allows the same branding to be used . e.g. . The change in vendors for Girl Guide Cookies in Canada several years ago . The vanilla never tasted quite the same . :-( The only time there is an exception to this rule is when there is a serious health/safety concern with the product which results in a recall . This is not always limited to the private label as most recalls are typically issued by manufacturers for a range of products . As a general rule of thumb most private label brands are as good if not better than premium brands . You just need to try them out to see if they meet your needs . Usually this is inexpensive trial since they are priced lower . For example , I switched to private label diapers and found them just as good as the # 1 and # 2 brands .
I would say ASAP . I have recently been in your situation ( first-time home buyer ) so here 's our experience : We got an agent from the start . We started to look in August , aiming to close around end of the year , and ended up closing in December . We had a month period in the middle where we were not looking but otherwise almost all that time was spent looking so 3 months is definitely not too much time . We did skip some good options in the first weeks since we felt we did not see enough and do n't want to buy just yet . Looking back at it it probably was a mistake ( one looked like a really good deal , though I 'm not sure we would end up getting it , but if I knew what I know now I probably would have not passed on it ) . We could probably be more prepared if we did some stand-alone research - like just going to open houses , etc. but we did n't . However , that was one-of-a-kind deal and then we did n't see anything we liked for quite some time . We chose agent basing on the advice of friends who recently worked with them and we did not regret the decision . I think this is the best way to choose - it 's virtually impossible to distinguish good agent from bad one until you invest some time with them and since you have only 3 month wasting a month on a bad agent might put you in time-constrained situation . So solicit references from everyone you know and talk to agents that make their clients happy :) Now for what the agent does . Our agent helped us first with choosing the areas we want to look in , set up the searches . Then they helped us to plan visits ( we mostly did it on weekends , and looked 5-10 houses each time , so took some planning to organize ) , arrange it with seller agents and homeowners , getting keys for houses that are n't occupied , etc. . When we started doing offers , they helped us navigate the paperwork , understand what we are signing , what options we have , what are the steps and the timeframes , etc. . We had to go through and sign a stack of papers several inches high , literally , so the help of somebody who actually knows what these talk about and seen them before is very useful . Of course , this is for US , where such transactions inevitably causes a ton of papers to be signed , some locations may have more simple procedures but in the US I think the services of somebody who can navigate this paper jungle is essential , otherwise you have a big chance of signing something you should n't or not checking proper checkbox and ending up losing money . They also put us in contact with mortgage consultant which handled our mortgage needs and turned out to be quite good and efficient ( we checked other offers too but that one ended up best on service and prices - not the rock-bottom cheapest , but cheap enough to be competitive and excellent service ) . We could probably have figured that part out by ourselves if needed , but the agent helped us to know who to contact , what to ask for and how all the process should look like , which for first-time buyer is very helpful . There 's a lot of moving parts in the process and without knowledgeable person it 's sometimes hard to figure out how they should work together . So I would say find yourself a good agent ASAP and then start looking and use them to help you guide through the process . Note that the agent wants the process to be completed as soon as possible ( they get paid only when you close ) but you should not feel pressured by it - it 's your money on the line and it 's probably the biggest deal in your life so far , so do n't be afraid to take your time and ask them about anything , it 's their job to help you .
The fair tax is a proposal to replace the US income tax with a sales tax . Pros of Fair Tax : Allows less manipulation of tax code for political reasons ( For good or bad , why is mortgage interest tax deductible ? ) It 's voluntary . Buy something , pay tax . Do n't buy something , do n't pay tax . Bigger paychecks ( but less spending power per dollar because of higher sales taxes ) . Role of IRS would be much smaller - in theory , tax is easier to calculate . It 's a large change to the way the United States currently does things . The " Fair Tax Act of 2011 " is <URL> in the US House and <URL> in the Senate . The full text of the bill is available at the links provided . There are some fairly large consequences of implementing a fair tax . For example , 401ks and Roth IRAs serve no benefit over non-retirement investments . Mortgages would no longer have a tax advantage . Luxury items would get far more expensive .
The person who actually paid the taxes , mortgage interest , etc. would be the one that could claim the respective deductions . For the first time home buyer credit see <URL> page3 excerpted here : If two or more taxpayers who are not married purchase a principal residence and otherwise satisfy the requirements , the first-time homebuyer credit may be allocated between the taxpayers using any reasonable method . A reasonable method is any method that does not allocate any portion of the credit to a taxpayer not eligible to claim that portion . A reasonable method includes allocating the credit between taxpayers who are eligible to claim the credit based on ( 1 ) the taxpayers ' contributions towards the purchase price of a residence as tenants in common or joint tenants , or ( 2 ) the taxpayers ' ownership interests in a residence as tenants in common . This can get really complicated , because the law has changed over the years and each person could have a different status of " first time homeowner " . Here are some examples from the notice to help : These examples illustrate how the first-time homebuyer credit may be allocated when A and B purchase a principal residence as tenants in common . The rules illustrated in the examples also apply in a similar manner to taxpayers who purchase a principal residence as joint tenants . Unless otherwise indicated , assume that in each example A and B ( i ) purchase a principal residence on May 1 , 2008 , ( ii ) are not married to each other , ( iii ) do not have MAGI in excess of the MAGI threshold , and ( iv ) are first-time homebuyers who otherwise satisfy the requirements of § 36 . Example 1 . A contributes $ 45,000 and B contributes $ 15,000 towards the $ 60,000 purchase price of a residence . Each owns a one-half interest in the residence as tenants in common . The allowable credit is limited to 10 percent of the purchase price , or $ 6,000 . A and B may allocate the allowable $ 6,000 credit three-fourths to A and one-fourth to B based on their contributions toward the purchase price of the residence , one-half to each based on their ownership interests in the residence , or using any other reasonable method ( for example , the entire credit to A or B because both A and B are eligible to claim the entire allowable credit ) . Example 2 . A contributes $ 10,000 for a down payment towards the $ 100,000 purchase price of a residence , and A and B obtain and are jointly liabl e for a $ 90,000 mortgage for the remainder of the purchase price . Each owns a one-half interest in the residence as tenants in common . The allowable credit is not $ 10,000 ( 10 percent of the purchase price ) but is limited to $ 7,500 . A and B may allocate the 5 allowable $ 7,500 credit 55 percent to A and 45 percent to B based on their contributions toward the purchase price , one-half to each based on their ownership interests in the residence , or using any other reasonable method ( for example , the entire credit to A or B because both A and B are eligible to claim the entire allowable credit ) . Example 3 . On April 15 , 2008 , A pays the entire $ 100,000 purchase price of a residence and is the sole owner . Under § 36 ( b ) ( 1 ) ( A ) , the allowable credit is not $ 10,000 ( 10 percent of the purchase price ) but is limited to $ 7,500 . On May 12 , 2008 , A transfers a one-half interest in the residence to B as a tenant in common for $ 10,000 . A may claim the entire allowable $ 7,500 credit . Because B acquired B 's interest in the residence from Ain part by gift , B 's basis in the residence is determined under § 1015 by reference to A 's basis in the residence . Therefore , B did not purchase an interest in the residence within the meaning of § 36 ( c ) ( 3 ) , and no portion of the credit may be allocated to B because B is not eligible to claim any portion of the credit . Example 4 . A and B each contributes $ 50,000 towards the $ 100,000 purchase price of a residence and owns a one-half interest in the residence as tenants in common . The allowable credit is not $ 10,000 ( 10 percent of the purchase price ) but is limited to $ 7,500 . However , B is not a first-time homebuyer within the meaning of § 36 ( c ) ( 1 ) . Therefore , no portion of the credit may be allocated to B because B is not eligible to claim any portion of the credit . A may claim the entire allowable $ 7,500 credit . Example 5 . A contributes $ 75,000 and B contributes $ 25,000 towards the $ 100,000 purchase price of a residence , and each owns a one-half interest in the residence as tenants in common . The allowable credit is not $ 10,000 ( 10 percent of the purchase price ) but is limited to $ 7,500 . A 's MAGI is $ 100,000 and B 's MAGI is $ 60,000 . Because A 's MAGI exceeds the $ 95,000 MAGI cap , any portion of the credit allocated to A would be reduced to $ 0 . A and B may allocate the entire allowable $ 7,500 credit to B because B 's MAGI is less tha
You should call Citi and ask them if they even reported you to the agencies . Agencies wo n't create a report if no-one put anything on it . Once the data starts accumulating , it will take several months till the agencies will score you ( that 's what the " 6-months rule " refers to ) .
You understood it pretty right . Every fiscal year ( which runs from April 6 year Y to April 5 year Y +1 ) , you can deposit a total GBP15k ( this number is subject to an annual increase by HMRC ) into your ISAs . You can open 2 new ISA every year but the amount deposited to those ISAs shall not excess GBP15k in total . From the 2016/17 tax year some ISAs now permit you to replace any funds you have withdrawn , without using up your allowance . It used to be that if you deposited GBP15K and then withdrew GBP5K , you could not pay in to that ISA again within that tax year as you had already used your full allowance . Under new Flexible ISA rules this would be allowed providing you replace the funds in the same ISA account and within the same tax year ( strongly recommend that you check the small prints related to your account to make sure this is he case ) . Any gains and losses on the investments held in the ISA accounts are for you to take . i.e. . If you make investment gains of GBP5K this does not reduces your allowance . You will still be able to deposit GBP15k ( or whatever HMRC increases that number to ) in the following year . You are also allowed to consolidate your ISAs . You can ask bank A to transfer the amount held into an ISA with bank held with bank B . This is usually done by filling a special form with the bank that will held the money post transactions . Again here be very careful . DO NOT withdraw the money to transfer it yourself as this would count against the GBP15K limit . Instead follow the procedures from the bank . Finally if you do n't use your allowance for a given year , you can not use it during the following year . i.e. if you do n't deposit the GBP15K this year , then you can not deposit GBP30K next year . NB : I used the word " deposit " . It does not matter to HMRC if the money get invested or not . If you are in a rush on April 4th , just make sure the money is wired into the ISA account by the 5th . No need to rush and make bad investment decision . You can invest it later . Hope it helps
Credit utilization , which is the amount of actual debt compared to the amount of your credit limits , is an instantaneous number . Your credit report does not show history on this , so the score is based solely on your current utilization . So in your example , if Person A and Person B have the same utilization in the current month , the utilization portion of the score will be the same , regardless of what the utilization was in previous months . Some of the score is definitely based on history . Your history of late payments , the length of your credit history , number of inquiries all have a history to them , and all age-out of your report ( and score ) after a certain length of time . Credit utilization , however , has no memory . Having said all of that , the exact FICO score formula is a proprietary secret , presumably to prevent people from gaming the system too much . Some aspects to the score have been revealed ; however , no definitive answer as to the algorithm behind the score can ever be had . But because the credit report does not show a history for credit utilization , the score can not take this history into account .
You should initial for any alteration made to the check . <URL> of the Uniform Commercial Code , which deals with altered checks , specifies a wide array of actions that constitute an altered check , so you want to make sure that you 've initialed for any change you make to the check that would constitute an " altered check " without such authorization . ( a ) " Alteration " means ( i ) an unauthorized change in an instrument that purports to modify in any respect the obligation of a party , or ( ii ) an unauthorized addition of words or numbers or other change to an incomplete instrument relating to the obligation of a party . If you need to change the amount , however , you 're probably better off shredding the check . Remember that it 's very easy for someone to commit fraud if they <URL> . If you do n't have access to a shredder , see Victor 's <URL> for an easy way to securely shred the check .
If you have good credit , you already know the rate -- the bank has it posted in the window . If you do n't have good credit , tell the loan officer your score . Do n't have them run your credit until you know that you 're interested in that bank . Running an application or prequal kicks off the sales process , which gets very annoying very quickly if you are dealing with multiple banks . A few pointers : Shop for TCO , not the best rate . Most folks stay in a home for 5-7 years , so you should increase the weighting of closing costs in your evaluation . Understand the costs associated with the loan in detail . This varies from state to state . Explore first time homebuyer programs offered by your state , county or city . I received $ 7,500 in grants and forgivable loans from NYS through their SONYMA program when I bought my first home . Do n't worry about your credit score and get into a tizzy over the effects of inquiries . Look for local banks and credit unions with lower ( not lowest ) advertised rates . Go in and talk to them , understand their policies and practices . These institutions usually offer the best value . You 're looking for a plain vanilla 30 year loan , so avoid mortgage brokers -- they are just another middleman who is tacking on a cost . Brokers are great when you need more exotic loans . Always , always stay away from mortgage brokers ( or inspectors or especially lawyers ) recommended by realtors .
No , that 's the whole point of the freeze . Your credit is locked and will not be pulled . They may not deny you , it 's up to them . But they will not be able to see your credit report .
No . The figures commonly cited as the US national debt <URL> state and local debt . State and local government <URL> part of the US national debt either purchased or issued to them through the <URL> program , but the St. Louis Fed figures do n't include debt issued by states and local governments , e.g. municipal bonds . The <URL> defines the public debt as as public debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury . The US Treasury does n't issue debt on behalf of states and local governments , so the public debt figures exclude this . If you want a detailed breakdown of what comprises the public debt , look no further than the <URL> , specifically Tables III-A , III-B , and III-C . Side note : The " Fed " is n't an acronym . It 's just an abbreviation for the Federal Reserve System . The St. Louis Fed 's FRED system , however , is an acronym ( for Federal Reserve Economic Data ) .
They have a relationship with Transunion . Soft . No record of the credit pull on your report . No It 's supplied by one of the three large scoring agencies . There is no one FICO score , each of the big three will differ a bit .
I would n't be too concerned , yet . You 're young . Many young people are living longer in the family home . See this Guardian article : <URL> . You 're in good company . Yet , there will come a time when you ought to get your own place , either for your own sanity or your parents ' sanity . You should be preparing for that and building up your savings . Since you 've got an income , you should -- if you 're not already -- put away some of that money regularly . Every time you get paid , make a point of depositing a portion of your income into a savings or investment account . Look up the popular strategy called <URL> . Since you still live at home , it 's possible you 're a little more loose with spending money than you should be -- at least , I 've found that to be the case with some friends who lived at home as young adults . So , perhaps pretend you 're on your own . What would your rent be if you had to find a place of your own ? If , say , # 600 instead of the # 200 you 're currently paying , then you should reduce your spending to the point where you can save at least # 400 per month . Follow a budget . With respect to your car , it 's great you recognize your mistake . We 're human and we can learn from our mistakes . Plan to make it your one and only car mistake . I made one too . With respect to your credit card debt , it 's not an insurmountable amount . Focus on getting rid of that debt soon and then focus on staying out of debt . The effective way to use credit cards is to never carry a balance -- i.e. pay it off in full each month . If you ca n't do that , you 're likely overspending . Also , look at what pensions your employer might offer . If they offer matching contributions , contribute at least as much to maximize the tax free extra pay this equates to . If you have access to a defined benefit plan , join it as soon as you are eligible . Last , I think it 's important to recognize that at age 23 you 're just starting out . Much of your career income earning potential is ahead of you . Strive to be the best at what you do , get promotions , and increase your income . Meanwhile , continue to save a good portion of what you earn . With discipline , you 'll get where you want to be .
As long as you live in the house ( its your primary residence ) , you must pay $ 500 a year , no skipping . Once you sell , or rent out - you must repay in full the remaining amount . <URL> .
Your freelance income will not qualify you for the work-from-home deductions , for that you would need a T2200 form signed by your employer . But , you are allowed to be self employed as a sole-proprietorship while still being an employee of another company . If you take that route , you 'll be able to write-off even more expenses than those you linked to . Things like a portion of your internet bill can be claimed , for example . But note that these deductions would only apply to offset the self-employment income , so if you 're not earning very much from the freelance work , it might not be worth all the hassle . Filing taxes when self-employed is definitely more complicated , and many people will get professional tax preparation help - at least for the first time .
Yes , you should absolutely bother . Get a Roth IRA opened up soon and contribute the max you can per paycheck . $ 96 weekly , $ 192 bi-weekly or $ 416 per month . You probably should n't fret about the benefits of your IRA for a year . Instead , consider the benefits of feeding it for your entire working life . Other issues to consider Do you have any debt ? Pay them off . Do you have an emergency fund ? Try to make one . Fund that IRA
It would n't hurt . Even if you have n't had any credit or loan activity , someone may have gotten a card or a loan under your name : identity theft . That gives you the opportunity to clear things up before you apply the first time . Granted , it may be a long shot , but as littleadv said : " Why not ? "
The Expedited Funds Availability Act is your source of information . I 'm generally reluctant to use Wikipedia as a resource , but they do have a handy table of holds and availability : <URL> If you want it from the horse 's mouth , see section 603 of the Expedited Funds Availability Act : <URL> With regards your second question , it 's final once cleared unless there is " fraud " involved . It looks - although I ca n't find an authoritative source - like banks can dishonour checks several years after deposit when fraud is involved . If I can find a source I 'll edit this post .
Can I include any of these in the property " basis " when figuring capital gains ? Some . my closing costs ( broker fees , title company fees ) etc Closing costs that can not be expensed are added to the basis . closing costs amount paid to buyer This is essentially a discount on price , so yes - it is added to the basis . apportioned amount for year 's county taxes , month 's HOA fees etc These can not be added to the basis since these are expenses . This are not part of the property acquiring/sale costs , but part of the property maintenance/ownership costs . Since it is a vacation home - you can not deduct them ( although you may be able to deduct the county taxes on your Schedule A , if you qualify ) . Also , can I include repairs the buyer asked for as part of the contract ( new Water Heater , new electrical outlets ) ? These are also expenses . You may want to ask a professional about the new water heater , but I would argue that replacing a broken heater is not an improvement and as such is an expense . So no , not deductible at all for vacation homes ( could be for rentals ) , and you can not add them to the basis . IANAL and IANATA ( I 'm Not A Tax Adviser ) . Please consult with a EA/CPA licensed in your State to confirm .
end question
start question
In a competitive market , why is movie theater popcorn expensive ?
One explanation is that movie patrons are considering their total willingness to pay for the movie experience so that if the ticket price plus the market price of popcorn is less than their willingness to pay ( WTP ) , the theater has an opportunity to extract more consumer surplus by charging higher than market prices for the popcorn ( that is , <URL> ) . There is a working paper on the subject by <URL> , the abstract of which reads : Prices for goods such as blades for razors , ink for printers and concessions at movies are often set well above cost . Theory has shown that this could yield a profitable price discrimination strategy often termed " metering . " The idea is that a customer 's intensity of demand for aftermarket goods ( e.g. the concessions ) provides a meter of how much the customer is willing to pay for the primary good ( e.g. admission ) . If this correlation in tastes for the two goods is positive , a high price on the aftermarket good allows firms to extract a greater total price ( admissions plus concessions ) from higher type customers . This paper develops a simple aggregate model of discrete-continuous demand to motivate how this correlation can be tested using simple regression techniques and readily available firm data . Model simulations illustrate that the regressions can be used to predict whether aftermarket prices should be above , below or equal to their marginal cost . We then apply the approach to box-office and concession data from a chain of Spanish theaters and find that high priced concessions do extract more surplus from customers with a greater willingness to pay for the admission ticket . <URL> make a similar argument in a JPE article . They essentially argue that purchases of things like movie tickets are made by groups ; once individuals are constrained by the group 's choice , the firm has additional market power : We present models in which price discrimination in the context of a two-part price can occur in some competitive markets . Purchases take place in groups , which choose which firms to patronize . While firms are perfectly competitive with respect to groups , they have some market power over individual consumers , who are constrained by their groups ' choices . We find that firms will charge an entry fee that is below marginal cost , and the second part of the price is marked up above marginal cost . The markup not only is positive but increases with the quality of the product . The quote you are looking for is similar , and again attributes the discrepancy to price discrimination . From the Armchair Economist ( p. 159 ) : The purpose of expensive popcorn is not to extract a lot of money from customers . That purpose would be better served by cheap popcorn and expensive movie tickets . Instead , the purpose of expensive popcorn is to extract different sums from different customers . Popcorn lovers , who have more fun at the movies , pay more for their additional pleasure . That is , some people like popcorn more than others . The latter idea is that the movie experience for popcorn lovers is worth more than the sum of its parts : that a movie ticket + popcorn is worth more than either of them separately for some people .
Coins are assets because its the actual money . Notes are liabilities because the Federal Reserve is obligated to pay money on these notes . Basically a Federal Reserve $ 1 note in your pocket is an " I OWE YOU " from the Federal Reserve , not money . While a <URL> is not a " I OWE YOU " but the actual $ 1 worth of currency . Coins are minted by the US Government , the only authority to mint coins and create physical currency in the US . Federal Reserve does n't mint coins , and does n't create physical currency in the strict sense . It only prints its own obligations that are accepted as legal tender on par with coins . Printing more of the obligations does n't create more money , as opposed to what many people are thinking and saying . It only creates more liability for the Federal Reserve . The Fed covers this liabilities with the US Treasury bonds , which it can use to cover its debts , and thus the Fed notes are covered by the US government indirectly . Coins are no longer made of precious metals since the 1960 's . Last circulating coin made of silver was the <URL> . All the rest of the denominations stopped being made of silver after 1964 . Since then precious metals are only used for collectibles and bulions .
Shares are partial ownership of the company . A company can issue ( not create ) more of the shares it owns at any time , to anyone , at any price -- subject to antitrust and similar regulations . If they wanted to , for example , flat-out give 10 % of their retained interest to charity , they could do so . It should n't substantially affect the stock 's trading for others unless there 's a completely irrational demand for shares .
Another factor to consider , beyond the fact that growth and volatility go together , is that the times when many people will need to liquidate their investments will correlate with the times that many other people need to liquidate their investments , and such correlation will push down the immediate value of those investments . While certificates of deposit have penalties for early withdrawal , one can establish up front what the worst-case penalty would be for cashing it in at the most inopportune time . By contrast , stocks offer no such assurance . Stocks sometimes have weird downward spikes that may be short-lived , but if life circumstances force one to liquidate stocks during such a downward spike the " penalty " can be much larger than on a CD .
You 're missing the concept of systemic risk , which is the risk of the entire market or an entire asset class . Diversification is about achieving a balance between risk and return that 's appropriate for you . Your investment in Vanguard 's fund , although diversified between many public companies , is still restricted to one asset class in one country . Yes , you lower your risk by investing in all of these companies , but you do n't erase it entirely . Clearly , there is still risk , despite your diversification . You may decide that you want other investments or a different asset allocation that reduce the overall risk of your portfolio . Over the long run , you may earn a high level of return , but never forget that there is still risk involved . bonds seem pretty worthless , at least until I retire According to your profile , you 're about my age . Our cohort will probably begin retiring sometime around 2050 or later , and no one knows what the bond market will look like over the next 40 years . We may have forecasts for the next few years , but not for almost four decades . Writing off an entire asset class for almost four decades does n't seem like a good idea . Also , bonds are like equity , and all other asset classes , in that there are different levels of risk within the asset class too . When calculating the overall risk/return profile of my portfolio , I certainly do n't consider Treasuries as the same risk level as corporate bonds or high-yield ( or junk ) bonds from abroad . Depending on your risk preferences , you may find that an asset allocation that includes US and/or international bonds/fixed-income , international equities , real-estate , and cash ( to make rebalancing your asset allocation easier ) reduces your risk to levels you 're willing to tolerate , while still allowing you to achieve returns during periods where one asset class , e.g. equities , is losing value or performing below your expectations .
1 ) People are n't always going to be able to do their occupation , or their desired hobby . 2 ) Government assistance , or whatever you want to call it , is available at a certain age . Some people look forward to this and plan to rely on it , but it is n't really sufficient for living off of and keeping the standard of living you will be used to . Therefore , such situations require you to plan using a variety of other institutions to help you in that time . Finally , more is more : if your retirement funds exceed what you need , you can leave something for your family to help them start at a more stable financial place after you are gone .
If you want your order to go through no matter what then you should be using market orders rather than limit orders . With limit orders you may get the price you are after or better but you are not guaranteed to get your order transacted . With a market order you are guaranteed to get you order transacted but may get a price inferior to what you were after . Most times this should only be a few cents but can get much larger in a fast moving or less liquid market . You should incorporate this slippage into your trading plan . Maybe a better option for you , if you are looking at + or - 0.5 % from the last price , would be to use conditional triggers ( stop buy and sell orders ) with your market orders . Once the market moves in your direction your conditional order will be triggered and the stock will be bought at current market price .
The satisfaction from gains packs less of an emotional impact than the fear of loss . It 's very difficult for many people to overcome this fear , so when prices begin to fall , many investors sell to minimize their potential loss . This causes a further drop , which can lead to more selling as other investors reach their emotional threshold for loss . This emotion-based selling keeps the market inefficient in the short term . If there are n't enough value investors waiting to scoop up the stock at the new discount , it can stay undervalued for a long time .
It 's an effective way to achieve market segmentation without having to ask your customers how rich they are , and you get the benefit of finding out additional information like their address , email etc. . The principle is similar to coupons on cereal boxes , anybody can get the rebate/discount if they go to the effort , but people who are cash rich/time poor are less likely to do so than those that really need the money . Joe Spolsky <URL> about this and various other pricing mechanisms a while back , I like to reference the article every few weeks . It 's well worth a read . Now , if you 're retired and living off of social security , $ 7 an hour sounds pretty good , so you do it , but if you 're a stock analyst at Merrill Lynch getting paid $ 12,000,000 a year to say nice things about piece-of-junk Internet companies , working for $ 7 an hour is a joke , and you 're not going to clip coupons . Heck , in one hour you could issue " buy " recommendations on ten piece-of-junk Internet companies ! So coupons are a way for consumer products companies to charge two different prices and effectively segment their market into two . Mail-in rebates are pretty much the same as coupons , with some other twists like the fact that they reveal your address , so you can be direct marketed to in the future .
In your transaction history , you may notice entries that show a money market purchase or redemption . These transactions appear whenever there is an automatic cash sweep into or out of your sweep vehicle . There is no fee to move money to or from your sweep account . For more information about how the sweep program works . View my account history . The cash sweep program is automatic . You may notice a credit or debit in your cash or margin balance immediately following a trade , deposit , or withdrawal . Upon settlement of the transaction , cash will sweep to or from your cash sweep vehicle , such as the Insured Deposit Account ( IDA ) , with no action required by you . Sales proceeds and deposits will sweep from your cash or margin balance into your sweep vehicle . When you make a purchase or withdrawal , funds will sweep from your sweep vehicle to the cash or margin balance . Money markets are dividend-earning investments and are often called sweep accounts . Uninvested cash in your account " sweeps " automatically into the money market . The same process occurs in reverse when you need funds from the money market for a purchase or withdrawal . There is no fee to move money into or out of the sweep account . Change cash sweep On this page , you can find information about your current cash sweep vehicle and see if others are available for your account . Click the " Change cash sweep vehicle " button to make changes . You can also call a Client Services representative at 800-669-3900 for further assistance . Change cash sweep
Here 's another way that I look at it : Say you and me were 50-50 partners in a small business . Suppose we wanted to expand our business but that needed money . Someone ( let 's call him Warren ) has the money we need &amp; hence in return for the money we offer Warren an equal stake in the business . i.e. All three of us own 33 % stake now . For both you and me our stake reduced from 50 % that it was before Warren 's entry to only 33 % now . While that reduction in our share may seem at first sight a bad deal for us , we both agreed to give Warren his share consciously not out of altruism but because it made business sense to helps us expand . Ergo , what matters is not just your share of the pie but the size of the pie itself ! And hence dilution of stake can make sense under certain circumstances . Two small points : ( a ) This does n't in any way show the dilution must make sense . Only that it can sometimes make sense ( b ) Of course , in the case of a large corporation they do not need your personal approval for the dilution . But hey , neither do they ask you when they buy a new plant or start a new product .
<URL> <URL> , the DIV ( % ) is , as you say , 165 % . However , the dividend yield is 3.73 % at the time of writing . As the Investopedia page referenced above says : The payout ratio is calculated as follows : Annual Dividends per Share / Earnings per Share . which means that the dividends being paid out are more than the earnings of the company : In extreme cases , dividend payout ratios exceed 100 % , meaning more dividends were paid out than there were profits that year . Significantly high ratios are unsustainable . <URL>
My knee-jerk reaction was " no , they are not worth it " , but I took a little time to look up what some of the trusted names in consumer electronics reviews had to say about extended warranties/service contracts . A <URL> writer said that your decision should consider the price of the service contract relative to the price of the item you 're buying , as well as the amount of hassle you 're willing to endure , should something go wrong . <URL> believes that the warranties that come with your products are almost always enough , and they say that electronics and appliances are so well-built nowadays , the likelihood of you needing extra service before you upgrade are slim-to-none . And the folks over at <URL> offer the same maybe-yes-maybe-no advice as the cnet guys : depends on your appetite for risk and the options available to you . So I would suggest that the answer be " no " most of the time , but consider it anyway .
Any time a large order it placed for Buy , the sell side starts increasing as the demand of Buy has gone up . [ Vice Versa is also true ] . Once this orders gets fulfilled , the demand drops and hence the Sell price should also lower . Depending on how much was the demand / supply without your order , the price fluctuation would vary . For examply if before your order , for this particular share the normal volume is around 100 's of shares then you order would spike things up quite a bit . However if for other share the normal volume is around 100000 's then your order would not have much impact .
The U.S. requires money transfer services to be licensed under 31 USC 5330 in addition to any applicable laws at the state level . According to multiple sources online , including the thread referenced by MD-Tech 's answer , OkPay either can not or will not get a license , so they are out . I dug on this a bit more because I thought it was interesting , and OkPay has other issues with U.S. and other regulators related to its interaction with Bitcoins , which themselves are a hot potato for regulation right now and may explain the licensing problem . It seems to also be facing regulatory pressure in other countries , by the way , so it 's not strictly a problem they face in the U.S. Just for whatever reason , the problem is greater here . Some interesting summary points : With mounting pressure on online money exchanges from US regulators , payments processor OKPay has announced that it is suspending processing for all Bitcoin exchanges , including industry leader Mt. Gox . ... Earlier this month , the US Department of Homeland Security seized Mt. Gox 's account with mobile payment processor Dwolla , on allegations that the account was in violation of US Code 18 USC § 1960 by operating an " unlicensed money transmitting business . " Just where the Bitcoin market falls under US law is unclear , because the legality of Bitcoin transactions has yet to be tried in court and law enforcement has refused to comment on ongoing investigations , such as the Dwolla case . <URL> In March , the US Treasury said any firms dealing in the virtual currency would be considered " money services businesses " just like any other , which means they must hand over transaction information to the government and work to prevent money laundering . <URL> In the UK , it apparently has also had trouble with banking partners ( quoting a OkPay official regarding changing bank providers ) : The UK bank that we used before did not make a final decision on whether to handle transactions in favour of crypto-currencies or not . Therefore the compliance department of the bank asked us to restrict such transfers . This apparently allowed them to reverse a policy in the UK : OKPAY 's policy shift comes just months after it stipulated that GBP users check a box , verifying that their funds would not be spent on cryptocurrency , a feature that further incited users . <URL> I had n't heard of this company prior to your question , but having done some research , I tend to think that at least the part of this quote about language , attributed to a user , is true : OKPAY are quite paranoid about AML and another problem is that their support people seem to be very bad at English , so their replies are often hard to understand . Their support are also slow [ sic ] . However in my experience they are an honest company . I found at least one case where rumors that the entire company were going to shut down were traced back to a poorly translated message issued by the company . Again , I know only what I read just now about this company , but it looked like there were a few red flags - the problems with the US probably not being the most important . This type of service is probably part of the future , but I 'm not sure that I 'd send money through it now in its current state or organization and regulation .
<URL> suggests that two Fidelity funds hold preferred shares of Snapchat Inc. . Preferred shares hold more in common with bonds than with ordinary stock as they pay a fixed dividend , have lower liquidity , and do n't have voting rights . Because of this lower liquidity they are not usually offered for sale on the market . Whether these funds are allowed to hold such illiquid assets is more a question for their strategy document than the law ; it is completely legal for a company to hold a non-marketable interest in another , even if the company is privately held as Snapchat is . The strategy documents governing what the fund is permitted to hold , however , may restrict ownership either banning non-market holdings or restricting the percentage of assets held in illiquid instruments . Since IPO is very costly , funds like these who look to invest in new companies who have not been through IPO yet are a very good way of taking a diversified position in start-ups . Since they look to invest directly rather than through the market they are an attractive , low cost way for start-ups to generate funds to grow . The fund deals directly with the owners of the company to buy its shares . The markdown of the stock value reflects the accounting principle of marking to market ( MTM ) financial assets that do not have a trade price so as to reflect their fair value . This markdown implies that Fidelity believe that the total NPV of the company 's net assets is lower than they had previously calculated . This probably reflects a lack of revenue streams coming into the business in the case of Snapchat . edit : by the way , since there is no market for start-up " stocks " pre-IPO my heart sinks a little every time I read the title of this question . I 'm going to be sad all day now :( .
There 's a lot of hype about HFT . It involves computers doing things that people do n't really understand and making a bunch of rich guys a bunch of money , and there was a crisis and so we hate rich wall street guys this year , and so it 's a hot-button issue . Meh . There 's some reason for concern about the safety of the markets , but I think there 's also a lot more of people trying to sell you a newspaper . Remember that while HFT may mean there are a lot of trades , the buying and the selling add up to the same thing . Meanwhile , people who buy stock to hold on to it for significant periods of time will still affect the quantity of stock out there on the market , applying pressure to the price , buying and selling at the prices that they think the security is worth . As a result , it 's unlikely that high-frequency trading moves the stock price very far from the price that the rest of the market would determine for very long ; if it did , the lower-frequency traders could take advantage of it , buying if it 's too low and selling if it 's too high . How long do you plan to hold a stock ? If you 're trying to do day-trading , you might have some trouble ; these people are competing with you to do the same thing , and have significant resources at their disposal . If you 're holding onto your stock for years on end ( like you probably should be doing with most stock ) then a trivial premium or discount on the price probably is n't going to be a big deal for you .
Krebs on Security had an <URL> in late 2014 ( right as the US was starting to transition to chip-and-signature ) . A few initial details : US Point of Sale ( POS ) systems do generally support chip-and-pin . The issue is n't technology - that technology ( PINs ) has been in the US for years , allowing deibt cards to be used at POS systems . Adding the chip acceptance was the difficult technological step . If you 're European , you may have to enter a PIN at the register . Chip and Pin versus Chip and Signature versus Signature priority are chosen by the issuing bank . US banks have all chosen Chip and Signature priority over Chip and PIN . A few banks do allow you to set up a PIN in case you travel to Europe and need to use a machine that is uses offline authentication ( which likely will only accept a PIN ) . Now - as far as why , Krebs ' article notes a few reasons . First off , Chip and PIN does n't protect against a very common kind of fraud , nor a very expensive one . The only advantage a PIN gives you is the protection against physical theft . That does n't happen very often , and when it does happen it often is reported quickly ; so it 's not very expensive to the banks . Attrition ( people choosing to use a different card or no card at all ) is a risk when moving to a different technology , and the attrition from requiring PINs may well cost the banks more than the fraud from stolen cards . The PIN only addresses fraud when the card is lost or stolen , and in the U.S. market lost-and-stolen fraud is very small in comparison with counterfeit card fraud . Second , Chip and PIN does n't tend to protect against fraud for very long ; criminals adjust their methods , and it ends up being equivalent to pre-Chip and PIN . Also , as we looked at other geographies -- and our research has substantiated this -- as you see these geographies go chip-and-PIN , the lost-and-stolen fraud dips a little bit but then the criminals adjust . So in the UK , the lost-and-stolen fraud is now back above where was before the migration . Third , adding PINs gives thieves another avenue to steal money : ATMs . While many cards have PINs now that allow you to withdraw money , most people do n't use them - and so ca n't have their PINs stolen . Withdrawing money from an ATM can be a more significant loss for the bank . In addition , ATMs do n't generally use Chips right now in the US , meaning if the PIN can be stolen ( through social engineering , a hack , etc. ) it can be combined with magnetic stripe data to steal money from ATMs . Most card issuing banks and Visa do n't want PINs because the PINs can be stolen and used with the magnetic stripe data on the same cards ( that also have a chip card ) to withdraw cash from ATM machines . Banks eat the ATM fraud costs . This scenario has happened with the roll-out of chip cards with PIN -- in Europe and in Canada . Fourth , issuers do n't want to change two things at once ; they 'd prefer to roll this out in steps . Some issues in Canada 's rollout may have been informative to this . " We do n't really think we can teach Americans to do two things at once . So we 're going to start with teaching them how to dip , and if we have another watershed event like the Target breach and consumers start clamoring for PIN , then we 'll adjust . " So the issuers I spoke with wanted to keep it simple : Go to market with plain vanilla , and once we get this working , we can evaluate adding some sprinkles and toppings later . And Canada 's issues : There was a Canadian issuer that -- when they did their migration to chip -- really botched their chip-and-PIN roll out , and consumers were forgetting their PIN at the point-of-sale . That issuer saw a significant dip in transaction volume as a result . One of the missteps this issuer made was that they sent their PIN mailers out too soon before you could actually do PIN transactions at the point of sale , and consumers forgot . Also , at the time they sent out the cards , [ the bank ] did n't have the capability at ATMs or IVRs ( automated , phone-based customer service systems ) for consumers to reset their PINs to something they could remember . So there are many reasons - largely reasonable ones , at least from the merchants ' point of view - that we have n't moved to Chip and PIN in the US yet . For all of the insulting remarks about Americans not being able to remember PINs ( not true , we remember debit PINs fine ) , that is really quite a small part of it . One of the analysts mentioned that we may eventually move to get away from the magnetic stripe once Chip and Signature is fully accepted ; that would be the most helpful thing in terms of credit card security . Once mag stripe goes away , chip-and-PIN will be a very strong solution . The estimates are now that by the end of 2015 , 50 percent of the cards and terminals will be chip-enabled , but it 's going to be several years before we get closer to full compliance . So , we 're probably looking at about 2018 before we can start making plans to get rid of the mag
The key difference I 've found between a stock split and a stock dividend -- of the exact same stock and class , as opposed to a spin-off -- seems to be from the company 's own accounting perspective . There does n't appear to be any actual transfer of value to the shareholder with either kind of transaction ; i.e. in theory , each transaction would be immaterial to the value of your holdings . With respect to the company 's accounting , a stock split affects the par value of the shares , whereas a stock dividend reduces the retained earnings account in order to increase paid-in or contributed capital . I found a good online source which explains the history behind this accounting difference : <URL> . Small quote : [ ... ] Besides being based on fallacious reasoning , accounting for stock dividends by artificially reclassifying " earned " capital as " invested " capital conflicts with the reporting objective of reporting shareholders ' equity by source . Despite these limitations , this outdated accounting standard still applies . REASONS FOR STOCK DIVIDENDS . Since neither the corporation nor its shareholders apparently benefits from stock dividends , why do companies declare them ? 23 Occasionally , a company tries to give shareholders the illusion that they are receiving a real dividend . Another reason is merely to enable the corporation to take advantage of the accepted accounting practice of capitalizing retained earnings . Specifically , a company might wish to reduce an existing balance in retained earnings -- otherwise available for cash dividends -- so it can reinvest the earned assets represented by that balance without carrying a large balance in retained earnings . [ ... ] There 's a lot more on that page , before and after , worth reading . From another book : <URL> . Small quote : 5.6.2 . Stock dividends The distribution of dividends in the form of stock or " bonus " shares to existing shareholders typically involves a transfer for corporate law purposes of retained earnings into stated capital . It can been [ sic ] viewed as a deemed distribution of a cash dividend to the shareholders followed by a corresponding contribution to capital or as solely as an event at the corporate level which has no effect on the shareholders whose economic interest in the corporation is unchanged by the receipt of additional shares . The systems have taken varied approaches to the stock dividend problem . The treatment is in part a function of the rules dealing with distributions of stated capital . [ emphases above are mine ] [ ... continues w/descriptions of different countries ' tax treatments of the kinds of stock dividends . Includes U.S. , Sweden , Japan , Netherlands , Canada , Australia , U.K. , France , Germany . ... ] As far as why a corporation might want to capitalize earnings and reduce the equity otherwise available for dividends , I can only imagine that , ignoring taxes for a moment , that it may have something to do with capital ratios that need to be maintained for financing or regulatory purposes ? Yet , I remain curious . If I discover more on this then I 'll update my answer . Additional resources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Do developing country equities have a higher return and/or lower risk than emerging market equities ? Generally in finance you get payed more for taking risk . Riskier stocks over the long run return more than less risky bonds , for instance . Developing market equity is expected to give less return over the long run as it is generally less risky than emerging market equity . One way to see that is the amount you pay for <URL> . when measured in the emerging market 's currency ? This makes this question interesting . Risky emerging currencies like the rupee tend to devalue over time against less risky currencies euro/dollars/yen like where most international investment ends up , but the results are rather wild . Think how badly Brazil has done recently and how relatively well the rupee has been doing . This <URL> of foreign stocks from the point of view of a emerging market investor on average but has really wild variations . Do you have data for this over a long timeframe ( decades ) , ideally for multiple countries ? Not really , unfortunately . Good data for emerging markets is a fairly new phenomenon and even where it does exist decades ago it would have been very hard to invest like we can now so it likely is not comparable . Does foreign equity pay more or less when measured in rupees ( or other emerging market currency ) ? Probably less on average ( theoretically and empirically ) all things included though the evidence is not strong , but there is a massive amount of risk in a portfolio that is 85 % in a single emerging market currency . Think about if you were a Brazilian and needed to retire now and 85 % of your portfolio was in the Real . International goods like gas would be really expensive and your local currency portfolio would seem paltry right now . If you want to bet on emerging markets in the long run I would suggest that you at least spread the risk over many emerging markets and add a good chunk developed to the mix . As for investing goals , it 's just to maximize my return in INR , or maximize my risk-adjusted return . That is up to you , but the goal I generally recommend is making sure you are comfortable in retirement . This usually involves looking for returns are high in the long run , but not having a ton of risk in a single currency or a single market . There are reasons to believe a little bias toward your homeland is good as fees tend to be lower on local investments and local investments tend to track closer to your retirement costs , but too much can be very dangerous even for countries with stronger currencies , say Greece .
end question
start question
When would one actually want to use a market order instead of a limit order ?
If you have $ 10000 and wish to buy 1000 shares of a $ 10 stock , you risk borrowing on margin if you go over a bit . For some people , that 's a non-issue . Some folk with an account worth say , $ 250K do n't mind going over now and then or even let the margin account run $ 100K on a regular basis . But your question is about market orders . A limit order above the market price will fast-fill at the market anyway . When I buy a stock , it 's longer term usually . A dime on a $ 30 share price wo n't affect my buy decision , so market is ok for me .
A large chunk of your FICO is based on the % of utilization . Being at 99 % is not much different from being at 101 % , although I 'm seeing references to an immediate/specific penalty for going over 100 % ( I 've seen 5 point-deductions mentioned a few times , and also 29 point hits , but none of them from official sources of info ) . The bottom line is that you were doing yourself harm as you got closer to 100 % of the limit anyway . And yes , the further over you go , the worse your utilisation % is , the bigger the hit to your score . In general these are quickly remedied issues . If you get it back under control you should be able to get back on track quickly .
For equities , buy direct from the transfer agent . You have to buy one full share at a minimum but after that dividend reinvestment is free . There are others like share builder and foliofn that let you buy fractional shares . As the other poster said their roster is limited so you can not buy every ETF out there . With your example of not wanting to spend $ 200 I agree with the others that you should invest in a mutual fund . Vanguard will have every index fund you need and can invest as little as $ 50 , as long as you sign up for a systematic investment draft from your bank . Plus vanguard typically has the lowest fees in the industry . The most important thing is to start investing as soon as possible and as regular as possible . " Pay yourself first "
While Victor 's answer might be correct for the broker 's he listed , you should know that the exchanges will usally define exactly ( on a per-asset , sometimes per-instrument base ) how marketable limit orders ( that 's what they 're called ) are treated . I would claim that in most ( all ? ) dealer markets the sell order would be filled at $ 1.00 ( provided the quantities suffice ) , because it was marketable upon entry , see : CME : <URL> NASDAQ Equities : Rule 4751 ( f ) ( 3 ) ( <URL> )
I 'm suspicious of a universal life policy being cheaper than an equivalent term life policy . This may be true for a single vendor with odd pricing , but not for the industry as a whole . Basically , Universal Life = Term Life + something else That something else , whether it is savings , investment , extra perks , etc. costs something and therefore must be more expensive . Is the insurance portion of the universal life policy a fixed rate ? Or are you paying less now and more later ( just for the insurance portion ) . Have you gotten term quotes from other insurance agents ? The easiest place I 've found to do that online is <URL> . Personal experience : I had a universal life policy . They itemized the insurance cost as $ 20 per month and my monthly payment was $ 100 . After 3 years , I ended the policy and got none of the cash value due to various fees totaling more than my contributions of $ 2880 .
Trying to " time the market " is usually a bad idea . People who do this every day for a living have a hard time doing that , and I 'm guessing you do n't have that kind of time and knowledge . So that leaves you with your first and third options , commonly called lump-sum and dollar cost averaging respectively . Which one to use depends on where your preferences lie on the risk/reward scpectrum . Dollar cost averaging ( DCA ) has lower risk and lower reward than lump sum investing . In my opinion , I do n't like it . DCA only works better than lump sum investing if the price drops . But if you think the price is going to drop , why are you buying the stock in the first place ? Example : Your uncle wins the lottery and gives you $ 50,000 . Do you buy $ 50,000 worth of Apple now , or do you buy $ 10,000 now and $ 10,000 a quarter for the next four quarters ? If the stock goes up , you will make more with lump-sum ( LS ) than you will with DCA . If the stock goes down , you will lose more with LS than you will with DCA . If the stock goes up then down , you will lose more with DCA than you will with LS . If the stock goes down then up , you will make more with DCA than you will with LS . So it 's a trade-off . But , like I said , the whole point of you buying the stock is that you think it 's going to go up , which is especially true with an index fund ! So why pick the strategy that performs worse in that scenario ?
Following up on this , here is what I did . First , I called my benefits provider . They had documentation of my election over the phone , which then allowed them to retroactively fix the problem . Had they not had this documentation , I would have been out of luck . Second , the next step for " fixing " occurred when I received my W-2 for this position . This W-2 mistakenly showed the amount for my medical FSA in box-10 of my W-2 as the same dependent care FSA . This requires calling/emailing my benefits and payroll department to get an updated W-2 ...
I 'm not sure you can get a refund . In the US , companies are n't required by law to offer one . You could contact GoDaddy 's customer service and ask them , but I would guess that they 'll agree with the contents of the legal agreement . Unless there is another part of the agreement that does allow you to get a refund ( there might be , I have n't read it ) , you 're probably out of luck . And yes , this is legitimate . It 's a legal agreement , and by checking the box ( if there was one ) , going through with the purchase , etc. you indicated that you read and agreed to the legal agreement , and therefore accepted that you would n't be offered a refund . GoDaddy is n't responsible if someone purchases something from them without reading the agreement before agreeing to it . Furthermore , the legal agreement is n't the only place where the refund policy is stated . GoDaddy 's page , <URL> says : Your purchase is non-refundable and non-transferable . This is a help page , not something you explicitly agree to ( and therefore not legally binding ) , but as a lesson for the future , always read the description of what you 're purchasing before you purchase it . For general reference : if for some reason you were the victim of fraud , e.g. a company offered a refund in their legal agreement but refused to give it you , and you paid with a credit card , you have more options because you could work with your credit card company to potentially get your money back . In this case , however , the agreement was clear , so this is n't an option .
Selling short in brokerage accounts does n't work that way for the regular client . Ask your broker what it will cost you to short the treasury if you remove the cash you think you 'll get . You will probably wind up showing money borrowed and charged margin instead of the credit you expect . If your proposal worked , anyone can short in their brokerage accounts and pay zero interest to borrow short term . It 's not this easy .
I found the answer to what you 're looking for in the <URL> . Refer specifically to the question <URL> . Quote : We take the extra step to confirm your card so that we can verify that the card is valid and that you are the card owner . To confirm your card , we 'll charge $ 1.95 to it . After the card is confirmed , we 'll refund the amount to your PayPal balance . Here are amounts for cards in other countries : $ 2.45 CAD $ 1.50 EUR 1.00 GBP 200 JPY 2.00 AUD 3.00 NZD 3.00 CHF 15.00 HKD 15.00 SEK 12.50 DKK 6.50 PLN 15.00 NOK 400.00 HUF 50.00 CZK 4.00 BRL 10.00 MYR 20.00 MXN 8.00 ILS 100.00 PHP 70.00 TWD 70.00 THB If we ca n't determine or do n't support your card 's currency , we charge $ 1.95 USD to the card . ( Refer directly to PayPal for potentially more up-to-date information . )
You need to use one of each , so a single order would n't cover this : The stop-loss order could be placed to handle triggering a sell market order if the stock trades at $ 95 or lower . If you want , you could use a stop-limit order if you have an exit price in mind should the stock price drop to $ 95 though that requires setting a price for the stop to execute and then another price for the sell order to execute . The limit sell order could be placed to handle triggering a sell if the stock rises above $ 105 . On the bright side , once either is done the other could be canceled as it is n't applicable anymore .
From a user perspective , my standpoint is to use the cheapest available to me , that the receiver will find acceptable .
If your employer matches a percentage of your contributions , then you should try to max out your plan . Once you have completed maxing out your 401k , you may want to open up an IRA for several reasons : will your 401k be enough to sustain your lifestyle in retirement ? Your IRA allows you to save even more for retirement . you can invest in all sorts of stuff through your IRA that might not be available in your plan . you can withdraw the principal from your IRA , usually after five years . This serves as another form of savings . IRAs have some asset protection in the event of bankruptcy . A normal savings or investment account usually does not offer such protection .
A trailing stop will sell X shares at some percentage below the current market price . Putting in this order with a 10 % trailing stop when the stock price is $ 50 will sell the stock when it hits $ 45 . It 's a market order at that point ( see below ) . A stop order will sell the stock when it reaches a certain price . The stop order becomes a market order when the magic price is hit . This means that you may not sell it at or below your price when the order is executed . But the stock will sell faster because the trader must execute . A stop limit order is the same as a stop order , except the stock wo n't be sold if it ca n't be gotten for the price . As a result , the sell may not be executed . More information <URL> .
The reason I do n't know of any banks who would offer this to you ( even if you held the investment account with their bank ) is that there is no upside to the bank . It is a good idea for you , but what would they have to gain from this arrangement ? The reason banks require a down payment is underwriting quality . If you can afford a significant down payment , they know that there is a significantly lower chance that you will default . However , if you were to provide an investment account as collateral , you would receive all the upside , and any downside would reduce their collateral as a percent of the amount loaned . This sort of idea could potentially work along the lines of a margin call ( ie you have to provide additional capital if your asset value drops ) , but this would have the effective of leveraging the bank 's risk , when their objective is to lower their risk through requiring a down payment . I do n't see a reason why the bank would take on the risk that you would need to provide additional capital down the road with no upside for them . Additionally , many banks have backed away from the kinds of zero-down-payment and negative-amortization-ARM loans that got them ( or the people they sold them to ) in trouble over the last few years in an effort to reduce how much risk they take on . I think that in theory , you 'd have to offer a lot more benefit to the bank , and that in practice it 's probably a non-starter right now .
If all the property is going up and down at the same rate , it 's probably a bit of a wash . However , there are markets ( e.g. the Front Range of Colorado , where I live ) , where property at different price levels and locations has performed very differently . For a place to live , I think it 's most useful to look at housing as a consumption decision , like buying a car , rather than an investment decision , like buying art ( since it is similarly illiquid ) . Consider what you need and want ( features , location ) , how important the " own vs rent " tradeoffs are to you ( including the risk of losing your equity ) , and what you can comfortably afford . Then do n't worry so much about price trends . This , it seems to me , is the lesson of the recent housing bust .
Your credit limit is a secret function of your score , income-to-debit ratio and the expected default rate , at the least , for your profile . This means the median credit limit changes based on each group of the above variables , and since we do n't know what your profile is , it 's not possible to guess a number . However , anything below $ 500 is a low credit limit as high risk profiles ( no/low income , low score ) seem to have that limit in my personal experience . If you are earning money and paying taxes on it , and you have a 600 + score , I guess a reasonable credit limit is $ 2500 , and anything below that is low .
Having another source of lower interest credit , i.e. be prepared , if you are able , to be willing to shut down your line with this bank . Short of this , discussing your record of on time payments , current credit score , etc , may help .
Sure . Depending on how you configure your order , it will either be fulfilled partially or wait until it can be fulfilled . You can set a time limit on your order ( usually its either 1 day or 60 days , but may vary between brokerages ) , and allow or disallow partial fulfilment .
You only have to own it for a day ( or rather for some amount of time before the close of trading the day before the ex-dividend date ) . This is governed by exchange rules based on the date of record and payable date set by the company . You might want to look at <URL> or <URL> for more details . It should be difficult to make money from changes due to the dividend distribution since it is well known and expected . The exchanges have established rules for handling the various details that can come up , and traders account for the change where appropriate ( as in option pricing ) . Also , note that the favorable U.S. tax treatment of dividends requires a 60-day ownership period for the stock .
end question
start question
What are the tax implications of selling an investment property in india ?
do i need to pay any tax on my profit of 15 lakh . Yes you need to pay capital gains tax . This transaction is not exempt as the gains arise in India and hence subject to tax even for NRI . If the property is held for less than 3 years , it would be short term gain and taxed according to your income tax slab . If held for more than 3 years , it would be long term gains at 10 % without indexation or 20 % with indexation . would i be able to transfer funds from my NRO to NRE account ? No . NRE Accounts credits are only on certain permissible transactions . Funds in general can not be transferred from NRO to NRE . If you had purchased the house by debiting your NRE / FCNR account , or taken a home loan and repaid this from NRE / FCNR account [ essentially from foreign remittance ] you can reptriate the same amount back . i.e. in you case if you had debited NRE account for 35 lacs you can get back 35 lacs in FCY . The profits can also be repatriated under an overall limit of 1 million USD . So you need to get the funds back to UK and then send it back into your NRE account . Refer the <URL>
No two states have the same exact laws regarding community property . I would recommend asking a competent financial advisor in your area , as they would be more familiar with the local statutes .
Americans are snapping , like crazy . And not only Americans , I know a lot of people from out of country are snapping as well , similarly to your Australian friend . The market is crazy hot . I 'm not familiar with Cleveland , but I am familiar with Phoenix - the prices are up at least 20-30 % from what they were a couple of years ago , and the trend is not changing . However , these are not something " everyone " can buy . It is very hard to get these properties financed . I found it impossible ( as mentioned , I bought in Phoenix ) . That means you have to pay cash . Not everyone has tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash available for a real estate investment . For many Americans , 30-60K needed to buy a property in these markets is an amount they can not afford to invest , even if they have it at hand . Also , keep in mind that investing in rental property requires being able to support it - pay taxes and expenses even if it is not rented , pay to property managers , utility bills , gardeners and plumbers , insurance and property taxes - all these can amount to quite a lot . So its not just the initial investment . Many times " advertised " rents are not the actual rents paid . If he indeed has it rented at $ 900 - then its good . But if he was told " hey , buy it and you 'll be able to rent it out at $ 900 " - would n't count on that . I know many foreigners who fell in these traps . Do your market research and see what the costs are at these neighborhoods . Keep in mind , that these are distressed neighborhoods , with a lot of foreclosed houses and a lot of unemployment . It is likely that there are houses empty as people are moving out being out of job . It may be tough to find a renter , and the renters you find may not be able to pay the rent . But all that said - yes , those who can - are snapping .
There are no tax implications for converting currency . If you use currency conversions as part of investment , then there would be , but in your scenario there are none .
Usually backtests for ( long-term ) strategies are evaluated on a end-of-day basis where you only consider close prices . If your strategy performs well in these backtests , hopes are that if you use a <URL> order your performance will not diverge too much from the backtest . The fact that it wo n't diverge much is important if you keep backtesting the strategy along with the real trading to see regime changes or similar . If you used end-of-day prices for the backtests but some arbitrary intraday market order , you 'd have some difficulties to explain deviations between the two . What it is : MOC orders can be submitted during the day , but they wo n't be executed until shortly before the market ( or more precise the current session ) closes .
No issue . You are permitted to move like accounts ( i.e traditional to traditional or Roth to Roth ) directly with no tax issue . Problems can arise when taking possession of the funds in a 60 day rollover or when moving from traditional to Roth , the latter being a taxable event . A comment from @Dilip_Sarwate is an important one and should be part of my answer - Perhaps it is worthwhile to add that newly changed rules limit 60-day rollovers to one per year overall . It is no longer permissible to do a 60-day rollover from , say , one 's Fidelity IRA to one 's Vanguard IRA and also a 60-day rollover from one 's ScottTrade IRA to one 's Schwab IRA in quick succession ; the money received from ScottTrade would be treated as a distribution , and any money deposited into the Schwab IRA ( even if within the 60-day period ) would be regarded as a new contribution , not as a rollover , and thus be subject to excess contribution rules etc. .
<URL> When you change property you held for personal use to rental use ( for example , you rent your former home ) , the basis for depreciation will be the lesser of fair market value or adjusted basis on the date of conversion . Fair market value . This is the price at which the property would change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller , neither having to buy or sell , and both having reasonable knowledge of all the relevant facts . Sales of similar property , on or about the same date , may be helpful in figuring the fair market value of the property . Figuring the basis . The basis for depreciation is the lesser of : The fair market value of the property on the date you changed it to rental use , or Your adjusted basis on the date of the change -- that is , your original cost or other basis of the property , plus the cost of permanent additions or improvements since you acquired it , minus deductions for any casualty or theft losses claimed on earlier years ' income tax returns and other decreases to basis . For other increases and decreases to basis , see Adjusted Basis in chapter 2 . So my guess is that your $ 40,000 is what you have to use . I am not an accountant . You should seek professional advice to clarify what the IRS means .
What are the available infrastructure bonds The available bonds keep changing . This ca n't be answered as its a product recommendation . Ask your broker or Bank or watch the newspapers , you will know what is currently available . At times there maybe no bond available . and can one withdraw that amount at any moment or some lock-in period is there ? Yes generally a lock-in period of 3 years . How capital gain account is different from savings account ? A capital gains account is a Bank Account . The deposit in this only allowed upon submitting the documents verifying that the money is due to capital gains . Withdrawal is only permitted to buy another property , else tax has to be paid at withdrawal . Talk to your banker and he should be able to explain more details .
The Interest rate of 3 % and 7.5 % is for funds held in regular savings account that are denominated in Rupee . Moving these funds back to US will require compliance with Indian Foreign Exchange Act . If you are not intending to move funds back to US , then this would be good move . However you would still need to pay tax in US on the interest generated as personal tax in US requires one to pay tax on income world wide . As also pointed out by others , there is a risk of FX Conversion . The other option is to hold funds in NRE or USD denominated acounts where funds can be moved back to US without any hassel and are held in USD . However the interest rate on these accounts is similar to what one would get in US , slightly better at best . So you need to figure out if you need the funds back in US , then I guess keeping it in US would be a good move . However if you do not need the funds back in US , then moving it to India would make sense .
They are taxed , but you are allowed to deduct cost . So you only profit if you sell them for more than you paid . If you are truly worried about taxes , you might be better off donating them to Goodwill and writing off the donation
I have been doing this for years on Long Island , NY where property taxes are very high . Several local law firms specialize in filing appeals for homeowners . The usual fee is 1/2 of the first year 's property tax savings with no charge if the appeal is unsuccessful . I have not found any downside to this process . You could eliminate the fee by filing your own appeal , which is possible , but it is not a simple process .
Unfortunately , transportation to school , including tolls , is not a deductible educational expense . From the IRS 's <URL> : Expenses that Do Not Qualify Even if you pay the following expenses to enroll or attend the school , the following are not qualified education expenses : Room and board Insurance Medical expenses ( including student health fees ) Transportation Similar personal , living or family expenses
So My question is if I purchased the shares on 03-08-15 then will I get the dividend ? Yes if you purchase on 3-Aug , the shares will actually get credited to your account on 5-Aug and hence you will hold the shares on 6-Aug , the record date .
Well , you can just say that 1 dollar contributed = one share and pay out dividends based on number of shares . That makes it pretty easy to make things fair based . There are pros and cons with this pooling approach . Pros Much lower collective trading costs . If the five of you banded together that would be 5 times the brokers fees . Some investments require you to have a minimum investment ; having 5x the money will likely expand your investment horizon . More heads thinking about things will improve your expected returns . Division of labor means you can each specialize in parts of the market . You get to learn about investing , and build a set of buddies you can go to for advice and opinions . Cons 1000 is not a lot of money -- I dropped that much into an IRA when I was in grad school . Tax complications ; you can only contribute earned money into an IRA , and they 'll frown upon everyone dumping money into one person 's account . So you 're forgoing tax advantages . Liquidity fights . Everyone is going to have different ideas of when to pull money out . Even if you write it down on a prospectus that nobody can withdraw money for 3 years , someone is gon na need the money to make rent or get tired of losing money and demand a withdrawl . Opportunity costs . A number of college aged students carry credit card debt , which will cost more than an equal amount invested in the market will earn . I do n't recommend this , but it stands to reason you could find friends carrying CC debt and loan them money at a cheaper rate to pay off the high interest CC with .
The length of ownership matters - it 's capital gain . Because it is not primary residence , you do n't get the $ 250K capital gain exclusion ( more for married ) . By the way , for the matter of sale " primary residence " is a house you own and in which you lived 2 of the last 5 years prior to sale . So even if it is not your primary residence now , if it was recently - you can take the exclusion .
There are no clear guidelines . If you are selling as individual , then what ever profit you make gets added to your overall income as you pay tax accordingly . This is true for sole proprietor or partnership kind of firms . If you are registered as a Company , the profits are taxed as business income . There may be VAT and other taxes . Please consult a CA who can guide you in specifics as for eCommerce , there is no defined law and one has to interpret various other tax laws .
If all the property is going up and down at the same rate , it 's probably a bit of a wash . However , there are markets ( e.g. the Front Range of Colorado , where I live ) , where property at different price levels and locations has performed very differently . For a place to live , I think it 's most useful to look at housing as a consumption decision , like buying a car , rather than an investment decision , like buying art ( since it is similarly illiquid ) . Consider what you need and want ( features , location ) , how important the " own vs rent " tradeoffs are to you ( including the risk of losing your equity ) , and what you can comfortably afford . Then do n't worry so much about price trends . This , it seems to me , is the lesson of the recent housing bust .
If you invest inside an HSA , it is very similar to investing inside an IRA . Any distributions stay in the HSA . If you sell an investment , the proceeds stay in the HSA . The only way you get any money out of an HSA without penalty before age 65 is to pay for qualified medical expenses . If you still have money in there at age 65 , you can withdraw it without a qualified medical expense , but you have to pay tax on the distributions ( just like with a traditional IRA ) . So , an HSA gives you tax-free gains if you spend it on qualified medical expenses , and tax-deferred gains if you withdraw it after age 65 without a qualified medical expense . <URL> has more details .
It costs money for a mutual fund to accept your money . It does n't cost as much as it used to , but historically there has been , at a minimum , a modicum of record-keeping associated with it . As such , they will typically have a minimum amount of money they want you to add at a time . They do n't want to process 100 transfers of a nickel each ; that would be silly . So if you have a mutual fund with a " minimum initial investment " of $ 10,000 and a " minimum subsequent investment " of $ 100 , then that means that you can put in $ 10k to open it , and then deposit dollars in lots of 100 or more whenever you feel like it .
The obvious advantage is turning your biggest liability into an income-generating asset . The downside are : ( 1 ) , you have to find tenants ( postings , time to show the place , credit/background check , and etc ) ( 2 ) , you have to deal with tenants ( collection of rent , repairs of things that broke by itself , complaints from neighbors , termination , and etc ) ( 3 ) , you have to deal with the repairs In many ways , it 's no different from running another ( small ) business , so it all boils down to how much time you are willing to invest and how handy you are in doing reno 's and/or small repairs around the house . For profitability/ROI analysis , you want to assume collection of 11 months of rent per year ( i.e. assume tenant does n't renew after year , so you have the worst case scenario ) and factor in all the associated expense ( be honest ) . Renting out a second property is a bit tricky as you often have to deal with a large operating expense ( i.e. mortgage ) , and renting a basement apartment is not bad financially and you will have to get used to have " strangers " downstairs .
end question
start question
What happens to CPP/EI when you change employer ?
No matter what your job , the CPP and EI are paid centrally to the federal government , your new employer will continue to deduct under your same SIN number and report as such . What will not transfer as far as I know from one employer to the other is the amount paid so far this year for total deduction purposes . Therefore , at the end of the year , when you have two T4 forms , one from each job , you fill the total CPP and EI in the appropriate slots . If you have overpaid , compared to what you should have given your income , then it will be directly refunded ( or offset other taxes owing ) . There are no other taxes - not quite clear what you were asking in that third part .
If you can not get a satisfactory answer from the company , you can contact your local office of the <URL> . They can add pressure or give advice about how to overcome any remaining hurdles if the reason for delay is legitimate . I should probably also note that these accounts have significant reporting requirements , so it is possible that the delay is indeed a legitimate one .
When the bank fails - its not the bank that you need to negotiate with , its the entity that took over its assets ( including the outstanding loans ) . Usually , that would be the same entity that insured the deposits ( FDIC in the US , governments or similar agencies in the EU countries ) . This is basically a bankruptcy , and unless the regulator can find a buyer to take over the bank and assume all the responsibilities , the uninsured depositors become creditors and stand in line with all the rest of the bank creditors in the bankruptcy proceedings . Depending on the law , they may be preferred creditors ( front of the line ) , but creditors nonetheless . The process of distributing assets ( including the outstanding loans ) will be managed through the bankruptcy proceedings , and based on the decisions of the supervising court , the depositors may get some , all , or none of their uninsured deposits . This happened a lot in the US in 2008-2010 ( bank failures , that is ) , but most , if not all , the failed banks ended up being acquired and their responsibilities assumed . To the best of my knowledge , the depositors ( even the uninsured ones ) were not harmed , but I may be wrong on that .
The <URL> for divisor changes is based on splits and composition changes . Dividends are ignored by the index . Side note - this is why , in my opinion , that any discussion of the Dow 's change over a long term becomes meaningless . Ignoring even a 2 % per year dividend has a significant impact over many decades . The divisor can be found at <URL>
As someone who works for a company that deploys POS systems in Canada , I can tell you that your best bet would be to have a configuration option that lets the client decide what to do . If they have a business practice that would allow for a sale total to be $ 0.01 or $ 0.02 , they should first evaluate their business practice . If you 're building a POS system to deploy in Canada , I 'm sure you have access to resources ( potential clients ) who would already know how they would want to handle this . Ask them .
If you sell it before liquidation , you get the benefit of knowing what you 're getting . If you wait until liquidation , you 'll get NAV ( there 's no market price since it 's no longer trading ) . If it 's trading at a steep discount , you should , in theory , hold . Due the nature of ETFs , sustained discounts ( or premiums ) are highly suspect . If there was an arbitrage opportunity , market makers would buy the ETF and sell the underlying narrowing the discount . The fact that it exists could be evidence that the NAV is wrong . Keep in mind , published NAV is based on yesterday 's close , like a mutual fund . For ETFs , there 's iNAV or IIV , the Intraday Indicative Value . ETF market makers make their own pricing models and as a result , could steer the ETF away from the issuers published IIV . This is common with illiquid underlying symbols . I would say this depends entirely on the situation . If it 's a domestic equity fund , you should be able to get a fair enough market rate . If it 's a foreign bond fund , well good luck . For a passive investor , bid/ask spread of the ETF can give an idea of how accurate the market 's pricing is . Some ETFs have spreads of $ 0.01 but only trade a couple times per day . In this case , you could still expect a good price .
A 401k plan will ask you to name a beneficiary who will receive the funds if you do n't withdraw them all before death . Usually , a primary beneficiary and a secondary beneficiary is requested . If you do n't specify a beneficiary , your estate is the beneficiary by default . Note that the name supplied to the 401k plan is who will get the money , and you can not change this by bequeathing the money in your will . For example , if you neglected to change the beneficiary upon divorce , it is useless to say in your will that the money in the 401k plan goes to your new wife ; the 401k plan will give it to your ex-wife who still remains the beneficiary of your 401k Money in a 401k plan is what is called income with respect to a decedent ( IRD ) on which income tax is levied , and it is also is part of your estate and thus liable to be subject to estate tax . The latter is true even if the 401k plan assets are not mentioned anywhere in your will , and even if the assets got sent to your ex-wife which is not what you wanted to have happen . There are various estate tax exceptions for spouse beneficiaries ( no estate tax due now , but will be charged when the spouse passes away ) . With regard to income tax , the beneficiaries of a 401k plan ( similarly IRAs , 403b plans etc ) generally get to take the whole amount and pay the income tax themselves . Edit in response to littleadv 's comments : Each 401k plan is different , and some plans , especially the smaller ones , may prefer to distribute the 401k assets as a lump sum rather than allow the beneficiaries to withdraw the money over several years ( and pay income tax on the amount withdrawn each year ) . This is because there are far too many rules and regulations to trip over when making withdrawals over several years . The lump sum distribution can be transferred into a newly established Inherited IRA ( see the Nolo article linked to in @littleadv 's answer for some details and some pitfalls to avoid ) and the income tax is thus deferred until withdrawals occur . Spouse beneficiaries are entitled to more generous rules than non-spouse beneficiaries . If your heirs are otherwise well provided for and you are in a philanthropic mood ( or you do n't want to give 'em a dime , the ungrateful ... who never call , not even on Father 's Day ! ) , one way of avoiding a lot of tax is to make the beneficiary of your 401k be one or more of your favorite charities . In fact , if your testamentary inclination is to make some charitable bequests as part of your will , it is much more advantageous to give money from a tax-deferred account to the charity ( size of estate is reduced , no income tax paid by anyone on amount given ) , and bequeath assets in non-retirement accounts to one 's heirs ( bequests are not taxable income , and heirs get a step up in basis for assets that have appreciated ) rather than the other way around ( heirs pay income tax as they withdraw the money from tax-deferred account ) Estate planning is a complicated business , and you really should talk to a professional about such matters and not rely on advice from an Internet forum .
If you ca n't find anyone to lend you the shares , then you ca n't short . You can attempt to raise the interest rate at which you will borrow at , in order to entice others to lend you their shares . In practice , broadcasting this information is pretty convoluted . If there are n't any stocks for you to buy back , then you have to buy back at a higher price . As in , place a limit buy order higher and higher until someone decides to sell to you . This affects your profit . Regarding the public ledger : This functions different in different markets . United States stock markets have an evolving body of regulations to alleviate the exact concerns you detailed , but Canada 's or Dubai 's stock markets would have different provisions . You make the assumption that it is an efficient process , but it is not and it is indeed ripe for abuse . In US stocks , the public ledger has a 3 business day delay between showing change of ownership . Many times brokers and clearing firms and other market participants allow a customer to go short with fake shares , with the idea that they will find real shares within the 3 business day time period to cover the position . During the time period that there is no real shares hitting the market , this is called a " naked short " . The only legal system that attempts to deter this practice is the " fail to deliver " ( FTD ) list . If someone fails to deliver , that means there is a short position active with fake shares for which no real shares have been borrowed against . Too many FTD 's allow for a short selling restriction to be placed , meaning nobody else can be short , and existing short sellers may be forced to cover .
In my experience , any kind of equity you may be offered by the company is just a carrot . Your offer may be written in such a way that your potential ownership represents , say , 1 % of the company today . But if the company goes for a round of financing your ownership percentage can get diluted . If this happens a couple of times and the terms of financing are n't very favorable then your percentage can go from that 1 % down to 0.001 % , making the equity worthless . I 've known people who heard their company was being bought and thought they might get some kind of payoff . Come to find out the company had n't done all that well and there was n't anything to pay out after the main investors got some money back . ( The main investors took a loss . ) For obvious reasons , management was n't keeping the staff up to date about the fact that they were operating in the red and their options were worthless . Some people grumbled about lawyers and filing lawsuits , but at the end of the day , there was n't any money to be won . Keep this in mind . As to your question regarding what to look out for : What does the offer represent in terms of percentage of the company ? In a corporation , there may be multiple classes of shares . With an LLC , the sky is the limit as to what they 're going to offer you . Beyond just share classes , profit rights and voting/control rights can be divided up in any way the Membership Agreement states . Are they offering you Membership ? Will your shares/units have voting rights ? Are you even getting shares/units or is it just a promise to share profit/equity in case of a buyout ? Are there any provisions regarding dilution ? How big is the employee pool ? What is the vesting schedule ? What are your rights / obligations if you separate from the company ? Is there a difference between voluntary and involuntary separation ? If you exercise your offer before the company is bought , and you become a Member ... can you continue as a Member after leaving the company ? is your employment tied to Membership in any way ? can you sell your shares/units ? what are your rights/obligations as a Member ? Can you get a copy of the Membership Agreement ( or Bylaws ) ?
The biggest thing , given that you already claim your wife-to-be as a dependent , is that the tax tables you will use will change . If you work and your wife-to-be does not , then by switching from " single " to " married " you will be taxed at the lowest possible rate , in addition to still being able to claim your wife and son as dependents . For example , say your yearly taxable income is $ 50k . Filing " Single " for the 2011TY with no credits , you would owe $ 8,631 in taxes . Filing " Head of Household " ( as you should do as a single parent ) and all other things equal , you 'd owe $ 7,274 . Filing as " Married Filing Jointly " ( which is what you should do for a one-income household ) , you 'd only owe $ 6,654 . Something to be aware of : As of 2011 , there is very little " marriage penalty " for two roughly equal earners ( worst I can find is still within $ 10 compared to filing single , almost literally a rounding error ) , and thus there is a pretty large " marriage advantage " for disparate incomes ( including single-income households ) , as shown above . If the Bush-era tax cuts expire on those making less than $ 250k/yr and taxes return to 2001 levels , starting in the 2013TY you 'll end up paying about what you do now as a single earner ( so no " marriage advantage " ) , and in addition if your spouse worked and made about the same as you , you 'd see a hefty " marriage penalty " whether you filed jointly or separately . This is a big chunk of the looming " Taxmageddon " that Republicans are screaming about ( without doing much other than blaming Obama , when he ca n't even do anything without Congress making up its damn mind ) . Another one that would impact the Average Joe/Jane is the expiration of the current AMT threshold increase , meaning if your taxable income from the normal method of computation is over $ 48k , you will owe the AMT ( basically paying a flat 26 % on income without your standard deduction or personal exemptions ) . The last chunk is the payroll tax cut given to employers , which you do n't see on your paycheck per se but can definitely affect your ability to get and stay hired , as your employer will consider that into the cost of hiring you or keeping you . BTW , if you have been the primary wage earner for yourself , your wife and your son for a significant time ( years ) and have not been filing as HoH , I would be filling out amendments ( 1040X ) for every year in which you could have claimed HoH status ; as I showed above , the IRS could owe you a big chunk of change for every year you were HoH and did n't file that way . Other than that , other big financial changes are the combination of credit histories ; your credit history will reflect on your spouse and vice versa . Now , it 's possible to get around that in the first few years . My wife and I were able to buy a house based on my credit score alone by putting all the paperwork in my name , without listing my wife as " co-owner " . My wife , being my wife , still has legal joint ownership of it , but we did n't have to figure her history into a combined credit score ( the flip side being we did n't get to count her income , so our pre-approval amount was based on what I could afford to pay , which was in hindsight a very good thing as we ended up pregnant 4 months later and she no longer works ) . But , after a few years of combined financial transactions , most of that goes away ; you 'll be joint accountholders on most of your deposit/investment accounts and lines of credit , etc. . The last big one is that she , and not your son or your parents , will become your next of kin . Your son ( probably a minor ) is too young to make financial or legal decisions , but as of right now before you marry your girlfriend , your son will inherit your estate , and it will likely be placed in trust to your parents . From the moment the marriage license is certified by the officiator ( priest , pastor , JP ) , your wife will become your next of kin and , barring a last will and/or advance directive to the contrary , will have final say over your care and/or control over your estate should you be incapacitated or killed . Depending on your relationship with each other , not a whole lot else will change . I found that with my wife not working after she became pregnant with our new daughter , she became the de facto accountant for our finances simply because she has the time to do it . With most of our bills set up to be paid automatically ( initiated by us via " bill pay " , not on auto-debit ) , it 's relatively easy to track , and if she were n't there it would be a five-minute exercise on my part each payday to plan for the next four weeks ' worth of bills and savings .
MD-Tech <URL> : The answer is in your question : derivatives are contracts so are enforced in the same way as any other contract . If the counterparty refuses to pay immediately they will , in the first instance be billed by any intermediary ( Prime Broker etc. ) that facilitated the contract . If they still refuse to pay the contract may stipulate that a broker can " net off " any outstanding payments against it or pay out using deposited cash or posted margins . The contract will usually include the broker as an interested party and so they can , but do n't need to , report a default ( such that this is ) to credit agencies ( in some jurisdictions they are required to by law ) . Any parties to the trade and the courts may use a debt collection agency to collect payments or seize assets to cover payment . If there is no broker or the counterparty still has not paid the bill then the parties involved ( the party to the trade and any intermediaries ) can sue for breach of contract . If they win ( which would be expected ) the counterparty will be made to pay by the legal system including , but not limited to , seizure of assets , enforced bankruptcy , and prison terms for any contempts of court rulings . All of this holds for governments who refuse to pay derivatives losses ( as Argentina did in the early 20th century ) but in that case it may escalate as far as war . It has never done so for derivatives contracts as far as I know but other breaches of contract between countries have resulted in armed conflict . As well as the " hard " results of failing to pay there are soft implications including a guaranteed fall in credit ratings that will result in parties refusing to do business with the counterparty and a separate loss of reputation that will reduce business even further . Potential employees and funders will be unwilling to become involved with such a party and suppliers will be unwilling to supply on credit . The end result in almost every way would be bankruptcy and prison sentences for the party or their senior employees . Most jurisdictions allow for board members at companies in material breach of contract to be banned from running any company for a set period as well . edit : netting off cash flows netting off is a process whereby all of a party 's cash flows , positive and negative , are used to pay each other off so that only the net change is reflected in account balances , for example : company 1 cash flows +1.2 M : co2 +1.1 M : co3 -5 oo K : co4 -3 M : co5 +1.2 M : co3 netting off the total outgoings are 3M + 500k = 3.5 M and total incomings are 1.2 M + 1.1 M + 1.2 M = 3.5 M so the incoming cash flows can be used to pay the outgoing cash flows leaving a net payment into company1 's account of 0 .
As far as I know about TFSA 's , you would be correct in that you are taxed on the $ 1000 extra you 've put in , but not on the original $ 5000 . Although , one good thing about TFSA 's are that every year your account is open , the limit of $ 5000 is added on to the previous limit , not the amount of money you 've put in . If you open one and put in $ 20 , and wait a year , your limit will be increased to $ 10000 , rather than just the additional $ 5000 . So at least if you have the account open long enough , you could deposit much more than $ 5000 without paying taxes on the interest .
Debt collectors are required to validate the debt and send you verification within five days of their initial communication with you . The <URL> ( FDCPA ) , section 809 ( Validation of Debts ) , subsection a ) lays this out clearly : a ) Within five days after the initial communication with a consumer in connection with the collection of any debt , a debt collector shall , unless the following information is contained in the initial communication or the consumer has paid the debt , send the consumer a written notice containing : the amount of the debt the name of the creditor to whom the debt is owed a statement that unless the consumer , within thirty days after receipt of the notice , disputes the validity of the debt , or any portion thereof , the debt will be assumed to be valid by the debt collector a statement that if the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing within the thirty-day period that the debt , or any portion thereof , is disputed , the debt collector will obtain verification of the debt or a copy of a judgment against the consumer and a copy of such verification or judgment will be mailed to the consumer by the debt collector a statement that , upon the consumer 's written request within the thirty-day period , the debt collector will provide the consumer with the name and address of the original creditor , if different from the current creditor . However , if you notify them in writing to dispute the debt , the debt collector has to stop collection of the debt and send you written verification of it ( which they already should have anyway ) . Per the act : b ) If the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing within the thirty-day period described in subsection ( a ) that the debt ... is disputed , or that the consumer requests the name and address of the original creditor , the debt collector shall cease collection of the debt ... until the debt collector obtains verification of the debt or any copy of a judgment , or the name and address of the original creditor , and a copy of such verification or judgment , or name and address of the original creditor , is mailed to the consumer by the debt collector . c ) The failure of a consumer to dispute the validity of a debt under this section may not be construed by any court as an admission of liability by the consumer . As for debt collectors that do n't follow the act , <URL> ( Civil Liability ) , lays out the consequences clearly . I wo n't quote it because it 's a little long , but it 's important to realize that per the title , these are civil penalties . That means they normally require a suit to be filed against the debt collector ; if you read this section of the act , you can readily see that the penalties will occur as the result of civil legal action . In short , yes , the debt collector is required to send you verification within a short time period after initially informing you . If they do n't , you need to talk to a lawyer if you feel civil action is the best recourse . Since I 'm not a lawyer , I ca n't , and do n't , pretend to provide any meaningful legal advice . Side note : I should add that one <URL> of the FDCPA is that it limits the civil penalties the court can award an individual , above and beyond the damages caused by the debt collection agency , to $ 1,000 . The act was passed in 1977 , so inflation has reduced the real amount and purchasing power of that award .
There should be . The CPPIB ( Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board ) is one of the most well-funded pension plans in the world . Your question is also their # 1 <URL> . Unlike many other countries , the measures were taken long ago , in that the fund was set up to be sustaining from investments and contributions ; rather than just contributions . That said , the amount that CPP pays is not very much . The maximum benefit is about $ 11,000 per year , and not many people I know can live on that little . So you really should be trying to do something to augment that , if you are able .
No matter what your job , the CPP and EI are paid centrally to the federal government , your new employer will continue to deduct under your same SIN number and report as such . What will not transfer as far as I know from one employer to the other is the amount paid so far this year for total deduction purposes . Therefore , at the end of the year , when you have two T4 forms , one from each job , you fill the total CPP and EI in the appropriate slots . If you have overpaid , compared to what you should have given your income , then it will be directly refunded ( or offset other taxes owing ) . There are no other taxes - not quite clear what you were asking in that third part .
Sure . Depending on how you configure your order , it will either be fulfilled partially or wait until it can be fulfilled . You can set a time limit on your order ( usually its either 1 day or 60 days , but may vary between brokerages ) , and allow or disallow partial fulfilment .
This is a question I asked myself while considering an HSA , and I could n't find any answers , so now that I have one , <URL> . I asked a family-friend/investment-banker about it , and he suggested you could only make distributions when on an eligible HDHP , but was n't completely sure . I was about to post the question here to confirm or contradict his statement when I ran across <URL> referenced in another SE question . In it , I found this statement under the ' Distributions From an HSA ' heading : If you are no longer an eligible individual , you can still receive tax-free distributions to pay or reimburse your qualified medical expenses . Which indicates that you can still make qualified , tax-free distributions even when you are no longer eligible to contribute . ( Unless someone else has evidence to the contrary )
Each company gets to select which pension provider ( s ) they will deal with . You can certainly ask your company to consider paying into a different pension but you ca n't force them to . Many/most companies will say no since they do n't want the overhead of dealing with more than one provider , although I did once work for a company that had a policy of paying into whatever pension each employee nominated . If you move to another employer then you will be auto-enrolled in their choice of provider unless you opt-out . You may be able to transfer your pension savings from your old employer 's scheme to the new one , but this is not currently guaranteed to be possible . If you ca n't transfer , or choose not to , then the money in your old employer 's scheme will stay there being invested according to your choices . Thus over your working life you may accumulate savings in multiple pension schemes ( and yes , it 's on you to keep track of this ) .
In the US , banks get taken over by the FDIC long before they go bust . The FDIC will facilitate your accounts being sold to another financial institution . You will probably just get lots of letters explaining about the change and the new address to mail your payments too . As for how that gets reported on your credit report , I do not know . Even in the worst case scenario , where the line starts over , the amount of credit will not go down , so that only leaves the age of the account . <URL> , it wo n't have a significant impact . EDIT FOR COMPLETION littleadv explains that banks will often sell the accounts as whole units and your credit report will not reflect a new start date and will keep the longevity . <URL> !
No , it wo n't affect your score until your statement is posted . Paying your bill before your statement is posted is actually a good way to keep your credit utilization low . If you 're worried about high credit utilization negatively affecting your credit score , consider paying your bill several times a month to ensure that when your final monthly statement is posted , your utilization is still low . When my credit limit was very low while I was in college , I did this almost every month , and I 've seen other sites recommend this practice as well . From <URL> : The easiest way [ to lower credit utilization ] is to make credit card payments more than once a month so that your balance never gets too high . and <URL> : Consider making payments to creditors more than once each month . Otherwise , if you put a major expense -- like a new appliance -- on a credit card , even if you plan to pay it off , your FICO score may take a hit . The reason is that credit scores are calculated as a snapshot in time , so if that happens to be right after you charged a new $ 700 washing machine , your utilization ratio will look worryingly high . Remember , though , that it 's best to have some balance on your card when your statement is posted ( assuming you pay it off in full each month ) , because as the chart shows , 0 % utilization is about as bad as utilization > 31-40 % : Also , remember that credit utilization affects your credit score <URL> , so if you have high utilization one month but a lower utilization the next month , the hit to your score will disappear once a statement with low utilization is posted .
end question
start question
Where can I open a Bank Account in Canadian dollars in the US ?
I 'd look into <URL> . They operate in Washington as well as across the border in BC . If you ca n't open a CAD account locally , they can help you open and manage one in Canada from the US . It may or may not require having a small business account instead of a personal account . If you can make the trip to BC yourself , I 'd recommend opening an account with <URL> . They are apparently the only Canadian bank that will allow non-residents/citizens to open an account . The customer service is great and they have a good online banking site that should allow you to manage it from the US .
In general , yes , the interest portion of student loan payments is tax deductible , but this is not always the case , as tax law ( as always ) is more complicated than it could be : Review <URL> for the details of when it is tax deductible There are income restrictions - if you make more than $ 75,000 as a single income or $ 150,000 while married the interest payments are not tax deductible Remember that you 'll have to itemize to get this deduction . The standard deduction is $ 5,700 for a single person , and usually you 'll have to either give a lot of money to charity or have a mortgage where mortgage interest is tax deductible in order to see any benefit ( for example , are you actually paying more than $ 5700 in student loan interest per year ? That 's a lot of loans ) . For all the possible tax deductions/credits , see the entire <URL>
No , that was not the right thing to do . A W-9 is the form used to certify that you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien for U.S. federal tax purposes . You want to fill out a W-8BEN , available on the <URL> There is a spot on a W-8BEN for you to include your U.S. social security number . A Form W-8 is used to certify that you are NOT a U.S. resident for U.S. federal tax purposes .
You paid the expense when you put it on the credit card in 2015 . The fact that you did n't pay the credit card until 2016 does n't change that .
<URL> includes India in the list of countries where is possible to open an international account to invest in the US Stock Market . They just merged with Charles Schwab and they have a nice online trading platform . Stocks and ETFs are little bit pricey . . Get in touch with them to get more information .
Allowing others to share access to your Bank Account ; i.e. giving then the login id and password has its risks ; Loose all the money , i.e. someone can withdraw without your notice . You have volidated your Online access agreement to keep the login id / password safe . The account can be mis-used for illegal activities and you would be responsible . Create more liabilities , Potentially request a check book and mis-use it or similar things . Potentially gain more information and use it to operate your other accounts .
Expected this to be a bit easier than it was , but dug around for a while and found what I hope is deep enough answer for your situation . Here 's the live report on NASDAQ 's site : <URL> Top 5 Holders FMR LLC 15,335,005 CAPITAL RESEARC ... 12,730,080 PRICE T ROWE AS ... 10,054,346 VANGUARD GROUP ... 9,220,692 STATE STREET CO. . . 8,476,124 You can page almost endlessly through the rest of the institutional owners here : <URL> Insider Control Note Larry , Sergei &amp; Eric Schmidt together own > 90 % of the Class B shares of the stock , which have 10 votes each ( vs. 1 vote per Class A share ) , so they apparently control 68 % of all voting rights in the company ( think I read that in their latest 10Q ) Freshness Looks like that report is actually refreshed ( via SEC Form 4 filings ) on a daily basis , w / the baselines taken from quarterly 13F filings - not sure , that 's all new to me , took that from description offered on site , here : " The data displayed in the Holdings Summary provides a snapshot of institutional holdings and activity for a particular stock . The institutional holdings summary data encompasses the holdings and change from most recent 13F filings . The insider filer data counts the number of monthly positions over 3 month and 12 month time spans . Summary data is calculated daily , using the most up to date information available . " Further Info While the report 's on NASDAQ.com , it 's apparently sourced from EDGAR Online , so if the depth/formatting of the NASDAQ report is n't what you 're looking for , you might try that too .
Are there any known laws explicitly allowing or preventing this behavior ? It 's not the laws , it 's what 's in the note - the mortgage contract . I read my mortgage contracts very carefully to ensure that there 's no prepayment penalty and that extra funds are applied to the principal . However , it does n't have to be like that , and in older mortgages - many times it 's not like that . Banks do n't have to allow things that are not explicitly agreed upon in the contract . To the best of my knowledge there 's no law requiring banks to allow what your friend wants .
I do n't think that this can be generalized . It is not the absolute cost of living and salary that is important , but the difference between the two . To be more precise , the difference between spending and income . The more money you save , the more you can spend in retirement . Depending on your individual situation , including habits and personal preferences , this may be either the higher cost of living area or the lower cost of living area . As an example , if you tend to eat out a lot , you may be better off in a small town with limited , less expensive choices that are 1 ) less expensive and 2 ) less tempting . On the other hand , in a big city you may have more public transit options so need only one ( or zero ) cars instead of two . I would focus on living someplace you enjoy , and then try to maximize your savings given the constraints of your chosen area .
In the short run , its better you get a credit card from India . Generally most cards issued in India can be used internationally . Use this for initial few months in the US till you get a credit card in US .
my taxable income was roughly $ 230,000 in 2012 . Indeed it is relevant . <URL> for deductible IRA contributions is 112K . So no , IRA contribution will not help you reducing your tax bill this year . The deduction phases out starting from AGI limits of $ 10K in certain cases ( for married filing separately ) , and phases out entirely for anyone at AGI of 112K ( for 2012 ) . The table linked describes the various deduction phase-out parameters depending on your filing status , and will probably be updated yearly by the IRS . However this is only relevant if your company provides a retirement plan , as Joe mentioned . If your company does n't provide a retirement plan but your spouse 's does - then <URL> . If neither you nor your spouse ( if you have one ) is covered - then there 's no AGI limit , and you can indeed make an IRA contribution before April 15th that would be attributed to the previous year and reduce your tax bill . Note that " provides " means the plan is available , even if you do n't participate in it , any time during the year .
You will not be able to obtain an unsecured credit card without established credit history . You do not need a SSN to establish a credit history . You can start by going to your bank and asking for a secured credit card . You need to begin to build your credit history ; you have to prove to creditors that you will pay your bills on time . Creditors will not extend credit to someone they consider a risk . If you have no history , they do n't know if you will pay your bill . If you do n't like secured credit cards , you could also take out a secure loan . Put some funds into a CD ( Certificate of Deposit ) at your local bank . Then , ask for a loan from that bank secured by your own CD . They will establish the loan and your payments will be reported to the credit bureaus . If you fail to pay the loan bill , they cash in on your CD , so there is no risk for the creditor . Obviously , this means you ca n't access your CD while the loan is active . If you have a close friend or relative with an established credit card , you can ask to be joint owner on that credit card . All of the history for that card will flow onto your credit report . You have to prove to creditors that you wo n't skip on your obligations before they will offer you unsecured credit .
The value of the fund and the change in that value is going to be related mostly to the contents of the fund . All the two versions are doing is basically allowing you to see a price both after and before exchange rates are taken into account . If it 's a US Index fund , investing in US stocks , then only a Canadian investor is likely to benefit or suffer from currency exchange rate changes . All a US investor would be doing is paying exchange rate fee 's to their bank to change your money into CN$ Or the reverse if you live in Canada and buy the US version For the Canadian investor this is effectively a ' international ' fund of sorts , and currency risk is a part of that . As you will note that the fund has currently had a stronger return due to a weak Loonie , and that information is presented in BOTH versions of the fund , you could expect that for you , if the Loonie gets stronger , the performance ( for you ) of that fund to go down , no matter which version you invest in . A Canadian investor who expects the Loonie to get stronger would be want to be investing in international instruments only to the extent they expected the return to outpace the changes in currency values , relative to what they could get returnwise in a domestic investment .
The mathematical answer is for you to have a diversified portfolio in your ISA . But that 's easier said than done .
Under current US tax code , you can receive $ 14K from an unlimited number of people with no tax consequence to them . Yes , the burden is on the giver . There 's an exception to most rules . If I gift you a large sum and do n't fill out the required paperwork , paying the tax due , the IRS can go after the recipient for their cut . " Follow the money " is still going to be applied . Even if over $ 14K , a tax is n't always due . <URL> is required , and will allow a credit against one 's lifetime gifting , currently $ 5.34 M . In effect , the current limits mean that 99 % + of us will never worry about this limit , just file the paperwork . Last , the 529 College Savings accounts permit a 5 year look ahead , i.e. a parent can deposit $ 70K to jump start her child 's account . Then no gift for next 4 years .
The bank wo n't let you because : Differences in required account features -- Business accounts have different features ( many of them legal features ) that are required by businesses . For instances : Do you want to be able to deposit cheques that are written out to your business name ? You need a business account for that . Your business could be sold . Then it would n't be your business , so it would n't make sense to put the business account under your personal name . The bank account and the cash it holds is a business asset and should be owned by the business , so when the business is sold the account goes with it . This is especially the case for a corporation that has shareholders , and not a sole proprietorship . For a business , you could also , in theory , assign other people as signing authorities on the business account ( e.g. your corporate treasurer ) , and the individuals performing that role could change over time . Business accounts allow for this kind of use . Market segmentation -- The bank has consciously undertaken to segment their product offerings in order to maximize their profit . Market segmentation helps the bottom line . Even if there were zero legal reasons to have separate personal vs. business accounts , banks would still make it their policy to sell different account types according to use because they can make more money that way . Consider an example in another industry : The plain-old telephone company also practices segmentation w.r.t. personal/business . Do you want a telephone line for a business and listed as such in the phone book ? You need a business line . Do you want a phone line hooked up at a non-residential address ? You need a business line . Here it 's clear it is less of a legal issue than with the bank account , and it does n't matter that the technical features of the phone line may be identical for the basic product offerings within each segment . The phone company has chosen to segment and price their product offerings this way . TL ; DR Q. Why do companies choose to charge some kinds of customers more than others for essentially the same underlying service ? A. Because they can .
A CD will give you a higher rate of return . The tradeoff is you can not access your money until the CD matures . If you need the ability to get your money , you should choose a savings account . If you wo n't use your money for awhile , choose a CD . Right now interest rates are so abysmal , you are n't going to get much return with either ( so I would recommend against locking up your money in a CD ) .
I would call your bank directly and ask if they can mail you deposit slips or if they have deposit slips available to print off online . Wrap your check and completed deposit slip in a piece of paper so that the information is not visible through the envelope or packaging you are using , and ask them for a receipt when it is received . As far as endorsement , you should write " For deposit only " and sign your name underneath in the area of the back of the check for endorsements . This will ensure that the check is deposited into your account and can not be cashed if it is intercepted in the mail .
I feel the need to separate my freelance accounts from my personal accounts . Yes , you should . Should I start another savings account or a current account ? Do you need the money for daily spending ? Do you need to re-invest in your business ? Use a current account . If you do n't need the money for business expenses , put it away in your savings account or even consider term deposits . Do n't rule out a hybrid approach either ( some in savings account , some in current account ) . What criteria should I keep in mind while choosing a bank ? ( I thought of SBI since it has a lot of branches and ATMs ) . If you are involved in online banking and that is sufficient for most of your needs , bank and ATM locations should n't matter all that much . If you are saving a good chunk of money , you want to at least have that keep up with inflation . Research bank term deposit interest rates . The tend to be higher than just having your money sit in a savings account . Again , it depends on how and when you expect to need the money . What do I keep in mind while paying myself ? Paying yourself could have tax implications . This depends on how are set up to freelance . Are you a business entity or are you an individual ? You should look in to the following in India : Personal income tax rates Corporate taxation rates Tax credits for small business The other thing to consider is rewarding yourself for the good work done . Pay yourself a reasonable amount . If you decide to expand and hire people going forward , you will have a better sense of business expenses involved when paying salaries . Tips on managing money in the business account . This is a very generic question . I can only provide a generic response . Know how much you are earning and how much your are putting back in to the business . Be reasonable in how much you pay yourself and do the proper research and paperwork from a taxation point of view .
FICO score tracks credit , not checking or savings . Unless there was a credit line attached , no impact at all .
end question
