start question
What does 9:41 mean ?
I 've heard it was used because that was the approximate time at which the iPad was revealed originally , and given the Apple attention to detail , the clock had to match up . It was used in everything else because a lot of the same materials were used in the presentations as in the ads .
It 's like this : With the " Kana " setting , you can reach the different kana of one group by either " flicking " in different directions , or by repeatedly tapping one kana . With the " flick only " setting , only the flicking works , not the tapping .
As of July 21 , 2016 , there is a pre-release available of MAMP PRO 4 which includes OpenSSL 1.0.2 , get the pre-release here : <URL>
The thunderbolt display actually has a number of additional peripherals in it : Gigabit-Ethernet Network interface card . Firewire 800 interface 4 USB ports on a PCIe-USB adapter Webcam ( " Facetime " ) camera ( connected internally via USB to the USB-PCIe adapter ) Speakers and a microphone ( ditto ) It also has a laptop charger ( magjack ) for convenience . This is accomplished via the fact that <URL> can carry PCIe signals in addition to the normal display image , so the peripherals in the display act like they 're built into the laptop . Thunderbolt combines PCI Express ( PCIe ) and DisplayPort ( DP ) into a serial data interface that can be carried over a single cable . Thunderbolt controller chips multiplex data lanes from these two sources for transmission via a duplex Thunderbolt lane then de-multiplex them for consumption from receiver chips . There is actually the potential to even have an entire GPU in the external display , though no current devices implement the option .
Mail talks to the mail server to show you messages . Only IMAP accounts can be synchronized as that is a formal way for the server and the mail client on your mac to double check all messages to make sure everything is in sync between the two . Get mail focuses on the Inbox and relies on the Mail app having a " correct " view matching the data on the mail server . Synchronize allows for noise/errors/lost messages , incorrect statuses and other real life bumps and errors . It basically double counts and double checks each and every message to make sure things are 100 % correct . Synchronize also checks all folders recursively to get everything accounted for - not just the subset of folders that are marked as having new mail . Even more " deep cleaning " would be if you told mail to rebuild the account or the mailbox . That means that the local storage that mail uses on your mac has problems getting mail or synchronizing . It 's the last step before deleting the account and starting over to download things cleanly from the server . In a nutshell - synchronize should normally do nothing - but it will fill in any gaps as needed . ( of course it will get new mail as part of a total synchronization - but it 's going to be a lot slower and use more resources on the mac than just asking for new mail )
These are for decreasing and increasing the brightness of the keyboard backlight . When the system senses low light and the keyboard is allowed to illuminate , the keys will work . Otherwise , they silently do nothing at all .
There are two things that come to mind : The store is so busy that it 's not sending the data to your computer to start the download . The usual things have failed and you can jump start it by following some steps on troubleshooting an App Store download . Here are the self help steps : <URL>
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
Current Period refers to the period of time since the last reset . This is nothing to do with the cellular plan . You can see the beginning date of the current period by scrolling to the bottom and looking at the date under the reset option . If you have never reset the counter , it has been counting up like the odometer of a car since you started the OS at a clean restore .
From <URL> When you mute your iPad , only certain sounds are muted . Sounds such as alerts , notifications , sound effects , and game audio are muted . Media playback ( such as music , podcasts , movies , videos , and TV shows ) are not muted . So , that would explain why background music/videos are n't muted when I 'm using our iPad .
From <URL> : Home &amp; Lock Screen . This indicates that the Home screen or Lock screen was displayed on your device . For example , the display was awakened by pressing the Home button or by a notification . If an app frequently wakes your display with notifications , you can turn off push notifications for the app in Settings > Notifications . Tap App and set Allow Notifications to Off .
I 've heard it was used because that was the approximate time at which the iPad was revealed originally , and given the Apple attention to detail , the clock had to match up . It was used in everything else because a lot of the same materials were used in the presentations as in the ads .
Apple has a nice iOS page up at <URL> In case it changes at a later date , here is the relevant text from the end of that page . This text above is straight from the footnote portion / small text at the bottom of the web page .
Here is a link to at least iTunes 9.1.1 for Mac <URL>
Why not just add one yourself ? Open System Preferences → Keyboard → Shortcuts → App Shortcuts and click add . Select Safari , enter ' Show Top Sites ' for the menu title and enter a keyboard shortcut . This adds the shortcut to the menu option :
According to <URL> , the Power Mac G4 ( Mirrored Drive Doors 2003 ) is the newest and most powerful computer that can run Mac OS 9 . 1.25 GHz PowerPC G4 ( 7455/7455B ) ; can hold up to 2 GB memory ( although OS 9 might not recognize all 2 GB ) .
When you install a Homebrew package , if it needs to compile it from source , it will extract the files to and compile them there before installing to . You can specify a different temp folder by setting an environment variable ...
Yes , right . Round about Tiger ( 10.4 ) Apple introduced a nice neat way for apps to integrate with your address book and calendar data stores etc. . At the time it was a novel thing that allowed for any number of clever calendar widgets etc , and stuff that could happily replace the in-built tools ( or enhance them ) without you having to change anything at an account or data level . These days , because of a number of high profile mobile apps getting in trouble for doing what the desktop OS have been doing for years , they are cranking up the security and privacy options .
I do n't know if by " Today 's View " you actually mean the iOS 9 " Todays View " or the Calendar Widget . To activate the Calendar Widget scroll to the end of your Notification Center and touch " Edit " and add the Calendar Widget . Now , regarding how the info of your next appointments on the Calendar Widget will look like , it depends on how you present them on the actual Calendar App . As you can see in the pictures bellow , on the left you have a relative presentation of the events and on the right an absolute presentation . I hope this clarifies things a bit . <URL>
The " o " means that you 're on a 2G network . In Verizon 's case , that would be 1xRTT . If you see it on an AT&amp;T device , that means you 're on GPRS . Here 's a screenshot from the <URL> detailing what the various signal indicators mean : " 3G " means exactly the same thing on the 1st generation iPad as it does on the 3rd generation iPad . However , if you have AT&amp;T , the 3rd generation iPad reports HSDPA + as " 4G " . Since the 1st generation iPad is incapable of using HSDPA + , you will only ever see 3G or below on that device .
end question
start question
Does apple notify you when a certificate is going to expire ?
Yes , at 30 days , 10 days and 1 day prior to expiration date , you will receive the following email : <URL>
Its an implementation detail that the developer has to implement , in your example case for Office its Microsoft . Here is the Cocoa Objective-C code that allows the developer to implement this feature : What your observing is normal behavior on almost all Applications on OS X and even the classic <URL> . Its one of those thing you should get use to on the Mac . However , these days you are in luck that things are changing in your favor in Lion and probably later as OS X gains more features from iOS . As referenced in <URL> . Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination . Clearly it looks like that version of Microsoft Office does not support Automatic Termination yet , but it may be coming . So for now the most you can do is check the programs preferences for options relating to quitting the application when it has no more windows open . Also I encourage you to give Microsoft and or any developer of Apps feedback that you would like see " quitting on last window closed " as a preference option or suggest they add support for Automatic Termination to their products . Until then just remember to use ⌘ + Q when you are done with those applications that do not automatically quit when you close all its windows .
Yes it can use iCloud back to my Mac to locate remote Macs behind a NAT router . Also , if your network allows inbound network connections then that also would work over the Internet . And no , ARD is not a service where a client runs on each Mac to tunnel out of more arbitrary network connections as Team Viewer , Citrix/GoToMeeting and other solutions that are designed to have the computer that is " to be controlled " initiate contact with the administrator . For example , setting up the clients over Bonjour will not work if you then try to access the clients over the Internet . Select the scanner . Select the Network Address scanner type , and enter the public/BTMM IP address of the computer . Yes , the client computer will need a " real Internet IP address " for this method to work , or the Back to my Mac address if enabled . To find the Back to my Mac address , make sure that iCloud and Back to my Mac is enabled , then run the following command : The final line shows the account number . Use the following syntax for determining the address : You can find the computer name in System Preferences & rarr ; Sharing .
Yes - just get a simple pass through adapter to plug the male USB into an adapter that fits in the lightning slot . <URL> There are also knock off and legitimate third party adapters being sold , so you can pick your price point / fit and finish / support sweet spot .
You are able to use the Apple Watch when running without taking your iPhone with you . The caveat to do doing so is that you wo n't have access to any online services but the included fitness apps will work just fine ! This article at MacWorld has actually summarised exactly what you can and can not do when your watch is n't connected to your phone . The paragraph that might be of most interest to you is : If you want to go for a run without having to tote a bulky phone , the Apple Watch 's exercise capabilities are pretty much self-sufficient . All of the watch 's onboard sensors , such as the accelerometer and the heart rate monitor , keep on trucking even when your phone 's not around . Just fire up the Workout app , pick your exercise type and goal , and leave the iPhone at home . References : <URL>
Nope . It 's impossible to upgrade iOS firmware without connecting to the Apple servers . Currently , there is a jailbreak for iOS 8.1 using <URL> which is being signed at the moment . iOS 8.1.1 update which is due in a few weeks will patch the jailbreak . It could be the right moment to upgrade your iOS version and re-jailbreak it . <URL> that the current iOS 8 jailbreak is stable .
If your airline is Delta Check into your flight with <URL> of Delta 's website on your iPhone/iPod Touch ( have your flight 's confirmation number ready ) . When you complete your checkin , you will be given an option to add the pass to your Passbook ( aka Wallet app ) . Tap into that , then press the button to add the pass to your wallet . Then you can skip the check-in kiosk at the airport if you have your phone and the pass handy . Any other airline Download the airline 's app ( yep , only Delta lets you use the mobile site to add a boarding pass to Wallet ) and open it up . Here are some apps from the major carriers ( though do n't fret if your airline is not on this list , it 's rather incomplete ; just search for it in the app store ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Proceed into the app ( have your confirmation number or loyalty account info ready ) and choose the option ( location of this button varies between apps ) . Follow the instructions to check in , and at the end , you 'll see a button to or . Press that , then press the button in the Navbar and you 'll be set .
On a high level , it 's like an automatic transmission - when you press the gas gently , the throttle increases but when you stomp on the accelerator pedal the engine downshifts the transmission to increase the mechanical advantage . You can influence switching to the powerful GPU by hitting the API with significant work and expect the " transmission " to dispatch that load to the non-integrated GPU . The documentation on the API are all in Xcode ( and online too , but I prefer using search on Xcode to hunt for a document ) . I would start with : xcdoc : / / ? url = developer.apple.com/library/etc/redirect/xcode/mac/1153/technotes/tn2335/_index.html ( <URL> ) Those links cover the Mac Pro and the " What you should know when using OpenCL " section contains a helpful note that WWDC 2013 Session 508 : Working with OpenCL describes how to switch between two GPUs in a Mac portable using power considerations .
Yes , it is possible . Numbers can be entered using the keyboard . The correct tones will be produced and transmitted on your Yosemite Mac .
The exceptions are stored in Keychain Access . The certificate will be copied there , together with the trust settings . Double-click a certificate and you will be able to change it 's settings . Note : you can have trust setting on system level and user level ! They have separate keychains as listed in the sidebar .
There are actually multiple levels of download . Even when you view an image , a device-optimized version is retrieved . Only when you Edit or Share a photo is it fully downloaded from iCloud ( possibly when you zoom in all the way , also ) . With that being said , you ca n't bulk-Edit ; however , you can bulk-Share . Here are the steps that worked for me : Go into the album you wish to download locally . Tap Select . Tap Select All . Tap the Share icon in the bottom-left hand corner . Select Email . Wait for the Preparing progress indicator to complete . This may take a while depending on how large your album is and on the speed of your connection . When your email is ready , Cancel out of it . Remember that these photos are eligible for purging if your device becomes low on storage . Note : I tried this on a relatively small album ( 20 photos and videos ) . I do n't know if your iPhone might crash attempting to share 500 photos at once . If you choose to Download and Keep Originals , I believe your iPhone does that while your device is locked , on Wi-Fi , and has sufficient charge . It might help to have Photos as the foreground app when locking the iPhone .
In system preferences security change the download from to anywhere .
When you give an app permission to use your location , in other words enable GPS for it , the app may or may not use it . Some apps use it briefly to get a fix once each time you start the app , some apps do n't use it until you perform a certain action in them , others use it whenever the app is open , and some even continue to use it after you 've closed the app - for instance if you 're doing turn-by-turn directions in the background . To know if an app is actively using the GPS , and thus draining the battery faster than normal , is to look in the status bar next to the clock . If there 's a little white arrow , then an app ( probably the one you 've got open right now ) is actively using the GPS . If you do n't have an app open , and the arrow appears , you can find out which app is using the GPS by going to the app , selecting and going down the list of apps . For each app there 's the app name , and then a selector that determines whether that app is allowed to use the GPS . Scroll down that list and look for a little arrow between the app and the selector . If any app is using the GPS right now , it will show up as an arrow next to the app name . The color and fill of the arrow provide additional information , which you can find out about here : <URL> . That question also gives a screeshot of the screen with an arrow showing , so you can get an idea of what to look for when you go through your list of apps . It 's for the iPad , but the iPhone is very similar in design . If an app is using GPS and you do n't want it to , change the selector to and it will stop using the GPS and draining your battery .
Yes . The keys in Visual Studio 2010 that you refer to ( for others that are unaware ) are known as " Navigate Backward " and " Navigate Forward " and work as described in the the following <URL> allowing you to quickly move back and forward between places you 've already been in your code , via a " Jump to Definiton " in Xcode , for example . The equivalent keyboard shortcuts in Xcode 4 are : Navigate Backward : Ctrl + ⌘ + Left Cursor Navigate Forward : Ctrl + ⌘ + Right Cursor
You can prevent Siri from cutting you off in the command mode by holding down the Home button until you 're done speaking . Normally you activate Siri in the command mode by holding the Home button until Siri responds , then releasing the button and talking . In that mode she 'll cut you off pretty quickly . Continuing to hold the Home button bypasses that limitation .
What does the terminal command show you about the files have . It 's highly unlikely they are truncated <URL> , but that 's the only guess I have at the moment .
Open Image Capture , connect the iPad , select it when it appears in the list on the left . On the lower left will be a selector for what app to open when it connects , you can pick None .
It 's hard to tell with this new product , that is really a normal battery charger . Rechargeable batteries should charge all the way to 100 % especially when they are new . If you 're not getting a full charge , try depleting them all and fully charge them , see if that works . Otherwise , batteries may be defective or it could be a mouse/software misinterpretation .
Just to note , you can ( at least in the UK ) use the App Store with a debit card . However , if you do n't have one of those either , and you 're not having any issues with OSX 10.6 , why not continue using it for now ? In August , Apple will start selling 10.7 on a USB drive , which you can purchase with cash in an Apple Store .
Your answer is Hold down Shift and click the red * button *
end question
start question
How do I connect to my web server on mac ?
In Finder , choose Go > Connect To Server ( command + K ) and type in the URL or IP for the server ( including the protocol if not afp ) .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
What seems to work is signing out from my Apple ID ( using the Apple ID link at the bottom of the App Store ) , then shutting off the device ( hold the power button ) . Then I turn back on the device , go to the App store , enter my Apple ID info , and then try to download/update an app again . Just restarting or relogging in to my Apple ID alone did n't seem to be enough .
Your wish is my command ! Homebrew Formula : <URL> I 'll try to get the formula merged into homebrew proper sometime this week . In the meantime , you can simply :
Instructions from official CocoaSuite support To deactivate , delete this folder : Other files and folders installed that can be deleted ( ~ stands for your home directory ) :
It 's more that Safari was being boosted in 4.3 and that that boost was not available to Web Apps on the homescreen According to <URL> this is fixed in iOS 5 .
Usually things like that are caused by browser extensions or an odd interaction between a specific browser version and the code on the site . Have you looked over the basic support page for the Developer Forums ? <URL> It has a " contact us " form if you ca n't solve this by ensuring an up to date ( and unmodified ) version of Safari is n't rendering the web site properly for you .
<URL> generally answers the question of legality . Including these font files in your app and using them with or is unquestionably not permitted . However , for a web app you can non-explicitly use it by <URL> <URL> : This will of course result in slightly different appearances per platform and version ( namely non-Apple platforms and Apple systems before iOS 9/OS X 10.11 ) .
Microsoft has officially released Skype for Business for Mac on October 26th , 2016 . You can find the official download link here : <URL> If you are using Homebrew ( and Cask ) , you can install Skype for Business for Mac with the following commands :
I think this issue is specific to Lion . You ca n't even get to the info screen for an Exchange calendar , to make the colour choice shown in the screen shots here . Googling , I turned up the following Applescript to accomplish the task :
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
Fixed it ! there was n't any problem with battery . just charged it with a charger ( not with usb ) and it started to work .
Check out the Mono Project . It may be what you are looking for . <URL> <URL> is a cross-platform IDE primarily designed for C# and other . NET languages . MonoDevelop enables developers to quickly write desktop and ASP.NET Web applications on Linux , Windows and Mac OSX . MonoDevelop makes it easy for developers to port . NET applications created with Visual Studio to Linux and Mac OSX maintaining a single code base for all platforms .
I am basing my answer what your requirements are Web Development . Developing websites or web apps that typically run off a server ; typically Apache/PHP/MySQL Access the server remotely to edit/develop I belive this is much more than just screen sharing as you do n't want to share your screen , just the website you are developing for a client . You will need the following : Web service listening on the appropriate port Open/forwarded port on your router Dynamic DNS ( DDNS ) with the ability to update your record Web service listening on the appropriate port Typically , when doing Web Dev , this is Apache listening on the correct IP/Port . Assuming that you have just one network adapter , you have to make sure that Apache ( or whatever else you are running ) is listening so that other computers on your LAN can access it . If you can do this , then you are good to go for the next step Open and/or forward the port on your router So , you can get to your service from inside your network , but now it 's time to get to it from the outside . Determine your local IP . Using terminal , issue the command . The line should start off with . That 's your local IP address Forward HTTP traffic to that port . There are many routers on the market and each have different user interfaces , but they are all technically doing the same thing : taking traffic bound to your IP and port and forwarding it to an address you specify . You will have to check your user manual for the specifics on how to do this . But , basically , you are going to forward port 80 traffic ( HTTP ) to the IP address you found in step 1 . Next , you are going to want to test this out . Use a service like <URL> or <URL> to find your public IP . You can even type the search directly into <URL> and have it return your IP address . Once you have that , you need to browse to it . A smartphone NOT connected to your WiFi makes a good choice . Point the browser of the smartphone to the public IP address you just obtained . If you can see your page/application , your router is working . If not , you need to go back and make sure your port forwarding is set up correctly . Setup DDNS This is the final step . <URL> allows you to use a domain name to access your IP even though it changes . Many newer routers support DDNS in their firmware - you will need to check with your specific manufacturer and or model . Even if your router dose n't support DDNS , you are still in luck . All you need is a DDNS client to update your record and it can run on any computer on your network . For example , on <URL> , they provide a number of different clients you can on virtually every platform from Windows , to Linux and even iOS . So , what you will need to do is install one of these clients on your Mac server so that it can periodiocally update your DDNS record
See this <URL> . Basically , you have to edit the plist for Lync , and enter a registry key equivalent . The explanation is below : Basically , the equivalent to the registry keys for windows needs to be entered in the Lync config plist file on the mac , a file named MicrosoftLyncRegistrationDB.xxx.plist that you can find in ~ / Library/Preferences/ByHost . In it , you will need to create an entry for each segment of the reg key path for the DisableServerCheck flag ( all lower case ) . It should look like this : hkey_current_user \ hkey_current_user \ software \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ communicator \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ communicator \ disableservercheck The value for each of the path segments is " < > " and type string . For the disableservercheck flag , the type is " Number " and the value is 1 . You can use a plist editor ( there 's a few free ones for the mac , or you can also use Xcode ) to edit the plist file . The screenshot below shows you how it should look like .
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
Either uploading a new binary update or rejecting the App 's actual binary and then pressing on Ready to Upload Binary should do the trick . As written under Apple 's <URL> : Cryptography and U.S. Export Compliance U.S. export laws require that products containing encryption be properly authorized for export . When you 're ready to upload your first binary for your app or upload a binary update , iTunes Connect presents a series of questions regarding software encryption . The questions are designed to determine the level of encryption in the app according to U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security ( BIS ) classifications .
From <URL> : You can use the Connect To Server command to connect to an FTP server in the Finder , but you will have read-only access . You can not copy , or upload , to an FTP volume in the Finder .
There are several choices based on the fact that any UPnP server should also be DLNA compliant : Free ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( easier to install with <URL> ) Paid ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> The bold ones are directly mentioned to be DLNA servers .
end question
start question
Does App Store Review Board allow Photoshopping a screenshot to show fake content ?
Only the App Store review staff can provide an absolute answer . However , many apps in the store show modified screenshots . Providing mock content is <URL> when advertising document based applications . Submit your app for review . If the review is rejected , they will provide a reason and you will have the opportunity to resubmit .
The programmatic and direct feedback channels to Apple and the developer are as follows : Report a problem from the purchase summary in iTunes on a computer . This also is useful if you wish to ask for a refund in the case where the app was paid and does n't function in your judgement . There is a general problem link in the store as well as a link to developer support . These are best for technical or minor bugs that do n't ruin the app experience or if you expect it to get fixed and continue to use the app . You can write a formal review that Apple may eventually publish detailing why you feel the app is buggy or non-confomant with design guidelines or rules . You can rate the app in stars Those three procedures are standard ways to provide feedback about buggy apps or problematic purchases . Deleting the app sends less formal feedback as your devices stop asking for updates to that title .
This appears to be a recent change to how purchasing functions , added for increased security . <URL> In the past 24 hours , Apple appears to have started prompting iOS devices owners and those with Apple IDs within iTunes to make their accounts more secure , requiring them to pick three security questions and enter their answers when they download a new app . The company is also asking users to enter a backup email address , in order to better protect their device but also their account ( which is tied to Apple 's Retail website and all of its media services ) .
I tried uninstalling some applications , and files in these folders or the corresponding folders in were sometimes deleted and sometimes not : ( deleted for most applications ) Files in these folders were n't deleted for any of the applications I tested with : For example Kindle books or the database for notes in JustNotes were not deleted . You can see what files are accessed by uninstalld with and search for support files with . If you want to uninstall applications more completely , it 's probably safe to just delete the whole sandbox containers in .
You can copy/paste the application from one Mac to another , they will run as they are self-contained ( no files required in other locations ) . You may not even need to login to the App Store to run them . I had to install Xcode and Final Cut Pro on a very restricted network environment where the App Store is blocked , the apps ran fine . Licensing is an issue if you use the apps in a non-personal environment ( businness , education ) . Download and install work the same way .
Turns out it needs to be on the internet initially , in order to set up Home Sharing . But once Home Sharing is set up , it can access content on your Mac as long as your Mac is on the same local network , and has iTunes running .
You can use <URL> or contact Apple Support for the iTunes store to register that opinion / information about their music service .
There is a default application named in OS-X for editing images . If you created any screen shots , just open that screenshot image in application and you can see the edit toolbar to edit the image .
Found out the issue was indeed the RADIUS certificate , as Apple deprecated the SSLv3 cryptographic protocol and the RC4 symmetric cipher suite in iOS 10 and macOS Sierra . <URL>
The answer is yes , Apple is rejecting the apps that let the user input iBeacon UUID . If you fetch an uuid from a server , that would probably result in the same problem . Just a quote from an article about this issue : We 've been receiving reports that Apple has recently taken its " lock down " of UUID scanning a step further . Before , you needed to specify the UUID numbers you were scanning for in your app , but you could also manually input those numbers . But now , Apple is rejecting apps that have this functionality . Awwapps is one of the documented cases of this rejection : " With the upcoming updates of our iBeacon apps Launch Here and Travel Radar we will remove the option to manually add and edit iBeacon credentials ( UUIDs , Major ID , Minor ID ) . This is not our choice . We do this to keep the apps in the App Store . We 'll do our best to come up with other options to add your iBeacons -- better options ... We will improve on this and extend support to more iBeacon vendors ... Please note that a general scanning of all iBeacons around is not possible on iOS . We rely on your input to cover all commonly used iBeacons . " Source : <URL> Why : Apple decided this for security reason . That allows developers to prevent their ibeacons of being used by others companies . Why it 's not a big deal : Most beacons constructors set up their beacons with the same UUID . So the most commons beacons may still be found , unless the UUID was changed for security reasons . For example , by default , the UUID for all the iBeacons built by Estimote is " B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D " . You then rely on the " major " and " minor " id sent by the beacon to develop your application . iBeacons are n't invisible : It 's possible on Android devices to develop an application able to see all the iBeacons in range , and to get it published on the Play Store without any trouble . On iOS , it 's still technically possible that an application may let the user input the UUID value , it just wo n't be approved by the App Store . And of course , the iBeacons still emits Bluetooth data that still physically exists in the air .
Command ⌘ - Shift ⇧ -3 will save a screenshot of the whole screen to your desktop . Command ⌘ - Control ⌃ - Shift ⇧ -3 copies it to your clipboard . ⌘ - ⇧ -4 lets you drag to take a shot of a portion of the screen , or press Space to select a specific window . Add Control ⌃ to the mix to copy to to the clipboard . You can view and change these in the Keyboard pane of System Preferences , under the Keyboard Shortcuts tab :
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
I 'm assuming you set up Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 5 yourself , as it 's not a System default . If you use Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 then you can drag a marquee round the item you want , or even use Space afterwards to grab the entire floating widget , examples below ... Using Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 Note the hard edges &amp; visible background . Using Cmd ⌘ Shift ⇧ 4 followed by Space then clicking the desired ' window ' / widget . Note the soft edges with shadows
<URL> can do this quickly . See ? Just click the blur button in the side bar and draw over your image to obscure things . Please note that this app saves files to Evernote by default which can be a problem for sensitive content . You may want to disable it by not signing into your Evernote account or by making the following setting changes : Set to Uncheck
It 's option 3 - " Other . " There are two possibilities for your battery becoming disconnected with your logic board and both have to do with the molex connector : The connector on your battery is broken/defective . If this is the case , the warranty on the battery ( provided you are still within the warranty ) should get you a replacement and have this fixed . The connector on your logic board is broken/defective . If this is the case , the only surefire way to fix it is to have the connector replaced . This will involve soldering of the logic board . <URL> <URL> If repairing/replacing the logic board is out of the question and the everything works fine with the exception that the connector wo n't stay connected , you can secure it in place with some <URL> tape . It wo n't be the most elegant solution , but for under $ 20 for the roll of tape , it 's a much more cost effective solution . <URL> As for your first two speculations ... Shocks . The amount of destructive force your Macbook would have to go through to " shock " the connector out would destroy your Macbook completely . Ejection system . You would see some sort of mechanism to do this . If your MBA senses things are getting too hot , it shuts the computer down . There 's nothing in any computer that " ejects " connectors .
Well , in my point of view , if the app works 75 % of the time playing AVI files , I would try to contact the developer directly , there might be something required ( like a plug-in ) or a bug that needs fixing . Like it says in the FAQ , if contacting the developer produces no result , then I guess you could ask for a refund . I have heard that they gave refunds to people who were unhappy before , but it was a last-resort solution if I remember correctly . Also , I presume the App store staff will fight for you more if you paid 100 $ for your app , and a little less if you only paid a buck ... :-)
Icons are definitely not freely copy-able . Apps in the App Store still enjoy the copyright protections afforded under intellectual property laws in your region . If you 've found an app with icons that you 're smitten with try contacting the developer about it . Often developers will purchase icon sets from icon factories like iconarchive.com ( link omitted on purpose ) . These icon sets are licensed to you , for use in your applications , and come with the necessary license to allow you to redistribute and profit off any product that includes them . You can find free and paid-for icon sets out there . The developer might be forthcoming if they purchased their icons from a factory . If the developer has designed the icons on their own they may choose to license them to you or they may say no . In which case : respect their wishes or you may find yourself on the receiving end of a cease-and-desist letter that prevents you from selling or giving away your app to the masses .
No , at least there 's no proof that going through TestFlight first will shorten the App Store review process . TestFlight only performs a cursory evaluation and not a larger review that 's required for the App Store . Apple <URL> However , Twitter and developer forums are full of examples of apps that passed TestFlight and failed App Store review . I often recommended developers use TestFlight to catch the ' low-hanging fruit ' , simple items , that cause review rejections .
Press the home button and the sleep button simultaneously . This will save a picture of the current iPhone screen to the " Photos " application . From there , you can either email it to anyone you want or sync it to your computer .
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
end question
start question
If I plug my ipod to another computer 's itunes , my musics will be deleted ?
I can confirm what Nathan G. reported . I have a computer with Windows , and when I plug my iPod on that computer , it says me it is already synchronized with an iTune library ; it asks me if I want to synchronize it with the library present on Windows , warning me that the content of the iPod will be deleted , if I decide to do so . I did n't select Manually Manage Music in both the computers .
MacBooks are fine to be transported when in sleep mode . When a MacBook goes into sleep , it takes 20-30 seconds to save the current state to the HDD , while this is happening you 'll see the status light shine brightly . Once it goes into a slow pulse , the MacBook is asleep and the HDD is inactive so there is no risk to the HDD from normal movement in a bag for example . Just make sure you do n't throw it into the bag until it 's fully asleep . MacBooks also have a ' Sudden Motion Sensor ' which can prevent damage to the HDD by the computer parking the head of the HDD if it detects that it is being shaken or is falling . Read about it on the <URL> or in the excerpt below : Sudden Motion Sensor technology is built-in protection for the hard disk , designed to help prevent disk issues if the computer is dropped or if it senses unusually strong vibration . Apple has adjusted this feature carefully to provide the best balance between protecting the hard drive and preventing unwanted activation of the Sudden Motion Sensor . Most Apple portable owners never need to turn this feature off . Apple suggests that you not modify the settings unless absolutely necessary . In some environments , such as live concert halls , recording studios , or dance clubs , external vibrations may be major enough to cause the module to unexpectedly park the hard drive heads , resulting in interrupted sound or video playback . In these situations , you may find that you want to disable the feature temporarily . Also see page <URL> and page <URL>
Offline tracks obtained through apple music do not sync across to ipod . Its a shame really , they could easily put a timer on the songs , so if the ipod is not plugged into registered device every so often , the songs will become locked .
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
If iTunes in the Cloud is available in your country ( it is in most ) , go to the iTunes Store , click on " Purchased " in the right-hand navigation bar , select Apps at the top , and then click the download button next to any app you 'd like to download .
As @Timothy pointed out in the comments , the App Store will work normally on a jailbroken device . As for your own apps , you can run them , but if you do n't have a paid developer account it is harder to get them on the device . If you have a paid account , you can use the normal methods to install and run them . A device which is not jailbroken will refuse to run any app which is not signed with an Apple-approved certificate . When you jailbreak , the code which performs the checks is modified . It will still only run signed apps , but those apps can be signed by any certificate . Therefore , you can create your own certificate to sign your apps with . However , the normal methods of installing an app will perform the check and refuse to install it . This means you need to find an alternate method of installation , most likely using SSH or USB to copy a package over and modifying permissions .
The iPod classic has no NVRAM/PRAM or settings that degrade when battery power is disconnected . Unless you want to roll the risk that opening the device causes irreparable harm into the definition of " replacing the battery " - you are safe to go . Just like you can pull a hard drive and place it in a new computer - same with the drives in a classic iPod - everything important is on the drive . I would put this in the class of putting a spare tire on a car . Even if you 've never done it before , you get out the manual and most people can do this themselves - especially if you are not in a rush . Likewise , those that really should n't attempt the operation generally have a good intuition that they are not up to the task . I say , dive in and replace your battery once you 've read up on which connectors are fragile for your specific model . Cracking the case is by far the hardest part of the surgery .
Towards the end of the WWDC keynote , Craig Federighi showed a slide listing the devices on which iOS 7 would be supported . In the <URL> , this occurs around the 1:54 mark . Here 's a picture of the slide : It reads : iPhone 4 and later iPad 2 and later iPad mini iPod touch ( 5th generation ) This matches the images and descriptions on the pages for iOS 7 for Apple 's website , so this seems to be the canonical list . It 's possible that Apple will add support for the 4th generation iPod touch between now and the release , but currently it looks like you wo n't be able to upgrade .
Yes . You need the discontinued " iPod " camera connector . ( not to be confused with the iOS iPad camera connector ) <URL> They are for sale on Amazon ( and of course at local thrift shops and electronics shops worldwide ) . <URL>
Apple uses WiFi hotspots ( and presumably the corresponding signal strength ) to triangulate your position using a data from Apple . Similar to how Google maps a hotspot using their StreetView cars , a 3rd party at one time scanned the area you travelled to and mapped the SSID and probably MAC address of the local hotspots . Though I do n't know if they still do , Apple at one time did not maintain this information internally but sourced it from a 3rd party . Some of the initial privacy concerns about iOS regarded how this information was ' phoned home ' to Apple without consent ; That is , when your iPod was connected and ' knew ' its location , it would also scan the local SSIDs and send them to Apple to improve/update the database . This data was sourced by <URL> . Based on my own inference from experience ( though not 100 % sure , and I no longer use an iPod , so even if this was true at one time it may not anymore be so ) , when you map a route in Maps , it caches the relevant SSID information for the areas to which you are travelling before it goes offline .
I had a system restore to a previous backup on the go by the time I VDR 's answer . After re-restoring to a backup I made just before the restore , the problem is fixed . So ... really not sure what happened . I suspect his answer would have helped .
Yes , disabling Find My iPhone on a device with an active Find My iPhone activation state will send an email to the email on file for the Apple ID that the iCloud account is tied to .
Macports provides a <URL> to migration to a new OS . Basically you need to uninstall all the ports , install a new Macports and Xcode ( although only the command line tools are needed for most ports ) , then reinstall the ports . If you don ; t do this then you might well have issues which Macports community ca n't help you with . If you put your configurations in new files rather than directly edit files installed by macports these files will not be overwritten . If you directly edited the config files then you will need to copy them from a backup after the reinstall . Note on the upgrade . Xcode does not provide a gcc compiler for OSX 10.9 and Macports is now using the corresponding C++ standard library . This means that any C++ based port could well have problems if you just kept your old Macports and did not go through the migration . I suspect that other code is likely to carry on running but when you upgrade a port or add a new one things will get confused .
Yes - if the enterprise entity is the one distributing the pass to end users , then you should be fine using that certificate to sign Passbook items . Any Apple generated code signing certificate should be sufficient to fulfill the requirements . If you are concerned after reading this , a quick call to developer support might help alleviate any concerns you have . Apple documents this at <URL> and the version 1.1 of this document states : Use of Apple-issued Certificates All passes need to be signed with an Apple-issued certificate to be recognized by Passbook . Passes should only be signed by the entity that will be distributing the pass under its own name , trademark , or brand , and that entity 's information should match the information on the back of the pass .
Once you have purchased something in the App Store , you can always download it again without paying ( This is the same on the Mac App Store and iOS ) . You will see it in your ' purchases ' tab in the Mac App Store . So once you use your redemption code , you have ' purchased ' it , and can install it whenever you need it .
When the phone operating system is off , the hardware still remains sensitive to the introduction of charging power to the 30 pin dock connector . Not only does this help in cases where the OS has frozen and run down the battery past the point where available voltage can even run the system ( including the charging circuitry ) but it also helps in the more common case of " my phone is dead " and I 'd like it back without having to press buttons . Depending on how long the battery self-discharged after crossing the " empty " line , it may need tens of seconds or even minutes of charging to get back to the minimum viable voltage . At that point , the sleep/wake button can become effective again for starting the OS . You can of course plug in the power and then shut off the phone to bypass this behavior . The charging circuitry runs whether the OS is running or not , and that circuitry is what kicks the OS to start when it senses a connection event on the 30 pin connector and the OS is not currently running .
<URL> ( $ 5 ) will let you load files directly to your iPhone over your LAN and play them from there . That should work fine if your audiobooks are a ) all one file ( if they are in multiple files there may not be ' playlist ' support , which would be annoying , and b ) not DRM 'd . If they are DRM 'd you 'll need to sync them via iTunes or , in the case of Audible.com , you can download them from the <URL> .
It appears that the login gets blocked after the wrong password is entered too often ( see <URL> ) . Maybe somebody else has a AppleID similar to yours ( or you fell victim to a DOS attack ) .
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
Here 's the info from <URL> : If I am enrolled as an individual , can I change to a company membership ? Yes . To convert your iOS Developer Program membership from an individual to a company , please contact us . You can make this change only if you are the founder/co-founder of the company . As part of the conversion process , you may be asked to submit business documents to verify your company 's identity . There 's a link to contact page in the link I provided .
end question
start question
What is the most effective way for a iPhoto user to have all photos synced and stored in the cloud for sharing ?
iPhoto supports sharing of albums ( including synchronising of comments , and name/face tagging ) with Facebook . This allows you to select a group of photos , and either put them into a Facebook album or post direct to a wall . If you synchronise with a Facebook album , then iPhoto will perform a 2 way sync and pull the new pictures down locally for offline storage . If you are worried about Privacy , you can always create an account just for this and really lock it down . If even works on photos of girls with seemingly impossible sized teeth : Other than Facebook , sharing options are more limited . Apple used to offer the MobileMe gallery service , but that is now not open to new customers and will be turned off in the coming months . There is limited support for Flickr ( believe it was better in '09 than in ' 11 , which is weird ) , but to get anything close to the Facebook levels of deep integration you will have to get happy with some scripting and automation to ( for example ) run a script after each import to automatically copy the contents of the last import to Flickr etc. . <URL> , but non of them are as self-contained as Facebook sync , and require other tools and software to create a more complicated workflow , but it is possible and if you are a Flickr fan the extra effort may make it worthwhile As a final option , you can still happily use your Picassa Web Albums , and just not use the local application , <URL> has an accepted answer on syncing iPhoto to Picassa .
Most people use QWERTY , just because it is the most popular , but if you 're learning a new layout anyway you might want to try Dvorak . If you do n't want to learn another alphabetic layout , you can use a tool like <URL> to make a better programming layout for the special characters while still keeping AZERTY for the rest of the keys .
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
So the short answer with reply is , " Sure , but WHY ?!? " The WebServer for Mac OS X ( I 'm assuming 10.6 Snow Leopard Client for the details of the answer ) is based entirely on Apache . There are tonnes of web resources for Apache . The key to Apple 's Web Services are in / etc/apache2 You can ( with admin privs ) modify the httpd.conf ( again ; loads of web refs on this file ) specifically pointing DocumentRoot anywhere . However ; and this is the list of caveats of why this is a weird thing to do ... You have to be sure that the web process has the proper privs to read the directory in the location you may move it . You run the risk of something getting access to other files around the moved location This is non-standard configuration in the OS and is likely to break in a future verison The location is non-user volatile ; meaning that deleting a user wo n't accidentally delete the served root folder . ( Apache will fail to launch ) if it ca n't find a served root folder On top of this ; we talk about moving the ~ Sites . When you generate a new user acct ; the OS generates a virtual directory conf in the / etc/apache2/users directory . Apache is smart enough to expand the ~ into a user name . All the above Caveats hold . The question is why do you want the root folder on your desktop ? It would seem to be more convenient to do one or more of the following : make an alias of / Library/WebServer/Documents on your desktop Setup groups/acls on / Library/WebServer/Documents to assure the correct write access Without knowing why you 're motivated to do this ; I ca n't really hazard any other suggestions . If it 's a question of moving your web services directory to a network share ... Now your solution is more along the lines of OS X Server ( 10.6 ) or doing your own apache install . Good luck . You have to be sure that the web process has the proper privs to read the directory in the location you may move it .
I 'd say go with Plex . I 've been using and testing different media center apps for years , and , like you , stuck with Front Row until Lion came out , because nothing else felt quite right . Since then , Plex has won me over , especially with the huge progress made in the last year or so . In terms of user experience , Plex is the closest thing to Snow Leopard 's Front Row . I always disliked the visual clutter of XBMC and Boxee , and even earlier Plex versions . But the current Plex version has a VERY clean interface and works great with the Apple Remote . It can handle almost any file format ( without installing extra codecs ) , unlike Front Row , and you can have it watch any folder on your machine ( or network ) , not just the ~ / Movies , ~ / Videos and iTunes . It automatically downloads artwork and metadata for movies and TV shows in your library based on their filenames , and there are many high-quality channels ( plugins for streaming content ) that you can install right inside the client . The channels have to present their data in the same layout as the native Plex library , so the interface is consistent . Plex integrates with iPhoto and iTunes as well , showing them as available channels . Finally , since Plex is really a two-part setup ( client and server , both of which can easily run on the same machine ) , it 's expandable . Once you set up the server , you can use it with the client on that machine , and you can also view your library on other Macs , PCs , iOS devices , Android devices , Google TV , Roku , LG Smart TVs , and DLNA TVs . I think they even released a WebOS client too . Most of the client apps work with absolutely zero configuration . As long as you 're on the same network , all available Plex servers and their libraries just show up . Start playing something , and the server will even transcode the video or audio ( in realtime ) if the client device does n't have the necessary codecs to handle it . Plex is n't perfect , but it 's under very active development , and constantly improving . And the UI finally looks and feels natural . Also , it 's everywhere . Practically every screen in my house has access to my Plex library . Some of the apps ( iOS , Android etc. ) cost money , which is good for the long-term survival of Plex as a platform , but the Linux ( server only ) , Mac ( client + server ) , Win ( client + server ) are all free .
<URL> by John Gruber outlines several possibilities : For OSX : <URL> <URL> For Windows : <URL> On the Mac side , Scroll Reverser looks nice in the menu bar , is free , and works from Tiger to Snow Leopard ( 10.4 - 10.6 ) .
The only other app on the Mac that can access photostream is Aperture . So your choices are migrate to Aperture - and that 's even less designed with sharing in mind - or fix iPhoto . Performance issues like you describe can be down to a number of issues - Disk Space , Ram , bunged up caches and so on . What fixes have you tried ?
iPhoto supports sharing of albums ( including synchronising of comments , and name/face tagging ) with Facebook . This allows you to select a group of photos , and either put them into a Facebook album or post direct to a wall . If you synchronise with a Facebook album , then iPhoto will perform a 2 way sync and pull the new pictures down locally for offline storage . If you are worried about Privacy , you can always create an account just for this and really lock it down . If even works on photos of girls with seemingly impossible sized teeth : Other than Facebook , sharing options are more limited . Apple used to offer the MobileMe gallery service , but that is now not open to new customers and will be turned off in the coming months . There is limited support for Flickr ( believe it was better in '09 than in ' 11 , which is weird ) , but to get anything close to the Facebook levels of deep integration you will have to get happy with some scripting and automation to ( for example ) run a script after each import to automatically copy the contents of the last import to Flickr etc. . <URL> , but non of them are as self-contained as Facebook sync , and require other tools and software to create a more complicated workflow , but it is possible and if you are a Flickr fan the extra effort may make it worthwhile As a final option , you can still happily use your Picassa Web Albums , and just not use the local application , <URL> has an accepted answer on syncing iPhoto to Picassa .
My choice would generally be Lucida Grande or Anadale Mono ; Some days I 'm more in the mood for Monaco though too . If my eyes start getting tired I ditch the small fonts for a few days if possivle . Depending on the shell I 'm running , I 've had Anadale Mono cranked all the way down to 5 point and still readable ( provided I have access to an electron microscope as backup ) .
If you have a Mac , connect your iPhone to it . There is a build in app ( from Apple ) called <URL> in your Applications folder . Use it to bulk delete Photos on iPhone .
From my experience , and at least with Sparrow for iPhone 1.3.2 build 507.11 , All does not refer to FROM+TO+SUBJECT , but all available fields , including the email body .
If you have access to Photoshop , then I highly recommend <URL> . Back when I doing this , Iconbuilder made the creation of resources for a variety of platforms a snap .
If you tap the " Share " icon , you have the option to send photos to the Camera Roll or to share them with iTunes : This interface is quite flexible , you can send the currently selected photos , all the photos , or choose the photos you want to share . Sharing with iTunes creates a folder in the " Apps " section of your device in iTunes that you can save from :
There are three microphones on the iPhone 5 . This setup is used to eliminate background noise while on call . One is ideally placed at the back , and two in the front . So basically when you 're covering the bottom , the mic on the ear piece picks up the audio input .
I ended up using the disband method and had no trouble recreating the family sharing group . It 's not ideal , but now it appears to be the only method .
iTunes movie rentals originally purchased on a computer can be moved between devices as many times as you like during the rental period but can only " exist " on one device at a time . To move it between devices , use iTunes with the device you want to put it on . See this <URL> . Steps are : Connect the device and select it in iTunes . Click the Movies button . Select the movie , and then click Move . After all movies have been moved , click Apply in the lower-right corner of iTunes . To answer your direct question : no , rentals do not currently exist in the cloud .
FileVault 1 used to do just this but the current FileVault 2 is whole disk encryption . It is technically possible to use the Logical Volume Manager underpinning FV2 to accomplish this , but it 's rather complicated and not supported by Apple or any GUI System Preferences . You could consider using an encrypted disk image created with DiskUtility . This would give you an optionally mountable disk that is encrypted . It appears on the HDD as a large file ( like most installer . dmg files ) and mounts with a double-click and password . This is similar to what FV1 used to do with a user 's home directory .
The easiest method to show which folder an email is currently located is to right click on the header bar in Outlook and add the " folder " ( visible columns have a check mark to the left of it ) column to the current view . This will show you which folder said email is contained in when you perform a search . If you no longer wish to have the " folder " seen in the current view just reverse the process to hide it again . If this is your only customization to the current view you can alternately choose to " reset to defaults " by right clicking on the header bar and choosing the reset to defaults action .
Yes - you can find large files in many ways . In the finder search field type size : > 9000 and add a size field if you wish in the list view to sort descending . Add zeroes to the number to get less results back for your file sizes . This does n't work well for network backups in my experience due to lag or incomplete spotlight databases . If that does n't work , get a tool made to analyze Time Machine backups like BackupLoupe . It is crafted specifically to efficiently scan time machine backup drives and network volumes . It creates a comprehensive backup database of all the files and revisions that would make your size query a snap . <URL> Install the app Let it index one or more intervals Use the app 's find window to sort on size after setting the search criteria as follows : Type is directory and match type of none of the following is true <URL> It also helps to reveal the files in Finder so you could decide to remove that file across backups or just to delete that interval entirely . <URL> <URL> Since Time Machine stores each backup in folders , you could unleash any other tool ( DaisyDisk , Grand Perspective , WhatSize or other ) on the backup , but they do n't know how to interpret hard links and may take days or months to make a picture that does n't represent the actual storage allocations . BackupLoupe is smarter than the existing tools and does n't double count hard linked files . It also runs in the background if you wish . Lastly , it reads a database file summarizing the backups so the results are near instantaneous and you do n't even need the backup drive mounted to do the reporting .
I would n't have believed a single ranting tweet , but the UK 's Daily Mail also covered this recently - so it 's actually likely to be true , for any given value of ' true ' [ my own opinions on the Mail 's foil-hat , ranty , opinionated style aside ... ] <URL>
end question
start question
Is there an adapter to connect a Macbook Pro to a DVI splitter ?
There are many types of DVI adapter , I could type a load of stuff or just point you at <URL> . The key point is that there is no such thing as a DVI adapter . It 's just a generic term that covers the overall outline of the cable end , but what you really have is either a DVI-I or DVI-D adapter , in either Single or Dual link capability . Or it may be a DVI-A . Or there are others ... ! It 's possible that your splitter cable must be of the dual link types , characterised by the longer horizontal bar pin , and your Thunderbolt adapter may or may not be . Should n't matter which type , either I ( Integrated with analogue signal in the pins above/below the horizontal bar in addition to digital ) or D ( Digital only ) as I imagine you are not subsequently adapting them down to DSUB further down the line , the only thing that matters is if they are both dual link . So it looks like you need a Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort to DVI Dual link - the official apple one is the digital only one without the analogue pins ( DVI-D Dual Link ) , and thus should work , if you are worrying that you do not have the same pinout ( i.e. you have DVI-I Dual Link on your splitter , and it looks as though the analogue ones have nothing to connect to ) then do n't worry , it wo n't need them . EDIT - Additional Info After the comments , I have decided that you have a <URL> connector that looks like this : So what you really need is a MiniDisplay > DMS-59 adapter , and my google-fu suggests that this is not looking like a possibility , I think you would be better served abandoning this cable , and looking for a total replacement , Mini Display Port > 2 x DVI ( Single is fine , I or D if you have 2 ports ) . This may also be a pain to find , and you may end up needing a MDP/Thunderbolt to Dual Link DVI , followed by a Dual Link DVI > 2 X Single Link DVI splitter cable !
The server admin tools and associated documentation will walk you through how this works on Mac OS X . There are even worksheets that help you work through the myriad possibilities before you set up OS X Server . It depends on how the server was " set up " so perhaps you can find out whether yours expects to control the user accounts and have the clients control themselves with a local policy file pointing to the server or if the server expects to set up the mac clients as well . Hit the books and do know you can ask more specific questions later of one specific item is holding you up . I prefer using <URL> until I 'm comfortable with the specifics for each site ...
No , the Lightning to Micro USB adapter will only allow you to use micro USB cables to charge and synch your device .
I 've had the best results restoring from Time Machine to a freshly formatted drive . I did this for a machine with lots of system modifications , ( httpd.conf , ssh_config ) and all of these files were restored . When I did that with an OS in place these files were missed . There were no problems when I restored to a clean drive . Everything was restored properly . So , if you buy a Mac Mini , format the drive before running the Time Machine restore . I recommend sending machines to Apple as stock as possible . I 've put in known bad hard drives with the Apple Logo on them when sending a machine back to Apple . The hard drive was replaced and the primary problem was fixed . The drive swap would be fine , but unless you are in a big hurry I 'd discourage it .
I had this problem connecting to the local public library system network . The problem seems to be a result of my having specified DNS servers ( ( i.e. OpenDNS , Google , etc. ) ) in my Network preferences . The solution was to create a network location called " No DNS " which does n't have any DNS servers defined and use that network location when I need to log into these networks .
It appears to be possible . According to <URL> , the A1425 SSD It 's a Samsung MZ-DPC2560 / 0A2 unit , rated at 3.3 volts and 2.39 amps . The serial number reads S0X5NYAC703706 . Which appears to have an mSATA connector . There are lots of mSATA to whatever-you-may-need adapters on the market . mSATA to micro SATA ( <URL> ) ( <URL> ) <URL> I have n't tried any of this myself , just did a search for it . This question <URL> points to certain incompatibilities to be aware of before buying .
<URL> your USB stick , to be bootable , must be setup for <URL> / GPT .
I 'd like to confirm that it IS possible to run Snow Leopard on a late 2011 MBP 15 " without ANY FLAW although AppleCare technicians told me that it is not possible ! I did it on mine ( CTO , 2.2 GHz i7 ) bought in fev . 2012 and had not the slightest issue since . But from Apple side it is NOT recommended and certainly NOT supported . - But hey , my love and I have some scientific software and also Adobe products that only run smoothly on Snow Leopard and all our other Mac 's in the family are on SL so I had to give it a try to stay productive . And personally , I 'm not really happy with Lion , but that 's an other story . - For me it 's just roaring and definitely not the ' King ' of the MacOs as the name suggests ... So here is what I did : As I could n't lay my hands on a original MBP 15 " Install-DVD from last summer ( 10.6.7 ) which should allow you to boot the MBP15 " directly from it , I did a clean 10.6.7 install with my iMac 27 " ( iMac11 ,1 - i7 2.8 GHz ) on an external hard drive starting from a 10.6.3 iMac install DVD and applying all the updates up to 10.6.7 . Then I formatted my MBP internal drive in target disk mode and created 3 partitions ( SL , Lion , Bootcamp ) . Using CarbonCopyCloner I cloned the clean SL installation one the first partition of the MBP , then disconnected the laptop and booted in SL . There was one little glitch with the splash screen resolution ( not full screen ) but nothing serious . Now I ran the 10.6.8 combo update that I downloaded before cloning and did all the software updates and another reboot . That done SL runs now without any problem - not one incompatibility issue in one month ( would have been surprised because there were no major hardware changes from early to late 2011 MBP15 " ) . As next step I rebooted the MBP holding the alt-command-R keys to start from the Apple servers and did a new Internet install of Lion on the second partition . And last I installed Windows 7 on the third partition reformatting it using NTFS ( be careful to choose the right partition - by the way there is a fourth partition : the rescue partition created by Lion you do n't want to touch ) . Once Win7 installed I ran the Bootcamp Assistant and did all updates . And so now we have a nice triple boot MBP15 " allowing us to use all the software we need without the slightest problem . You could probably even try a quadruple boot adding a Linux partition ... But be careful ! I would n't bet that this method works for all new MBP and MBA so you want to make sure your model ran with SL back in summer 2011 and had no major hardware changes before trying ! You can also test booting it first from an external drive with the clean install on it . I neither do know if my method worked because the iMac 27 " and the MBP15 " both have a i7 Quad Core . that 's it , have fun !
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
is an application that will show you hardware information to determine which bus the CD drive is connected . Once you know your hardware specifications , you can shop better . Check <URL> and <URL> for housings that work physically with SATA connectors . Also check <URL> on the issues you might face moving to an SSD / HD combination .
They write on the refurb store : We test and certify all Apple refurbished products and include a one-year warranty . They are even eligible to the AppleCare program if you buy it up to 1 year after your purchase . So I do n't see what problem you would face . It 's a used device but verified , repackaged and certified by Apple .
You should get a mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter ( sometimes referred to as a Thunderbolt to VGA adapter , but it 's the same thing ) . Apple <URL> , but they can be had elsewhere for less , including at my personal favourite , <URL> . You could do HDMI to VGA , but it would require a ( typically bulky ) active adapter . There are some HDMI to VGA adapters that are n't active , but they rely on graphics card support that Macs do n't have . The DisplayPort to VGA adapters are technically active adapters , but for whatever reason they seem to be much more compact than HDMI to VGA ones . There are USB based display adapters , and some of them have VGA output , but I 'd only recommend them for situations where other outputs are n't available . They 're essentially a USB connected graphics card , which means that performance is lacking , and it takes up CPU and memory resources that the built-in outputs do n't . Useful for some situations , but in your case I 'd stay away .
I have the same MBP . It only has a single displayport/thunderbolt output , which can drive a single monitor . The only way for it to drive multiple external displays is to use a daisy chained Thunderbolt display , or an adapter that drives multiple displays from a single input ( Matrox makes one ) or possibly a usb driven adapter .
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
Facebook updated its chat system , breaking Adium 's support . You can still connect to Facebook but you need to setup the account as a Jabber account . Your username will be . The server is . The port is and you should not use SSL .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
According to <URL> , anything that works in the US should work in the Bahamas . Voltage : 110-120 Volts ( Same as U.S. / Canada , most other areas are 220-240 Volts ) Primary Socket Types : North American Non-Grounded , North American Grounded
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
There are two solutions , depending on the situation Create a computer-to-computer network . Doing this will cause you to lose your internet connection . To do this , follow the instructions from Apple : Choose Create Network from the Wi-Fi status icon in the menu bar . If the icon is n't in the menu bar , choose Apple menu > System Preferences , and then click Network . Click Wi-Fi and select the " Show Wi-Fi status in menu bar " checkbox . Give the network a name , and select a channel from the pop-up menu . The default channel is 11 , but you can choose a different channel . Select the Require Password checkbox to protect your network with a password . Type the password users will need to enter in order to join your network . Do the following : Type a password of exactly 5 ASCII characters or 10 hexadecimal digits if you chose " 40-bit WEP ( more compatible ) " from the Security pop-up menu . Type a password of exactly 13 ASCII characters or 26 hexadecimal digits if you chose " 128-bit WEP " from the Security pop-up menu . Other Wi-Fi-enabled computers within range can join the network you created by choosing it from their Wi-Fi status icon or by choosing it from the Network Name pop-up menu in the Wi-Fi pane of Network preferences . Once you did that , connect your Mac mini to it . You can now access it from your browser . 2 . Share your internet connection . To do that , follow these instructions : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences and click Sharing . Select Internet Sharing and click the checkbox if it is n't checked . Choose the Internet connection you want to share from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . For example , if you 're connected to the Internet over Ethernet , choose Ethernet . Select how you want to share your Internet connection in the " To computers using " list . For example , if you want to share your Internet connection over AirPort , select AirPort . If you share your Internet connection using AirPort , click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Basically , use an ethernet cable on one of you devices and share it to the other device using Airport .
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
end question
start question
How to fix a frayed cable on a MagSafe Power Adapter ?
Eventually there will be very light electricity shocks , I fixed all my cables with this tape it is very strong an the with ones are more esthetics for mac white cable . It 's called RESCUE TAPE Self-Fusing Silicone Tape ~ WHITE . I got mine from Amazon but there might be other places or similar tapes . <URL>
As with any computer , using a higher-wattage power adapter is fine , but using a lower-wattage one might not let it run at full efficiency and may be unhealthy for the battery in the long term . ( And of course it wo n't charge as fast . ) There are a number of answers to this same question , but for MagSafe chargers , <URL> . Kuba Ober 's answer goes into quite a bit of detail about it , though I ca n't personally vouch for its accuracy .
Simple answer -- yes you can ! there should be no any problems .
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
Thanks to <URL> , it would appear to be safe to say that the Apple Watch is more powerful than a Cray-2 : Twice as fast , twice the memory . 2 excerpts from that table <URL> :
How Daisy Chaining Works Daisy chaining is connecting multiple devices in series , as in this diagram : Note that this shows some disk drives , but they could be any Thunderbolt devices . Each device in the chain ( except for the last ) needs two Thunderbolt ports -- one to connect to the downstream devices ( those closer in the chain to the Mac ) and one for the upstream ( to pass the data on to the devices further along the chain ) . Additionally , each chain supports a maximum of six devices , and there can only be one non-Thunderbolt display , and it must be at the end of the chain . Making Your Situation Feasible Because of these limitations , you wo n't be able to connect the devices you have using Thunderbolt alone . Unfortunately Apple 's ethernet adapter does n't have multiple ports for passthrough , so you can only use it at the end of a chain . If your displays were Thunderbolt based , it would be do-able , but it sounds like they 're not . The best suggestion I can give you is to use the HDMI port on your Retina MBP to connect one of your monitors ( this will work if it has either a DVI or HDMI input ) , however this limits the resolution to 1920x1200 , so for hi-res panels ( like those found on some 27 " and 30 " displays ) , you wo n't be getting the full benefit of the display . If you 're still stuck , there are USB 3 ethernet adapters available now that will do full gigabit . There might be a bit more overhead than the Thunderbolt adapter , but it 's better than nothing .
I 've had that issue before , and it indeed seems to be a bug of sorts . As evidenced by the fact that one should n't have to hold their phone up to direct light , or manually adjust brightness on a frequent basis . I would recommend starting with a phone reboot - hold down the power and home button until you see the Apple logo . This may help the situation Next , you could also try turning off " Automatic Brightness " . Open the Settings app , tap " Brightness &amp; Wallpaper " , then switch " Auto-Brightness " off .
According to <URL> the 85W power adapter is the right one . However , there seem to be issue with " T " style ( the old ) vs. " L " style ( the new ) : see <URL> . It seems that for some people , a workaround does the trick : Turn off your computer , flip over the laptop and remove the battery , hold down the circlular button on the battery for 10 seconds , the green light should go out . Re-install the battery and turn your computer on . Your new charger should work fine . If that does n't work , you need to call Apple support to arrange for your power adapter to be replaced with a " T " style adapter : Apple is aware of the issue with the pins being at a different depth in the new chargers with the " L " shaped connection . After having two new ones not work , I contacted tech support . They sent a new version of the old charger with the square mag safe connector . It works fine . Edit : Apparently the <URL> should fix the " L " style power adapter issue on older MacBooks .
The charger supplies the power that is demanded from it ( up to it 's rated output ) , not the other way around . So it 's entirely possible that the same unit will charge different devices at different speeds . It 's entirely possible that a newer battery will charge faster than an identical but older battery , and also possible that the new phone is allowed to pull more charge because it runs a little cooler ( charging generates heat , and one of the metrics for deciding how fast to charge is the heat generated as well as the batteries capacity to drink it up ) . Basically , it 's really hard to measure , without you do a from flat to full charge with the same unit to different devices with batteries of the same age and condition . Even then , be aware that the phone does n't stop charing when it says 100 % , that 's an artificial figure and your phone will continue to charge a little ( the equivalent of a little over 5 % more logically speaking ) , then run from battery a little , then charge a little , then run from battery etc - this is to keep your battery in good condition ( the same is true for 0 % , it will go lower in order to perform a clean shutdown - the battery figures are only an indication , not an accurate gauge ) - the actual methods for each device may also vary as to how they handle this .
Painful to the touch - especially when the device has n't been that hot since day one - is a great time to unplug and take your rig ( computer and power adapter ) in to have things checked out . You might power off everything and try hooking just the shut down mac and see if drawing less current helps , but keep a very close eye on things and do n't leave it plugged in just in case if you have any concerns . I 've got an 85W adapter that started buzzing faintly and now it 's getting hot as well so I 've stopped using it until I can have things checked out . Also , ambient temperature is a big factor . Since things are air cooled , if you are 85 degrees F then the charger ca n't dissipate heat as well as if you were in a server room cooled to 62 degrees or so .
Sounds like your harddisk is busted . There is a feature in MacBooks which is there to help protect the disk by parking the head in the event of a fall but it 's not foolproof . Even if you managed to resolve the errors , I would n't trust that the disk had not been damaged and you just risk further data loss in future . Best thing you can do is backup anything you can salvage if you do n't already have a backup while the disk can still operate and either have Apple or an authorized repair centre replace the harddisk . You can also replace the disk yourself if you feel capable . There are instructions in the manual and also on the Apple support pages . You have n't said which model of 2011 MacBook you have but here are the instructions for the 13-inch ( page 37 ) <URL>
Have a look at : <URL> If you get the adaptor kit it works with your existing power supply . You just pop off the end you have , and slide on the new end . It 's just changing out the prongs for the correct one needed . Also works with most other Apple products . This is n't like a normal international adaptor which sits between the socket and the existing plug - it replaces the existing plug .
You can do this using the builtin firewall ( it is not the default firewall in Snow Leopard , but it is still included ) . You can configure from the command line , the exact rule set you need depends on your other requirements , but the specific rule in question would be something like : Obviously you will need to adjust that for your specific network . Also , these rules are not persistent , which means you will need to add a script to run them commands every reboot . On the other hand , that means that if you wedge your networking while trying to come up with appropriate rules you can always just reboot to reset the stack . There are plenty of ipfw tutorials on the web ( most of them are aimed at FreeBSD users , but it is the same interface ) .
SOLVED ! Solution : The network i was trying to connect to , was set not to distribute it 's ID , so i typed it in or saved it somehow at some point . The fatal error is , the SECURITY TYPE does not match with the wireless router so every time , the computer ask again for the correct type/key combination resulting in , a disconnection from the wireless network :) To fix it , go to Preferences > Network > Advanced and press the plus sign and ADD THE ENTRY MANUAL !!!!!!! and you will be fine . Hope it helps , thank you all !
I just filed down my new Apple MagSafe power cord on each end and it totally works with my 2012 15 " MacBook Pro . . Just found out the edges and I did a few passes over the top were the pins are and pow ! It totally works
The magnet can save your computer . Let 's suppose it 's on a table connected to AC . If someone pull the cable with his foot by just walking by , the MacBook wo n't fall on the floor , the magsafe will just pop .
This kind of thing is a RAM problem 9 times out of 10 . Your RAM is constantly being paged in and out to your ( relatively slow ) hard drive , causing you to wait . THe best solution is to upgrade your RAM or if it 's already maxed , consider getting an SSD .
Go to settings/general/keyboard / add new keyboard and see if there is one called English ( UK ) . If so , activate that one and deactivate English - British .
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
I have read it somewhere before ( <URL> ) that on some heavy loads ( especially GPU loads ) , 2011 MacBook Pro charger may not supply enough charge . There are no official confirmations , though , as far as I know . Please check , however , that the " 0:09 " minutes are referred to the remaining time and not the " remaining time until fully charged " . I suppose it is the latter . I may also point out ( but only as a last thought ) that if you keep your Mac always under charge , the battery may stop charging at certain times to preserve lifetime .
end question
start question
Why ca n't I go back with backspace in Safari 8 ?
Not sure if you are asking what they are in Safari . CMD + [ Go back ( or cmd + alt +5 ) CMD + ] Go forward ( or cmd + alt +6 ) But you can make it work using Terminal with following ( Thanks to @Tetsujin research ) Terminal command to re-enable Backspace/Delete as " Back-Button " : Quit Safari , then copy &amp; paste the command in a Terminal window ( Applications → Utilities ) and hit enter . Quit Terminal and restart Safari . Terminal command to undo the set preference :
Indeed , the Twitter notifications will always redirect you to the web application , even if you have a native Twitter client installed . In fact , Twitter notifications also work without Twitter.app as long as you have your Twitter account configured . There currently is no way to change this behaviour .
Try turning off your home WiFi . A kind of interference , maybe ?
Try to reset the <URL> . Resetting the SMC on Mac portables with a battery you can remove Shut down the computer . Disconnect the MagSafe power adapter from the computer , if it 's connected . Remove the battery . Press and hold the power button for 5 seconds . Release the power button . Reconnect the battery and MagSafe power adapter . Press the power button to turn on the computer .
When using Gmail in iChat before 10.7 you ca n't go invisible . I 'm using <URL> to be able to go invisible when I login via Gmail .
I know its over a year later , but I had the same question , and then figured out the answer myself . Open terminal and type Then you can have it enabled system wide , and just disabled for chrome . By the way , this works for any app , just replace com.google.Chrome with the bundle identifier of the target app . If your interested in how it works , the AppleEnableSwipeNavigateWithScrolls is the global setting , that can be overwritten for any specified app . Hope this helps someone in the future .
Testing this just now on my personal rMBP , it does not go to sleep immediately . It appears to trigger the sleep at the normal " power adapter sleep " time.a
The jailbreak does not affect the functionality of the phone except to allow MORE things to run on it , so there 's no reason to think it wo n't work for development .
Settings Before doing anything : Clear your App Switcher ( Double press your home button and swipe up all the applications you see ) ( Optional ) Go to Settings > Messages and Turn OFF and then back ON your iMessage option . Now open back Message and try to send a message to your friend 's iPhone , but make sure to use the button at the Top-Left corner to find your friend and start the conversation , do n't just open your recent chat with him/her . This should have reset your iMessage settings , so you should be able to send iMessages to your friend now . Restart If the process above did n't solve the issue , you may want to : Clear the App Switcher again ( Optional ) Restart your iPhone , long press the Sleep/Wake button until you see the Apple logo again , then release , OR you can long press until you see a slider which can be used to turn OFF the iPhone , once done that , press again the Sleep/Wake button to turn the iPhone back ON . Try to send a message to your friend I 'm sure you already know the difference between iMessage and normal SMS/MMS , although that , I 'll leave you a link to the <URL> about the difference , have a great day !
No , you are n't doing anything wrong . Apple does n't allow you to paste into certain secure dialog boxes . It 's a feature , not a bug . ( It makes a brute force hack of the dialog box more difficult . ) You can paste the password into the command line if you mount the secure image using <URL> . Open Terminal and type : When prompted for the password , copy it from a text file or ( preferably ) a password vault and paste it into terminal . If the path/to/imagefile is complex , you can type the command , a space , then drag the imagefile icon from the finder into the terminal window to automatically enter the path/filname .
According to this detailed <URL> post the trick is to use Lion 10.7.2 and Safari 5.1.1 to force a flush of the Data . Simplified steps : Turn off bookmark sync on all devices except the Mac Backup current bookmarks on Mac Correct bookmarks on Safari on the Mac Move the new bookmarks out of you Safari Library folder Delete all bookmarks and wait for iCloud to update . Move the new bookmarks folder back and wait for iCloud to update Delete all bookmarks on iOS devices and re-enable sync . It 's laborious , but I am fairly certain Apple will release better tools for this process . Considering there normal rollout , they are probably handling these issues in phases . They introduced Photo Stream reset mid way in the Beta , so I am sure they will bring the rest through over time .
I answered a similar question <URL> . You can summon the Dock on a different display by dragging the cursor to the bottom of it 's display , and then continuing the dragging down motion for a second or so . Is it possible that this is occurring when you inadvertently perform that action ?
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
<URL> is the canonical bug reporting mechanism . Once you have submitted an issue , it will be given a " radar " number and you will be treated to possibly the most archaic customer-facing bug reporting interfaces on the planet . You will want to first select a developer account and agree to Apple 's terms . In your case , the free of cost Safari developer program might be very useful if you care to know what changes are in store for Safari . <URL>
It 's caused by a <URL> . Occasionally revealing files in Finder stops working in all applications , and for example Archive Utility stops responding when extracting archives . As a workaround , you can terminate appleventsd from Activity Monitor or with ( without - kill the process is sent a TERM signal , which makes other processes stop responding ) . The issue will probably return within a few hours or days though .
In the external buttons and connectors section of Apple 's official <URL> no mention is made that the lightning connector is magnetic . Given how proud , and rightly so , Apple is of the MagSafe connector , I 'd bet dollars to doughnuts they would mention that the new connector is MagSafe if that was indeed the case . Secondly , looking at 2D representations of the new connector , it does not have any of the characteristics of the MagSafe connector at all . It uses the traditional male/female plug/socket concept humans find so comforting . Once I get my new iPhone 5 , I 'll let you know .
Are you sure your new iPhone is connected to the same WiFi access point ? Try turning both Airplane mode and WiFi ON in Settings to make sure you are accessing the correct local network .
Exporting Your Chrome Bookmarks Chrome stores bookmarks in a non-HTML format so you need to export them first before you can import them in to Safari . Select from the menu bar in Chrome In the Bookmark Manager UI select Select a location to save the file ( I suggest ) in the File window dialog and click the button Import the Exported Bookmarks in to Safari In Safari select from the menu bar Navigate to the folder where you saved the exported HTML bookmarks file , select the file and press the button Your bookmarks will be imported in to a bookmark folder named . For example , on the day of writing this answer , my imported bookmarks were placed in a bookmark folder named . You can organize your bookmarks in Safari by selecting to open the bookmark editing interface in a tab . Move and re-arrange your imported bookmarks to suit your needs .
I ran into the same annoyance myself , and stumbled into this workaround : Edit the " Repeat " setting for your alarm , and set it either to " Every day " or " Never " . Now the alarm goes off when it should , unlike when it 's set to e.g. " Weekdays " . Here 's a screenshot -- green works and red does n't : For more background info , I recommend these <URL> articles : <URL> <URL> The latter post contains Apple 's recommended workaround ( same thing as above , but with some additional information ) : To resolve this behavior for existing alarms , set the repeat interval to Never . You will need to reset these alarms for each day you need them . After November 7th , 2010 , you can set your alarms to repeat again . Update : It 's now past November 7 , and I just verified alarm works correctly again , even if repeat is set to e.g. " Weekdays " . Which is nice . But I hope they fix the bug once and for all before the next DST shift occurs !
You do n't get invisibility using Apple 's Messages app on OS X. <URL> , so perhaps it 's a limitation of their API and only something you can set using their web app . They get to serve you ads when you are on the web , but not on a client so perhaps that was a factor in deciding to code that function in one place over the other . Apple 's Messages app on OS X will set an invisible status for AIM accounts , but not for Google Talk , so it 's less like a Messages oversight as an account/API design issue from Google .
end question
start question
Use Goal0 Nomad 7m Solar Panel to charge MacBook Air ?
If you look at the page for the <URL> ( click " Tech Specs " ) It 's rated for 7 Watts . I do n't where you got the " ~ 7 amps @ < 22V DC on a regular day . " So the sort answer is - That panel wo n't even keep the MacBook Air running at idle , let alone charge the battery . Your post got me curious , so I broke out a Kill-A-Watt power meter . 11 " MacBook Air Power Draw , battery already fully charged , measured at the wall : Idle , screen backlight completely off : ~ 4.7 W Idle , Minimum Screen Brightness : ~ 4.9 W Idle , Half Screen Brightness : ~ 5.4 W Idle , Maximum Screen Brightness : ~ 8.0 W For the active tests , I have the screen set to half-brightness , where I usually use it : Moving the mouse in circles with the trackpad : ~ 6.5 W Scrubbing the Dock ( with magnification ) : ~ 11.2 W HD Video Decoding , GPU accelerated : ~ 15.6 W SD Video Decoding , GPU Accelerated : ~ 11.2 W Flash SD Decoding ( not sure if it 's accelerated ) : ~ 12.7 W Ok , these figures are VERY approximate ( the Kill-A-Watt is not a high precision instrument ) , but they do put things in the ballpark . The theoretical approach - <URL> is the term for the amount of energy that falls on a set area per set time . Basically , we can calculate the amount of solar energy which falls on a specific area . The <URL> wikipedia page gives us a ballpark figure of ~ 1Kw/M ² . Then , you have to take the efficiency of the Photovoltaic Panel into account . <URL> a best-case mono crystalline panel efficiency of ~ 25 % , shich means that only 25 % of the light which falls on the panel is converted to electrical energy , while the rest is dissipated as heat , reflected away , etc. . . Therefore , a 1m ² panel will , at the equator and with a mechanism that points it directly at the sun , manage ~ 250 W. From this , we can tell that a 154W panel would have to be ~ 0.616 m ² ( 154/250 = 0.616 ) , far larger than what you have . Examining the 7W panel you have - How big does a panel have to be to produce 7W ? 7/250 = 0.028 m ² , or 280 cm ² or about 14 * 20 cm , which seems pretty accurate , judging from the pictures on the product page . Anyways , I went of on a bit of a tangent here , because you mentioned you 're an EE , which is one of my main interests .
The trackpad surface is the same on both the MacBook Air and MacBook Pro . It 's the iconic glass on metal design ( patent <URL> ) . The trackpad design and hardware has been the same since it 's introduction in 2008 with the new MacBooks .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
It could help if you see kernel_task soaking CPU cycles . From <URL> Activity Monitor may show that a process named kernel_task is using a large percentage of your CPU , and during this time you may notice a lot of fan activity . This process helps manage temperature by making the CPU less available to processes that are using the CPU intensely . In other words , kernel_task responds to conditions that cause your CPU to become too hot . When the temperature decreases , kernel_task automatically reduces its activity . So if your case is more than 10 ° F / 5 ° C warmer than the ambient temperature and you are seeing high CPU/kernel task usage , cooling the bottom case or increasing airflow significantly might actually speed up your Air .
After replacing the macbook air for the key " 9 " broken after one day , they replaced the keyboard for free last week for the second issue ( the key " t " not working well ) . Great
Yes - from <URL> comes the text : The built-in battery of your MacBook , MacBook Pro or MacBook Air is designed to deliver up to 1000 full charge and discharge cycles before it reaches 80 percent of its original capacity . I have been bowled over at how well the internal battery chemistry holds up over time . Of course , bad batteries fail prematurely all the time and need to be swapped , but my gut feel is way more of these " go the distance " than all the older removable batteries .
What is the benefit of using flash memory in the Macbook Air ? How does the use flash memory compare to SSDs ? What are the benefits ? The Macbook Air uses an SSD . Apple markets it as merely flash memory because in the consumer market there are only two storage types - flash and hard drives . The typical consumer Apple is aiming for does not know what SSD is , nor do they care . But they do know what a " flash drive " is , and due to aggressive marketing they believe it 's better than the alternative . It 's a custom form-factor SSD , but it uses a SATA flash controller , and the Air reads it just as if it were any other SATA drive . OS X does , however , understand it as an SSD and treats it slightly differently from a hard drive in order to use it to its full potential , but in every other respect it 's just a custom form factor SSD . The reason Apple uses a custom form factor SSD is for size , weight , and - most important to Apple - cost . They have both Toshiba and Samsung on the line for supplying these SSDs . When they get a poor price from one , they go to the other . They need this because the SSD is one of the few things in the Air that requires custom PCB layout and comes from multiple suppliers . The pinouts and circuitry are different between the samsung and toshiba flash controllers , so they ca n't build them into the main PCB as Apple would prefer , without locking them into one vendor or the other . The flash market is so volatile right now that they ca n't lock themselves into just one supplier , especially since some 80 % of Apple 's revenue comes from products that use copious amounts of flash . If they thought they could get a better price manufacturing their own flash , they 'd have their own plant - or ten . Instead it 's cheaper to play the major flash producers against each other to get the lowest cost . So : The Storage in the Air is a SATA interfaced SSD It 's not on the main PCB to give them the ability to use different parts from different suppliers It 's not a 2.5 " , 1.8 " , or SATA slim interface because they needed it to be smaller - they designed their own interface , but it 's still SATA , just with a different low insertion force connector They are n't using the latest and greatest chipsets due to cost and power consumption They are n't using hard drives due to size , weight , and power consumption
You can use the USB drive plugged into the busted computer as a network drive with OS X 's file sharing . Mount the drive with USB . Go to System Preferences - > Sharing - > File Sharing . Turn it on and click the plus button . Click on your USB drive and click Add . Add your user account on the right . Now , go to another computer on the network . The busted MacBook should appear in the Finder sidebar . Click it and click Connect As . Type in your username and password ( the one you use on the busted MacBook ) . Let it log in . Click on the USB drive and let it load the list of files . You should now see your USB drive mounted on your desktop . Now , to configuring Time Machine . By default , TM does n't let you use a network drive unless its a Time Capsule . But , you can allow it do so by changing a hidden preference . Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) . Type this in and press enter : Now , open System Preferences - > Time Machine . Turn it on and set it to use your network drive . Backups will be slowish , but they should work . If you want to use iTunes and Time Machine , you 'll need to use Disk Utility to partition the drive into two partitions . Time Machine needs a whole partition to run ... If you do that , just make sure that you select both partitions on the busted MacBook 's System Preferences pane . Set up Time Machine to use one partition , and add your iTunes folder on the other one . Notes : The MacBook will have to be turned on for you to get at its files . 320GB is kinda small for a Time Machine disk , especially if you 're partitioning to keep media on it . Just be careful ... Hope this helps .
Plugging in headphones used to be the quick and dirty way to assure silence ( back in the PPC hardware days ) . Now , the self test startup chime still uses the internal speaker whether or not the headphone jack is in use , but the below trick will work on older macs . It is of use with new macs as long as you do n't set your mac to reboot automatically and you do n't forget about the current behavior and reboot it yourself . I have a snipped nub of a headphone jack that I use when I am in a place where noise is prohibited no matter what the software decides . You can get a plug without any cord for less than $ 5 at a store such as Radio Shack if you do n't have headphones you can sacrifice or the cut cord does n't please you . It 's simply not possible to change the NVRAM mute/volume setting after the mac is shut down ( or sleeping ) so even if you prepare properly , sound will be made if things do n't go as planned on the shutdown .
The Change Settings ... button in Safari > Preferences ... > Advanced opens the global Proxies sheet . Changes made here affect every app that uses that connection . Alternatively the sheet can be opened by opening System Preferences.app , selecting Network , then Advanced ... , then Proxies .
Your Macbook can have as much as 3GB of RAM . Check it first . Buy an Optical Disk Drive to HDD adaptor on ebay ( 9.5 mm PATA to SATA variant ) . Put you HDD there . Crucial is good . 64GB is enough for me , SATA150 and probably you . Small read/writes are same between different sizes and you will not get those faster linear RW anyway -- why pay more when you can have platters to store those big files ? Still it 's wiser to sell your Macbook as is and buy anything unibody ( used ) for a bit more -- you 'll get better graphics to help with flash ( I have such a notebook and know how pathetically slow it becomes when flash is on ) . And then max that unibody Macbook with RAM ( which is DDR3 and cheaper ) and SSD .
I just filed down my new Apple MagSafe power cord on each end and it totally works with my 2012 15 " MacBook Pro . . Just found out the edges and I did a few passes over the top were the pins are and pow ! It totally works
Yes . It usually " just works , " but if you 're having trouble , Apple has detailed instructions : <URL>
Apple seem to have removed/hidden some of the more advanced options from the Airport Utility interface in version 6 and this is likely one of them . Unless there 's a workaround someone else can suggest to make such options visible again , on 10.7 ( Lion ) , I 've been getting around this by using the <URL> . You can find the Dynamic Global Hostname option by clicking Manual Setup > AirPort > Base Station tab > Edit - though I 'm sure you already know that :) Note that I have the <URL> and the Airport Utility 5.6 does complain that This version of AirPort Utility does n't support this AirPort wireless device and might improperly configure the device if you continue to use it when you try to configure it . It seems to read all the information correctly but I would urge you to export your configuration first and/or not have anything you ca n't put back after a full reset , if things go wrong .
Open the Mac App Store ( / Applications/App Store.app ) Download the OS X Mavericks app . Run it from the / Applications folder if it does n't automatically run . Follow the instructions .
No unfortunately the only options are really external . Until someone can come up with a 3G / 4G card that will work in place of the MacBook Airs Wifi / Bluetooth card , but even then how portable are the antennas designs between Wifi and 3G / 4G cellular signals , not sure it would work well if at all . <URL> : A mobile WiFi Hot Spot is a real option for now , essentially a portable broadband card that interfaces with your Mac via Wifi to allow a data connection . Also if have a smartphone such as an iPhone or Android phone that offers this Wifi sharing you can use one of those as well to do the same thing . These kinds of devices have their own battery and would allow you to tuck them away in a backpack , bag , pocket etc and use your MacBook Air with out any dongles , etc. .
You should be able to do this via Ethernet or wireless , depending on whether you want to buy a wireless dongle for your TV or whether you have the Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air . If you have the <URL> , you should be able to follow the instructions found <URL> : Set up the Sharing - The first step is to set up sharing on the host Mac . Head to Set up the client - make sure your TV uses DHCP General instructions from <URL> : To set up Internet sharing : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences and click Sharing . Select Internet Sharing . Choose the Internet connection you want to share from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . For example , if you 're connected to the Internet over Ethernet , choose Ethernet . Select how you want to share your Internet connection in the " To computers using " list . For example , if you want to share your Internet connection over AirPort , select AirPort . If you share your Internet connection using AirPort , click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Either approach should work - it 's most likely a matter of the hardware that you have ( or are willing to acquire ) . Getting the USB Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air is likely to be cheaper ( and of more use long-term ) than a dongle for the TV .
Electrically yes , physically not without an adapter . Only the physical layout of the pins and metal end that connects to the Air is different . However , with the <URL> ( $ 10 ) lets any original sized MagSafe adapter slim down to work with the new thinner Mac-side of the MagSafe 2 connection .
If you look at the page for the <URL> ( click " Tech Specs " ) It 's rated for 7 Watts . I do n't where you got the " ~ 7 amps @ < 22V DC on a regular day . " So the sort answer is - That panel wo n't even keep the MacBook Air running at idle , let alone charge the battery . Your post got me curious , so I broke out a Kill-A-Watt power meter . 11 " MacBook Air Power Draw , battery already fully charged , measured at the wall : Idle , screen backlight completely off : ~ 4.7 W Idle , Minimum Screen Brightness : ~ 4.9 W Idle , Half Screen Brightness : ~ 5.4 W Idle , Maximum Screen Brightness : ~ 8.0 W For the active tests , I have the screen set to half-brightness , where I usually use it : Moving the mouse in circles with the trackpad : ~ 6.5 W Scrubbing the Dock ( with magnification ) : ~ 11.2 W HD Video Decoding , GPU accelerated : ~ 15.6 W SD Video Decoding , GPU Accelerated : ~ 11.2 W Flash SD Decoding ( not sure if it 's accelerated ) : ~ 12.7 W Ok , these figures are VERY approximate ( the Kill-A-Watt is not a high precision instrument ) , but they do put things in the ballpark . The theoretical approach - <URL> is the term for the amount of energy that falls on a set area per set time . Basically , we can calculate the amount of solar energy which falls on a specific area . The <URL> wikipedia page gives us a ballpark figure of ~ 1Kw/M ² . Then , you have to take the efficiency of the Photovoltaic Panel into account . <URL> a best-case mono crystalline panel efficiency of ~ 25 % , shich means that only 25 % of the light which falls on the panel is converted to electrical energy , while the rest is dissipated as heat , reflected away , etc. . . Therefore , a 1m ² panel will , at the equator and with a mechanism that points it directly at the sun , manage ~ 250 W. From this , we can tell that a 154W panel would have to be ~ 0.616 m ² ( 154/250 = 0.616 ) , far larger than what you have . Examining the 7W panel you have - How big does a panel have to be to produce 7W ? 7/250 = 0.028 m ² , or 280 cm ² or about 14 * 20 cm , which seems pretty accurate , judging from the pictures on the product page . Anyways , I went of on a bit of a tangent here , because you mentioned you 're an EE , which is one of my main interests .
Yes , it works , but it 's not graceful , it 's ungainly : Source : <URL>
end question
start question
Does moving my home folder to an non-boot drive decrease performance ?
OS X stores a considerable amount of data , from program caches to a multitude of preferences and other vital tmp files , in your home folder ( Library to be precise ) . Shifting these off the SSD is detrimental . The system would still pull files from your speedy SSD but any cache files from your apps ( both third party and default ) would be pulled from traditional and cumbersome HDD . Offloading large , static files , like music , movies , books , and other documents that benefit little from the speed of an SSD are recommended . But moving small core files that benefit greatly from solid state disks is n't . It 's crucial to keep as many integral system components on your SSD as possible . A 2 GB movie or 1,000 songs wo n't benefit because movies do n't need to be played faster and neither do songs . They may load a little quicker , and in the future , when SSDs will have TB of space , this wo n't be a problem anymore , but for now , it 's all about triage . I suppose you could try to micromanage this aspect but to be 100 % safe , I would just move the big ticket items . An 120 GB SSD with 5 GB on it wo n't be faster than one with 20 GB on it .
I 'm having the exact same problem . I tried holding the option key when rebooting to see if I could boot from the USB key but I could not find a way to do this , so I installed <URL> ( then rebooted twice ! ) and THEN plugged in the USB key and the next time I rebooted it did show up as an option to boot from the USB key . I tried that and the windows installer loaded and it found the new bootcamp FAT32 partition . It said I could n't install to the bootcamp partition because it requires NTFS . <URL> suggests " simply format the partition using the Windows installer 's built-in utility ( in other words , as part of the installation process ) " so I did that continued with the install and everything works fine !
I disagree with Randolph 's Answer . If anything , the article says exactly the opposite of the " good performance for a while " part . What we found was the exact opposite : an OS that does n't appear to be affected by SSD performance degradation And I do n't have Apple 's SSD . I have an <URL> on a Mac Pro and have n't had any performance degradation since I brought it , about six month ago . Before that , I had an Intel drive and also never had degradation problems under OSX . I changed the drive because my 1st drive was too small . That Intel-M drive is running on a laptop with Windows 7 Home Premium . So far , it has been proven that OS X does n't suffer from the lack of TRIM support ; what we do n't know if that 's because the OS/FileSystem is doing something different or because there 's TRIM support hidden and not reported . In any case , getting a SSD is really a performance increase . I only use it for the OS and some minor things , the rest sits on a mirrored SATA RAID , but this is a Mac Pro , so things are different . On small Macbooks , the usage of SSD is like day and night and I have n't seen performance degradation over the course of a Year . Maybe there is one , but if that 's the case , it 's so slow that by the time is significant , you 'll be either changing the drive or the whole computer . I 've been using SSD since late 2009 . I recommend you do n't get one from Apple , as they tend to overcharge . Get one of the many SSD 's alternatives like Corsairs , Intels or the OWC I have , which I heavily recommend . But the SSD market is in a constant evolution , so read before you buy .
No . This multitouch gesture ( as well as a few others ) are iPad only . The gestures existed for iPhones and iPods in the iOS 4.3 Beta , but were removed before the public release . iOS 5.0 re-introduced the gestures for iPad .
Apple 's policy has traditionally been that you can install RAM , drives and PCIe cards ( on a Mac Pro ) , without voiding your warranty . However if there 's evidence that you broke something during the install , they wo n't cover that , nor the 3rd party parts ( naturally ) .
The answer is No . Sorry . I have done this already . Here is the problem . VirtualBox and your Apple use different hardware . If you try to switch between the hardware you are going to drive windows insane . If you first install Windows using VirtualBox 's virtual hardware and a physical disk partition , then switch to Apple 's physical hardware with the same physical disk partition then you have to run Microsoft 's " System Preparation Tool " . This tool is meant to be run once , not repeatedly . See the procedure at <URL> The other problem would be now are you going to activate the software for both machines . Are you going to active while running under VirtualBox or BootCamp ? When you boot between the physical Apple hardware and the virtual VirtualBox hardware , the Windows operating system is going to detect the change . For example , the two machines do not share the same MBR . Each MBR will have a different signature . Windows stores this signature in its boot partition and compares the value with the MBR when booting .
Fusion Drive is an OS X specific way of caching data . If you use Bootcamp on a Fusion Drive you will get Windows on the hard drive only . Some information from this <URL>
You can find the location to your home directory by looking in the " Users &amp; Groups " System Preference pane . Open " System Preferences " application Click " Users &amp; Groups " Click the padlock to unlock it , if it is not already unlocked . Enter user name and password for an Admin user . Right click on the User name you want to find the home directory for , select " Advanced Options ... " Observe the path as noted next to " Home directory : " Now , once you see where OS X thinks your home folder is located then you can work on un hiding it if it is not showing up where it is suppose to be . Make sure its name does not start with " . " , Additionally you can use the command to make it visible if it appears to be hidden for no apparent reason .
I think most of these answers are pure speculation and the long term effects on your iPad 's screen are at question . I would suggest that you simply look to replace the stylus as it has evidently worn out . It may be that they are not very durable products , but I certainly would n't recommend trying to hack a solution over just buying a new stylus .
No , iOS handles all the allocating and de-allocating of memory ( RAM ) on its own in the back round . Apps have three states , open , suspended and closed . If an app is suspended which is what usually happens when you close an app and it winds up in the tray ( when you double tap home ) and you need more RAM for you game lets say then ios will automatically make room on the stack for the game by closing the apps that are suspended ( in the tray , in the order they were opened , first to last ) which will open up more memory for your game . In short do n't worry about it . You can close them yourself though if you wish by double tapping the home button then long pressing the app ( s ) you wish to close then pressing a red and white circle that will appear in the upper left hand corner of the app icon .
Found it : The UserDir module in Apache2 defaults to public_html . So ~ studentname was being directed to / Users/studentname/public _ html . Which does n't exist in any of the users ' folders . What does exist is / Users/studentname/Sites , so I just added this line to the httpd.conf : ... and it 's working perfectly now . Awesome ! Many thanks to @bmike for pointing me in the right direction .
To answer your question , yes , applications and processes continue to start up and if you have not manually closed them or restarted the computer , you will be " losing " RAM . You can turn the inactive memory into free memory with this command in Terminal : You can also run Activity Monitor to diagnose what apps are running and sort the list by most memory .
From my hands-on experience , I 'd have to say , " negative " . I 've created a couple of fusion drives on a 2008 Mac Pro from devices with preexisting partitions . Building the fusion in Core Storage destroyed all partitions on the media .
If you create a new account with the same name , it should prompt you to use the existing User folder .
Wait until Lion 's release and then you could sort by " date added " <URL>
Solved - if no partition of the disk has the bootable flag , the disk does not appear at the boot screen . In my tests , if the partition that has the bootable flag has been formatted with command ( without options ) using mkfs.vfat versions 3.0.14 or 3.0.17 , the disk appears at boot , but , when the disk is selected , the bootloader is not run . Instead , the message " This is not a bootable disk " is printed . The partition that is flagged as bootable does not have to be the one that contains the bootloader configuration files , and it may have MBR partition type 83 and/or ext4 or btrfs filesystem .
Upgrade your HDD with a SSD The hard drive is a common bottleneck in computing these days . This is due to the fact , that processors have become faster at computing . The hard drive can not keep up with the CPU . Because it 's slow , the CPU is not stressed as much as it could be : <URL> . See <URL> <URL> for a comparsion of a SDD to a HDD in a Macbook Pro . Upgrade RAM If your amount of RAM is insufficient , you will see lots of page-outs . Data which should be written to the RAM will be written to the hard drive instead . Because the hard drive 's input/output operations are much slower than the RAM 's , this slows down your computer . However , if your amount of RAM is sufficient already , you will not notice a benefit from a RAM upgrade . You can check how much page-outs there are using the which is located in . There are no official recommendations I know of as to what the ratio of page-ins to page-outs should be . Generally , you need to know that the more page-outs you have , the better your system could perform if you were to upgrade your RAM . I myself aim for a ratio of no more than 5 to 1 ( 20 % , page-in vs page-out ) Activity Monitor & #x 2192 ; System Memory : Clean install If you installed the upgrade ' over the top ' this will be like a ' software factory reset ' . Mostly you 'll notice a better performance because no other software has been installed yet . Still , a clean install helps in removing remains of uninstalled software but should be an ultimate measure for tackling problems that do not want to be solved otherwise .
I can feel the edges of the button on both my black iPhone 4 even when the button is n't depressed - so your description alone does n't necessarily mean there is a defect ( but you should be very happy with your new purchase and it could very well be a defect ) . If you can go to any retail ( cell carrier or Apple ) store and compare your device to others ( or have friends with any iPhone 4 to compare ) it will be very easy for anyone to agree if your phone 's button is different than the rest . No matter where you bought the phone - Apple will exchange it if the hardware is defective at no cost . You also can return a new phone to the seller within 30 days - but getting it in the hands of an Apple tech will be the fastest way to know it 's covered or a defect - or if it 's just a normal variation of the manufacturing process .
Having a second hard drive will certainly decrease battery life by a noticeable amount . Behind the CPU and LCD , the hard drive is the largest drain on battery . A word of caution : RAID 0 is almost never a good idea , unless you 'll be doing backups constantly and do n't mind being totally down if a drive fails . You 'll get better performance from an SSD and you 'll be able to keep your optical drive .
In the Finder 's preferences , there is an option at the bottom of the General pane for " Spring-loaded folders and windows " that seems to control this . You can adjust the delay using the slider there , and also ( as it notes ) press the spacebar when dragging an item to invoke Exposé immediately . It 's not a hidden preference ( in the sense that you need to get at it ) so much as a preference in a somewhat unexpected place . ;)
end question
start question
I 've inadvertently deleted my thunderbird.dmg , does it matter ?
If the file is in the Trash , you can just drag it back out . However , once you remove the item from the Trash it 's as good as gone * . Why not just <URL> ? * there are some programs that claim to be able to restore deleted data , but the chances of recovering a large file like a DMG on the system drive are virtually nonexistent
natd should be runnng ... NAT means <URL> , so it 's basically translating ( communicating ) between the Modem and the Wifi Access Point to share your connection . You can read more about it here , <URL> So in short this needs to run to share your connection , Hope this helps . Karl
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
<URL> is a great tool for ripping DVDs and otherwise converting video . The legal question is probably beyond the scope of this forum , but if you own the dvd and are only ripping it for your own personal viewing , I would n't worry about it .
On your iPhone , you have a 6 digit code , replacing the prior 4 digit code . On your iPad , you have an alphanumeric password , which just happens to consist of just 6 digits . Alphanumeric passwords on iOS are just like other passwords in that you have to confirm when you have finished typing .
There are a number of possible reasons , and the system actually logs the cause of each ' wake from sleep ' . Open a terminal and enter : This may take some time to return a result , but when it does , you should get a series of lines that look something like the following : Jan 24 08:52:19 hostname kernel [ 0 ] : Wake reason : OHC1 Here are the possible ' Wake Reason ' codes ( lifted from OSXDaily ) OHC : stands for Open Host Controller , is usually USB or Firewire . If you see OHC1 or OHC2 it is almost certainly an external USB keyboard or mouse that has woken up the machine . EHC : standing for Enhanced Host Controller , is another USB interface , but can also be wireless devices and bluetooth since they are also on the USB bus of a Mac . USB : a USB device woke the machine up LID0 : this is literally the lid of your MacBook or MacBook Pro , when you open the lid the machine wakes up from sleep . PWRB : PWRB stands for Power Button , which is the physical power button on your Mac RTC : Real Time Clock Alarm , is generally from wake-on-demand services like when you schedule sleep and wake on a Mac via the Energy Saver control panel . It can also be from launchd setting , user applications , backups , and other scheduled events . Happy hunting !
From the <URL> : With iTunes Radio , you can easily share stations via AirDrop , Mail , Messages , Twitter , and Facebook . The stations you share continue to change as you tweak the mix , so your friends can listen to music that adjusts with your evolving tastes . Show off your favorite stations , or tune in to your friends ' to hear what they 're into . So , it appears to mean that they 're getting a read-only instance of your station , that updates as you update it .
Here or the specifications used by Apple 's official charging cords . 5 volts 1.0 amps If your interested in making one for iPads you can use 5.1 Volts and 2.1 Amps <URL>
' Bird ' is part of the iCloud structure . You would have a large cache if there are pending documents to upload or process . Over time , com.apple.bird cache is generally kept cleaner than your singing . Mine is 400 KB [ that 's K , not even M ] You can diagnose this with - which has a diagnose command and a log command . Unless you are sure you have a bug in the cache - I would n't delete the files as they might cause you at best - another upload of the original content and at worst - cause errors or data loss of iCloud backed documents . With that large a cache you should be able to dump and then monitor whatever categories/classes of data have the most size . It 's exceptionally verbose and you might not want to spend time learning what it does - but the data is quite helpful in determining what 's actually happening and gives you an option before reaching out to AppleCare or another support tech in cases where you do n't see the cache clearing itself over time .
If you have been using Photos only since migration you can safely delete it . The purpose of the migratedPhotoLibrary is so you still can use iPhoto with your old pictures ( and perhaps import new ones to iPhoto only , if you have done this , then no , do n't delete it . ) After deleting it you can delete your iPhoto app as well . <URL>
I ran into the same annoyance myself , and stumbled into this workaround : Edit the " Repeat " setting for your alarm , and set it either to " Every day " or " Never " . Now the alarm goes off when it should , unlike when it 's set to e.g. " Weekdays " . Here 's a screenshot -- green works and red does n't : For more background info , I recommend these <URL> articles : <URL> <URL> The latter post contains Apple 's recommended workaround ( same thing as above , but with some additional information ) : To resolve this behavior for existing alarms , set the repeat interval to Never . You will need to reset these alarms for each day you need them . After November 7th , 2010 , you can set your alarms to repeat again . Update : It 's now past November 7 , and I just verified alarm works correctly again , even if repeat is set to e.g. " Weekdays " . Which is nice . But I hope they fix the bug once and for all before the next DST shift occurs !
MacBooks are designed for close and go operation and you 're not doing the system or hardware any harm by following the practice . That being said , there have been past issues with MacBooks not going to sleep properly when the lid is closed -- the indicator being that the Mac is hot to the touch and the battery level is lower than you would expect when you remove it from your bag . There are some reports of wake from sleep issues , generally caused by a " stuck " process . Assuming you have adequate RAM , the slowdown in your startup process is most likely caused by applications and processes being loaded at startup . The startup on my own MacBook Pro ( Mid 2007 model ) is measured in minutes as various mission critical utilities -- QuickSilver , TextExpander , Growl , etc. -- load and populate the menubar If you login to an alternate ( preferably clean , stock ) user account is the startup process faster ? To get a better idea about what you 're loading at startup , navigate to System Preferences and open the Users and Groups pane . ( Note : Users and Groups is titled Accounts on some systems . ) Select your user account from the panel on the left , then open the Login Items tab . This screen grab is from a MacBook Air that runs only a subset of the login items of my personal MacBook Pro . If Applications that you do n't need are running , you can remove them . Do this with caution , because sometimes there are login items necessary for other software to run as expected . Beyond that , you might want use <URL> to discover what 's running on your Mac . Run it right after a system startup . If you amend your question to include a <URL> of your login items and/or the running processes , we may be able to help you further .
If the file is in the Trash , you can just drag it back out . However , once you remove the item from the Trash it 's as good as gone * . Why not just <URL> ? * there are some programs that claim to be able to restore deleted data , but the chances of recovering a large file like a DMG on the system drive are virtually nonexistent
No , <URL> is software and therefore should not affect the hardware warranty . However , if you 're concerned about that and want to avoid trouble ( there 's always the odd <URL> , even at Apple ) , you can simply wipe your drive and do a clean OS X reinstall before you send your machine in for service ( and restore from backup once you get it back ) . rEFIt does not modify your EFI or anything else , so there 'll be no trace left of it if you do so .
Booting to Internet Recovery Mode boots directly to a netboot image provided by Apple/Akamai servers . The netboot image is a stripped down OS X version which only provides some diagnostic tools and a tool to either restore OS X or a Time Machine backup . The downloaded OS is completely loaded to RAM and nothing is written to hard disks . After shutting down/rebooting the Mac the RAM is wiped and everything has to be downloaded again if you want to start to Recovery Mode a second time . To create a Recovery HD on your Mac you have to install OS X ( Restore OS X ) . While downloading and installing OS X a recovery partition will be built also . Another option is to set up a Mac running Server.app and <URL> . That will keep a copy of the recovery image locally in cache and speed up the download - perhaps 100x as fast if you have a gigabit speed network locally .
In the past - Apple had three methods to install : erase and install ( now deprecated ) archive + install + migrate upgrade install ( now deprecated ) Now , when you run the installer - it is always archive , install , migrate . SO the existing system folder is n't touched ( it gets archived ) and a new system folder and library are created on the drive . So some folders get erased entirely , some have modification scripts and most user folders do n't change . The user folders might get a light script run to clean known issues , but in general - the things in the user home folder are left alone . The system then reboots into the newly functioning system to run further installations and then kicks off the migration script . That script is responsible for the <URL> where it actually goes over each user folder and migrates all the apps , settings and checks for known incompatible software and packages so they can be disabled before any user logs in to the newly made system . The whole process usually takes 5 to 25 minutes for the system tasks and then the last user step can take a few moments or a few hours in my experience . Past an hour , it is usually hung and you might need to do an erase / migration from backup . <URL> The old system is then deleted unless the script detects a potential that it will be needed or the migration failed in some manner . I you wan to do an erase instal , you need to erase the drive using internet recovery , target disk mode or similar and then run an installer on a blank volume .
This is n't a real solution , but I upgraded to Lion . I posted a similar question in the Apple forums , but there were n't any solutions suggested there either .
I suggest you download a utility that shows the size and arrangement of your files . Personally , I use DaisyDisk . It is shareware , so for your purposes , it would suffice to trial the software . Mail attachments are stored in It is unlikely that OS X is keeping packages after installation through Software Update . You should first look to your cache and perhaps your sleepimage , which is located under ( note that the sleepimage is recreated every time the system goes to sleep . Read more about disabling it <URL> if you are concerned with HD space ) . DaisyDisk ( or equivalent ) will do a much better job at identifying where the " growth " has occured on your filesystem so that you may excise it than we ever could . I suggest you give it a try .
I can confirm what Nathan G. reported . I have a computer with Windows , and when I plug my iPod on that computer , it says me it is already synchronized with an iTune library ; it asks me if I want to synchronize it with the library present on Windows , warning me that the content of the iPod will be deleted , if I decide to do so . I did n't select Manually Manage Music in both the computers .
Unfortunately , a lot of the graphics on the MacBook Pro with Retina Display are a bit choppy ( for example , scrolling and window resizing ) . The new rMBP simply has a lot of pixels , and the graphics card is no better than the one in the regular MBP . In the next few years we can probably expect this to improve with further software optimizations and better hardware offerings . See also : <URL> ( MacRumors ) <URL> ( AnandTech )
end question
start question
Is there a way to set the * default * monospace font in Safari ?
There are still unexposed preferences for changing the default fonts and font sizes : Another option is to add a rule like this to the default CSS file that can be seleced in Preferences > Advanced > Style sheet : It makes and elements like pre and code default to Menlo .
If you DO want to jailbreak , <URL> works great for this . You can have blacklists , whitelists , lists just for SMS , lists that occur during a certain schedule ( say work hours ) , multiple lists active simultaneously , and different actions for different lists , etc. . So you could use it to ignore some calls , some some calls straight to voicemail , and ignore other calls while automatically sending that number an SMS that says " At work , will call you back tonight " etc
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
is probably the same as . If the current shell is bash , you can see its version with . If you change the default login shell with chsh , you can keep Terminal 's default shell as the login shell . Add to Open a new tab and check
While there are ( too ) many ways to setup multiple iDevices on the same machine , the simplest way and most headache free is having a single account on all devices synced to the same machine . That way you can sync everything everywhere easily . If you want to have separate accounts , set separate users on the machine and then you can setup different iTunes/Apple accounts on each computer user . But that will give issues with syncing contents . Apple is not very good with sharing content with other people - but they 're trying to get better on it at least with family members .
There 's no built-in feature in OSX for that but there are two applications that can do that for you , <URL> and <URL> .
Starting in Lion , Apple added a command to Font Book . Open Font Book and choose :
No . There is no way to change the OSX system font size per monitor per window . The key is that each separate OSX window is rendered as one . With that , each window can span over , or moved between , multiple monitors . When a window is part of multiple screens at the same time , different font sizes at different parts of same the window would be inoperable .
<URL> ... allows to " easily set one zoom level for all websites and have it remembered . " I 'm using it in Safari 5.1.7 . You can download it from <URL> or <URL> .
I 'm afraid this is n't made possible by the S.M.A.R.T ( Self-Monitoring , Analysis and Reporting Technology ) system that is used to provide details of Hard Drive operation , I was hoping to find a <URL> that details the current ' park ' status , but it seems that there simply is n't one , and as this is a low level activity that is fully handled by the drive itself without any OS input I can not see a way of ever retrieving the status as the value is n't available in the first place .
All you need is to open Terminal.app and type : That way the system will be forced to terminate all open programs , ignoring any unsaved file changes . So , in order to be able to launch it via the desktop , you need to open Applescript editor , and type : Save the script as an Application , and drag it in your Dock , or somewhere where you 'll find it instantly .
No . The only way to speed up iTunes is to get a faster PC or Mac . It 's a bloated program with a lot of legacy code in it . It 's been needing a complete overhaul for years now ( even on the Mac ) . And as time passes , it just seems to get bigger as more is continually added . With that said , the speed of iTunes is dependent on your Internet connection but it 's also dependent on the power of your PC . Having broadband allows data to transfer quickly from Apple 's servers but crunching all that data requires CPU cycles and a lot of RAM too .
I like the free <URL> extension . Visible only when you 're hovering over a link , it shows where things lead , but does other stuff too . Like shortener expansion and favicon previews . It 's got lots of built-in themes you can use to customize the appearance .
Yes - the new mobile <URL> shows all sorts of photo metadata ( assuming you allowed the camera app to store it in the first place ) including the capture time . Camera roll and Photo stream are part of the Library , so you should be good to go . You can get the above screen by tapping the i with the rectangle to bring up the information for photos stored in the library . In the case of time , even if you deny location services , it should have the timestamp based on the file 's creation date/time .
<URL> Goes over all the attributes spotlight has , and it looks like you could possibly create a smart folder with any of these attributes , unfortunately none of them mention locked file status . will give you a list of all the files in a folder which are locked or unchangeable , but only in the terminal .
Unfortunately , there is no way to do this in Apple Mail . It only works for messages which you are replying to ( they automatically use the same outgoing address which received the original message ) . There is no hook in AppleScript , nor an option in Automator by which to make this happen . If it were possible , as of right now , it would still require a third-party plugin , which I have not been able to find either . So unfortunately , the answer is now . Note : Also , if you select the inbox of the account from which you want to send the message , then compose , Mail will automatically use that account 's email address for sending , unless you change it . Not quite as helpful as what you were hoping for , but at least something worth considering . Good luck and happy mailing !
My choice would generally be Lucida Grande or Anadale Mono ; Some days I 'm more in the mood for Monaco though too . If my eyes start getting tired I ditch the small fonts for a few days if possivle . Depending on the shell I 'm running , I 've had Anadale Mono cranked all the way down to 5 point and still readable ( provided I have access to an electron microscope as backup ) .
I use the following bookmark , which you can create as many as needed , to resize my safari window to a specific size : This moves the window to the far left , top and then makes the width 1250 pixels and makes the hight fill to the available ( limited by the dock hight , if not hidden ) . To use , bookmark any page and then edit the address with the code above . Every now and again , an update to safari will break this , and then it 'll work again after a subsequent update .
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
This is possible , because widgets are HTML , CSS , and JavaScript based . Here 's how : First , go to and find the Stickies one . Copy it to and name it ( or something else ) . Close the Stickies widget in Dashboard . Now , go to the version you copied and right-click it . Choose . In the new window that appears , right-click on the file and open it with your favorite JavaScript editor ( if you do n't have one , <URL> is great and free ) . Now , use the editor to find the line ( should be around line 407 ) . You 'll see below that line a bunch of lines similar to each other , saying something like . You want to copy the last one of those ( American Typewriter ) , and paste it back below itself . Then , change it so it looks like this : Save and close this file . Now , open ( from the same folder ) in an HTML editor ( TextWrangler works ) . Find the line that says , ( should be about line 40 ) . Below that , you 'll find a bunch of lines similar to each other , each beginning with . Copy the one for Gill Sans , and paste it below itself . Edit it to say . Save and close this file . Open Terminal and type . This restarts Dashboard . Now , double click the myStickies widget file you made . It will open in Dashboard . Follow the normal procedure of clicking the and changing the font . You 'll have a Courier option , and it will be that font . <URL>
end question
start question
Other than enabling Trim , is there anything else I should do with an SSD ?
Yes and No . There 's not a final answer on this . There are some basic things you do n't want to do : Never fill your drive , always try to have a minimum of a 20 % of the drive free , SSD performance goes down fast when the drive is full or close to it . Even with trim and whatever the OS does , at some point in 1 , 2 , 3 , n years you might have to completely reformat/repartition the drive to gain some speed . This has been true on Windows Machines ( I 've seen it ) . My MacBook Air ( 1 year old ) has n't yet shown any signs of slowness . SSDs have a limited number of writes before they wear out . At some point blocks just stop working , so if you are constantly writing/deleting files , you 're essentially wearing out your SSD faster than the average ( however this number is huge , say it can last 10 + + years under normal usage ) . One is expected to change the drive by then :) I recommend you google around , there are multiple guides and advice pages . You will find <URL> relatively accurate and up-to-date . Bear in mind that technology in the future may change and the article ( and this answer ) may be rendered obsolete if , for example , SuperSSDs are created and they do n't wear out or have a 1.000.000 years life-span :D
No , such an adapter does not exist and is unnecessary . Since <URL> is backwards compatible with Mini Display port . If you look at accessory options for the <URL> , you will see only the following display output adapters available : Apple Mini DisplayPort to DVI Adapter Apple Mini DisplayPort to Dual-Link DVI Adapter Apple Mini DisplayPort to VGA Adapter So Mini DisplayPort is the correct adapter type . However , there are two DVI adapters to choose from . It depends on what display your are using and if it needs a single link or dual link DVI connection . Generally speaking computer displays with a native resolution less than or equal to 1920 x 1200 are <URL> , while displays larger than 1920 X 1200 are <URL> . Check your monitor 's specification and requirements to be sure . If you have the right resolution settings and adapter and the flicker persists I would trouble shoot and rule out each piece of hardware to figure out where the problem lies . In the display With the adapter / cabling With the MacBook Pro
In addition to the other answers posted here , I suggest looking at a few different online bookmarking sites : <URL> <URL> ( and yes ) Delicious.com Most of these services have add-ons or extensions to access the bookmarks . :) ( I really like diigo.com )
I upgraded a similar era Macbook a while ago . In all likelihood you are unlikely to be able to buy an SSD that will not max out the BUS speed available to it on a machine that old . That particular Macbook has a SATA I ( 1.5 Gbps ) interface for it 's existing hard drive . SATA III ( 6Gbps ) SSD drives have been the standard for many years now , although you may be able to get a bargain bucket SATA II device ( 3Gbps ) . Basically , I would get the cheapest SSD you can for the capacity you require that is at least SATA II ( you do n't need it for the speed , but a SATA I one will be based on older technology that may have a shorter lifespan than a newer drive ) . It is almost certain to be faster than your machine can handle , so there is no point getting a particularly recent or fast one .
So it 's been a long time since I originally posted this question . I did n't update my RAM ( although I 'm thinking about it ) , but I changed my hard drive to a Samsung SSD . The change is radical . The computer is not slow at all anymore . There are no more " freezing " , and it takes exactly 15 seconds to boot , instead of something like 1 minute or more . Any application opens almost instantly . It seems like I just bought my mac . If you want to speed up your mac ( or PC ) , you should definitely buy an SSD . I also did a clean install and copied whatever I needed from a backup . As I said , I 'm thinking of adding some RAM . I currently have 4GB but I want to buy 8GB or 16GB . I 'll let you know then , if it works or not . Please upvote this answer so that everyone can see it !
You may also want to look into the excellent <URL> . I have n't had a need for it in several years but back in the day it was really one of the best there is . Looks like it is still updated regularly .
The SuperDrive does only work with the MacBook Air , but the MacBook Air supports a lot of other drives . For example there is the <URL> ( $ 37,75 ) . Cheap , fairly fast and not very ugly :) Or the <URL> . ( $ 45,80 ) A bit more expensive , but it support way more formats and speeds :
As of May 2016 the only official iMessage clients are for iOS and OS X. Unfortunately you 're out of luck using it on Windows . It 's very unlikely that any iMessage clients for non-Apple platforms will be released in the future . It 's a major selling point for Apple 's platforms , and therefore not in Apple 's interest to make a Windows ( or Android , Linux , etc. ) version . Additionally , it has some fairly complex encryption and security protocols , which likely make it very difficult if not impossible for an unofficial client to be developed .
On MacOS 10.10 , " Find My Friends " can be accessed by clicking " Details " when viewing a friend in the Messages application . You can also share screens via " Details " as well , from the desktop Messages app .
An update for LaunchBar 6 Version 6.0 introduced a slick way of selecting multiple items . The LaunchBar folks call it the &#8220; Sixth Sense &#8221; . Selected items are held in a &#8220; staging area &#8221; and can be acted upon all at once using typical LaunchBar tools . Typing Command-A will select all items in the search list . Typing a Comma ( &#8220; , &#8221; ) will select the current item and allow you to move on to select more . Pressing Shift will scrolling up or down with the arrow keys select continuously as you scroll You can undo these actions by repeating them with a selected file . Hitting Escape clears the selections . The selection then works with other actions : Press Tab to send them to another folder , etc. . There &#8217; s a discussion at the <URL>
So it sounds like this is likely a known issue , as described by <URL> article in the UK Guardian . In case anyone else comes across this and is curious about some of the symptoms I 've seen , here is a bit of info that might be useful : I had my phone go from 90 % charge to 60 % charge in 90 minutes while in airplane mode and without using the phone ( no apps running , no location services being used , no iPod usage ) . The phone gets quite warm when the battery is draining . Much more so than I experience when doing anything else . Given the behavior , I 'd guess that it gets into some mode where an app gets out of control and is fully pegging the CPU , even though as far as can be determined , nothing is/should be running . This may be a red herring , but my phone wo n't sync . I do n't know if this is related , but doing either a restore or trying to sync with iTunes while connected to a MBP fails . I can only get things to work with " Transfer Purchases " . I sync fine with my iPad running iOS5 , so I do n't think the problem is on the iTunes side . This may be an unrelated problem ( though I hope it is n't as there is a chance I 'll get a fix for the battery problem ) . Hope this helps others who run into a similar problem and are trying to troubleshoot it . I think the easiest way of testing is using airplane mode and making sure location services are not running and if you are still seeing rapid battery drain , there is no good reason that should be happening in that mode , no matter how you have your phone set up . NOTE : And now <URL> by Apple .
You can install John Ford 's screenresolution utility via . Alternatively you can download and compile the <URL> . Once the utility is installed you can see all available resolutions via . Assuming the appropriate resolution is listed you can set you display with something like .
Unfortunately , no . That 's a flaw of the iPhone that is designed to help you , in case you ever forget your passcode .
<URL> Looks like you 'll need to get a demo copy of Omnigraffle to open them . Photoshop wo n't , and I 'm not seeing other Mac standard software that will . Also ( Photoshop format ) : <URL>
I hope the <URL> of <URL> does n't disapprove of me using his app to answer this , but here are the reasons why helpd will run . ( the <URL> of help ) It 's hard to tell if this is one of the processes that needs to run a bit the first time it starts and then it will happily update itself more rapidly when needed ( like / Applications being changed ) as well as early every Sunday AM . The virtual memory system should keep the RAM fine , so unless you see it constantly - it 's just taking the RAM it needs to serve your help menu with fresh and up to date documents . You can also disable that launchd job if it 's causing you grief until you can isolate why .
Once you 've completed the registration , all the information you 've filled up , will be sent to Apple with your iDevice / Computer 's Serial Number . Having an Apple Id associated to a Device is necessary for the AppleCare Protection Plan , but , if you purchased the AppleCare at the same time as your Device / Computer , the Protection Plan will be automatically registered , being unnecessary for you to do so . The information you fulfill and submit is useful in other ways , using Autofill in Safari , for instance , or enable the possibilty of using the Remind me of-doing-something when I get Home of the iPhone 4S . Therefore , if you want to sell your Mac or iDevice , you could just make a clean install to get rid of all that info . Not deleting it will just cause privacy / security issues .
Borrow an old iPhone and <URL> by following the setup directions on iOS 9 or you could use the <URL> to attempt a dry-run on the Android side . That way , you can actually use the new OS for a bit and if it 's unlocked , you could swap SIM cards between the two devices . If you do n't mind the cash outlay , you could also buy a new phone outright and educate yourself on the return policy if you 're mostly sure the change will be for good .
Directly on the iPod , I do n't think so , if your sound settings are maxed . Try Settings > iPod > Volume Limit : Off and Settings > iPod > Sound Check : Off On iTunes , go to the " Info " window of the podcast audio file , and in the Option tab , try to see if you can set the audio volume to 200 % . I know it works on music , but it should also be available for the podcasts .
Your model iMac has a Serial ATA ( 6 Gb/s ) connector for a 2.5 " hard drive and a PCIe connector ( PCIe 2.0 x4 NVMexpress interface ) for the SSD . For best compatibility I suggest you purchase your SSD from a reputable retailer . For example , the following are some well-regarded sites : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> By buying from a reputable store you 'll be sure to get an SSD fit for purpose , regardless of manufacturer . Being reputable means they 're only going to sell something that works and they 'll stand behind the product they sell , regardless of the brand . Also , many sites offer an easy interface to ensure you select the right SSD for your particular Mac .
The Apple-sanctioned method to accomplish this is the use of the <URL> feature in iOS6 . Settings > General > Accessibility > Learning > Guided Access .
end question
start question
Is the iPhone SE compatible with iPhone 5 cases ?
Yes the cases are compatible and apple has confirmed it . Source : <URL>
Siri is only available on the iPhone 4S and only fully supported within the United States at the moment . Unfortunately the page <URL> on Siri does not make that extremely clear , apart from only mentioning the iPhone 4S . I ca n't find an official source on the Apple site other then that page that specifically says Siri is only available on the 4S . Siri supports various languages , however some functionality , like local business searches , will only work in the United States at the moment .
If you care to read the tea leaves , the initial OS X v10 .11 Developer Beta supports the following Macs : iMac ( Mid 2007 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or newer ) MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) Mac mini ( Early 2009 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Mid/Late 2007 or newer ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or newer ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Source : <URL> . No <URL> are published by Apple . About your last question , no . There are no macs supported by Yosemite that are not supported by El Capitan .
You can create an <URL> directly on the iPhone that acts like a queue . Alternatively you could <URL> in iTunes then import that to the iPhone by dragging the list to the phone icon . Any missing tracks would be imported .
" Available " , " supported " , and " will work " are three very different things . The officially compatible video cards for the original ( 1,1 ) Mac Pro are : NVIDIA GeForce 7300 GT ATI Radeon X1900 XT NVIDIA Quadro FX 4500 ( and family ) NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT These are the only cards that are supported in an original Mac Pro . Unfortunately , most are not particularly available any more . Apple no longer sells any of these cards , except the Quadro FX family ( which is super-expensive and not consumer-oriented ) . I believe most , if not all , of the above officially supported cards are all Apple-specific variants . There are various non-Apple versions of the above , which may or may not work in a Mac Pro , depending on firmware compatibility ( sometimes it is possible to program a Mac-compatible version of the firmware into a non-Apple card 's non-volatile flash , thus enabling the use of a non-Apple version in the Mac Pro ) . But the bottom line is that it is not really possible to purchase these cards anymore ( except for the super-expensive Quadro FX and maybe a small quantity of the others that can be found used on Amazon or eBay ) . That said , there is at least one other card that is currently ( as of Summer 2011 ) available that will work in an original Mac Pro . Although it is not listed as being officially compatible ( and therefore not officially supported ) , there are numerous accounts in the Apple online store from customers who have reported that the <URL> works just fine out-of-the-box in their original Mac Pros . I too purchased one from a local Apple Store and installed it in my original Mac Pro ( running OS X 10.6.7 ) , so I can state for a fact that this card does work just fine , and it does n't require any hacking ( no drivers to install , no firmware to be flashed ) -- it just works right out of the box . It also performs quite a bit better than the older officially compatible cards . It also works just fine in Windows under Boot Camp ( after downloading and installing the Boot Camp drivers from the ATI/AMD website ) . The only caveat ( and it is a very minor one ) is that the installation instructions that accompany the card deviate somewhat from what is actually required in the original Mac Pro , due to minor variations between the internals of the older Mac Pros and the newer ones . For instance , the instructions mention sliding a PCI cage ( to move a retention bracket ) , but the bracket is not present , and the cage does n't move in the original Mac Pro ( each PCI slot has it 's own small retention " clip " instead ) . Also , the power connector on the motherboard is in a different location in the original Mac Pro . If you do some research , you will find various other reports of users having success with other cards ( especially various ATI Radeon variants ) . Oftentimes , it involves updating the firmware ( flashing ) . However , the Radeon HD 5770 is the only currently available card I am aware of that will work out of the box .
Yes , iOS multitouch will track 11 independent touch positions in the current SDK ( iOS 7 ) . However , the springboard app wo n't launch but one app at a time , so the answer is no to having more than one app run due to precise multitouch tapping the home screen .
They both output a similar voltage level ~ 5V . However this is going to change once you start drawing current from the charger . The output will decrease if you start pulling more current . iPad charger provides 2.1 A at 5.2 V means you can pull 2.1 A and the output will stay at 5.2 V. Output voltage might go down if you draw more current ( say by attaching 2 ohm resistor across the leads and trying to draw 2.6 A ) and thereby also reduce the expected output current . Similarly , iPhone charger will be able to provide rated voltage ( 5V ) only up to 1A of current draw . After that , you might see a voltage drop . In terms of hardware , iPad charger will have a higher power circuit - most likely a bigger flyback transformer , mosfets with higher current capacity and bigger filter capacitors . You can benefit from ipad charger while charging an iphone if your iphone is able to draw current higher than 1A . If this is not the case , then there is no point . However you will notice longer charge times when you charge your ipad using iphone charger . Also , it 's false assumption that load remains the same . Here is a sample charging current and voltage curve for a li-po battery which I picked from a google image search : <URL> As you can see , initially the battery voltage is lower since it has discharged . Once it starts charging , the voltage increases and the charging current decreases .
You can buy very cheap screen replacements on ebay ( about AU$ 30 ) . I have fitted one of these myself , it is not too hard .
Apparently you can ! If you want to try this out for yourself , here is the navigation to get to the setting : Enabling AssistiveTouch : Settings App > General > Scroll Down to Accessibility > Scroll Down to AssistiveTouch ' Toggle on AssistiveTouch . Switching to Landscape : Lock the device in portrait mode Press Floating Square > Device > Rotate Screen > Left/Right <URL> ... ... ... ... . .
Remove it from Find My iPhone via the web <URL> At that point , iTunes will be willing to erase the device and/or restore it . You could also use Apple Configurator 2 which has a command line option to wipe devices :
You can move your iTunes library from your PC to your Mac . As long as the persistent id is the same it wo n't erase the iPhone . You could also just edit the Mac iTunes library to have the same persistent id your PC library did . <URL>
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
Technical Lithium Polymer batteries , such as those used in the iPhone , are a very well understood battery chemistry and use specific chargers to manage their charging . While the latest charging ICs Apple uses are proprietary ( they work with <URL> for their power managment ICs ) it is unlikely that Apple performs a significantly different charging process than every other battery charging IC manufacturer . This process charges the battery as quickly as reasonable while protecting the battery from damage or increased wear and tear . Please note that the charging IC - or Power Management IC - is located inside the iPhone . So this applies regardless of the external USB powering device you use to charge it . When the battery is full , the charger turns off the charging process . The battery is left alone without current going into or out of it . This is because most Lithium chemistry batteries do n't like trickle charging ( a process you may hear from others where a constant voltage and low current is applied to a battery all the time to keep it topped off ) . Charging ICs therefore turn the current completely off and power the phone itself from the charger . This is the only time the battery is n't charging or discharging - when it 's full and the phone is plugged in . The battery is n't discharged and charged in some sort of cycle after charging is complete . I 'm not sure where this myth stems from , because it would actually place additional wear and tear on the battery . Self Discharge Every battery has a " self-discharge " rate . This is the battery 's natural capacity loss when not connected to anything . For Lithium Polymer batteries this is a low ( compared to other rechargeable battery types ) 5 % per month . The charging IC does check up on the battery and if it loses significant charge over time while plugged in , it will start another charging cycle . But this would occur perhaps once every two weeks after several percent of the battery charge has been lost - certainly not over night . If you leave you phone plugged in for a month , it might start another charging cycle once or twice in that time . Conclusion The phone and its battery , therefore , will suffer absolutely no damage being plugged in for days at a time . Long term storage There is one caveat to this answer : Lithium chemistry batteries do n't like to be stored with full charges . They degrade more quickly if they are n't used and have a full charge . If you are going to store your mobile device unused for more than a month , charge it up fully , then discharge it ( watch videos over wifi or play video games ) until it 's 40-50 % charged . Then turn the device fully off . Long term use If you are using an older iPhone in a fixed installation ( picture frame on the wall , data collection , baby monitor , etc ) while turned on and in use with it plugged into a charger all the time , you should consider disconnecting the charger and discharging it fully once a month . Similar issue to the above - the battery does n't like being " stored " for long periods of time at full charge , and the charger will keep it near 100 % the entire time - degrading the battery a bit more quickly than desired . Going through a discharge cycle will exercise it and help it to last longer . Personal While I use a newer phone now , I charged my iPhone 3GS every day for 8 + hours a day ( ie , overnight ) regardless of how much charge was left - and more often than not , I had used less than 20 % on a given day . I used it for 4 years that way , and never replaced the battery - it still lasted much longer than a day . Since then ( 3 years now ) it 's been essentially an iPod touch , being charged for days a at a time when no one is using it , and being left in the car discharged for days ( or weeks ! ) at a time when it 's forgotten . Battery is still going strong , and this is certainly more than 900 charging cycles for this device . My iPhone 5 and iPad ( 3rd gen ) was used the same way . No negative impact from having them charge all night every night . I 'm now using the iPhone 6 + the same way . This is an expected use case for a mobile device , and it 's running just fine . I expect that to continue to be the case . You can leave your iPhone plugged in all night and it will not be harmful to your iPhone .
Per <URL> : " Every measurement , right down to the 3.95 ounce weight and 0.30-inch thickness , is identical to the iPhone 5 . " Visually from looking at photos the ports , buttons , etc. are all identically placed . Also , one of the image captions in that article : " The leather cases for the iPhone 5S will also fit the iPhone 5 . This should also hopefully mean that third-party cases for the iPhone 5 will continue to fit the 5S . " The only possible issue would be the iPhone 5 LED flash vs the 5s ' dual-LED flash . But as long as the cut-out on the third-party case looks like Apple 's does ( i.e. it goes around the camera and the LED in one cut-out ) , there should n't be any reason they do n't fit .
Ok , so after some quick googling and reading some Apple forums , it looks like iCloud ( in iOS 5 . x ) is n't ready for prime time . I 've done the following and now iOS 5.x seems a lot snappier . Disabled iCloud everywhere ( Settings - > iCloud ) Disable all apps then Scroll down and hit " Storage and Backup " and disable iCloud backups . If you really want to go strong , just delete your iCloud account setting ( on your phone , Settings - > iCloud - > scroll to bottom ) Disabled sending data to Apple ( Settings - > General - > About - > Diagnostic &amp; Usage - > " Do n't send " ) Minimized Location Services ( Settings - > Location services ) I kept it ON globally , but disabled it for certain Apps Most importantly , disabled it for " Diagnostic &amp; Usage " as well as " Location based iAds " ( Settings - > Location services - > Scroll to bottom - > System Services ) Disabled notifications for the calendar ( Settings - > Notification ) I also removed notifications for many other apps that had added themselves ... However , I suspect this is fixed in iOS 5.0.1 under their " Battery issue fixed " patch . Earlier , Calendar notifications would hang causing CPU to be stuck 100 % , draining the battery and leaving little CPU for other items . Also , there are two apps , SysStatsMon and System Status . Both are good tools to see CPU usage on your iOS device . About 5 + seconds after launching them under normal circumstances , your CPU should be in the 5-15 % range .
It 's looking like a bug . On the phone , if I have a contact that already has a first and last name entered , there is still an option to add a further first and last name field . If I add and fill in the fields , then view the contact in iCloud.com when it has synced , it shows the phonetic first and last names as already in use , with the details I entered . If I remove the additional fields , and then try to add them back using the phonetic first and last names fields which are available on the website version , then sync back they sync to the additional first/last name fields as originally shown . So , in short it looks like they forgot to include the word " phonetic " on iOS5 running on ( at least ) iPhone 4 , the fields are there , and they sync correctly , they just do not show properly .
An OEM dock just popped up in store.apple.com after the 9/10 event : <URL>
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
There are slight improvements to the battery capacities of the 5S and 5C over the 5 . iPhone 5 - 1440mAh < - 5.45 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5c - 1508mAh < - 5.73 Whr at 3.8 V iPhone 5s - 1558mAh < - 5.92 Whr at 3.8 V <URL> In terms of battery life comparison for 5 vs. 5c vs. 5s , they ran some benchmarks in <URL> . In some tasks the 5c/5s are better than the 5 , in others the 5 is better . With the exception of their Wifi browsing test , the new phones are comparable to the 5 , with there being less than an hour difference in battery life . In the Wifi browsing test though , the new phones ran out of juice .57 hours sooner ( 5c ) and 1.3 hours sooner ( 5s ) .
According to the major WiFi-calling provider <URL> following Apple phones are <URL> : iPhone 5c iPhone 5s and iPhone 6 ( + )
end question
start question
How to prevent Windows 10 from downloading and installing updates before the Boot Camp Support Software is installed ?
Below are some basic steps to install the Boot Camp Support Software and configure Windows Update before updates are downloaded from Microsoft . Windows Update can only be configured if you are installing Windows 10 Pro or better . I do not know of a way to configure Windows Update for Windows 10 Home . The steps given below can still be used to install the Boot Camp Support Software . Hint : For a better view , click on an image or open an image in a new window . Before installing Windows 10 , make sure your computer can not communicate with the internet . If the computer is hardwired to the internet , disconnect it now . Start installing Windows 10 . You may be asked to connect to the internet via Wi-Fi . If a window similar to below appears , click on " Skip this step " . <URL> When you reach the following screen , put the computer in Audit mode by pressing the following keys . With the ctrlshift keys held down , press the F3 key . Hold all three keys down for about 3 seconds or until the computer starts to reboot . <URL> If you see the screen below , do nothing . The computer will login automatically to the Administrator account . <URL> Eventually , you should get the following screen showing the Administrator 's desktop . You can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window . <URL> Check the clock and make any needed corrections . Right click on the clock shown on the task bar at the bottom right of the screen and select " Adjust date/time " . See image shown below . <URL> Install the Boot Camp Support Software ( BCSS ) by opening the setup Application in the appropriate BCSS folder . If you get a Windows version error message similar to what is shown below , proceed to step 9 . <URL> If you get a Boot Camp x64 error message similar to what is shown below , proceed to step 10 . Otherwise , goto step 11 . <URL> You can remedy the situation by right clicking on the highlighted setup application entry and selecting " Properties " , as shown below . <URL> Next , click on the " Compatibility " tab , check off " Run this program in compatibility for : " box and select the appropriate previous version of Windows . An illustration is shown below . <URL> Click the " OK " button and a open the setup application to install the BCSS . If the computer reboots , you can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window and any Boot Camp windows . Proceed to step 11 . You can remedy the situation by using the Finder application to navigate to the Windows Installer Package named " BootCamp64 " or similar file . Right click on the file entry and select " Properties " , as shown below . <URL> Next , click on the " Compatibility " tab , check off " Run this program in compatibility for : " box . An illustration is shown below . <URL> Click the " OK " button . Right click on the file entry and select " Install " , as shown below . This starts the installation of the BCSS . If the computer reboots , you can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window and any Boot Camp windows . <URL> If you do not want to configure Windows Update or have Windows 10 Home , you should skip this step . To proceed , right click on the Start button on the taskbar and select " Run " , as shown below . <URL> In the popup windows , enter " gpedit.msc " and click the Ok button , as shown below . <URL> Select " Local Computer Policy → Computer Configuration → Administrative Templates → Windows Components → Windows Update " , as shown below . <URL> Next , right click on " Configure Automatic Updates " and select " Edit " . The " Configure Automatic Updates " windows should appear as shown below . <URL> If you want to " Never check for updates " click the " Disabled " button , otherwise click the " Enabled " button and choose your option . The result from choosing option 2 is shown below . <URL> When finished , click the " OK " button to close the window . Also , close the " Local Group Policy Editor " window . Next , Click on the Start button on the task bar and select " Settings → Update &amp; security → Windows Update → Check for updates " . When the following message occurs , click " Advanced options " . <URL> Inspect the window to confirm you selection . Below is the correct window for option 2 . <URL> Close the " Settings " window . Connect your computer to the internet . If you computer was hardwired to the internet , plug it back in now . If you were using Wi-Fi , enable it and join a network . If the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window is not displayed , reboot the computer . Click the " OK " button in the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window . Use the default settings shown in the image below . <URL> When the computer reboots , you will have left the Audit mode . You should boot to the following display . <URL> On my computer , I was able to select the " United States ( Apple ) " keyboard . You may want to check if a better choice exists than the default keyboard . At this point , you can continue with the Windows 10 installation . Additional Notes : There is a downloadable <URL> from Microsoft , that will allow you to review and/or hide updates before downl
Yes , according to Apple 's <URL> . Boot Camp : requires Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista ( sold separately ) . Also , you can install Windows 7 if you update Boot Camp . Info <URL> .
Ha ! Found it ! then map CMD to CTRL :
What you observe is the default setting for podcasts in iTunes , which is to download the most recent episode of a podcast . To avoid this , follow these steps : Go to Podcasts in the iTunes Library pop-up menu . Select a podcast . Right click and choose " Settings " ( or alternatively , click on the gear icon next to the podcast title on the episode list on the right ) . In the Podcast Settings dialog , under the " Settings for : " dropdown , select " Podcasts Defaults " ( this would apply your changes to all podcasts ) . In the " When new episodes are available : " dropdown , select " Do nothing " ( the default option being " Download the most recent one " ) . Click OK . With this change , iTunes will never download new episodes for any of your podcasts . If you wish to change this setting only for specific podcasts , you can do so by selecting the specific podcast in the " Settings for : " dropdown and/or by changing the defaults .
Bootcamp is a tool for installing Windows on the same drive with your OS X . If you want to have Windows on a USB , then boot from your Windows installation cd and install Windows on the USB . Then whenever you want to boot into Windows , plug your USB , hit alt/option and select Windows as your boot disc . It may be better though , if you find a ready/made Windows USB Edition . Either way , it will work :) Edit : After your first boot into Windows , do not forget to insert the Mac OS X Installation disc , in order to install the Windows/Bootcamp drivers !
Below are some basic steps to install the Boot Camp Support Software and configure Windows Update before updates are downloaded from Microsoft . Windows Update can only be configured if you are installing Windows 10 Pro or better . I do not know of a way to configure Windows Update for Windows 10 Home . The steps given below can still be used to install the Boot Camp Support Software . Hint : For a better view , click on an image or open an image in a new window . Before installing Windows 10 , make sure your computer can not communicate with the internet . If the computer is hardwired to the internet , disconnect it now . Start installing Windows 10 . You may be asked to connect to the internet via Wi-Fi . If a window similar to below appears , click on " Skip this step " . <URL> When you reach the following screen , put the computer in Audit mode by pressing the following keys . With the ctrlshift keys held down , press the F3 key . Hold all three keys down for about 3 seconds or until the computer starts to reboot . <URL> If you see the screen below , do nothing . The computer will login automatically to the Administrator account . <URL> Eventually , you should get the following screen showing the Administrator 's desktop . You can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window . <URL> Check the clock and make any needed corrections . Right click on the clock shown on the task bar at the bottom right of the screen and select " Adjust date/time " . See image shown below . <URL> Install the Boot Camp Support Software ( BCSS ) by opening the setup Application in the appropriate BCSS folder . If you get a Windows version error message similar to what is shown below , proceed to step 9 . <URL> If you get a Boot Camp x64 error message similar to what is shown below , proceed to step 10 . Otherwise , goto step 11 . <URL> You can remedy the situation by right clicking on the highlighted setup application entry and selecting " Properties " , as shown below . <URL> Next , click on the " Compatibility " tab , check off " Run this program in compatibility for : " box and select the appropriate previous version of Windows . An illustration is shown below . <URL> Click the " OK " button and a open the setup application to install the BCSS . If the computer reboots , you can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window and any Boot Camp windows . Proceed to step 11 . You can remedy the situation by using the Finder application to navigate to the Windows Installer Package named " BootCamp64 " or similar file . Right click on the file entry and select " Properties " , as shown below . <URL> Next , click on the " Compatibility " tab , check off " Run this program in compatibility for : " box . An illustration is shown below . <URL> Click the " OK " button . Right click on the file entry and select " Install " , as shown below . This starts the installation of the BCSS . If the computer reboots , you can close the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window and any Boot Camp windows . <URL> If you do not want to configure Windows Update or have Windows 10 Home , you should skip this step . To proceed , right click on the Start button on the taskbar and select " Run " , as shown below . <URL> In the popup windows , enter " gpedit.msc " and click the Ok button , as shown below . <URL> Select " Local Computer Policy → Computer Configuration → Administrative Templates → Windows Components → Windows Update " , as shown below . <URL> Next , right click on " Configure Automatic Updates " and select " Edit " . The " Configure Automatic Updates " windows should appear as shown below . <URL> If you want to " Never check for updates " click the " Disabled " button , otherwise click the " Enabled " button and choose your option . The result from choosing option 2 is shown below . <URL> When finished , click the " OK " button to close the window . Also , close the " Local Group Policy Editor " window . Next , Click on the Start button on the task bar and select " Settings → Update &amp; security → Windows Update → Check for updates " . When the following message occurs , click " Advanced options " . <URL> Inspect the window to confirm you selection . Below is the correct window for option 2 . <URL> Close the " Settings " window . Connect your computer to the internet . If you computer was hardwired to the internet , plug it back in now . If you were using Wi-Fi , enable it and join a network . If the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window is not displayed , reboot the computer . Click the " OK " button in the " System Preparation Tool 3.14 " window . Use the default settings shown in the image below . <URL> When the computer reboots , you will have left the Audit mode . You should boot to the following display . <URL> On my computer , I was able to select the " United States ( Apple ) " keyboard . You may want to check if a better choice exists than the default keyboard . At this point , you can continue with the Windows 10 installation . Additional Notes : There is a downloadable <URL> from Microsoft , that will allow you to review and/or hide updates before downl
If your Mac OS partition is <URL> , it will be unreadable when you are booted to Windows . At that point , the only thing malware could do to this partition would be to wipe or delete it .
Supported resolutions Retina , Ratio 16:10 2880 by 1800 pixels scaled , Ratio 16:10 1920 x 1200 pixels 1680 x 1050 pixels 1280 x 800 pixels 1024 x 640 pixels According to the <URL> by Apple . How does the scaling work ? According to an <URL> : Selecting any of these options gives you the effective desktop resolution of the setting , but Apple actually renders the screen at a higher resolution and scales it to fit the 2880 x 1800 panel . As a result of this scaled rendering , there can be a performance and quality impact . There is a new option to configure the resolution in the system settings . While you actually change the resolution , Apple only refers to the visual impact of the settings . So basically changing the resolution offers : Large text , but much crisper . More space for visual content ( and smaller text ) , but not as sharp . Something in-between ( default retina ) . ( original picture from AnandTech ) Note : Due to the imprecise definition of " retina display " , this answer may seem confusing , because at the top Apple speaks of 2880x1800 as retina , but the picture suggest something different .
If you copy the CD to a disk image on the PC , you can put the image on a USB stick and transfer it to your Air . I am not sure how to do this on Window , but I 'm sure you can find out how to do this somewhere . <URL> looks like it should do what you want . Also look at <URL>
Why do n't you make a new Bootcamp partition , download CCC for windows and let it do its job ?
My own solution for the original problem so far : give up having a dedicated Windows data partition on the built-in disk split the built-in disk into two partitions : ( 1 ) OS X bootable and ( 2 ) Windows bootcamp bootable size that partitions based on some initial estimation ; use a subset of <URL> ( specifically , Time Machine for OS X , WinClone for Windows ) to re-size partitions when absolutely necessary when completely out of space on either of partitions , or in need of shared read-write storage , purchase <URL> ( eg 128GB ) non-protrusive SD card as a dedicated user data disk ( exFAT ) ; large read-only files like books/music/read-only mail archives are good candidates to move there . This minimizes most of the risks and dependence on third party tools , keeps NTFS for Windows volume , is friendly to OS X upgrades and reinstall of any OS . Straightforward , but promises to be reliable .
( take a copy of your songs ) delete the songs you do n't want on match , re-add them but change the type ( right klick , info ) to audio-book hence iCloud do n't upload audiobooks To be clear - the AudioBooks that are incorrectly marked ' music ' can not have their identifier edited ( when already uploaded to cloud ) , as the Get Info > Options > Media Kind is greyed out . You must save the audio away from iTunes , and when you reload it , you can change the option before it 's uploaded .
Use Boot Camp 6.0 , it will let you use Bluetooth on the MacBook 2015 .
When you go to shutdown/restart , unclick the check box to disable the resume feature , which is likely what is opening all these windows ( that were present upon shutdown ) . If this does n't do it , check that these applications are not in your user start up list .
I keep my documents on the Mac side as I 'm pretty much only using Parallels to run my BootCamp install , so that way they 're backed up . I do n't really mind doing a fresh reinstall of windows if something goes wrong .
Restoring to factory setting will simply wipe out every bit of customization you did to it ( every setting you changed from the default ) but it will not downgrade the firmware . In other words , if you bought your iPhone with iOS 3 and now you 're on iOS 4 , then a factory setting reset will still leave you on iOS 4 .
Not even the official Microsoft RDP Client for OS X supports this ; in fact that product still can not do Terminal Services Gateway connections that were introduced with Windows Server 2008 But the answer to your question is , yes there is at least one client that promotes full RemoteFX implemetation in their OS X client ( and incidentally also TSG ) , and that 's <URL> . It is a commercial program however there is a trial version available from that page . Update : it looks like iTap do n't fully support RemoteApp The only other client I can find is one by Thinomenon . <URL> supports all versions of the RDP protocol up to 7 ( RemoteApp requires 6.1 or greater )
Either ... put the files in the Mac partition : Boot Camp has drivers for read/write to HFS + put the files in the Windows partition : install software on OS X such as <URL>
The answer is No . Sorry . I have done this already . Here is the problem . VirtualBox and your Apple use different hardware . If you try to switch between the hardware you are going to drive windows insane . If you first install Windows using VirtualBox 's virtual hardware and a physical disk partition , then switch to Apple 's physical hardware with the same physical disk partition then you have to run Microsoft 's " System Preparation Tool " . This tool is meant to be run once , not repeatedly . See the procedure at <URL> The other problem would be now are you going to activate the software for both machines . Are you going to active while running under VirtualBox or BootCamp ? When you boot between the physical Apple hardware and the virtual VirtualBox hardware , the Windows operating system is going to detect the change . For example , the two machines do not share the same MBR . Each MBR will have a different signature . Windows stores this signature in its boot partition and compares the value with the MBR when booting .
There is no hardware virtualization to turn on or off like on Wintel PCs . That switch and many other BIOS switches are there because ( at least in part ) the hardware manufacturers do n't make the hardware AND software , like Apple does . It is always on in any Mac that has a processor that supports virtualization . Pretty much any Mac in the last several years does so you are good to go with this one .
end question
start question
How to get Mail.app to show email addresses ?
Open Mail.app , then go to Mail in the top menu > Preferences > Viewing > Uncheck " Use Smart Addresses " . This should display the full name of the contact plus the email address .
The closest you 're going to get is to set Messages alerts to repeat 10 times by going into Settings → Notifications → Messages . There , swipe to the bottom to reveal the menu : <URL> This will cause Messages notifications to ring for 20 minutes after the initial one , or until you 've read/dismissed them . Next , make sure is disabled by going into Settings → Do Not Disturb and toggling both and to ( there are no VIP notifications in Messages yet ) . You could also assign a custom loud and obnoxious text tone to the family member in question that will make it more likely a message from them will wake you up , but that alert sound will trigger for all text messages they send you , even during the daytime . Coworkers who were on-call 24/7 also found it useful to turn on under the section of Settings → General → Accessibility . If you lay your iPhone face down at night it will flash brightly when you receive a notification , although this will be active at all times for all notifications , so you might need to disable this every morning and re-enable it at night . <URL> A note on Do Not Disturb : if you have a habit of using Do Not Disturb and occasionally forget to turn it back off , you can make sure it gets disabled at night by enabling for a 1-minute duration every evening , say , from 10:30 to 10:31 p.m. , or sometime before you go to bed .
When the App Store is " Installing " keep in mind this includes " Downloading " , and Xcode is usually about 4 GB . Leave it overnight or monitor your network traffic to see the progress . Once Xcode is installed , you will need to run to expand your path since tools like and compilers/linkers are in / Applications/Xcode and not in your typical bash path . You can go to settings and download the command line tools to keep them if decide to delete Xcode later .
You can use the " Save as PDF " option in the Print dialog ( drop down is in lower left corner of the dialog window ) .
The most likely explanation is that your miniDP to VGA adapter is not an original/high-quality one . I 've seen it happen before , and as soon as that person bought an original Apple miniDP to VGA adapter the issue is gone and native resolution is recognized without any issue .
This is because of how you can program the pasteboard on Mac OS X. Text editors expect the pasteboard to contain , well , text data . There are however several kinds of text : there 's plain text , there 's formatted ( RTF ) text , there 's formatted text with embedded documents ( RTFD ) , there 's HTML-formatted text , and a bunch of others . When you copy something , the application tells the pasteboard how this data can be represented . There are usually several suitable representations : for instance , copying your question exports data in the pasteboard that can be represented as a web archive , RTF data , and plain text in three different encodings . Plenty of types that applications are likely to support . However , when you copy a mail from Mail , it exports only as two types of data : plain UTF-8 text and a RTFD document . Cocoa tries to paste as an RTFD document because it likes them better , but applications say " no no , I ca n't do that " ; they usually support getting text from RTF , but not from RTFD since RTFD usually has embedded resources such as images , and you end up pasting nothing because the apps do n't bother to look for the plain text data . TextEdit , on its side , is able to edit RTFD documents , so it has no problem pasting the data .
You can directly copy to/from the desktop to/from fullscreen mode using drag-and-drop . You need to go via the desktop " preview " window of mission control ( at the top ) : Here 's a <URL> demonstration .
It 's possible to do that with AppleScript . If you 're familiar with this technology , you should just browse iCal and Mail respective dictionary . If not , that 's the occasion to become familiar ! <URL> Here 's a very basic script you could use ( tested on Snow Leopard only , but should work fine on Lion as well ) : In order to use it easily in Mail , you should save it in ( create folders if they do n't exist ) and activates the Scripts menubar item in preferences of AppleScript Editor . Here 's the result when you 're in Mail : You can also use a productivity tool to launch your script . There are plenty of them out there but I personally use Keyboard Maestro &amp; Alfred . There 's a lot of room for improvement . By example , you could set a default alarm , insert it in a given calendar ... In order to improve it yourself , use the AppleScript dictionary : it 's the best reference you could find . However , those links may be useful as well , as they provide many examples ( some are maybe too old ) : <URL> &amp; <URL> .
You do n't need to add Time Machine to the list . Along with all other OS X system notifications , they are shown in Notification Center without any user intervention required to activate them . Conversely , you ca n't disable them either . This is the same with battery notifications , disk ejection notifications , etc. . If you want to disable Time Machine notifications , set the flags value for in the table in ~ / Library/Application Support/NotificationCenter / < udid > . db to or . If you want to customise it further , change one of the other entries for Notification Center , then read the flags value for that app and save it as the flags value for TMHelperAgent .
It did n't happen to me with the latest version of iPhoto yet . But the only solution I found to fix this kind of issues in iPhoto '09 without trashing the entire iPhoto library was to remove only the Faces related files . With the '11 version the procedure would be : Close iPhoto Find your iPhoto library Right click on the photo library and chose " Show Package Content " Navigate to the directory Edit : If you save your iPhoto library regularly you can restore the files instead of deleting them . To open the iPhoto bundle in Time Machine follow the instructions in <URL> . Depending on your version of iPhoto you might have to right click on and " Show Original " Delete the original in the newly opened folder . Delete the 2 Faces files in the directory Relaunch iPhoto Go to your Photos library Select all the pictures ( click on a picture then & #x 2318 ; + A to select all pictures ) . Then in the " Photos " menu select " Detect Missing Faces " You could also try removing only some of the files in the Faces directory before and relaunching iPhoto to check which file might be corrupted in your case .
Sorry to dig up an old question , but I had the identical issue today and this was the first result for my google search for " mac mail signature shortcut " . While these answers were n't what I was looking for , the 3rd google result was a <URL> , which offered the perfect solution . Here 's the answer : you can assign keyboard shortcuts for your email signatures , " From : " account selection , and even SMTP account from System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard Shortcuts → Application Shortcuts . To set up your shortcut , click the icon , select " Mail.app " from the Application drop down , enter the text of the signature ( or other option ) as it appears in the New Message window drop down , and give it a keyboard shortcut . Rob Griffiths , the author of the MacWorld hint , advises using ( ) in combination with your desired keys to avoid conflicts with existing Mail shortcuts , which seems smart . In my case , I created a shortcut in Mail.app for the menu title " None " ( the first option under signatures ) and assigned it the shortcut . It is now exceedingly easy for me to clear my default email signature when it does n't seem appropriate . For the purposes of illustration , here is the System Preferences → Keyboard Shortcuts pane ( it 's the last item ) : And here is what it looks like in Mail 's New Message window :
Practically speaking , the answer would be no - iCloud does n't " sync " multiple email accounts ( this is built into iOS ) . @me . com email address is just like gmail - it is just another email account . If you really wanted to , you could have all your gmail forward to iCloud 's @me . com email account , but that would n't be practical . To have your Gmail accounts synced into your iPad , open Settings , on your iPad , tap Mail , Contacts , Calendars , select Add Account , for a Gmail account select Gmail , and enter your information in there . Repeat the process for every mail account you have . ( You should notice your iCloud account in the list of email accounts when you first open it )
One way to ensure all your email goes out as UTF-8 is to include a Unicode dingbat or similar character in every message , as part of your signature or otherwise .
Yes , you can have Mail put certain addresses in the to field in black and all others in red . I use this to have Mail flag email that 's going outside my organization . Do this by going to Preferences > Composing . Then under the " Addressing " header check " Mark addresses not ending with [ ] . " Inside the box put " . nameofyourschool.edu " . Then every email address destined within your school will be black , and all others will be red . Just the thing to ensure FERPA compliance .
You can not . You need the Mail app running . Unlike Calendar events , checking for emails is not something that can run locally . A client application need to connect with your mail server and retrieve your e-mails . Sure there could be some background process that does that without the need of the Mail app , but it would not make much sense ; in the end you would still have a process doing the checking . Something that may make the Mail app less intrusive to you desktops ' organization etc is having it been launched automatically and hidden at startup .
As you need to do a shift + enter ( also called ' soft return ' ) to do it ( because ' enter ' acts like ' tab ' ) , you ca n't on iOS . According to this <URL> Zoagli points it in <URL> you ca n't do it on iOS . Alternatively you can try to add the soft return on a computer via Contact.app ( on a mac ) , or via the web interface of your contact manager ( Google contacts ... ) PS iCloud on the web does n't support soft return .
There are two options here : You can simply select " Allow All " in your firewall , or simply turn it off . You can remove the apps from the list , delete the file for those apps , run them , and then add them to the list . The plist is responsible for a lot of behaviors and I 'm willing to bet either an upgrade to the OS or the app can cause the " link " to break . About files ... A plist is a special kind of text file that contains properties the application and other resources , typically the OS , use to retain and reuse information needed to run the application . is a file type and has many uses , typically storing user preferences , but , essentially , it is an XML file . You can look to see if there are any caches , which are typically files , for the applications in question in and . There is also one in but bad things can happen when mucking around in there , so just leave it alone . The system goes into those folders for a wide variety of reasons , and I usually clean out the first two folders I listed completely about once a month .
These files starting with a dot are meant to be hidden in * nix . To see them in terminal add the flag to the command : To see them in the Finder you will want to set a hidden preference ( this is global change tho , you 'll see all your hidden files everywhere ) : and then restart the finder : To reverse and hide them again : <URL> Update to add : Lately I 've only been able to get this to work when the string is lower case ! I think this happened starting in 10.9 , but not certain . So you 'll want :
( Sorry for the lack of screenshots ; I 'm writing from a Windows machine right now ) Go to Mail > Preferences > Rules Click " Add Rule " For Description , enter " BCC " For the conditions , select " Any Recipient " " Does not contain " and enter your address in the third field For action , select " Set Color " " of background " " Purple " ( or whatever color you chose ) and click OK . From then on , incoming messages not sent " To : " or " CC : " you will be marked in that color .
I have n't found any actual answer for my question , but instead found a very good alternative . Basically @icloud . com accounts also allow the creation of aliases that can be used in all iOS Mail apps , with one particular advantage : the alias allows changing the name of the recipient as well , something @outlook . com account aliases does not allow . You can create @icloud . com aliases using the web interface options .
end question
start question
How can I restore an iPad to factory defaults ?
In iPad Settings , go to General , then Reset , then " Erase All Contents and Settings " . The next thing you see ( after confirmation ) is the welcome screen as if just out of the box . Also : If shipping it you might want to power off by holding top and bottom buttons until you see the " slide to power off " slider . I recently sold my iPad 2 , cleared it to factory settings as described and powered off . Happy new owner received it with charge , ready to configure .
Apparently , it 's coming soon to Eye-Fi cards , and they will have firmware upgrades for all existing cards . . <URL>
I think you can just right-click the file and select " Put Back "
To restore your device ... Put your device into Recovery mode Turn the device off Holding the home button , connect it to your computer . iTunes should prompt to restore the device . Follow the instructions . If you have Find my iPhone enabled , you will need to log in to <URL> and remove the device from your account before you can restore it .
It appears that it is currently not possible to edit contacts in Skype for iPad . This Skype KB article mentions viewing and deleting contacts , but makes no mention of editing contacts . This is in contrast to the related articles for other systems such as Windows/Mac that does mention editing contacts . <URL> In addition , this Skype Community thread asks the question and is met by a moderator 's response mentioning that it is not possible : <URL>
Check this thread out <URL> otherwise you might ask directly on askubuntu . You can log in on askubuntu using your stackexchange credentials
Technically the format you want is called composite video , so you might have better luck searching for a HDMI to Composite converter . RCA is just the name of the connector . For example : <URL>
Unless you excluded the OS files from the backup , Time Machine should 've backed that up along with everything else ; but in order to recover the entire OS ( rather than just your user files ) , you have to do the restore differently : use the restore tool in <URL> ( reachable by starting the Mac with Command and R held down ) . However , there are a couple of warnings I should give about this route : I have n't tested it , but I think this form of restore will wipe out everything currently on the disk , replacing it with the earlier backup snapshot . Have you done anything important since the backup ? If so , you should back that up before going this route . If you 'd excluded any files/folders from the backup , they 'll be missing from the restore as well . It 's fairly common to exclude the OS itself from backups , so if you 'd done that this form of restore will not give you a bootable system . Because of the above , I 'd be inclined to stick with the restore you have , and simply reinstall the update . BTW , the question seems to contain a bit of a misunderstanding about how OS updates and backups work . Time Machine ( and other backup systems ) back up files and folders . An OS update is n't a file or folder that can be backed up as an item ; instead , it 's a bunch of changes to various system files and folders . If those files and folders are being backed up , the updated versions will be backed up ; if not , they wo n't be . Similarly , you ca n't restore a system update , you can only restore the changed versions of the various system files ( and since you do n't know precisely which ones were changed , that pretty much means restoring all of the system files and folders ) .
You ca n't generally password protect specific apps without some jailbreaking I assume , but you can restrict certain things , a few of which I recommend if you are giving it to a young one . <URL> Describes the restrictions process , and it lists You can choose to restrict access to the following applications and features on the device : Safari , YouTube , iTunes , Ping , App installation , App deletion , Camera , FaceTime , Location , Account changes , Multiplayer games in Game Center , Adding friends in Game Center . In addition , you can choose to prevent access to specific content types : In-app purchases , Music and podcasts , Movies , TV shows , Apps . You can also set iTunes restrictions for content via <URL> , but again , this is n't device specific at the time , it is when you are buying or downloading content from the internet .
With the minimized application selected , start holding the ⌥ alt key before you release the ⌘ cmd key .
Try to hold on option key and click the " green " button .
Your iPhoto library ( by default ) is located in ~ / Pictures as a package ( . photolibrary ) . Your iTunes library ( by default ) is located in ~ / Music as a folder . Copying the entire library will copy all the data ( unless you are using referenced media ) . Your app settings are located in ~ / Library/Preferences .
I use GoodReader for reading Apple manuals , synced via Dropbox . GR remembers positions in all PDFs I read . It also keeps all my annotations and highlights in sync with PDFs on my Mac . Overall , very convenient solution IMHO .
Starting in Lion , Apple added a command to Font Book . Open Font Book and choose :
It 's actually pretty simple , in that , if it is not in the app store it ca n't be installed , unless you want to go the jailbreak route because you found an " R " app for jailbroken IOS devices .
Within Xcode you can specify that an app is iPad only under the " Deployment Info " section of the target 's General settings . Beyond that the way to limit an app to certain devices is by specifying features in the Info.plist under the key . You can see the options listed on Apple 's developer website here : <URL> Unfortunately there does not seem to be an option that limits an app to iPad Pro devices only . You can specify " arm64 " which will limit your app to iPad mini second generation and above , iPad Airs and iPad Pro devices . But I ca n't see an option that says devices that support Apple Pencil only .
Yes this is definitely possible . I have created an ad hoc network on windows 7 and connected to it with my iPad 3 . Go to control panel > Network and Sharing Center Click setup a new connection or network Scroll down and choose Click setup a wireless ad hoc network give a network name and choose WEP encryption from the dropdown list . The password should be 10 characters long and I used all numeric digits for this . tick save this network . and click next at the bottom to create the network . On your iPad or other device select your network which will be broadcast with the name you chose and connect to that network with the password yo uused in step 4 . If the device fails to connect , try repeating this process again . It took me a couple times but worked eventually . After Connecting , you must also setup network sharing in order to connect to the internet . You must have an internet connection on either LAN or a different Wireless card or some other device . Go to the Network and Sharing Center again in COntrol Panel . Choose on the left sidebar Change adapter settings to get to Network Connections select the network connection that is connected to the internet ( The LAN or alternate wireless / other device ) and right click and choose properties . Go to the Sharing tab and check Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's internet connection . Select the network connection that you were using to broadcast the ad hoc network for the associated network connection . Click on the Settings button which will bring up a window with a list of services to allow or deny for users using this internet connection via the ad hoc ICS ( internet connection sharing ) Check at least HTTP and probably HTTPS protocols , SMTP for email , POP3 for email as well if you need , etc. . . and Click Ok when you 're done . Click Ok again on the original window . In some cases you may need to restart the network connection connected to the internet for the changes to take effect . I hope this helps !
Additionally to the OPlayer app suggested by @Jason Salaz I 've found several other apps that can connect to Windows smb shares : <URL> $ 14.99 <URL> $ 3.99 <URL> $ 3.99 <URL> $ 2.39 <URL> $ 15.99 Unfortunately I could n't find any free apps .
No : the dictionary files OS X ' Dictionary app uses are read-only , and Dictionary.app does not support annotations . You can <URL> ( though that is not a trivial task ) , but not modify the existing ones .
When you do on a file , it is immediately unlinked from the file system and gone for good . The Trash is a Finder Idiom that is not available in a unix terminal session . The only way to restore your file is by restoring it from a backup .
end question
start question
Why would I want to turn on iTunes Match on an iOS device ?
iTunes Match is a subscription service that allows you to sync your music collection across all devices that you add to the service . Songs are either " matched " or " uploaded " . Matched songs appear much like they do if you have purchased them , in fact if you delete a matched song from your device , the copy you download will be the full DRM-free 256kbps version of that song from iTunes . Without the subscription service , Apple still makes all previous purchases available to you . It knows you have purchased them and allows you to re-download them . In this sense you are getting part of the iTunes Match service but it only works for songs purchased from iTunes . Show All Music does exactly that . It shows all your music whether on the device or in the cloud . Turn it off and you only see items that have been downloaded to your device . This is really handy when you are offline . Nothing worse than trying to use your iPhone to play songs that are still in the cloud when you are in airplane mode . So to answer your question , you need to turn on iTunes Match to be able to see your non-downloaded songs that were not purchased from iTunes or did not " match " songs in the iTunes store . Once you have downloaded everything you can turn iTunes Match off if you like , but every time you turn it on again it " replaces " the music on your device with what is in iTunes Match .
This is not possible . iTunes Match will continue to fill up your storage space as you download tracks locally on the phone through it . I believe it will trim songs once the space is full , to clear off the least-played material . If you would like , you can manage your storage in a few ways : Go to Settings > General > Usage > Music . Here you can clear all downloaded music . Go to the Music app . Locate downloaded material and swipe across artists , albums or songs to remove them from your local storage .
You can turn off manual mode and use automatic syncing -- this will maintain the ratings both ways . In iTunes you want to be sure " manually manage music and videos " is not checked . Might need some tweaking if you do n't sync your whole library though . Best way I found to solve that complexity issue is using smart playlists ...
Yes it does . It has to verify the firmware with Apple 's servers ( gs.apple.com ) . If it can not , it will error out ( usually presenting a 3XXX error , which is quite often 3004 ) and fail to update .
You can follow the <URL> . The same way works for iPhone , iPod and iPad . The easiest way is to plug your iDevice , open iTunes , click on your device on the left panel of iTunes then click on the serial number . Your UDID will appear :
There are two , both from Facebook . It 's available in the Messages section of <URL> , as well as the standalone <URL> . The standalone app uses a denser interface , and would be an improvement if you were going to use this heavily , but the section of the complete app is n't much worse .
I 'll check my computer when I get home , but everytime I update the ratings on my iPhone there is definitely network activity ( The network spinner is displayed everytime I change the rating ) . So it is definitely updating the iTunes Match library . Whether it updates the PC at home I 'll have to see . I 'm still waiting for it to upload about 600 songs . Edit : I confirmed that ratings and play count definitely are updated right away . PC to device changes take a little longer . I had one song disappear from my phone on my way to work because I accidentally removed it from match the night before and it took some time to propagate .
You can see music thats specifically downloaded to your device , and only that music by going to : Settings > Music You will see an option for ' Show All Music ' Turn this off . This will not delete any songs in iCloud nor change any other settings in your device or delete accounts related to iCloud or iTunes Match , this simply does what your requesting , only displaying actively downloaded music/videos . In fact , you can leave iTunes Match enabled and the results will conclude the same in your favor . EDIT You can delete music thats downloaded to your phone in batches ( currently by Artists only ) . However you can delete specific albums from that artist . The following guide will take you to the respective settings : Settings > General > Usage > Manage Storage ( regular storage not iCloud storage ) > Music Here you will see a list of downloaded music only . This is also where audiobooks are located ! Cheers !
I would recommend starting your mac in <URL> . When you startup and shutdown you will see the Console entries live on the screen . Sometimes you can see what the computer is getting stuck on at shutdown . It may not be obvious , we might need to search the last line for more information .
Cookie settings can be changed in the Preferences app in the Safari topic .
Do you run the risk of loosing your computer ? Is the information stored on your computer of high value to other persons ? If your answer is no to these questions you should not consider using FileVault 2 as it has some drawbacks : The encryption happens on the fly . As your C2D processor does not support hardware accelerated encryption , your CPU load will increase . Newer CPU 's like the Sandy-Bridge processors support that Apple ships support AES-NI instructions for hardware accelerated encryption . Your I/O tasks will become slower for the same reason . Even witth AES-NI support the performance slightly decreases . But in your case the effect should be a lot bigger . Auto-login is not possible with Filevault 2 enabled . Time Machine Time Machine does not encrypt backups per default . Even with FileVault 2 enabled . You will need to enable encryption with Time Machine . In Lion , FileVault 2 did not support encrypted wireless backups but work-arounds were possible . Mountain Lion supports wireless encrypted backups to Time Capsule .
No . Not unless you jailbreak your device . There is obviously Do-Not-Disturb which disables alerts , but does not put the phone on Airplane mode or disable wifi . Keep in mind that if you turn off wifi , or enable Airplane mode , that iCloud backups or iTunes backups wo n't work at that point . So , in order to conserve battery overnight , you will need to manually enable Airplane mode , disable wifi , or , you could power the device off completely . Again , keep in mind , iCloud backups will not perform during this time .
Did you add your media to iTunes ? menubar - > file - > add to library Then restart iTunes .
In order to set the TX Power you need an older version of the Airport utility which is available <URL> . Navigate to your base station > Manual Setup > AirPort > Wireless > Wireless Network Options . Once there , choose a transmit power that 's lower than 100 % ( you can choose between 10 % , 25 % , 50 % , and 100 % ) . Remember to Update your configuration when you 're done .
This can happen with any file type , not just Podcasts , and I 've suffered from this a few times when I move my iTunes library about , especially with TV Shows . The only solution I found was to move the episodes out of the iTunes Media folder , then use the Add to Library in iTunes to add them back in . This forces them to be added to the . itl even if there 's already a malformed entry for that file .
No , you do n't need a backup any more . iTunes Match stores nothing in the Cloud , it activates your songs in the iTunes Store , and only the songs iTunes does n't have are uploaded to the Apple Server . But if your HDD suffers damage , you have to download all your 50 GB again .
As another answer pointed out , iOS 8 <URL> , much the same way FileVault encrypts a hard drive on a Mac . The more data you have , the longer it will take to de-crypt or re-encrypt all this stuff as you toggle it . The secondary reason for this is by design : Mac OS and iOS have <URL> , as most are aware ( side note : how cool is it iOS auto-fills ' underpinnings ' after I type ' UNIX ' ?! ) . UNIX systems implement a <URL> , which is designed to resist brute-force attacks because it takes so damn long . While the effectiveness of this technique has waned as processors become faster and more powerful , it 's still noticeable as the little spinny thing on your login screen just before you log in to your Mac , which would make sitting there and typing random passwords very annoying ( read up on pam_unix if this interests the developer side of your brain ) .
To do it in the Emulator , you can just use Quicktime , since the latest version supports Screen Recording . Keep in mind though that it captures the entire screen and not just a particular window .
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
There are two steps involved : Change your Siri voice settings to English ( United Kingdom ) - as of iOS 7.1.2 this is under Settings > General > Siri > Language and also Settings > General > International > Voice Control ( they 're both the same setting : change one and the other changes too ) . Change your device Language setting to British English : it 's under Settings > General > International > Language . That second one was difficult to find because the default option is English - as opposed to English ( United States ) which always prompts me to check for an English ( United Kingdom ) version - and the list is not in alphabetical order : British English and Australian English are both there but way down at the bottom . And weirdly , devices bought in the UK come with most settings defaulting to British but not this one . You 'll know if your device is set to British English because the Cellular option in Settings becomes Mobile . NB : If your device already has these settings and you still get an American accent , try changing the device language to US English , then back to UK English .
end question
start question
Extension for Safari to enable Google Translation WITHOUT adding a button ?
I 'm using <URL> . Translate only what i want ( selected text or whole page ) , inject translated text into the page , no button ( right click menu ) .
You do n't need a developer account but you do need a Mac . These points are taken from <URL> : In order to take advantage of this , you 'll need three things : Xcode 7 iOS 9 ( minimum ) A free Apple ID To start , you 'll need to set up a provisioning profile to code sign your apps : Open Xode preferences ( Xcode > Preferences ... ) Click the ' Accounts ' tab Login with your Apple ID ( + > Add Apple ID ... ) Once you 've successfully logged in , a new ' Personal Team ' with the role ' Free ' will appear beneath your Apple ID . <URL> There 's a few more details that you can view on that site .
I use OS X 10.9.5 ( Mavericks ) and I was preparing to ask : Where , on disk , does Tampermonkey for Safari store user data e.g. scripts ? Your question seems to answer my question ! ( I had used fseventer to monitor file system activity whilst installing a script , but nothing conclusive was observed . ) In my case I assume that Tampermonkey dataloss resulted from an uninstall , followed by a reinstall , of various extensions . Background Two sets of answers to frequently asked questions : <URL> <URL> The Tampermonkey forum is limited , seeking Safari finds nothing : The following words in your search query were ignored because they are too common words : safari ... <URL> explains how to export scripts , but I never imagined that losing ( or removing ) the database of extensions would also lose user data associated with any extension .
The menu for this is hidden under Edit > Find > Google Search ... . The shortcut is Option + Command + F.
I can feel the edges of the button on both my black iPhone 4 even when the button is n't depressed - so your description alone does n't necessarily mean there is a defect ( but you should be very happy with your new purchase and it could very well be a defect ) . If you can go to any retail ( cell carrier or Apple ) store and compare your device to others ( or have friends with any iPhone 4 to compare ) it will be very easy for anyone to agree if your phone 's button is different than the rest . No matter where you bought the phone - Apple will exchange it if the hardware is defective at no cost . You also can return a new phone to the seller within 30 days - but getting it in the hands of an Apple tech will be the fastest way to know it 's covered or a defect - or if it 's just a normal variation of the manufacturing process .
You 're talking about the notification settings for Mail , not whether push is on . To see new mail messages in the Lock Screen : Settings > Notifications > Mail > Make sure " View in Lock Screen " is turned ON . If you 're concerned about your mail 's push settings , those are in : Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data > Make sure " Push " is set how you want it .
No - a simple and properly done RAM replacement does not affect warranty coverage . You can have Apple do the work , or an authorized service provider to do the work or hire someone . Just understand what is covered if something happens before you pay for service . When someone breaks a mac when it 's used in a way not intended , that can result in a denial of warranty service . Also - using aftermarket parts that then damage your mac can also land you in hot water . Luckily with RAM , as long as you do n't physically break the mounting brackets , usually the worst thing that happens is your mac is unreliable or panics until you get proper RAM . The user manual for each Apple product will clearly explain which parts are user replaceable and which are not . You can look up your manual online if you care , but no portable machine other than the MacBook Air has ram that is not user-replaceable .
In Safari 6 or newer , ShiftCmd \ or a two finger pinch invokes the " Tab View " which includes iCloud tabs . <URL>
The simplest way is to create your own Service and call it whatever you want to name it . I created a service simply called and put it in my context menu like I have done here : Make Your Own Delete Service Open up Automator ( / Applications/Utilities/Automator ) and create a new Service At the top right pane , select in On the left most pane , select and drag the option to the workflow Change the " Pass input " field to Pase the following into the shell script body 6 . Click > on the menubar and give you service a name . Whatever you name it , is what it will be called This will enable it immediately on your system . If you ever decide you do n't want it , and need to replace this item , navigate to and you will see a list of folders called . To remove the one you do n't want , just delete it then in Terminal type This will restart the Finder and remove it from the context menu straight away . Otherwise , it will clear up on next restart . Add Keyboard Shortcut To make a keyboard shortcut for the Service you created , follow these steps : From the Desktop , click the word Finder in the top left hand corner of the screen , then go to Services > Services Preferences Scroll down the list on the right until you find the service you created by name . In this example , you can see that I made earlier . Highlight it , and click on . This will bring up a box . Make sure your mouse cursor is in there and depress the keys that you want to use to set the shortcut . In my example , I have used the combination Control + Shift + L. Press Show All to save your settings . Keyboard Symbols To help anyone new to Apple keyboard symbols , here they are as follows : ^ = Control ⇧ = Shift ⌘ = Command ⌥ = Alt/Option
Never mind ! I found the answer here : <URL> I will delete this question now ! EDIT - Since some are upvoting this question , I will echo the <URL> in the linked question ( supplied by @slhck ) . A straightforward solution exists , because AppleScript specifically offers a command designed to do exactly what I 'm looking for . And that will make the file extension visible !
you can use KeyRemap4MacBook <URL> you can find the included prepared settings list at this address : <URL> as you can see there is the setting for Fn Key
From the Messages app section of the Apple Mountain Lion <URL> : Turn on read receipts , and they 'll see when you 've read a message . According to this <URL> , you can send read receipts in the Message app by following these steps : Open Preferences in iMessage , and select the " Accounts " tab Select the Message account from the left Check the box next to " Send Read Receipts " to enable Close out of iMessage Preferences Screenshot from this post : I can confirm the presence of the checkbox on my own Mac .
The bottleneck is the available free memory ( RAM ) on the iPhone . If Safari starts running out of memory it will flush the contents of older tabs meaning they have to reload when you switch back to them . If you have too many tabs open , or you simply have multiple tabs that each have a large web page in them , Safari will reload when you switch back to another tab . There 's no fixed limit ; it depends on the combined size of the HTML + all assets each web page you have open and on the total number of tabs you have open . As the available RAM in new iPhone models increases , this will become less and less of a problem .
You should edit your top sites and pin what do you want to see every time .
Without writing a full-blown Objective-C app , this is pretty difficult to do well . I wrote something you might be able to use a while back . Just put it up on Github <URL> . It 's a Ruby script that you should be able to use as long as you 're comfortable in a shell and text editor . No Ruby knowledge required . It 's a bit dumb , in the sense that it just runs a shell command when a change is detected in the watched folder ( or subfolders ) . You can use that to call an Applescript though . Should be some way to do the same for Automator workflows . However , if you depend on the input from the folder action ( i.e. the files/folders that triggered the action ) , this wo n't work . You could probably modify the Ruby script to catch the path of the files/folders triggering the event , and then pass that to an Applescript or Automator action , but I did n't need anything that complex , so I just hacked this together . Good luck .
I still have no idea how I managed to get it working on the Retina MBP , but I found <URL> which supports native scrolling , much nicer full-screen mode , and more .
<URL> does trigger an alert in Safari when a popup is locked . And it also improves the effectiveness of Safari 's blocking . But - the alert behaviour does not work in Lion ! Snow Leopard only . If the dev updates it for Lion it should do what you request .
I believe by default it checks every ten minutes . To adjust the interval , click on the mail icon , then hold down the Command and Option keys and click on Preferences . A box will pop up asking for a key and value . Use as the key and type the number of minutes in the value box . Then click Set and you 're done . You need to restart it for the change to take effect . NOTE : is case-sensitive You can also do the following in Terminal Replace the above with a number to represent minutes between checks
Not at this point , no . WebKit , that which Safari for Mac OS and iOS are both based on , is supposed to support WebGL but I have yet to be able to get it work properly on Mac OS 10.6 , much less iOS . I get the impression the whole thing is too new ( relatively ) for proper support .
Automatically Added Keys There are three ways SSH keys are added to ssh-agent in Snow Leopard . manually , with ssh-add , automatically , by ssh when you supply a key 's passphrase via the GUI prompt , and automatically , by ssh-agent when it first starts . The last two methods are Apple extensions : there are no " automatic " additions with stock OpenSSH . All references to ssh , ssh-agent , and ssh-add below are to Apple 's Snow Leopard versions unless I prefix the program name with the adjective " stock " . You can disable all of Apple 's keychain-oriented SSH modifications with a ( undocumented ? ) preference setting : Keys Added Automatically By ssh ( This is the part I missed in the previous version of my original answer since I usually use a " stock " ssh . ) Whenever ssh tries to use a passphrase protected SSH key to authenticate itself to a remote host , it will issue a GUI prompt for the SSH key 's password . The key is also loaded into the agent ( if the passphrase is correct ) whether or not you mark the " Remember password in my keychain " checkbox . There are two ( undocumented ? ) ways to prevent ssh from issuing this GUI prompt ( and thus adding the SSH key to the ssh-agent ) : A preference setting : An <URL> entry ( or option to ssh ) that specifies . ( see in <URL> ; the parameter comes from the configuration setting ) When is disabled , ssh will prompt you in the normal way for the key 's password ( i.e. through the tty ) . You could also avoid automatic adds from ssh by using a " stock " ssh ( e.g. OpenSSH compiled by <URL> , <URL> " duplicates " from <URL> , or <URL> ) . Keys Added Automatically By ssh-agent The keys that ssh-agent automatically adds are those that have their passphrases stored in a keychain . These " remembered keys " are automatically added when a new ssh-agent starts . There is no command line or configuration option ( other than , described above ) to prevent ssh-agent from automatically loading the " remembered keys " ( see the call to ( defined in <URL> ) from in <URL> ) . If , however , you can arrange to lock the keychains that store your SSH key passphrases , you can click Cancel when ssh-agent asks to unlock the keychain ( s ) and effectively get ssh-agent to skip adding these " remembered keys " when it first starts . If there is no ssh-agent running , your first use of ssh will likely trigger launchd to start an ssh-agent which will load all the " remembered keys " . This makes it seem like ssh is loading the keys into the agent , but it is really the agent itself that is loading the keys . It only does this automatically when it first starts . The option of ssh-add provides a manual way to add the " remembered keys " ( see in <URL> which ends up as a message to the agent which calls from in <URL> ) . launchd Configuration You are right that a system update could overwrite your modification to the file in . You should always avoid changing things under ; most things can be ( re ) configured without making changes there . In this case , it looks like you should be able to override the system default launchd job specification on a per-user basis with a file in . From what I can tell1 , entries are loaded in this order2 : ( not present on most systems ) It does not seem to be documented , but only the first job configuration for each Label ( e.g. ) will be kept . Any configuration from a later directory with the same Label as a configuration from an earlier directory is effectively skipped . 1 See used in <URL> and defined in <URL> / <URL> . 2 launchd also looks in the directories next to the various directories for other types of jobs .
end question
start question
Is using 10.8 ( over 10.9 ) a security risk ?
Not particularly at any grave security risk since Apple is supporting and releasing security updates to OS X for n-3 generations of the OS as of August 2014 : Mavericks ( 10.9 ) Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) This is documented on the main support page at <URL> I have n't seen any time when n-2 were not supported on OS X so unless you depend on enhancements to Gatekeeper or the more <URL> such ad Application Layer VPN , Sandboxed Plug-ins , Additional sandboxed Apple Apps , OTA certificate revocation to make up your definition of risky to stay on 10.8 then you should be equivalently secured on 10.8 for the foreseeable near future .
Edit : Better Option I found <URL> , which seems to do exactly what you 're looking for , using a bunch of different sources , including Apple Update , Sparkle ( which a lot of 3rd party apps use to push updates ) , Microsoft Updates and more . It also has the option of installing the updates right from the app . Original Answer MacUpdate offers <URL> of updates to all the software it tracks . You could use that , with something to filter for items matching software you have installed ( <URL> ) might be useful for that ) to give you a list of updates to any of your apps . It 's probably not a comprehensive solution depending on the obscurity of some of your apps , but it 's probably the closest you 'll get to a single source . The other alternative might be creating a script that periodically checks provided URLs for all your software for any changes , then notifies you in some way .
When you insert a USB drive it automatically gets mounted . You can see the name of the device using the mount command : Making the simplifying assumption that you only have one usb drive mounted at a time and it is always formatted with windows , you can then rename the drive like this : now when you look at the mount output , the name is changed : You may need to adjust the search parameters based on different assumptions , but this is the general idea .
Yes , <URL> : iCloud Security iCloud secures your content by encrypting it when sent over the Internet , storing it in an encrypted format , and using secure tokens for authentication . Encrypting content that is sent over the Internet The following content is encrypted using SSL ( Secure Sockets Layer ) when sent over the Internet to or from iCloud : Photos in your Photo Stream Documents in the Cloud Backup data for your iOS device ...
Yes , it will work as long as both the MacBook Air and the Denon receiver are on the same network segment . Your Air will need either the USB or Thunderbolt adapter to connect to ethernet ( the latter provides Gigabit speed as well as supports jumbo packets ) directly . You can have many iOS devices and the Air also connect over a wireless bridge and they will see the receiver that is connected via ethernet to the main network switch .
Not particularly at any grave security risk since Apple is supporting and releasing security updates to OS X for n-3 generations of the OS as of August 2014 : Mavericks ( 10.9 ) Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) This is documented on the main support page at <URL> I have n't seen any time when n-2 were not supported on OS X so unless you depend on enhancements to Gatekeeper or the more <URL> such ad Application Layer VPN , Sandboxed Plug-ins , Additional sandboxed Apple Apps , OTA certificate revocation to make up your definition of risky to stay on 10.8 then you should be equivalently secured on 10.8 for the foreseeable near future .
I found a project online which i think uses an old WEBKIT renderer . . <URL> gives old versions , but i do n't know which ones you will be able to run on your new machine . For myself , I 'm running 4.0.5 because of the reduced RAM usage .
It 's a good idea to keep the machine shaded , if only because it 's very hard to read any screen in bright sunlight . Also , on my deck in Carmel Valley California I 've had a thermometer placed in direct sunlight read well over 100 deg F ( 37 + deg C ) when the air temp has been around 80 deg F ( 26 deg C ) . Your Mac exposed in direct sunlight could well burst through Apple 's upper limit even when the ambient temperature is below .
<URL> should help you . From the above-linked splash page : The Word Counter ... gives immediate feedback on your productivity as a writer . encourages you by showing you your daily output . gives you clarity about your daily goals . keeps a complete history of your daily achievements . assists with finding your perfect writing environment . counts what counts : words -- the ultimate metric for writing .
If you want to see the contents of one space in another space , there is no such feature in Lion , and I 'm not aware of any applications that may enable it . All in all , such " feature " , if it existed , would have given me a bizarre feeling , akin to remoting into my own computer . Why would I ever want to do that ? It would be impossible to control another space with a mouse ( scaling issues ) so watching a film would be a pain . You want to code and watch a movie at the same time ? ( Sure it 's a good idea ? ) Great , that 's precisely what windows are for . ( <URL> running with <URL> on top of it . ) Some media players ( amongst them is MPlayerX , the most polished OS X player ) always stay on top when playing so you wo n't have issues with window disappearing as soon as you switch the focus . Finally , if you want a window to stay visible regardless of chosen space , right-click its Dock icon and assign it to All Desktops as advised by <URL> in the comment to your question .
A EULA is a contract , not a law . Trouble , if it comes , comes in the form of a lawsuit : " You agreed not to do X ; you did X , harming me , for which I demand $ $ $ as compensation . " That means one party must have been harmed , and would need to know or believe that they have been harmed , and would need make a claim to that effect , and would need to back up that claim , with evidence sufficient to convince a judge ( assuming the other disputes the claim ) . The said party might not know that the EULA had been violated , might not be able to prove a valid contract existed , might not be able to convincingly show harm , or might not feel that it 's worth the trouble to pursue , for example , one person experimenting on their own , vs. a training company running a dozen such VMs off a single user license . How legally binding is a EULA that you have n't actually signed , but was assumed by the licensor based on your having made use of the software ? Here I 'm out of my depth . Shrink-wrap EULAs ( the kind that claim to bind you once you open the package that contains and conceals them ) have been known to have been invalidated . One might conceivably be able to convince a judge that ticking a box that says you agree to some referenced but not necessarily presented terms , does n't constitute agreement . Or not . <URL> ( IANAL , TINLA , etc. )
The built-in AirPrint does n't allow this sort of functionality as of iOS 4 , but if you get the <URL> , you should be able to do B&amp;W printing and manage other settings . This of course only works if you have an AirPrint/ePrint HP printer , it wo n't work with any other printer that you 've hacked to set up with AirPrint .
That 's what I think Apple suggests when you need to store you MacBook for longer periods : discharge your battery to 50 % and keep the laptop in a cool place if you plan to not use the computer for more than 5 months take the battery off the laptop you will probably need to charge the battery every 6 months to better preserve it .
One thing is speed . I believe Alfred is currently faster than Spotlight . And , this is specifically for Lion I believe , Alfred learns where Spotlight does n't . If I want to launch Adobe Photoshop and start to type ' Ph ' Alfred will offer Photoshop as an option and move it to the top with the more I select it . With Spotlight , Photo Booth with be the first choice , and it will not learn what I want with repeated use . I believe at one point it did , but lost the ability in Lion .
If you have single WiFi card then you can not use it for receiving and sending WiFi . If your internet comes from cable ( Ethernet ) or from a USB - WiFi , then those can be shared using your WiFi card .
Everything written to the volume under Filevault 2 is encrypted live and in-stream by the kernel / device drivers . As long as there is n't a bug where data leaks to outside the core storage wrapper , you do n't need to worry about someone analyzing the contents of your RAM by snooping the locked drive .
Sorry , but it 's not possible to do this without jail breaking . The " Personal Hotspot " function on an iPhone only allows for sharing the 3G connection , not the wifi connection , so you ca n't use it as a wifi adapter . It 's feasible that Apple could add this functionality , but it 's a fairly niche case , so I would n't count on it . More immediately , if you have a laptop with wifi available , you could use Internet Sharing ( OS X ) / Internet Connection Sharing ( Windows ) and an ethernet cable to get connectivity to your desktop . Or if you 've got a Staples or something similar nearby , they usually have USB wifi adapters for $ 30 or less .
If you want it in your clipboard , how about : If you want it in a TXT file , can put it right there for you too . If you are n't on the command line , then you can make this an app via Automator and bind that to a keystroke other than QuickView Space
I suggest you download a utility that shows the size and arrangement of your files . Personally , I use DaisyDisk . It is shareware , so for your purposes , it would suffice to trial the software . Mail attachments are stored in It is unlikely that OS X is keeping packages after installation through Software Update . You should first look to your cache and perhaps your sleepimage , which is located under ( note that the sleepimage is recreated every time the system goes to sleep . Read more about disabling it <URL> if you are concerned with HD space ) . DaisyDisk ( or equivalent ) will do a much better job at identifying where the " growth " has occured on your filesystem so that you may excise it than we ever could . I suggest you give it a try .
No - the power supply expects 100-240 VAC and lists the current draw as 1.5 A which seems quite high for the heat it puts out , but perhaps with several USB drives connected and max power it gets even half that usage in real life . You certainly can take DC power from POE <URL> , but those all seem to provide 1A at 12 VDC which is a far cry short of the wattage listed for the Airport Extreme . I doubt you 'd find a DC to AC inverter that would generate enough AC to run the Airport though ...
end question
start question
How do I find out what computers I have authorized ?
Go to iTunes on a computer and select your Account ( on the right hand side of the window towards the top once you are signed in ) . Select Manage Devices under iTunes in the Cloud . All computers in this list count against the 5 total computer authorizations each Apple ID can have . <URL>
It 's found in the ( the path is ) and the entries would look something like this : It does not log password attempts ( the password they tried to use ) , just the actual unsuccessful ( or successful ) login attempt . Additionally , to focus your search exclusively for failed login attemps , open Terminal.app ( found in Utilities folder ) and run the following command :
Go to Settings - > Battery - > Disable Low Power Mode Low Power Mode will also turn off automatically once your device has been charged up to 80 % .
The erase is very secure - I 've not heard of a single success in recovering any data from a one pass zero with modern hard drives . As to what really happened , it depends on what setup your computer has . In the case of FileVault 2 , the erase process is very rapid . Everything on the drive is scrambled - even blank space looks no different than a file like a spreadsheet or a picture . The erase command simply destroys the cryptographic keys and effectively destroys everything in a short amount of time . In the case where you do n't have Filevauly , I believe a normal one pass zero is performed based on how long it takes . I do n't see any official documentation from Apple and also have n't seen someone forensically analyze an erase ( or trap the filesystem using a remote debugger or a SATA drive that logs commands ) to be sure . Either way , at the end of the erase process , you get an email , so when you send an erase , you 'll know when it started and when it finished and can conclude which erase actually happened . In your case , your Mac probably received the erase command nearly instantly , so you can now perform a single pass zero ( assuming you are n't going to send in the drive for data recovery ) and time that to compare with Apple 's erase . A seven pass erase is basically seven times as long as a one pass erase so the timings should be easily observable to deduce the type and number of passes .
Newstand content is simply an iOS Application that makes use of the <URL> , so you might start with <URL> and a one year membership to the <URL> . When you enroll in the latter , you will learn what things can be discussed and asked about publicly and which parts of the program are covered by an Non-Disclosure Agreement ( NDA ) . You do n't need the paid membership to download Xcode and start learning and crafting your first Newsstand app , but you do get access to many training videos , a <URL> on NDA topics . The ability to sign and install apps you develop on some test devices to work on development before they are ready for sale on the App Store is also critical for proper QA . There are also many other paid options to developer Newsstand apps , but I would start with free and training like the dedicated page for developers to learn Newstand : <URL>
My new Mac Pro has 6 " USB " busses , 12Mb/s , and two " USB High Speed " busses . 480 Mb/s . One of the " USB " busses shows Bluetooth on it , but none of the others seem to be in use . The external connectors belong to the two " High Speed " busses . Buss 0xfd has one of the front and two of the back connectors . Buss 0xfa has one of the front and one of the back connectors .
To see a listing of all the apps you have purchased or downloaded , do this : Go to Store > View My Account Login Click on " Purchase History " You should now see all the apps you have downloaded before . Stolen from <URL> .
You can save all the app data to migrate to another iOS device at a later date by backing the iPhone up to iTunes or setting up a free iCloud account . This will nicely complement your existing plan in case you forget something until after you turn in the phone . You can restore your backup on to a friend 's device long enough to retrieve that additional data and then erase the device . As long as you maintain the iTunes backup on the computer or iCloud access - your backup will be waiting until you get another iOS device to load the backup . Here are some other apps you may have used occasionally and want to transfer to your Mac : voice memos can be imported to iTunes call history , SMS messages and voicemail ( using an app like <URL> ) If you have a good backup , you can feel better about having the phone erase all content and settings so you give it back clean and with no personal data just in case your company does n't do a great job sanitizing the device before re-issuing it to someone else .
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
Just type this command into Terminal . With zero arguments it 'll print the names and values of variables in the environment . Alternative with a bit more typing :
Does it have to be one of those HP printers ? No . It can be a Brother , or an Epson , or others . First , <URL> ? Second , after reading that page , at the bottom , did you follow the <URL> that was provided ? Printers not listed in this article are not supported by AirPrint . Note : Some printers listed in this article will require a firmware update out of the box to become AirPrint-enabed . See the manufacture 's documentation or website for details . The AirPrint-enabled printer must be connected to the same home Wi-Fi network as the iOS device . This is the default configuration in most home Wi-Fi networks . Now , assuming that you DID both of these things , and you did see the model printers that were being offered by all those different manufacturers ... what is your actual question . Are you asking if one of those printers listed there actually works to allow printing from your iPhone ? If you really want to stick with an HP , it can be any one of these ...
In the Terminal ( located at ) type : You know that you have a Recovery Partition installed if you see this entry :
Yes . Open up AppleScript Editor , and go to File - > Open Dictionary , and select the app you want to find out more about . When you open it , you can browse through the available applescript commands for that application and find what you want .
For adding functions to iTunes you should look at Doug ; s Applescripts . There is a script to <URL> .
To jailbreak with Absinthe they tell you to erase all data just because the software works faster , but you can do it with all your info . It will only take more time . I recommend you to use the last version of Absinthe . To remove jailbreak you have to restore your idevice . ( it will restore with the last iOS version at the moment ) .
It 's a combination of the Pagefile ( virtualmemory ) and the hibernation file that gets written when you put your computer to sleep . Of course , other processes may also leave temp files that get deleted when you restart . There is n't really much you can do to improve that without affecting your computer 's performance . You can get a utility like <URL> , <URL> or similar to visually inspect the contents of your hard drive and see where is the " abnormal " file or directory . You can also use <URL> to reduce the size of your executables and remove unwanted languages and files . Update : The virtual memory file is located in and the hibernation/sleeping file in Please not that you ca n't ( and should n't ) delete the vm file while OSX is running . -
There are really two answers to this question , and they depend upon how the game is made . If your game is using Steam 's <URL> , your save games will be automatically copied across your machines . <URL> Not very useful , but the best I could find . Most non-Steam games will create a file somewhere on your Mac which contains your save data . This save file could be in the game directory , it could be in your Library folder , it could be elsewhere . That 's going to change depending on the game , and is up to you to find out . We can sync this file via Dropbox . Now , if the game lets you choose where to place your save file , you could save it in your Dropbox folder , and let that sync it across devices . Just make sure it 's fully synced on every device before loading it . If the game does n't let you choose where to save , we 're going to have to do it manually . We need to create a , which is kind of like having the same file exist in two places in your filesystem at once . Time Machine makes extensive use of it . Lifehacker <URL> detailing using symlinks to sync files and folders for Dropbox . Now , I have n't tested it , and you should be very careful with this . What you want to do is to open up Terminal and do something like this : ln - s / Users/PutYourNameHere/Library / Preferences/com . nakiwo.doukutsu.plist ~ / Dropbox/MySaveGames/CaveStory / com.nakiwo.doukutsu.plist You 're going to need to replicate that on both computers . Now , be very careful with this method , and make sure you back up any files you try this with . I 'd be very , very careful about doing it with whole folders , especially important ones like the Preferences folder . But in theory , it should work . Good luck !
Apple 's bug database is private , and as you see , you are only able to review the bugs that you submit . This has been the subject of much debate in the Apple developer community . <URL> is an attempt to shed light on bugs that participating developers file . It uses the same ID numbers as the real Bug Reporter system , so if the bug referred to is in Open Radar , you should be able to find it by its ID .
I use three avenues to prevent hurt feelings all around . First the policy for employee use of equipment spells out that it 's their responsibility to turn in their company equipment and assets . For iOS devices , that means that they remove iCloud activation lock and return the hardware in working order . The financial consequence of failing to do both is explained when the hardware is issued . HR can then choose to deduct that amount from any final pay check as appropriate should the employee choose not to return company property . Apple is very helpful in unlocking equipment that was bought through their channel or that you have a purchase receipt with serial numbers included proving original ownership . Any genius bar or web/phone Apple epmployee can get you started with unlocking one or several devices should you have them but not control of them . MDM solutions such as JAMF casper suite or Configuration profiles to enable remote wipe and/or iOS policies that prevent iCloud usage in the first place if desired and/or allow wiping them to a known original configuration .
The battery serial number is written physically on the bottom of the battery : Also , in order to ensure at the official repair store that the battery is genuine ( which was originally my purpose ) , the same serial number is on the box the battery comes in : ... and also in the official papers accompanying the repair part . Of course , both the box and the battery inside of the box should be sealed and opened for you only just before the replacement operation .
end question
start question
How to convert a . mov file to mp4 file ?
Use FFMPEG It 's open source , free and its libraries are what Handbrake ( and others ) use to encode MPEG file formats . If you are going to have to use their software anyway , why not get it from the source ? You can download it from here : <URL> Once you have it installed , just issue the command in Terminal : Where input.mov and output.mp4 are the actual file names and paths of the files you want to convert from and to respectively . I used to use Handbrake and VLC in the past to do this sort of thing , but ever since I discovered FFMPEG command line utility , I have no need for either apps any longer .
All volumes , including DMGs , are mounted in . You can get a list of mounted volumes by typing in Terminal . You can navigate to a Disk Image using .
If you do n't want to use , you can edit your crontab as you would do on any unix systems : crontab - e Or , you can use a GUI software like <URL> .
FileVault 1 used to do just this but the current FileVault 2 is whole disk encryption . It is technically possible to use the Logical Volume Manager underpinning FV2 to accomplish this , but it 's rather complicated and not supported by Apple or any GUI System Preferences . You could consider using an encrypted disk image created with DiskUtility . This would give you an optionally mountable disk that is encrypted . It appears on the HDD as a large file ( like most installer . dmg files ) and mounts with a double-click and password . This is similar to what FV1 used to do with a user 's home directory .
There is little hope unless one or both of the editors squirrel away copies of the file for you or embed the undo buffer in the document . It really depends on the editors and the settings . One last ditch effort is to use the command . If that file had a memorable string or misspelling you could see in an instant if any files on the disk contain that string . If you search for a common string , you 'll have a lot of false positives , but it 's worth a shot . In this case , even software that recovers deleted files wo n't be of use when another editor truncates the file . It was shredded and not simply deleted On a personal note , We all learn this lesson about data loss in a personal way , usually many times over . It 's not overkill to have both version control and an automated backup system . Time Machine is marvelous in that it makes hourly snapshots so you lose at most an hours work . Files that have been around for [ a day | a week ] are saved for [ a month | until the drive fills ] . It really works well in practice , and if you have local backups , you might even have snapshots more often than one an hour to recover a file . Sorry to hear you lost work , it 's never a good feeling .
You can add the location into your executable path . Step 1 : Use an editor to open ~ / . profile Step 2 : Add the actual path into the file . For example , I added / Users/work/documents / fun/scripts into it and my ~ / . profile looks like Step 3 : Restart terminal , and issue which command . You should see the path of your program , and should be able to run the program regardless of your location . Or another way , move the program into the existing executable path . To see existing executable path .
( with the ↩ symbol ) opens the folder for browsing its contents ( unless you 're in column view ) . You need to press instead . It 's a different key , and its symbol is ⌤ . If you do n't have that key on your keyboard , you can press to achieve the same effect .
You may use the free app <URL> which supports this feature .
Drag protocol can be a bit confusing , however , it does follow a recognisable pattern ... To the same volume Drag will move - unless the file is in a protected location [ root level of the volume , or in a protected System folder ] , in which case it will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will override the simple drag behaviour for protected files &amp; move instead [ but will need Admin authentication ] . To a different volume Drag will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will move [ ie , copy , then delete the original . ] So , Opt ⌥ always copies , but Cmd ⌘ reverses the default behaviour of just dragging . Worst case scenario - you can change your modifier key &amp; check the added icon on the file you 're dragging to see your end result , right up until you let go of the mouse button . Just to complete the set - Cmd ⌘ Opt ⌥ dragging will make an Alias at the destination . edit ... &amp; after all that I realise that Preview will not adhere to that behaviour ... Move appears to not be an option at all . Best guess is that you can not move an open document &amp; even hope that an app could keep track of where it went . The Finder can . You can move the file in the Finder whilst open in Preview , but then Preview will tell you you are working on a copy &amp; you need to save a fresh version . Pretty safe &amp; sensible behaviour , really .
TextEdit > Preferences > Open and Save Check " RTF-files as RTF-code instead of formated text " and reopen the file .
This can be done by using the " New Text Document Here " action Select folder - > tab - > start typing " New " - > select " New Text Document Here " - > type name - > enter . If you 're looking for a more complete solution that can create any type of file ( including ones without the . txt extension that the New Text Document action forces ) try this Applescript . Just put it in a file named in the directory : It 'll touch the file , then select it in LaunchBar upon completion ( you can comment out the line that does that by adding to the beginning of the line or just removing it ) .
This answer explains things for a Windows-based server , but it should work fine for Ubuntu . In Terminal , type the following command : Now , as long as you have a connection to your computer 's shared drive , you should be able to see it in Time Machine . To connect to that shared drive : Finder > Go > Connect to Server . Type in the IP address or host name of the server . You may be prompted to log in . Configure Time Machine to use the drive , and try creating a backup . Time Machine will try to create a " sparse bundle " on the drive , and will fail . Open Console and check . You will see the name of the file Time Machine was trying to create . The name of the file will be something like You will need to create a sparse bundle with this name and put it on the hard drive manually before the backups will work . To do this , open Disk Utility . Click New Image > Set image format as " sparse bundle disk image " > Set partition map to " no partition map " > Set the size as the maximum size you are willing to allot to Time Machine . Do n't modify anything else . Though the file on the hard drive will need to begin with a period , you will not be able to do this right away through Disk Utility , so just call it whatever you want right now . You can rename the file so that it has a period before its name from Terminal on OS X or Ubuntu . Your final name should be like . If everything is done right , you should now be able to use Time Machine with an Ubuntu Server . Note : This answer was copied from <URL> and has been formatted for AskDifferent . I 've used this method myself , albeit on a Windows shared drive .
Yes ! A simple AppleScript can tell the Finder to tell its front window to update every item . Such an AppleScript can be saved as an Application and then dragged to the Finder toolbar to give you a refresh button The AppleScript you need is quite simple :
There 's a longstanding request for it at <URL> And an early implementation is at <URL> To install , place from that site into and wait a few minutes for QuickLook to detect the new generator .
I ended up going with <URL> . Created a sparse-image disk via for about 100GB . Formatted it as a ZFS file system by following the instructions in the <URL> section . Turned compression ' on ' in ZFS via I tried booting a Windows XP VM off the ZFS file system and it worked . ZFS reports that it achieved a compression ratio of about 1.32 x ( which means my 10GB VM takes up about 6.6 GB on disk ) . Not sure how well VMWare will play with ZFS 's compression under high load , but it seems to working well so far .
I 'm pretty sure you ca n't , and you would n't want to . The OS only bypasses the bundle for locally attached backup destinations . Direct attached storage ( DAS ) uses the HFS + filesystem and / Backups.backupsdb folder structure Network attached storage ( NAS ) uses the sparse bundle format to embed a HFS + filesystem on whatever filesystem that the NAS uses natively . Time Machine 's backup format plays some very interesting tricks with the Mac OS Extended filesystem that are n't really possible over a generic network storage volume . It 's also optimized to minimize network traffic when files change . This speeds both backup , browsing and restore operations and minimizes the volume of data file changes on the NAS for small changes on the source disk . In order to get TM to work over a network connection , it stores a disk image ( in sparse bundle format ) on the network server , and mounts that locally on the client . Since it 's mounted locally , the client has full access to the filesystem and can play all of the necessary tricks . So , without the . sparsebundle , you would n't be able to back up over the network since it optimizes the amount of data sent to the Time Capsule when a file changes as well as reduces the load on the Time Capsule to handle easier IO to the disk . You can still mount the sparse bundle image on any OS X machine and navigate to files . The only drawback might be if you are using an OS that does n't have a filesystem plug in for sparse bundle storage format .
This seems to work on El Capitan . Control-select the file , then Delete Immediately from pop-up menu and confirm .
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
You can use very simple command line program mdf2iso for this . it is available via <URL> ( for example ) . PS : This utility can be also used in any Linux , * BSD and Windows systems
In your case , the problem is the file system on the drive as opposed to how it is connected to your Mac . The drive is most likely formatted as FAT32 system . This is a typical partitioning format that is supported by practically all computers ( windows , linux and mac os ) . FAT32 limits file sizes to 4GB and device sizes to 2TB ( or 16 TB for 4 KB sectors ) . For you to be able to store a file greater than 4GB in size , you 'd need to reformat the drive to either ExFAT ( file size is limited to 16EB , or 16 BILLION TB ) or a MacOS partition format ( called HFS plus , file size limited to 8EB , or 8 BILLION TB ) . I 'd recommend the MacOS partition format for it 's reliability , but only if you 're working in a strictly Mac OS environment . HFS plus is NOT supported by Windows . If you need to transfer files between computers of various OSs , I 'd recommend ExFAT . Note : Changing partition formats WILL DELETE ALL DATA ON THE DRIVE , so make sure you back up all the data on the drive before you start . Back up all your files on the USB drive onto a secure location on your Mac . Open Disk Utility by searching it in spot light or opening it from / Applications/Utilities Select your desired drive on the left side . Go to the " Erase " tab . Choose your desired partition format from the drop down menu , and name your drive as you please . Click " erase " Restore the files back to the drive .
end question
start question
Ability to view WIFI connection details ?
Hold Alt when clicking at the AirPort icon on the menu bar . It should say , where x is the type of connection . You can also launch Wireless Diagnostics from that menu to capture packets and graph signal and noise measurements .
Whether your internet connection is slow may have several reasons : poor , instable connection geographic location total traffic on the network you 've reached your cap ( see contract ) For the normal users it 's difficult to determine what the exact reason is . Especially in dense areas , the promised speed is not reached sometimes because the total traffic of all users is very high . Where I live , the same network is used by different providers , adding additional complications . In order to judge if your network connection slower than usual , you should test and record your network speed for several times throughout a month . You can use <URL> to get stats about Download , Upload and Ping . You can use this data to check the speed you 've been promised by your provider . Check your contract to see what speed you have been promised . Most contracts throttle the speed after you have reached a cap .
<URL> You want to have an automated action after you connect to a certain WiFi point . An easy way to do this , is using ControlPlane ( formally known as MarcoPolo ) . This software makes your computer context aware and can execute scripts and programs when your location changes . Some examples that ControlPlane is aware of : Current Audio Output device ( headphones/internal speakers ) Discoverable Bluetooth devices Advertised Bonjour ( Zeroconf ) services Attached FireWire devices Assigned IP addresses Ambient Light level Attached Monitors Active Network Links Power source ( power adapter/battery ) Running Applications Current Time Of Day Attached USB devices Visible WiFi networks edit ( 21 aug 2014 , thanks to @Rainer ) : Marcopolo is now <URL> . ControlPlane was created using code from version 2.5.1 of the MarcoPolo project still available at <URL> . ControlPlane is a direct port of MarcoPolo and in fact , much of the configuration from MarcoPolo still works with ControlPlane , just better ! ControlPlane supports 32 and 64bit Intel based Macs running Snow Leopard through Lion .
First of all , all wireless systems use the most power when transmitting , ie actively powering the antenna to upload data . Now , just think of the ranges the different systems have to bridge . WiFi works well for like 30 meters , or 100 meters outdoors . Usually , the nearest cell tower is considerably farther away than those 100 meters , therefore , 3G needs more power than WiFi . Add to this that 3G is capable of opening multiple connections at once , and the fact that 3G autmatically boosts power output on weak signals , 3G needs more power .
Turns out , according to several sources you ca n't do it . You would need to separate the lines ( i.e. not use connection lines ) .
No . All of the information has been downloaded therefore it does not need an Internet connection to install . Just make sure you start the install while on wifi because the installer asks a few questions and it may need wifi to process it . Once answering the questions and it starts the actual install you may take the computer away from wifi
This is for sure an iPad Air 2 , correct ? It should have TouchID ( a fingerprint sensor ) on the front . To verify the model , go to the settings app , General , About : Model MH2P2LL/A is an iPad Air 2 Other ways to identify your iPad are at <URL>
No . This is n't a function of the iPhone OS from Apple . If this is n't a short term need , there might be a jailbreak tweak to turn the OS into a fully functioning router / hotspot , but the hardware is n't designed to extend a network as your use case requires .
I use following to prevent Captive networks Change : File Name to in System/Library/CoreServices Make note of this so you can change it back one day if you need to . This will not delete cookies you already have but will stop getting more of them .
This was driving me crazy as well . Go to System Preferences - > Mission Control and make sure that ' Displays have separate Spaces ' is checked . You 'll have to log out and log back in for the change to take affect . That fixed it for me .
No , not without jailbreaking . If you 're willing to jailbreak your phone , there is a tweak called <URL> ( no idea how they came up with the name ) which lets you select which direction the app switcher goes in . ( Note : if you have updated to iOS 9.1 , there 's no jailbreak utility currently available for it and there is <URL> . )
It turns out the answer had been on the screen all along . There 's a + button under both the Services side and the Servers side . You can add to both .
Hold Alt when clicking at the AirPort icon on the menu bar . It should say , where x is the type of connection . You can also launch Wireless Diagnostics from that menu to capture packets and graph signal and noise measurements .
I 'm not sure that Tivoli gets these finer details absolutley correct . In terms of backing up files and applications these are fine , but when it comes to passwords , attributes and preferences etc , then no , not always . I have just spoken to a pal who uses IBM systems in a Mac and PC magazine publishing environment and prefers his staff on Macs to use Time Machine as the standard back-up to their servers , rather than the PC users who use Tivol as standard .
You can only share Internet from an Ethernet , Bluetooh , or FireWire connection over Wi-Fi . That 's because you can only use your Wi-Fi connection for one thing at a time . If you 're connecting to the Internet over Wi-Fi you wo n't be able to share that connection over Wi-Fi . If you 've got Share your connection from : set to Wi-Fi , it 's normal that To computers using : does n't have a Wi-Fi option :
If you turn on the ATV 's " Conference Room Display " mode ( and your ATV is connected via Wi-Fi ) , ATV shows this text with the screensaver : AirPlay Wirelessly send what 's on your iOS device or computer to this display using AirPlay . To learn more , go to apple.com/airplay . 1 Choose Wi-Fi Network ( insert name of your network here ) 2 Choose this Apple TV ( insert name of your ATV here ) Based on this , it correctly explains that you can send content from iOS to ATV over Wi-Fi . It incorrectly implies that you can ONLY send content from a computer over wi-fi . This is n't true . My Mac is connected to my router via Ethernet , and the router connects to ATV over wi-fi . So , I do n't actually have to do step # 1 ( select the wi-fi network ) on my Mac , but I do need to do that on iOS . If your ATV was connected via Ethernet , I 'm sure you 'd get a similar message , although it might not explicitly state which wi-fi network to use on your iOS device , since the ATV itself would n't be connected via wi-fi . As long as your iOS 's wi-fi network was connected to the ATV 's Ethernet network " locally " , it will still work . In a complex network , like in large corporation/office environment , you might not be able to get from the iOS 's wi-fi to the ATV 's Ethernet thru AirPlay , which might not auto-detect AirPlay devices through the various switches/routers/etc . But , in most home networks , you should be all set !
There is zTools on the App store , like 99 cents , will do Ping , Trace , Whois , Port scan , etc. . Maybe this is what you 're looking for ? This is the only one I know because I have it , perhaps there is other , similar apps on the store .
You can use the CCK to <URL> and import them to the iPad ( which is n't new ) , but no one has yet been able to get the CCK to hook an iPhone up to anything else .
I just had this problem on mail.app and just figured it out using the instructions on <URL> . The instructions on the linked page are for ical . I do n't have access to ical so I ca n't confirm that it works on ical . But it works well on calendar.app . So ... I 'm hoping it will work just the same for you . Here are the steps : Login to Outlook Web Access ( the web interface for your Exchange Server ) . Click on public folders ( for me , it was all they way in the bottom left ) . The , navigate to the public folder of your choice ( I needed a calendar ) . Right click on the public calendar and select copy from the context menu . Navigate back to your own mailbox ( I clicked " mail " in the lower left ) . Right click on your own calendar and click paste ( I added it to a new folder ) . Return to iCal and refresh ( not sure how you do that in iCal ) . Hope it works as well for you as it just did for me !
You should n't need to disable bluetooth on any recent Apple product - their antennas and drivers are very well engineered , and if you can demonstrate a slow down , you could get it repaired ( most likely under warranty ) since that 's not normal . It is good troubleshooting - especially if your router is on 2.4 GHz . First off , there may not be a problem . If you hold down the option key when you select the Wireless icon in the menu bar - take note of the transmit rate , MCS and other data . What PHY mode is your radio ? What band is your router ? What <URL> ? Secondly , you can run the tests with the Wi-Fi Diagnostic that sits in / System/Library/CoreServices to check on the logs , check signal to noise ratio and much more . If you are regularly transferring large amounts of data , you might need the higher MCS data rates - but it 's rare to find a modern router ( AirPort , Cisco/Linksys , etc ... ) that does n't work very well with Macs . Usually it 's an interference issue with spectrum and not that the hardware is n't properly matched . It 's hard to tell without doing the work several days in a row to collect network conditions and graphs - but hopefully this helps you decide if/when to get a new router if that 's the solution you choose .
end question
start question
Is there any way to have the Screen Sharing app in Snow Leopard to remember the last connected host ?
Do n't know of a way to specifically do that , but you can set up browser bookmarks and/or desktop icons that will connect to specific hosts , if that 's any help . For the former , create a bookmark that points to vnc : / / hostname.blah.com rather than the more usual <URL> . For the latter , create a text file with the . command suffix ( e.g. ' myvnc.command ' ) that contains the single line : which will start the screen sharing session when you double-click it in Finder . You can also drag it to your dock if you wish .
Yes . Omit the " loc : " and just enter the coordinates . 40.748342 , -73.984606 will drop a pin right on the Empire State Building .
I did n't find any way to modify the style of the selection , but you could use UI scripting to select a font from the format bar . You could assign shortcuts to the scripts with <URL> or by creating Automator services .
There 's a lot of applications out there that will do this . The feature in iTunes was never that good anyway since it did n't really let you compare files to make sure you were n't deleting the wrong files ( like songs that appear in compilations , best-ofs , etc ) . Probably some free options out there , but <URL> is pretty good ( $ 13 ) . I 'm sure some Googling might yield more results
It does n't rely on the same system , but the <URL> can provides you anonymity while connected to the internet . It fully works under Snow Leopard without Rosetta . WARNING : With this kind of softwares , the final node of the system ( last Tor node or the VPN company ) can , technically ( understand " if it wants " ) , see all your data going through it ! The system grants anonymity not secure connection ! The connection is secured between you and the last node at the minimum , the rest depends on you . So , always use secure connections ( SSH , SSL/TLS , ... ) when using these systems . By the way , the same principle apply with your ISP , you just have to choose someone to trust !
Yes ! I had the same problem . Go to Settings → Music → Sort Albums and change this to By Title .
After starting Safari , you can go to History - > Reopen All Windows from Last Session to have Safari reopen the windows and tabs that were open when you last used it . There 's some additional info in this question : <URL> , including a script ( Chealion 's answer ) that can be modified to start Safari and call that menu automatically .
If you goto the Software Update preferences , you can set it to daily , monthly or weekly . Obviously , this a very basic update scheduler . If you want to update weekly at this time just goto preferences and select weekly , now . You can also do it using an Apple script + softwareupdater as described <URL> .
This does n't appear possible . In order to utilize email functionalities from within apps , you will have to enable the Apple Mail app . I recommend turning off all notifications for Mail if you want to use the Gmail app as your primary iPhone mail client .
You should be able to see the OS version by going to System Preferences > Startup Disk . If it does n't show in Startup Disk for some reason , you can run the following command in Terminal : If your DVD is not called " Mac OS X Install DVD " then you 'll need to replace that part of the command with the actual disc name .
The <URL> summarizes the most important new features . If it 's " really any better " or not , depends entirely on your personal taste : I do like Mail.app 's new list view where the list appears as a side bar , with chunks of message text in addition to the subject/sender information . You can further unclutter the interface by hiding the Mailboxes tree when you do n't need it . The search feature has also got better : things that used to require " Smart Mailboxes " ( multi-condition filters ) you can now do with a quick search in the search bar . Apple also seems to have stolen some good ideas from Google Mail -- like Thread view , which is activated in Mail for Lion by default , and groups together messages that belong to the same thread . A thread shows up only once in the message list , showing the number of messages . It 's very convenient to move/delete a whole thread in this way . Also a neat feature copied from Google : the quoted text of original emails in replies is hidden by default , but you can unfold it by clicking " show more " ( with a nice visual effect of unfolding paper ) . However , if you love Thunderbird 's special features , Mail.app is probably not for you . It 's missing the Thunderbird 's superb Tabs feature , i.e. you can only view one email folder / search result at a time ( this might actually bring me to consider switching to Thunderbird again ) . Personally , I like Mail.app because it 's much better integrated with the other OS X apps I use , such as Address Book , iCal and iChat . Example : I get an email from a colleague , and if she 's currently online in GoogleTalk/Jabber or Bonjour ( local network chat ) , a green dot appears next to her name directly in Mail . Ca n't have that with Thunderbird ... Other example : dates , times , addresses and phone numbers are recognized automatically in email text and can be added in one click as iCal event or to complete an Address Book entry . Also , I 'm not sure whether Thunderbird 's email database is indexed and searchable with Spotlight . Would n't want to miss this feature : searching for an email by subject or even message text without opening Mail in the first place .
The current version of Google Chrome for Mac ( 14.0.835.202 ) is not correctly supporting this behavior , even when the System Preference to " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " is selected in the General Preferences pane ( like the Mail app or Safari does ) . There is an open bug ticket on this issue with Google so at some point the " remember full screen state after close " should be resolved . Here is the bug report link : <URL>
Yes you can , you can run one monitor from the normal monitor port and another from a USB port but you need a special connector which makes the Air think it has a 2nd monitor attached . Here 's an <URL> You need <URL> which allows you to have multiple monitors with your MacBook . The performance of USB-attached monitors tends to be worse than those connected with display cables so they would be fine for regular computer use but probably not for gaming for example . EDIT With the release of Thunderbolt-capable Macs , you can now drive dual external Thunderbolt displays from MacBooks which have a separate graphics card .
iPhoto supports sharing of albums ( including synchronising of comments , and name/face tagging ) with Facebook . This allows you to select a group of photos , and either put them into a Facebook album or post direct to a wall . If you synchronise with a Facebook album , then iPhoto will perform a 2 way sync and pull the new pictures down locally for offline storage . If you are worried about Privacy , you can always create an account just for this and really lock it down . If even works on photos of girls with seemingly impossible sized teeth : Other than Facebook , sharing options are more limited . Apple used to offer the MobileMe gallery service , but that is now not open to new customers and will be turned off in the coming months . There is limited support for Flickr ( believe it was better in '09 than in ' 11 , which is weird ) , but to get anything close to the Facebook levels of deep integration you will have to get happy with some scripting and automation to ( for example ) run a script after each import to automatically copy the contents of the last import to Flickr etc. . <URL> , but non of them are as self-contained as Facebook sync , and require other tools and software to create a more complicated workflow , but it is possible and if you are a Flickr fan the extra effort may make it worthwhile As a final option , you can still happily use your Picassa Web Albums , and just not use the local application , <URL> has an accepted answer on syncing iPhoto to Picassa .
You should be able to point the installer at Time Machine during setup . This will make the OS you have on there now largely irrelevant . Just ensure your drive is USB attached , and hold option ⌥ down as you boot , select your installer CD for Snow Leopard , and do it from there . The following <URL> should help Restoring your entire system from a backup If you are restoring a backup made by a Mac to the same Mac With your backup drive connected , start up your Mac from the Lion recovery partition ( Command-R at startup ) or Mac OS X v10 .6 installation disc . Then use the " Restore From Time Machine Backup " utility . Note : If " You ca n't restore this backup because it was created by a different model of Mac " appears when restoring a backup that was made on a different Mac , follow the onscreen instructions .
I would suggest <URL> . You can apply it to your entire network using their name servers and block categories or specific URL 's . Although the ad might show up as a frame to a ' Website Blocked ' page from OpenDNS , you 'll probably find it useful ( it 's free ) .
According to the apple website , there is no hide shortcut . Sorry . <URL> Sorry .
I 'm not sure if using a fake address would be legal . Technically , you can create an account in the US Store using an iTunes Gift Card and a fake address/phone number . You can buy iTunes Gift Cards in eBay ( some sellers will expedite things by sending activation codes by email ) . If you 're only interested in free Apps , you can create an account without the Gift card . There is an <URL> describing the process . Regardless of payment , Apple asks for a valid US address to establish an account , so the legality of this depends on where you live .
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
Download " password pilot " in Cydia ( the jailbreak app store ) it will save your password so you wont have to keep entering it .
end question
start question
Is an iPhone call recorder theoretically possible ?
iOS Tweak Developer Elias Limneos has released an app on Cydia called Audio Recorder ( originally called Call Recorder ) . So it 's finally possible to record calls locally on the device without having to call via premium rate numbers ! Audio beeps can be disabled but there is a forced ' This Call is being Recorded ' message played at the start to the other party . It currently only works with the iPhone 4S ( Loudspeaker only ) and iPhone 5 and a license costs $ 3.99 per device . EDIT - Looks like I was too slow , since I purchased this last week it has already been discontinued although existing purchasers can continue to use it there will be no further updates . I , Elias Limneos . sadly announce that I decided to stop distributing and working on " Audio Recorder " application . As of today , Audio Recorder is discontinued . Source : <URL> EDIT - He 's changed his mind again and is available for sale via his own Cydia repo .
It 's not possible to have group call with Facetime Audio at this time . Apple used to have this feature in iChat but removed it because it was a poor experience . There are other third-party apps that have this type of feature and those might fit your needs . EDIT : Adding additional info from the discussion in comments . The date of that <URL> was June 2014 and was talking about pre-release iOS 8 ( which came out in Sept 2014 ) . Maybe it was available in the beta , I do n't know . Like you , the articles I read all came out around the same time and it looks like they 're all using the same wording leading me to believe they 're all using the same source . I could be wrong but I ca n't find anything on Apple 's product or support pages indicating how to do this .
When using Gmail in iChat before 10.7 you ca n't go invisible . I 'm using <URL> to be able to go invisible when I login via Gmail .
There is an app called AutoAnswer , but it only works on jailbroken phones . If you 're into that sort of thing , you can find an article on it here : <URL>
As of October 2011 when this was first asked , there has been no official answer stated . With the 3GS , Apple officially stated " the S is for speed . " There has been no comparable explanation given for the 4S . HOWEVER , in an interview at the All Things D conference , Apple CEO Tim Cook <URL> , " some people might say it stands for Siri or speed . We were thinking of Siri when we did it . " So the official answer is that the S in iPhone 4S stands for ... Siri
<URL> , somebody did it with success . Worked flawlessly for me I just activated my new iPhone 3GS and then iTunes offered to either set it up as a new iPhone or to restore it from my iPod Touch backup which I did . No problems so far ...
Natively no , the iPhone is limited to what is parable to it , and the functions once it is paired . . With a jailbroken iPhone there may be some third party software out there .
Here 's an updated procedure for Windows 10 , based on orkoden 's excellent answer . I tested this process on a MacBookPro11 ,1 running OS X 10.11.5 ( 15F34 ) . Throughout the process , directly connect all devices to your Mac . I found that certain operations failed more frequently if I used the USB hub in my monitor . In addition to the external drive that will host your Windows installation ( the " destination drive " ) , you will need another USB drive ( the " driver drive " ) to temporarily store the Boot Camp drivers . I used these parts : Destination drive : Samsung T3 Portable 500GB USB 3.0 External SSD ( MU-PT500B / AM ) Driver drive : SanDisk Extreme 32GB USB 3.0 Flash Drive ( SDCZ80-032G-GAM46 ) Here are the steps : Install VMware Fusion 8.1.1 from VMware 's site The non-professional free evaluation version is sufficient VMware Fusion 7.1.3 could n't connect my external USB disk to my Windows VM I downloaded VMware-Fusion-8 .1.1 -3771013 . dmg ( SHA256 : 29cad381a36374e58a85fb58f7aaad8cae41ad50ef07fdda0db6d782c95c0a95 ) Download the Windows 10 ISO file from <URL> I chose Windows 10 , English , 64-bit I downloaded Win10_1511_1_English_x64 . iso ( SHA256 : cf5cff9e23c853fed769cf382e18b29889dcc0055b69226f0164ab51eca3069c ) Download the Windows 7 Automated Installation Kit from <URL> I downloaded KB3AIK_EN . iso ( SHA256 : c6639424b2cebabff3e851913e5f56410f28184bbdb648d5f86c05d93a4cebba ) Prepare the driver drive . Run diskutil list to determine the device name . In my case , the device name was / dev/disk2 . Erase the disk using diskutil eraseDisk fat32 DRIVERS MBR / dev/disk2 Open Boot Camp Assistant In " Introduction " , click " Continue " In " Select Tasks " : Uncheck " Create a Windows 7 or later version install disk " Check " Download the latest Windows support software from Apple " Uncheck " Install Windows 7 or later version " Click " Continue " In " Save Windows Support Software " , choose the driver drive , and click " Continue " . Wait for the process to complete . Eject the driver drive : diskutil eject / dev/disk2 Disconnect the driver drive . Prepare the temporary Windows VM . We 'll use the temporary Windows VM to write the disk image to the destination drive . In VMware Fusion : Create a new VM : File > New In " Select the Installation Method " , choose " Install from disc or image " , and click " Continue " . In " Create a New Virtual Machine " , choose " Use another disc or disc image ... " , locate Win10_1511_1_English_x64 . iso , and click " Continue " . In " Microsoft Windows Easy Install " , uncheck " Use Easy Install " , and click " Continue " . Click " Finish " . Start the VM and complete Windows Setup . The settings do n't really matter , because we 're just using this VM to write the disk image . Choose " Next " Choose " Install now " Choose " I do n't have a product key " Choose " Windows 10 Pro " Choose " I accept the license terms " Choose " Custom : Install Windows only ( advanced ) " Choose " Drive 0 Unallocated Space " and click " Next " Choose " Use Express settings " Choose " I own it " Choose " Skip this step " Enter a username Install the Automated Installation Kit : From the " Virtual Machine " menu , choose " CD/DVD ( SATA ) " > " Choose Disc or Disc Image ... " . Select KB3AIK_EN . iso . From the Start menu , choose " File Explorer " , and then " This PC " . Double-click " DVD Drive ( D :) KB3AIK_EN " . Choose " Yes " Choose " . NET Framework Setup " Choose " Download and install this feature " After installation completes , choose " Close " Choose " Windows AIK Setup " Choose " Next " Choose " I agree " Choose " Next " Choose " Next " After installation completes , choose " Close " Prepare and image the destination drive : From the Start menu , choose " All apps " . Choose " Microsoft Windows AIK " . Right-click " Deployment Tools Command Prompt " . Choose " More " , then choose " Run as administrator " . Choose " Yes " . Prepare the destination drive : Run diskpart Plug in the destination drive . In the " Choose where you would like to connect " prompt , choose " Connect to Windows " Run list disk to determine the disk number of the destination drive . In my case , the disk number was 1 . Run : select disk 1 Run : clean Run : create partition primary Run : format fs = ntfs quick Run : assign Run : active Run : list volume Note the drive letter for the selected volume ( marked with a * ) ; this is the drive letter of the destination drive . In my case , the letter was " E " . Run : exit From the " Virtual Machine " menu , choose " CD/DVD ( SATA ) " > " Choose Disc or Disc Image ... " . Select Win10_1511_1_English_x64 . iso . Run : imagex / check / verify / apply d : \ sources \ install.wim " Windows 10 Home " e : Use " Windows 10 Pro " to install Pro Run : bcdboot e : \ windows / v / s e : Run : shutdown / p Quit VMware Fusion Restart into Windows to complete installation Restart the Mac while holding the Option key When the startup disk list appears , use the arrow keys to choose Windows . Complete Windows Setup . If Windows restarts during Setup , restart again while holding the Option key to return to Windows . Insert the driver drive . Open the Start menu , choose " File Explorer " , choose " DRIVERS ( E
The <URL> says that it has the same front panel ( i.e. same positions for the Home button , LCD , sensors and earpiece ) . Other sites have also confirmed that it 's the same layout as the CDMA iPhone 4 . It should work with any case made for the CDMA iPhone 4 , and some of the less precise GSM iPhone 4 cases ( i.e. ones with large cutouts around the buttons ) . It should also work with any Apple bumper purchased from January on , as those were designed to work with the GSM &amp; CDMA iPhone 4 . The 4S also has 4 symmetrically positioned black strips ( gaps between the antenna segments ) , 2 on each side , just like the CDMA 4 . It also has a GSM slot , which is pretty much the only distinguishing feature between the CDMA 4 and the 4S .
It is not possible to disable Auto-Lock for specific apps through iOS settings . A workaround is to manually disable Auto-Lock in settings , run the app , and then enable it again once you 're done . An app can request iOS to disable Auto-Lock . In this case , you should <URL> for an update to allow this .
As you need to do a shift + enter ( also called ' soft return ' ) to do it ( because ' enter ' acts like ' tab ' ) , you ca n't on iOS . According to this <URL> Zoagli points it in <URL> you ca n't do it on iOS . Alternatively you can try to add the soft return on a computer via Contact.app ( on a mac ) , or via the web interface of your contact manager ( Google contacts ... ) PS iCloud on the web does n't support soft return .
Easy Peasy . System Preferences > Notifications > FaceTime > uncheck ' Play sound for notifications ' Alternatively , you could just turn on ' Do Not Disturb ' from the Today/Notifications widget easily when you need it by clicking on the notifications button in the menu bar and scrolling up the ' Do Not Disturb ' setting will scroll into view
Yep . You can have your Apple TV learn the remote codes of any IR remote by going to Settings > General > Remotes . It will then ask you to hit buttons on your new remote corresponding to what it shows on screen . Full instructions can be found at Apple 's site : <URL>
No , you can not do this ( <URL> ) . You should strongly consider not using WPS anyway , as it has a number of <URL> . Apple has a page which <URL> for connecting an iOS device , which might help .
The window that popped up was probably the Photos app , that will typically auto start when a new device with photos is attached . Your friend did the right thing by closing it when he saw it happen . No copies of your photos would have been made at this time , only thumbnails were downloaded and those would be removed when Photos was closed . He theoretically could have copied some data , but Xcode will not automatically copy anything sensitive , so unless he is a really sneaky ' friend ' that set up his Mac to copy in the background in advance , I think you are probably OK .
You can create an <URL> directly on the iPhone that acts like a queue . Alternatively you could <URL> in iTunes then import that to the iPhone by dragging the list to the phone icon . Any missing tracks would be imported .
No unfortunately the only options are really external . Until someone can come up with a 3G / 4G card that will work in place of the MacBook Airs Wifi / Bluetooth card , but even then how portable are the antennas designs between Wifi and 3G / 4G cellular signals , not sure it would work well if at all . <URL> : A mobile WiFi Hot Spot is a real option for now , essentially a portable broadband card that interfaces with your Mac via Wifi to allow a data connection . Also if have a smartphone such as an iPhone or Android phone that offers this Wifi sharing you can use one of those as well to do the same thing . These kinds of devices have their own battery and would allow you to tuck them away in a backpack , bag , pocket etc and use your MacBook Air with out any dongles , etc. .
This is currently not possible ( iOS 8 , OS X 10.10.3 ) . A similar question has been asked on the Apple Communities forum , and the consensus there was that it 's not possible : <URL> It 's possible that Apple will add this functionality in a later version of their software/OS .
Well since you are using Mac OSX , when you plug in your phone you can do the following to back up your pictures OUTSIDE of iTunes . Step 1 Open up Preview with your phone plugged in . Go to File > Import Image . You will see it populate all your photos/videos . Save them in a separate folder ( maybe somewhere on your desktop ) , then delete them all from your phone . If you are concerned about mass deleting these files , you can just do it with SSH . This is after you 've imported all your images through preview . From Terminal on your desktop type Will prompt you with a PW , chances are if you have n't changed it it 's alpine or Alpine . Change directories via the following command : Depending on the amount of images/videos you have you will see 100APPLE / and maybe 101APPLE / . In the directory type this to remove ALL images and movies in one command Backup in iTunes now and you have a fresh backup with just numbers/apps/whatever else . You can then import the pictures/videos back if you want after you restore it .
it 's a bug they introduced in iOS6 . drives my crazy . Hope they fix it soon . No easy way to tell Apple they have a bug , unless you sign up to their developers program
end question
start question
Do you know a simple sound booster app for Mac ?
<URL> It works pretty well . I had similar issues on my Mac , did n't like being glued with the headphones forever so I got this just yesterday . And I loved it . It 's not free , but for $ 5 it works like a horse .
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
I believe the email sent contains a link with a promo code , it 's not bound to the email address . So you can send it to whatever , they 'll still be able to get the app gifted .
Thanks for all answers ! The problem was solved , it was turned out to be caused by a Safari plug-in ( notifier of Gmail ) . Method : inspiration ( sorry guys I just found it out by realizing I installed a weird plugin ... really hard to explain how the idea came to my mind ... ) .
I have the same model of Macbook which was showing the same issues . After replacing the Harddrive with an SSD I still had the same issue . It ended up being the SATA cable connecting the hard drive to the logic board . Over some time the insulation had started to wear off and the cable was occasionally shorting against the base of the case causing IO errors . Once I replaced the cable these errors stopped happening . A good way of checking this would be to use an external USB to SATA cable and try and boot the laptop from it externally . If the drive functions well when doing this then it is likely the SATA cable that is at fault .
It 's not a question of licensing , it 's that the architecture of the Mac &amp; an iDevice are totally different . The Mac runs on an Intel processor , OS X is based on a unix kernel . iDevices run on an ARM processor , iOS is [ actually idk , but proprietary ] ( All iDevices run on the same ' family ' of processors , so that is why if you purchase an iApp , you can use it on any iDevice you own . ) Apps for one simply can not run on the other . Some apps are made in 2 or more versions , for Mac , iPhone , iPad , even Windows or Android etc , each available from their respective Store . The App Store ' app ' on the Mac is only for Mac Apps . iApps can be purchased either from the App Store on the iDevice , or through iTunes on a Mac/PC . The licensing model for Apple is that the Apple ID used to purchase an app from the App Store is allowed to use it on any device they own using that Apple ID [ 1 ] [ so long as it will physically run , as explained above ] This makes moving from machine to machine easy , but not from ID to ID . It 's pretty much the opposite of the Microsoft model , where an app , or even the OS itself is tied to one machine , using a serial number etc. . [ 1 ] with some exceptions which you can see noted in the Purchases tab in the App Store app . An example ... Interestingly , the only apps I have that are not shareable are all Freeware anyway , so I could simply re - " purchase " if I needed them on another machine . <URL> extends that licensing model to other members of your family , so all can access the same songs , albums , movies , TV shows , books , and apps on both Mac and iDevices , if they wish , from a single ' purchase ' .
ISPGeeks.com has a non-flash java based bandwidth tester . It pretty accurately measured the speed of my iPad on my home connection , as compared to similar tests on the usual Flash-based sites .
To rearrange columns alphanumerically by their names , assuming the column names are in row 1 , do this : Select all cells of the table . ( Click and drag from top left cell to bottom right cell . ) Click the thin arrow button next to the ' Sort ' button and choose . In the Sort dialog box , click , and in the pop-up , choose to . Back in the main dialog box , un-check ' My list has headers ' . in Row : select ; in Sort On : select ; and in Order : select . Click OK to execute . ( based on Excel 2011 )
I ended up going with <URL> . Created a sparse-image disk via for about 100GB . Formatted it as a ZFS file system by following the instructions in the <URL> section . Turned compression ' on ' in ZFS via I tried booting a Windows XP VM off the ZFS file system and it worked . ZFS reports that it achieved a compression ratio of about 1.32 x ( which means my 10GB VM takes up about 6.6 GB on disk ) . Not sure how well VMWare will play with ZFS 's compression under high load , but it seems to working well so far .
In the iPhone app , at the bottom of the list of episodes you will always find the link you can tap to " Get More Episodes " . That is a hardwired link to that podcast 's page on iTunes . This link will be shown regardless of whether or not there are more episodes actually available . The podcast pages in the iTunes app and in iTunes on the desktop are the same and contain the same episode list . The episode lists themeselves are not controlled or determined by Apple or iTunes , but by the makers of each podcast . Podcast makers use different feed systems ( like adlib or feeedburner ) and they have different bandwith limitations depending on their own usage terms . Podcasts like This American Life , for example , in order to minimize bandwith costs , will only keep the latest episode on their episode list . So when you tap on " Get More Episodes " you will only get a list of one . Podcasts like This Week In Tech , for example , have bandwith sponsors that allow them to host most of their back catalogue . So when you tap on " Get More Epidodes " , you will get a list of fifty or more . It basically all depends on how each podcast maker handles their feed and bandwith costs . Hope this helps .
I have been having this same problem and as I go through this thread I found that I could answer yes to everything , but the problem persisted . I ended up opening the Contacts page on my Mac and while the contacts I needed were in " All Contacts " they were not in the " On My Mac " so I highlighted them all under " All Contacts " and did a drag and drop into " On My Mac " it fixed almost all my problems . The ones that it did n't fix I found out that the formatting on the phone number themselves were not correct . For example the one on Mac messenger was 1 (234)567-8900 while the contact card did not have a 1 ... so , (234)567-8900 . Changing those two things fixed everything .
Try System Prefs > User &amp; Groups > Your name > Login Items . Select it in the list &amp; click the - button underneath If it 's not listed there , then check either or to see whether it has an entry in there . It 's safe to remove items from there - though they will continue running until the next reboot . If you want to be able to restore functionality in future , zip the file in situ then trash the original .
Your home and work geo-location are picked up from your contacts card in the Contacts app ( on iOS devices ) . To manage where your home or work is , edit the relevant addresses in the Contacts app , under ' add new address ' . You can also edit other peoples addresses , add shops , the gym , clubs , etc , and it will use this data .
I frequently reinstall MacPorts ( e.g. , when there 's a new major version of Xcode ) so I keep a file with a list of my essential ports for easy reinstalling . Here 's my list of essential software that does n't come with OS X . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes . Open up AppleScript Editor , and go to File - > Open Dictionary , and select the app you want to find out more about . When you open it , you can browse through the available applescript commands for that application and find what you want .
<URL> It works pretty well . I had similar issues on my Mac , did n't like being glued with the headphones forever so I got this just yesterday . And I loved it . It 's not free , but for $ 5 it works like a horse .
Before Sierra , this was n't an option . In Sierra - use the Advanced finder options and check the option ' Keep folders on top when sorting by name ' <URL> Before 10.12 , Finder just did n't have a " group the folders " at the top/bottom there are legions of Mac users that put all sorts of characters in their folder names so that they sort above or below when sorted by name . There are all sorts of <URL> , but then everything is arranged by kind first , and secondarily alphabetically . If this is a deal breaker - check out the many apps that run in place of the Finder . Here is a query to get you started : <URL>
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
I believe I am correct in saying ( without a Mini to cross check against ) that they both ( along with all the Mac lineup ) use the integrated Intel HD audio chip , and as such there should be no real difference between the 2 . I would say that you limiting factor would be that the Mini does not have an integrated microphone , whereas the Air does , so you will need to bring your own mic . Also , neither have separate mic input/audio output ports , and require you to use something like an iPhone headset ( modified 3.5 mm audio connector with both channels on the same connector ) , which may not provide the quality ( or comfort ) you need . So , on the Mini , you will need to buy a headset in order to get mic input , and if you already have one you may need to replace it with a USB one or iPhone one . On the Air you 're good to go unless you are already a regular headset user , in which case you may beed to replace if it uses 2 discrete connectors for headphone/mic .
I get receipts by e-mail from Apple whenever I buy something in the iTunes store . If you do n't delete them they should still be there .
end question
start question
Can I get the source code from an IPA ?
No - since the IPA file only contains the compiled project , the source code ca n't be obtained from this . Certain iOS apps are open source - you can obtain the source code for those apps separately .
Yes , you can add the second Mac once the first has completed . While one is currently uploading , I think the others can only be linked and start viewing .
If you have an iPad 2 and a iOS developer 's account ( or patience until this fall ) you can try the hot new iOS 5 feature : <URL>
In OS X 10.9 , you can simply do . This will immediately turn off your display without changing any of your settings or putting the entire host to sleep . Escalated privileges do n't seem to be required ( at least with recent versions of OS X ) , but if you get a message about inadequate privileges , you could do . Based on feedback from commenters , this is not available in OS X 10.8 or earlier .
At the moment you ca n't . My guess is it will be included in the next iOS update though .
After the script has been created do the following : Find the source app with the icon you want Get Info of the source app ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the source app 's info window ( Not the one in the big Preview section at the bottom , if you have one of those ; the little one in the top-left corner . ) Copy it ( cmd-c ) Get Info of the automator script ( i.e. , the destination app ) ( cmd-i ) Click on the icon inside the destination app 's info window Paste the icon from the clipboard ( cmd-v ) This method works for every files in Mac OS X . <URL>
To confirm that my solution was to use an excellent 3rd party tool , although costly ... <URL> It managed to extract the data from my iPhone 4 . Because the iPhone was trying to update , I forced it into DFU mode which this application uses to get the data . My next step is to do a restore , which I do n't mind doing now ! :D
If you are talking about Parental Control type of restrictions on the iPad , I believe that to be entirely iOS software level . You have 6 attempts before it locks you out for a minute . It then increases the locked-out time after further failed attempts . Since you have two failed attempts , it should let you have four more without consequence , which , if one goes through , all is well , if not , you will be locked out , before you can do a 7th attempt for 1 minute - to start with . If you fail the 7th time , it will increase the time to 5 minutes . The eight time increases it to 15 minutes . And if you fail the ninth time , the timer increases to sixty minutes and will be that amount until you enter the right one .
Agree with Loïc that this question should be rephrased , but if you 're looking for a possible solution without being subject to Apple 's whims , there are many third-party bluetooth keypads available ... <URL> -- meant to attach to an Apple wireless keyboard , but has mixed reviews <URL> -- blasphemy , I know , but it has good reviews <URL> -- non-Bluetooth alternative that uses Logitech 's mini USB receiver
I just figured out one way to do this : Pause the download on the iPhone by tapping the icon . Connect the iPhone to iTunes . This will cause iTunes to start downloading the app . Go to the Downloads tab in iTunes and delete the download .
I recommend <URL> , which gives you a hovering command prompt . It can automatically detect the current folder you 're in ( in Finder , or any document-based app ) . You can press return to run a command in the DTerm window , or ⌘ + return to open a Terminal window .
I have used <URL> on many occasions to convert HTML files to ePub and mobi format ebooks . It 's the ePub format you need to use for iBooks .
I found it . Actually , the Darwin kernel is named . The complete kernel name , version included , for Mac OS X 10.8.2 is . It can be downloaded here : <URL> . Source code can be browsed online here : <URL>
Try disabling sound notification permissions for all apps that you do n't need sound notifications for in your notification settings ( Settings > Notifications , scroll down to Apps and disable from there )
For pre-mid-2011 machines , yes , the recovery DVD is the way to reinstall iLife . For machines that ship with Lion , your account at the App Store should be credited with the iLife programs in the Purchased tab ; go there , sign in , and you can redownload them .
Currently , no , your only option is to upgrade to iOS 7 . This is because <URL> and the <URL> shows iOS 7 as the only signed version . Note : Lookup the signing status ( or get the direct download links ) for <URL> .
<URL> ( free ) I found the link to it on <URL> along with some other info about graphics switching . fast access via menu icon auto/manually switch between discrete and integrated graphics power source-based switching growl support open source
<URL> ( $ 5 ) will let you load files directly to your iPhone over your LAN and play them from there . That should work fine if your audiobooks are a ) all one file ( if they are in multiple files there may not be ' playlist ' support , which would be annoying , and b ) not DRM 'd . If they are DRM 'd you 'll need to sync them via iTunes or , in the case of Audible.com , you can download them from the <URL> .
This is actually still possible ; however , a safe-guard to protect novice users has been added . There is now a minimum distance that you need to move the icon away from the Dock for it to be removed . Once that distance is reached , the cursor will show a wrinkled paper icon . Simply release the mouse then , and the icon will be removed from the dock normally . Alternatively , one can still use the context menu of the icon ( right-click or long-left-click the icon to make it appear ) and go to Options > Remove from Dock .
You will find a nice answer over at sister site <URL> . It involves a terminal program called <URL> which comes with lot 's of options and I know at least of one support file for extending its capabilities to print Ruby code . EDIT : I just noticed the " clipboard " part of the question . The clipboard content can be accessed from the command line and fed to using as mentioned in Matteo answer .
end question
start question
Where are good places to buy RAM ( memory ) for a Mac ?
Personally I go with OWC . They are more famous for all Mac related upgrades . Here is the memory upgrade link <URL> Main advantage is you can choose RAM based on your model / make of the year etc. . .
<URL> can be bought online through GameTree -- they handle OS X online game distribution for EA .
<URL> ( Free ) A great free FTP client . This is my go-to application . Anytime I need FTP access , I use Cyberduck . It 's not quite as lightweight as Fugu , but it adds a lot more functionality than Fugu . I also really like the Growl integration with Cyberduck . <URL> ( Free ) Awesome little FTP client . As I noted above , this is a lightweight FTP client . It is great for simple FTP transfers and browsing . I do like the dual panel navigation . EDIT : I forgot to add these . <URL> ( Free ) I have n't actually used Filezilla extensively , but from what I 've seen of it , I really like it . I downloaded it and played with it for a bit and I really like the tabbed connections . I also like the ability to jump to a path easily . <URL> ( Free , $ 29 Upgrade ) A free FTP/FTP-SSL client . I do n't usually use RBrowser because a $ 29 upgrade is necessary to unlock other protocols ( Local , FTP/SSL/TLS , SFTP-SSH ) . I do like the Site Manager . It 's a handy little thing to have . I searched and came up with some other free FTP clients : <URL> ( Free ) - Firefox extension The one downside I see is that this is for Firefox . The website does n't make it clear how it works with Firefox , so I assume it is an extension . <URL> ( Free ) This one relies on <URL> Since I do n't know anything about MacFUSE , I do n't know if this is good or bad . <URL> ( $ 34 ) By Panic I have never used Transmit before , but I have used Coda and I definitely would recommend anything from Panic . The only reason I have n't used this because of the $ 34 price tag . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , just found it when searching . <URL> ( $ 24 per user ) An amazing program with a long , long , long mac heritage . It 's way up there with Transmit by Panic and Interarchy as a file transfer program loved by long time Mac power users . <URL> ( $ 30 ) Never used it , but looks good from the screenshots . I really like the fact that it looks like Finder . I may have to give this one a try . <URL> ( Free ) Just searching around and found yet another one ... It looks pretty nice , except it 's no longer supported . However , you can still download it .
The answer is YES . You can use the higher power Charger on lower power laptops . The battery will only take as much as it can handle . It is a pull not push process . Extra info : If you were to use lower power charger on high power laptop , you could end up newer charging the battery fully , or it could take extended time to charge .
The short answer is that it will depend on the model of your machine , and the RAM manufacturer you buy from -- but I ca n't tell you any specifics on either . Installing higher MHz RAM is a risk , and here 's why : My 1600 MHz memory did n't pass tests I installed 1600 MHz RAM on my laptop and found that it failed the <URL> , <URL> , and the <URL> memory tests . These could have simply been faulty RAM modules , or just not 100 % compatible with my machine . So follow the advice below at your own risk . " But it 's compatible with my Intel processor " Here 's what I 've found : <URL> for my i7 processor ( 2760QM on a Late 2011 MacBook Pro ) says that 1600 MHz DDR3 RAM is compatible . But does that translate for Macs ? Yes <URL> . However , Macs are notoriously picky about RAM , and while 1600 MHz memory might be compatible with Intel , it does n't meant it 'll be compatible with the Apple logic board . So find out if Intel supports it , but that is no guarantee . Costs of 1600 vs. 1333 MHz If the decision between two MHz-ratings of RAM comes down to price , take a look at the <URL> and judge whether it 's worth it . It 's likely that <URL> . Also take into account the risks if it does n't work : you 'll have to return it ( if even possible ) . Is this a false positive ? <URL> in <URL> that 1600 MHz will work because it shows up in " About this Mac " when installed : And then " More Info " brings this up : First , there is the question of whether it will pass memory tests ( see the first section ) . Also , I am unsure on how one can test if it is not being clocked down to 1333 MHz and the full 1600MHz are being used . I am not sure whether showing up there means it works .
First you should figure out whether or not compression is worth it . This depends largely on the type of content you 're storing . If the content is not compressible ( JPEG images , most video formats , ZIP archives , etc. ) , there 's little benefit and the added overhead of decompression may even cause a ( minor ) slowdown in file access . HFS + compression is most likely the wrong tool , for several reasons . First , compression is n't transparent , only decompression is . That is , if a file is stored compressed , it will be transparently decompressed when being read , but a newly created file will not be compressed by default . Worse , when you overwrite or append to a compressed file , it will once again be stored without HFS + compression . Therefore , if you wanted to use HFS + compression with user data , you would need to copy the entire volume first ( using ditto or afsctool ) , file by file . On 60 TB this might take rather a long time . Furthermore you would regularly have to run a process that determines which files were added/modified recently ( or are n't compressed ) and ( re ) compresses those . As the ditto man page states , HFS + compression " is only intended to be used in installation and backup scenarios that involve system files " . It 's great for your folder , but not very suitable for your filer . Only if you 're really desperate for capacity and have a lot of files that never get written to I would even consider it . Key being desperate :) I 'm not aware of any transparent file system level compression packages for OS X. ZFS supports transparent file system compression , but switching your filers OS and FS may not be an option ( since sadly there 's no complete ZFS implementation for Mac OS X ) .
The actual data is stored in a hidden directory called at the root of the volume . There is a special virtual filesystem type called which translates the raw data in these hidden directories into a virtual Time Machine drive which is automatically mounted on
It is entirely possible that you have iTunes set to copy files to its own media folder , in which case the original audio files are not changed . To find the location of the audio file iTunes is using , look under the " Where : " label in the " Summary " tab . iTunes ( both Windows and Mac ) does use the lyrics field in MP3s to store lyrics , and will cause the modification date and time , as well as the size , to change .
You can download them from <URL> . For example , to download man page : Search for in the Google Custom Search field on the right hand side : Click on the newest man page in section 3 : Download the linked . gz man page : Copy it to the man directory : If you want to keep system and additional man pages apart , copy it to : and add : to , if you wish the new man page to be available system-wide , or , to be available to your user only ( see , that is , 's man page , for more information on . ) Open a new Terminal window or tab for changes to take effect . Otherwise , copy the man page to : Enjoy :
Apple 's website has a page dedicated to <URL> for systems earlier than 8.1 . ( They also still have <URL> , but the Downloads link on this page just links to the current OS X downloads page . )
They appear to be part of the workflow , which means they would be saved wherever the workflow file is saved . This varies , depending on what kind of workflow you are creating . Services are saved in ~ / Library/Services Folder Actions are saved in ~ / Library/Workflow/Applications / Folder Actions Applications and Workflows are saved wherever the user saves them .
The best commercial packages of themes for the iWork apps , in my experience , are those from <URL> ( under Design ) They produce themes for both Pages and Keynote , as well as animation and art packs . For free templates , <URL> has a ton of Pages templates , and some decent Numbers templates as well for basic use . <URL> also produces commercial themes , in addition to having some freebies , and an excellent blog and collection of links for other sources of high quality stuff .
Often a hard reset of the device will fix problems . Powering off and back on does n't do the same thing as it does for a computer - it 's more akin to hibernate mode in that its drawing no power , but nothing ( RAM etc ) is cleared . To do a hard reset , on iPhone 6s and below , press and hold Sleep and Home until the Apple logo appears . On iPhone 7 and higher , press and hold Volume Down and Home .
I 've replaced several batteries in older iPhones including the iPhone 3 . . I have not tried in the iPhone 4 models . In the original and the iPhone 3 / 3GS , it 's really quite simple . The batteries were fine ( from Amazon ) . They come with the tool to separate the back panel , look at iFixit.com for instructions , but just take your time and be patient . . HTH
Your Pages templates are located in the following folder : You can rename and delete templates without accessing the folder directly , by right-clicking on a template in the template chooser .
<URL> does exactly that . You can manage places through web interface or the iPhone app . Places marked with a star ( Saved for later ) will be displayed in Saved section in the app : You can rate and review places from the app as well .
According to Microsoft 's <URL> : Outlook stores only the indices in the Database ( with a capital " D " ) file and stores the data records as a series of files nested within folders . The Database file and its folders are located here :
This answer will be short : <URL> . Has everything you need except the rotation . It 's a media player , not a video editor . To alter the playback speed in VLC : Go to to → . You can also alter the playback speed using ⌘ = and ⌘ - . For rotation , as user <URL> notes in the comments below , you can go to - > → → . Bonus : A list of some <URL> for OS X.
I ca n't delete this question anymore , so I provide the solution : I had 2 different accounts . The problem is that I 've used my email for one account , instead of using my nickname , and this generated the second account . I think they should recognize emails , and warn you , you already have an account with this email , to avoid issues like mine .
I have an early 2011 MacBook Pro , formerly with 4GB of RAM . A few months ago , I bought an 8GB stick and made the exact setup you 're describing . With the exception of <URL> that lasted a few minutes one day ( and that I have no proof was even caused by the RAM setup ) , it 's been working perfectly ever since I did the upgrade . So yeah , you should be fine . Source : My own experience doing exactly the same thing .
end question
start question
iCloud : How can I create a calendar event for next 3 days for a specific time ?
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
There is a way , but it 's convoluted and non-intuitive . I will say that I do not recommend this approach , but I am listing it for completeness . <URL> is the official doc on Java 's own internal security and access policy . The idea is that you can set deny access to files/folders at a global level , then add specific grant permissions to those Java classes/jars you want to allow . The permission 's that can be set are listed in the <URL> Some examples of what can be done can be found at <URL>
Check this question for the sentence structure you need to use to achieve this : <URL> Add " list name " reminder " new item " on " date and time " Example : " Add activities reminder basketball practice on friday at 2pm . "
Your best bet is reverse engineering the existing Transitions if you investment in time costs less than the $ 50 for Motion which is the official tool for making custom transition effects . Look in and the transition file is simply an xml file with the . motr file extension : Also , you could hire someone that has paid for Motion to make a trivial transition and test that it works for your needs . That would n't help if your true goal is to engineer how it works and understand the tool , though .
In your first question you ask : what should be done if there is currently 1 Apple ID ( my account ) that is used for all the purchases and also is used for my iCloud , and I want to add another user to the mix ? To enable you to share purchases the new user will use your Apple ID for the App Store and iTunes . This use would then create a new Apple ID or use an existing one for the iCloud portion . They would assign this Apple ID to iCloud by clicking Settings - > iCloud - > Account . Secondly you ask : What problems will there be if my Apple ID is used for the purchases on all devices and also used for my iCloud account for my user , while a different Apple ID is used for iCloud for a different user ? This is the solution I noted above , and the preferred method . By separating iCloud accounts for each user you 'll have less devices competing for the 5 GB of free space allotted by default . In summary : All devices use Apple ID for Store ( Settings - > Store - > Apple ID ) Your devices would use your Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) Other user 's devices would use a unique Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) There are no drawbacks to sharing an Apple ID and using individual accounts for iCloud .
There is n't a hard and fast rule , or many convincing arguments in either direction . However , if you eventually want to make money or work with others , or in general grow in that direction , you may find that the ability to keep your personal and work stuff separate to be helpful . A simple example may be that you have personal pictures on iCloud associated with your personal ID , and for whatever reason , you want to give someone complete access to your development account without access to iCloud . Yes , there are other ways to accomplish that , but having the option of two different Apple IDs might come in helpful down the road .
The frame that 's used is called the " Poster Frame " . It looks like iTunes chooses a frame 10 seconds into the video by default . To choose a specific frame as the cover art : Start playing the video . Pause the video on the frame you want to use . Right-click on the video and choose " Set Poster Frame " .
If you are using Keynote 6 then all you have to do is take an existing theme , make the modifications that you want then choose Save Theme from the file menu It well then ask what you want to do with your shiny new theme
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
You need to change the icon of the folder that contains the items in the stack . This can be done in several ways , but perhaps the easiest is to start by navigate to the folder of the stack , change that icon , and set the stack to display the folder instead of the contents . Click the stack , click " Open in Finder " in the stack , and then press the keystroke ⌘ + ▲ . The key press will take you " one level up " in the directory hierarchy so that you are now looking at the folder that houses the items in the stack . Next , select the folder ( If it 's not already selected ) , and " get info " on it , by typing ⌘ + I , or right-clicking and selecting " Get Info " . At the top of this window will be a miniature icon of a folder . You can click on this and copy it via the keyboard shortcut ( ⌘ + C ) , or paste in an image that you copied from somewhere else . Finally , you need to right-click on the stack and set it to display " folder " and not the stack contents .
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
Well there does n't appear to be any actual proper solution to this , so I have resorted to simply putting an alert in at the pre-set duration of the event . Definitely not what I was hoping for but ... it 's the best that I could come up with . This gets me an alert at the end of the time block , but unfortunately wo n't automatically adjust if I alter the duration of a block .
Repairing permissions only affects System files , and files installed from a package with the Installer , which give a BOM ( Bill Of Materials , stored in the folder ) that list the expected permissions . There is no meaning in repairing permissions for " a specific directory " , as an arbitrary directory has no expected permissions against which to compare , unless it is one listed in one of the said files . ( just for sourcing : <URL> ;) ) If you want to change permissions of a lot of files at once , for example by having copied them from another drive with permissions , and you encounter problems with them , you could use a tool such as <URL> :)
I think this page explains what you have to do : <URL>
You can only use Made For iPhone ( MFi ) controllers with the Apple TV at the moment .
I found the answer in this <URL> post Create the AppleScript : Save in / Users/YourUserName/Documents / Microsoft User Data/Word Script Menu Items as Paste unformatted \ mosV.scpt ( the backslashed bit at the end of the filename provides the shortcut ) . Restart Word and you can now paste without importing extraneous styles with Apple-Alt-Shift-V .
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
I have n't found any " one click " method , but these steps do the trick : Create a new playlist and give it a title . This playlist should now be open in the right sidebar in iTunes 11 . Open the Up Next list via the blue icon to the right of the current song 's title . Click on the first song you want to add to select it . Shift-click on the last song you want to add . All songs between and including the first and last should now be highlighted in the Up Next pane . Click and drag the list into the open playlist . You 'll need to switch to the History view in the Up Next pane and repeat the process of selecting tracks and adding them to your new playlist . Click " Done " in the playlist sidebar once you 've finished adding tracks and putting them in the desired order .
That would be the Ctrl-Left or Right Arrow to slide between full screen applications .
Run and add a line like this : The command is run about once per minute , and the notifications are shown repeatedly as long as there is a process named Safari . You can install terminal-notifier with .
end question
start question
If I connect an Ethernet cable , will my Mac automatically select the fastest route for local network traffic ?
You want to make sure that your Mac 's ethernet device is before the wifi device in the system 's network service order . In System Preferences , Go to Network ; under the device listing , click the ' gear ' icon and select ' Set Service Order . ' Drag ' Ethernet ' to the top . Per my understanding , all traffic will attempt to be routed through the top-most device , and will only be routed through devices lower in the chain should the above route ( s ) be unavailable .
I can not find a direct source to note when Apple started making audio output ports toslink enabled . But to answer your other questions : Almost all macs since 2006 do support this , and looking at the product page for each model will tell you exactly . If it supports toslink , it supports surround sound <URL> .
You do n't have to but your mileage will vary between the adaptors if they work or not . The Apple ones have drivers built into OS X , most of the others should work but there 'll be varying levels of success .
You want to make sure that your Mac 's ethernet device is before the wifi device in the system 's network service order . In System Preferences , Go to Network ; under the device listing , click the ' gear ' icon and select ' Set Service Order . ' Drag ' Ethernet ' to the top . Per my understanding , all traffic will attempt to be routed through the top-most device , and will only be routed through devices lower in the chain should the above route ( s ) be unavailable .
Sure . Just go to System Preferences/Network , select Wifi and click Advanced . A list with all the Wifi networks you 've been connected to will appear . Just rearrange the connection order ( the ones you 'd like to connect first on top ) by drag-dropping . Also , delete any unwanted network SSID ( network names ) if you no longer want to auto-join that .
I replaced the cable , and everything is now back to normal . So , as I suspected , the cable was the culprit . Instructions on how to replace the SATA cable is easily found online ( search for things like ) . The only tricky part was to connect the sleep LED to the cable , but if you just check how the old cable is connected you 'll be fine .
If your Macbook Pro has the single 3.5 mm jack that can take input and output then iRig should work just fine for you . Someone asked <URL> . If you 're looking for something ultra cheap you could always get a 1/4 " to 3.5 mm adaptor to plug your guitar into your Mac . I did this for a very long time until I could afford higher quality hardware . These things run as low as $ 2 at some places , <URL> for example . Hope this helps !
You 're not going to find a magic bullet that can dramatically speed up your conversion . You really have two options : either reduce the quality of your target file , or throw more iron at it . Upgrading your hardware ( including possibly putting more RAM in your machine ) would help a lot . The bottom line , though , is that the conversion app has to look at the whole file frame by frame and convert it , and that 's an O ( n ) proposition -- the time it takes scales linearly with the amount of data to convert , and there just are n't good ways for even a very clever program to shortcut that . Some programs may be fractionally more efficient than others , but in general , the algorithm takes as long as it takes to chew as much data as it has to chew .
Basically all apps will be closed when shutting down , simply because the computer will be turned off . Just to be sure : Shutting down means : Turning the computer off . However the behavior after rebooting differs depending on the operation system version you are using . If you are running Lion or Mountain Lion there is a feature that allows to automatically restart all open applications after rebooting/start up . In Mountain Lion you will be asked before the computer shuts down if you want the applications to be restarted after reboot . Just uncheck the checkbox . If you 're confusing shutting down with standby and/or sleep mode you will have no built-in way to solve it ( but an AppleScript may help ) . But at least I can provide you with a shortcut : Pressing ⌘ Command Q will " completely " close an application . You can use this shortcut instead of right clicking the dock icon to close the app .
On iOS 7 and a newer version of Find My Phone/iCloud , the battery level is reported so you can know approximately how much longer the tracking might be active without a recharge . When this question was asked , the battery level was not shown so the answer then was no . Either way , once your iPhone runs out of power , it will shut itself off . There is residual power left in the phone to run the screen and respond to buttons for a while , but once that last remaining power drains , eventually the voltage in the battery is not sufficient to run even the button sensing part of the device . Plugging it into power will re-start your phone and once it establishes a network connection , find my phone will resume . In your case - if Find My Phone says your device is not found - you ca n't really tell if it was turned off by intention or automatically or has lost network connectivity ( by having a SIM removed or just being out of range ) .
In the Photos Settings in the Settings app on your iPhone , you can select optimize storage . Then will it only save often viewed pictures in full quality , and rarely viewed as a thumbnail , if you 're looking at a picture on your iPhone it 'll automatically start to download the picture in best quality .
One way to do this to use the terminal command : from a script . Here 's a simple Python script that will do this : and this runs fine from inside Keyboard Maestro or TextExpander after you define a single keystroke to run it . You can run these commands from AppleScript instead - I just get tired of trying to guess the right syntax for everything ...
I have since found that accessing SMB shares from localhost simply is n't supported . However , I have no single authoritative documentation to cite here , but suffice it to say it can not be done ( natively ) . More to the point , <URL> - you should only use local accounts .
These are what you need to keep in mind : The battery works using chemical reactions , these reactions can not be stopped but they can be slowed . A laptop with the battery left in will continue using that battery very slowly . A battery left completely dead inside a laptop that is still trying to draw power will kill the battery completely . If you are storing the MacBook for a few months , take better care where you store it . Place it in a case , or completely dry bag to prevent dust buildup . Even if you keep it in the box it has come with , it would be fine . Taking the above care , you do n't have to worry about the battery . Apple 's <URL> page offers the following advice : If you want to store your device long term , two key factors will affect the overall health of your battery : the environmental temperature and the percentage of charge on the battery when it 's powered down for storage . Therefore , we recommend the following : Do not fully charge or fully discharge your device 's battery -- charge it to around 50 % . If you store a device when its battery is fully discharged , the battery could fall into a deep discharge state , which renders it incapable of holding a charge . Conversely , if you store it fully charged for an extended period of time , the battery may lose some capacity , leading to shorter battery life . Power down the device to avoid additional battery use . Place your device in a cool , moisture-free environment that 's less than 90 ° F ( 32 ° C ) . If you plan to store your device for longer than six months , charge it to 50 % every six months . Depending on how long you store your device , it may be in a low-battery state when you remove it from long-term storage . After it 's removed from storage , it may require 20 minutes of charging with the original adapter before you can use it .
Even with multi-homing on iOS 7 starting to allow traffic over LTE and WiFi simultaneously , there is n't a good way to accomplish this on OS X Mavericks and lower . I have run <URL> on macs since 10.4 and it 's really nice when you have a gigabit switch . You will need a switch that runs LACP and two physical ethernet ports like is typical on G4 &amp; G5 PowerMacs days and of course the entire MacPro line . This is built into the OS X network stack and you need nothing but the hardware and a compatible ethernet switch . Mac OS X wo n't show LACP as an option without two ethernet ports . I do n't know of a switch that does LACP over wireless or allows mixing of wired and wireless interfaces . You might be able to trick the OS some way , but without the switch to cooperate you 'll have to rewrite LACP on the switch for that to work . It 's much easier to segregate certain traffic over specific interfaces by modifying your routing table . This will allow you to send some traffic over wifi and others over the wire . For example netflix and such could be routed over one connection if you set up a route to their network to prefer one gateway IP on the ISP you prefer . It 's not feasible to tell an application to use only one interface as that has to be " baked " in to that app and not common practice . What is common practice is to use local routing tables ( or routing tables on the router ) to steer certain traffic to one gateway . More sophisticated routers have quality of service where you specify some metric like VOIP or video conference traffic is a priority - so when the network is overloaded in some specific , measurable way , then non critical traffic will be shaped or steered to a different route to keep the fast network clear for better responses . These routers and the knowledge to run them do not come cheaply . I 'd guess $ 3k us for the hardware and triple that for training and software licenses on the routers .
When an interface self-assigns an IP it generally means the interface is n't getting any response from your router or DHCP server . This is a feature of OS X to let the machines build an adhoc network when they can not determine the actual network they 're on -- you can put a bunch of Macs on a dumb hub and almost get them to self-organize and function with this feature . Your router and DHCP server are going to see the MAC address listed for the device in the Network Preferences pane . Go to and click on your Thunderbolt interface . Click on the button and then on the tab : That 's the MAC address that your interface is broadcasting on the network when it 's trying to acquire an IP on your network from your DHCP server .
The worst that could happen is that the iPod could become " bricked " ( or unusable ) during the install process . This rarely happens , but if it does , it 's easily solvable by restoring from iTunes . What I would suggest would be to create a complete backup of the iPod before you upgrade . Once you 've done that , then I would have no worries about upgrading the software . Really , unless you 're messing around with jailbroken devices , iOS software upgrades are almost always painless . I 've upgraded all four of my iOS devices . Only one has been jailbroken in the past , but all of them upgraded without a hitch . So rest easy , and have fun updating your software !
Erasing All Contents and Settings ( what most people call " factory reset " ) does not change/remove your operating system . Whatever OS you had installed prior to the reset will remain after your iPhone reboots .
Option + Wifi Menu Hold the <URL> down and select your WiFi icon in the menu bar ( & #x 2325 ; + ) . Additional information in the menu includes " Channel : " and ( 5 GHz ) or ( 2.4 GHz ) for the current radio settings . As seen in Yosemite : Wireless Diagnostics.app You can get even more information from System Information . But I usually open the <URL> ( in Applications > Utilities folder ) . Choose > to get more detailed WiFi networking or scan for better channels , check for interference , etc. .
For some reason , Apple often chooses not to include the best charging option with its devices . This is particularly odd with 9.7 " iPads , which ship with a 10W power adapter . Those have n't been available for sale from Apple since 2013 . According to the <URL> , the 12W USB Power Adapter is compatible with the iPhone 7 and 7 + . <URL> Both 4.7 " and 5.5 " iPhones can use 10W power adapters to charge faster , as measured by an ammeter and System Information . I have seen evidence that the 5.5 " iPhones are capable of drawing 12W ( as opposed to just 10W ) . However I do n't have an ammeter to test this . Either way , power is drawn by the " receiving " device , so there is no risk in using an adapter that provides more power . If the charger can provide the requested wattage , it does ; otherwise , the highest power output is negotiated . If you plug into a Mac 's USB port , your Mac will deliver 2.1 A ( 10W ) to iPads and to the larger iPhones . It will deliver 500mA to WATCH and 1A to smaller iPhones . I have tested this with a 2013 iMac . It is possible that newer Macs are able to provide 2.4 A for charging .
end question
start question
Using El Capitan , can I create a bootable Windows 7 USB ?
As @hirnwunde has pointed in the comments , the article from <URL> works ! From the Finder , open the Applications folder , and then Utilities . Open the Boot Camp Assistant , and then click Continue . The next screen should give you a list of options . UITS recommends making the USB drive installer first . You do n't need to install Windows or download the support software at this time , as it will be easier to do both later . To proceed : a. Verify that the USB drive you will be writing to is plugged in . b. Uncheck the Install Windows 7 or later version and Download the latest Windows support software from Apple options . c. Check Create a Windows 7 or later install disk and click Continue . Your USB drive should be listed in the " Destination disk " area . Use choose to browse to your . iso file ; after selecting it , click Continue . If prompted , confirm your action and/or provide an administrator 's password . The process of writing the . iso file to the USB drive can take 20 minutes or longer .
I 've used both . Air Display is better at updating the iPad display quickly and smoothly . Air Display also has some additional features , like being able to use the touchscreen as a mouse , and it can be used with both Windows and Mac , so I 'd say it is a better deal . Maxivista is a little easier to get set up on Windows . It just worked . I had to futz around a bit to get Air Display to work , but it was n't too hard ( just have to remember to Run as Administrator ) . For more details on what I found when I compared them , see <URL> .
The default shortcut for showing the Desktop is : ⌘ Cmd-F3 Technically , the official name is ⌘ Cmd-Mission Control but unless you know what " Mission Control " is , you would end up searching for that as well . <URL> Apple has a really good <URL> - I keep this bookmarked for quick reference .
<URL> allows you to AirPlay audio and video from iOS to Windows . It claims to support iOS 9 now also ( note I personally have n't tested the iOS 9 support yet ) . Reflector installs an app that acts as an AirPlay and Google Cast receiver . The app is available for Windows , Mac , Android , or Amazon Fire . Since Reflector supports receiving both AirPlay and Google Cast it can receive audio/video from iOS or Android . It 's from Squirrels , the same company that makes the excellent <URL> app ( which allows you send AirPlay audio and video from Windows and Mac to AirPlay and Google Cast ) .
If you copy the CD to a disk image on the PC , you can put the image on a USB stick and transfer it to your Air . I am not sure how to do this on Window , but I 'm sure you can find out how to do this somewhere . <URL> looks like it should do what you want . Also look at <URL>
Try this variation on what its stated there : Run bootcamp to allocate the space 2 - Install W7 Go back to OSX ( Install REFIT or similar as bootmanager ( optional ) ) Restore your DMG image over the W7 partition With this you dont need the fdisk commands as bootcamp should mark the partition as active ( bootable ) . This SHOULD work . The problem with the linked page process is that w7 ( just as osx ) is actually in 2 partitions , a small boot one and a large with the OS , your DMG only contains the OS partition .
I am not really sure why you would want to install Windows 8.1 without BootCamp . The USB stick needs to be a little bigger than the file you are going to be burning . It does n't matter if there is any data on it , this will totally erase the whole thing . Steps To Achieve Victory Download the ISO you want to use Open Terminal ( in / Applications/Utilities ) 2.1 Navigate to the path where the . iso file is located 2.2 Use to list all the folders 2.3 to dive in to folder or to go back the path Convert to using hdiutil : Rename if OS X gave it a ending : Type to get a list of currently connected devices Insert USB drive you want to use Run again to see what your USB stick gets assigned Run ( where is the number assigned to your USB stick , in previous example it would be ) Run ( if you get an error , replace with Run and remove your USB stick The USB stick will now be ready to use IMPORTANT For the step # 9 you can use the destination to to reduce the copy time . NOTE : Sometimes , not always , Step # 4 will be necessary . Not all the time . I am not sure why it will add the ending and other times leave it alone . NOTE 2 : Might I suggest you learn the name of the you downloaded , or just rename it or something , and put it on your Desktop folder . That way , when you are typing commands like # 3 and # 4 etc , etc , you can type it like this : and and step # 9 would look like this : IMPORTANT - You can track the progress by pressing CTRL + T It will show the process info and records in and out , since we use the each record is 1Mb in size so you can easily track the progress . I do n't mean to be insulting with Note and Note2 , I am just making sure that you know what all these commands mean . It 's the simplest method . Unless someone else comes up with something better .
They are System fonts &amp; not available ( or indeed licensed ) for documents that you make or App use in general . As mentioned in comments , even the <URL> of the fonts is only licensed for interface mockups &amp; no other purpose . The previous system font , Helvetica Neue , on the other hand , was released as both a System &amp; User font . There are various opinions online about how to make the San Fransisco fonts available to the user , but seem to depend on unpacking the individual ttfs , changing the ' system font ' attribute , then repacking them again - something I 'll leave to someone else , regardless of the licensing or legal position of doing that .
I think this behavior is fixed in the new update 10.11.1 . I tried it on both explorer and chrome on the same desktop and it switches to the other windows as expected .
Yes . The Thunderbolt Display USB ports work well to connect a hub for more downstream devices . There is also enough power for unpowered hubs to connect low power devices like mice and USB flash storage . You will want a powered hub if you have multiple spinning hard drives or devices that you wish to charge from the hub itself .
I 'm from the same boat ; the best native keyboard-only I 've found is CTRL-DOWN-Arrow ; ( you enter app expose ) DOWN-arrow ; ( if there are any minimized windows , this 'll put a cursor on one ) LEFT-arrow/RIGHT-arrow ( to select from multiple minimized windows ) or hold OPT if you want all of them restored . RETURN alternative step1 : getting into app expose before you 've alt-cmd ' ed to an app : with CMD still held down , ( the task switcher is visible ) tap DOWN , or UP , or 1 ( now in app expose ) The above shows only one app 's minimized windows at a time ; for selecting from any minimized window regardless of app , CTRL-F3 moves focus to the dock , and you can arrow left to get to the minimized list . if your CTRL-F3 instead shows you the app-expose , try FN-CTRL-F3 . ( In my settings/keyboard , I 've flagged " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " ) Some apps have specific alternatives ; I use Terminal 's CMD-window_number , which unminimizes and focuses that window .
I am downloading it now from the App Store and it seems to be working fine . I did not go through the App Store , but used the following link : <URL> After going to the link there is a section on how to get El Capitan from the App Store if you do not meet the system requirements for MacOS Sierra . Click on that link ( pasted below ) and it will open the App Store to the El Capitan App download section . Simply click on ' Get ' and it will start downloading . <URL>
If you are using Bootcamp , Apple has provided <URL> : print screen = fn + ⇧ shift + F11
In this specific instance , there was no way for me to solve this issue without going through the process all over again from the beginning . I went back into OS X and removed the Windows partition from my system . I reinstalled the Bootcamp partition and the ISO file onto the USB following these instructions : <URL> This time when Windows booted up for the first time , Bootcamp booted up along with it and installed al the drivers . Thanks all for you answers !
You can disable it in System - > Hardware as far as I remember .
Answering the second part of the question , <URL> is your solution . It brings very Mac-like cursor/scroll interaction to Windows .
All drives ( internal , external and networked ) get mounted in . You should see a folder there with the name of your USB drive as it appears on your desktop or in the Finder .
They are on one of the installation disks that comes with your iMac . Also , I 'm pretty sure the drivers get installed if you download and run a " <URL> " from Apple 's support site . They are usually 200MB or up downloads that come packed with drivers for windows , so give it a try in case you ca n't find your cds .
<URL> does the job well . There are both Windows and Mac version available for free .
It 's under here . You should still be able to call it directly ( e.g. via Spotlight ) or just use Cmd-K in Finder to initiate a VNC session ( use as address ) .
end question
start question
Charge from USB on computer or wall socket ?
Charging more slowly wo n't make any difference , other than reducing the slight side effect of heat buildup on the iPad . But it 's perfectly OK to use lower powered ports such as those on your computer instead of the main powered chargers . It 's also perfectly OK to do it the other way around ; you can charge your iPhone using the more powerful 20W iPad main adapter . It wo n't actually charge any faster than using the equivalent iPhone adapter , though . People will warn you that you 'll damage your iPhone using this method , but that 's simply a misunderstanding . 20W is the amount that the charger is capable of delivering , but if the phone does n't ask for it , it does n't get it . It 's not all or nothing .
It should . Bootcamp functions as a normal Windows operating system , just make sure the program you use to create the bootable flash drive actually works .
A lot of applications ( bundles ) for OS X do n't need an installer in contrary to almost all Windows apps . They are distributed inside an . dmg . To properly " install " them just open the . dmg and copy the app file to / Applications or / Applications/Utilities . A lot of images already contain a soft link to the Applications folder to be more convenient for the user . <URL> If the . dmg contains such a soft link just drop the app on it ( like indicated by the grey arrow in the screenshot above ) . You have to enter an admin password to start the task if you are n't logged in with a user with admin permissions . You always have to enter an admin password if you copy the file into / Applications/Utilities / . All subsequent installations ( like LaunchDaemons or application support files ) are done by the app itself after starting it for the first time . After copying the app to one of the folders mentioned above , you can unmount the " installer " volume and delete the . dmg file .
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
I assume your problem resides in the fact that Photos app is taking too much space on your iPad . If this is the issue , your best solution for managing space and keeping a synced Photo Library across devices is to enable Optimise iPad Storage under Settings - > Photos &amp; Camera - > Optimise iPad Storage on your iPad . The Photos app on your iPad will then manage which photos are kept at high resolution and which are just stored as thumbnails . You can also activate the same preference on your Mac 's Photos app , under Photos - > Preferences - > iCloud Tab - > Optimise Mac Storage on the top bar . Unfortunately , there 's no way to delete a photo exclusively in one device once iCloud Photo Library is enabled .
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
Because the iPad needs more than the 500 mA that the USB 2.0 spec says computers need to provide . Macwork has <URL>
Here or the specifications used by Apple 's official charging cords . 5 volts 1.0 amps If your interested in making one for iPads you can use 5.1 Volts and 2.1 Amps <URL>
Sorry , but it 's not possible to do this without jail breaking . The " Personal Hotspot " function on an iPhone only allows for sharing the 3G connection , not the wifi connection , so you ca n't use it as a wifi adapter . It 's feasible that Apple could add this functionality , but it 's a fairly niche case , so I would n't count on it . More immediately , if you have a laptop with wifi available , you could use Internet Sharing ( OS X ) / Internet Connection Sharing ( Windows ) and an ethernet cable to get connectivity to your desktop . Or if you 've got a Staples or something similar nearby , they usually have USB wifi adapters for $ 30 or less .
Have you tried contacting any local stores your phone provider has ? It 's becoming less common nowadays as basic phones are no longer the norm but back in the day they had a machine they could connect your phone to and transfer information out of it then on to a different phone . Maybe you could call around to local stores and see if any of them still have such machine . Otherwise I did a bit of research because I used to know of some software that was for advanced phone modification before smartphones came around however it had a small feature to also see saved files . I ca n't seem to find it anymore however I did find <URL> . It seems very similar to the software I used to use , however I 've never used it before so I can not offer any help with it other than <URL> I found .
If you can transfer the document to a general-purpose app that " knows " about files ( like <URL> , <URL> , or iBooks ) , you should be able to access it from the file-handling dialog from within iTunes . Most computers can create an ad-hoc WiFi network ; using this , you 'd use a network-sharing app ( like <URL> ) to mount a disk from your iPhone and transfer the files to your computer .
Everything in your iPhoto Library is stored in ( note that the extension is hidden by default ) . Simply copy that file to whatever Mac you 'd like to move it to . Just make sure you are running the same version of iPhoto in both cases to minimize incompatibility and error . Apple has an <URL> if you are interested .
The Apple provided Disk Utility ( and shell command ) will allow you full RAID control over internal and external drives . You do have to erase the drives to add the RAID capability , but then you can join those drives into RAID . That is the only potential drawback to implementing RAID storage on the Mac . Drive spanning , JBOD , striping and mirroring are all possible with Mac OS X software RAID . Lion brings the concept of physical and logical volumes to the OS , but RAID on Snow Leopard is also very fully functional . If you brake a mirrored RAID set - the drives are valid when connected to the same mac and portable to any other mac . You are not locked into a proprietary standard and do n't need any additional software for any of this functionality . and are free sync tools - very scriptable , powerful , and free .
Yes . The Thunderbolt Display USB ports work well to connect a hub for more downstream devices . There is also enough power for unpowered hubs to connect low power devices like mice and USB flash storage . You will want a powered hub if you have multiple spinning hard drives or devices that you wish to charge from the hub itself .
It 's hard to tell with this new product , that is really a normal battery charger . Rechargeable batteries should charge all the way to 100 % especially when they are new . If you 're not getting a full charge , try depleting them all and fully charge them , see if that works . Otherwise , batteries may be defective or it could be a mouse/software misinterpretation .
When you turn on the computer , put the disc in the drive with one hand , and hold down the option key with the other . This forces the Mac to look for ANY bootable media . If nothing comes up , the hard drive is blank ( as you suspect ) , and the ROM drive ca n't read the disc you are putting in ( or the ROM drive has failed ) . You can try creating a Mountain Lion USB key . Incidentally , what Mac are you putting this disc in ? A Mac Book Pro , an iMac ? What generation ? What CPU is in it ?
Nah . Electricity is PULLED to devices that use it , not PUSHED from the plug . The phone is smart enough to stop pulling when its battery is full . EDIT : However , an adapter can provide incorrect voltage for a device . Do n't take what I said there and wire your iphone power adapter to a 220 source , for instance . You can OVERDRIVE a device with too many volts , but you ca n't send it " too much " of the right voltage , because the amperage is a function of the device 's draw . I know I just said that assuming that you understand the difference between volts and amps , but there it is ; they 're different .
You can install from scratch . To do so : Download the update from the App store . Create an install DVD or an <URL> . Boot from the install drive ( Holding alt or option during boot ) . Using disk utility format the desired partition . Launch the install process on the newly formatted partition . Enjoy the fresh install . Edit : One thing to note is the fact that you do n't have to format the entire hard drive . You can only format the partition containing your OS and do the install on that partition . If you want to install Mavericks on a different partition to allow multi boot ( Mavericks/Mountain Lion ) you can use another partition to do so as long as there is enough free space on it . One important tip to remember is the ability of disk utility at creating additional partitions : Open DiskUtility.app Select the desired hard drive Go to the Partitions tab Under the partitions list click on the add button to create a new partition .
Yes it 's possible , you can find a couple of useful guides for the steps required . Here is one from <URL> . The main points are to do it before installing Mountain Lion as the installer will delete the install files , and use the disk image in the application package as the source for your USB key or DVD . The USB key will generally give you better performance if you need to reinstall OS X later .
The iPad is a high power draw device , and Belkin N150 USB Wireless adapter probably is no power slouch either , so it is technically possible for them to be overdrawing an internal USB Bus or Hub in the Mac Pro . The Mac Pro has 5 independent USB Buses as noted in the picture below . Now depending where things are plugged in they show up in different USB Buses , you may want to Open your System Information Application , and try to avoid placing the iPad and the Belkin N150 on the same bus . For Example , on my computer the ZyXel ... and the DataTraveler are plugged into front USB ports and they appear to be sharing the same usb tree . While my external Hub labeled " Generic USB Hub " and my VF0680 , CIRCA102 are all plugged in rear usb ports on the Mac Pro , note how the CRCA102 is on its own Bus .
end question
start question
Accesing iphone gps position from the macbook ?
I do n't have an iPhone 4 to test this , but I assume Core Location will do . <URL> <URL> is also an option , and comes with some more information .
Yes . You can disable app syncing . To do this : With your device connected to iTunes select the " Apps " tab . Under the app listing , deselect " Automatically sync new apps " . New apps will no longer sync with iTunes . They will still backup to iTunes or iCloud , however , so you have no need to fear losing them should your device information be lost . Note : all instructions provided work for iTunes 11 .
No , this is limitation of GMail via Exchange on iOS . The only way to have draft support is to use the GMail template when adding a new mail account .
EDIT As of March 7th 2012 you can now delete individual photos from Photo Stream if you are running iOS 5.1 or iPhoto 9.2.2 Believe it or not , it seems you ca n't delete individual photos from iOS5 Photo Stream . It seems you 'll need to wait for them to scroll off as Photo Stream just holds your most recent 1000 pics . Deleting a picture from Camera Roll has no effect on the photos on Photo Stream . According to <URL> : iCloud manages your Photo Stream efficiently so you do n't run out of storage space on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch . If you have Photo Stream enabled on your iOS device , every single photo you take appears in a special Photo Stream album that holds your last 1000 photos . You ca n't edit or delete photos from your Photo Stream . If you want to touch up a photo or keep a favorite shot permanently , simply save it to your Camera Roll . iCloud stores new photos for 30 days , so you have plenty of time to connect your iOS device to Wi-Fi and make sure you always have your most recent shots handy . So unless you delete it before it 's uploaded to the cloud , you need to follow the procedures below . You need to reset your Photo Stream from <URL> or turn off Photo Stream within iOS5 on your device . Turn off Photo Stream in iOS5 : Settings > iCloud > Photo Stream Switch off and then back on to clear Photo Stream on this device Repeat for each iOS5 device Reset Photo Stream on iCloud.com Sign into <URL> Click on your name in the upper-right corner Click on ' Advanced ' Click ' Reset Photo Stream ' to remove all Photo Stream pictures from iCloud
Not without jail breaking the iPhone . There are numerous tweaks available on Cydia ( jail break equivalent of App Store ) that enable this functionality . iPhones and a Mac computer will both send SMS messages natively from your phone number , but this is n't available on Windows .
Restoring to factory setting will simply wipe out every bit of customization you did to it ( every setting you changed from the default ) but it will not downgrade the firmware . In other words , if you bought your iPhone with iOS 3 and now you 're on iOS 4 , then a factory setting reset will still leave you on iOS 4 .
Well after an hour on the phone with Apple support , 2 phone restores and 1 iOS upgrade , we finally got to the bottom of this . Turns out the feature ( to disable uploading of burst photos to PhotoStream ) DOES work as intended . It 's the wording of the feature description that is more than a little confusing . The text below the feature states : Only favorite Burst Photos will be uploaded to your Photo Stream The trouble is , to me ( and to the techs at Apple that I spoke to ) , that sounds like no part of a burst photo will be uploaded until you have chosen one of the photos in the burst , as a favorite . This is not so . What it actually means is that the entire burst will not be uploaded . But if you have Photo Stream turned on , a single photo from the burst WILL be uploaded . And unfortunately , it 's not the first frame . I 'm actually not sure what criteria iOS uses to decide which photo to upload , but it seems to be the first photo that it thinks is " the best " somehow . So , the bottom line is that Photo Stream is an all-or-nothing proposition . Either every photo you take ( including a single frame from any burst photos ) will be uploaded , or nothing will be uploaded . There is no way to selectively upload photos on a case-by-case basis , unless you either leave Photo Stream off and manually share photos you want in your stream every time , or turn Photo Stream off &amp; on between each photo you do n't want to upload ... but then you lose and have to re-download all your photostream content each time . Not a real great solution either way . I feel Apple should re-word the description of this feature to make it more clear what the expected behavior actually is , but I wo n't hold my breath on that .
Apparently this is possible : Okay , the Google instructions are n't what I would call stellar for this particular setup procedure but they are correct . It 's as simple as going to m.google.com , then logging in if necessary , choosing iPhone , and finally choosing the Calendars you want to Sync with your iPhone . It worked for me for 2 Calendars . Hope this helps ! Complete Google 's instructions Open Safari on your iPhone Navigate to m.google.com Select ' Sync ' Select your device Check the boxes next to the Calendars you want to sync ( It will only let you choose 5 total , including the " US Holidays " one ) Click ' Save . ' via : <URL>
Yeah , on a 2010 MacBook pro , there is no way to separate the keyboard from the top case without disassembling the entire machine . The best way to clean out those keys is to get some compressed air and go to town on it .
Ricardo is correct in his answer of @ 3x , but I 'll take a shot at answering your question as well . If you 're working from Retina resolution assets already , the upscale factor would be an additional 1.5 x for the iPhone 6 Plus . For example , your 88px by 88px Retina icon would have to be up-scaled to a resolution one and a half times that amount for the iPhone Six Plus : 88 * 1.5 = 132 .
In Mac OS X 10.7 , aka Lion , Apple removed the ability to wake the Mac by moving the mouse . This stopped knocks to the table and pets moving the mouse accidentally from waking the Mac . By clicking or pressing a key , you are being more deliberate about your intention to wake your Mac . Ideally it should help avoid waking your Mac accidentally and save a little power . As ever , this improvement benefits some users more than others .
Yes , but it only works on Unibody Macs . You can also use the volume and play/pause controls .
Usually , ground loop current is experienced on portables where often no ground wire is connected - just the neutral and live ( or hot ) wires . If you are using a grounded plug and feel <URL> you should either have the outlet serviced or the computer serviced . It 's normal ( and safe ) for ground loop current to exist and feel lightly tingly on Macs with magsafe connectors and only DC power going in to them . It 's harder to be sure an iMac or other device that has 110/220 AC power directly into the case , so I would rather be too cautious and have you get an electrician to look at the outlet if your Mac works properly on other outlets or a technician to look at the Mac if it leaks current no matter which receptacle you plug it in to . You might be able to find a grounding issue and solve this yourself , but if you have any doubts as to safety , I 'd rather you chose to get expert help rather than trust our guesses based on how things should work . See : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> And note that all the MacBook questions are low risk situations where any iMac one would be a little more danger ( potentially ) .
No WASS or any differential signaling is built into the iPhone . Apple does n't publish performance data for GPS or the chipsets/algorithms in use . It 's just <URL> ( which tries to be precise to 1m on the earth 's surface but never is for a variety of reasons ) In practice , iOS is usually accurate within 5 meters when the dot shows no circle on the map app ( called good or low Dilution of Precision ) . If Selective Availability ( SA ) is ever turned on again , all bets are off as the government can intentionally introduce errors of 70 or more meters if desired . The assisted part of the iPhone GPS makes it faster to get a fix based on assumptions that can be made by <URL> based on cached cell tower and wifi hotspot locations . This does n't make GPS any more precise or accurate since it 's the best signal for iOS location data when it 's present .
In Settings -- > Location Services each application that uses location services is listed . In that list any apps that are currently using locations services or have used location services in the last 24 hours includes a little arrow icon . The icons differ based on whether they are currently or recently used location services , and if currently then whether it 's a geofence or regular updates . The icons and description for each icon are included in that settings panel .
The most efficient method of deleting multiple voicemails at once on the device is using multitouch to swipe left on multiple voicemails at once , then tapping delete . If your device is jailbroken , you can delete voicemails from the location that they are stored in ( and the SQLite3 database in ) :
<URL> , somebody did it with success . Worked flawlessly for me I just activated my new iPhone 3GS and then iTunes offered to either set it up as a new iPhone or to restore it from my iPod Touch backup which I did . No problems so far ...
Yes . It does extremely well with geo-tagging photos without an internet connection . The phone simply saves the lat/longitude in the photo file . What one needs a data connection for is viewing the images on a map - one must download the map to display the pins .
Despite what Weird Al would have you believe , it is no longer " All about the Pentiums " ( jury is out regarding whether the ' Benjamins ' are still a relevant unit of currency ) . The answer depends very heavily on the exact specs of each system , but I would expect you to notice better performance out of the laptops for a few reasons : The Core i series all support <URL> , which will make the dual core processors act like they have 4 cores . I forget which versions of the Core 2s have that available , but neither of my Core 2 duo laptops support it , so I 'll be spiteful and assume yours does n't either ( feel free to prove me wrong ) . The next question is how big your large spreadsheet is . The larger <URL> on the Core i will mean that spreadsheets approaching the 5-megabyte range will process appreciably quicker . To build on the theme of low-latency data access , I believe that all Core 2 CPUs use DDR2 memory , while the MacBooks will use DDR3 , so you 'll feel faster start up times and have an easier time using multiple applications or spreadsheets . The last piece to consider is the longer <URL> means that the Core i series can do much more with each " tick " of the processor . All in , you 'll likely feel an increase in speed and peppy-ness over your iMac with a newer MacBook ( though the MacBooks wo n't quite keep up with a new iMac ) . That all being said , I 'm just some random guy on the internet who copy/pasted some Wikipedia links . Go to an Apple Store and try one for yourself to see if it 's actually worth the money to upgrade ! Edit : For July of 2015 , the relevant processors ' <URL> scores are : 2009 27 " iMac ( <URL> ) with 1201 2015 13 " MacBook Pro ( <URL> ) with 4608 2015 12 " MacBook ( <URL> ) with 2484 To answer the original question , from a purely CPU-based perspective there is an appreciable increase in performance , though it may be worth noting the value-based scores passmark gives , where the MacBook with the 5257U trounces the other two options .
Yes - T-Mobile phones of all versions are factory unlocked . iPhone 6s/plus will be just like the iPhone 6/plus in that regard . This year , you can buy phones unlocked on Apple 's payment plan as well if you prefer that over paying full price .
end question
start question
is there anyway to directly email videos or upload a video from iphoto to youtube ?
I have n't tried this myself . But I know if you have a video open in QuickTime the Youtube option is available there . So basically you can 1 ) select " Reveal in Finder " from the File menu , 2 ) open the video in QuickTime and then 3 ) share to Youtube . Good luck .
For broadcasting the video , you can use <URL> . It will allow for live interaction during the broadcast over chat . <URL> .
Yes - you can use Automator to make a service for Finder ( or all applications ) to perform rotation of images . Then you can assign a keyboard shortcut to that action . I 'm not aware of quicklook plug-in that rotate , but that 's something that might exist . Modifying finder 's shortcut bar might be the least likely way to activate things , but hopefully an Automator service ( or app / droplet ) will do .
This appears to have been removed . There 's no mention of it that I can find in Apple 's support documentation or iPhoto help ( ⌘ ? ) and the only reference to subscribing that I can find is subscribing to a Shared Photo Stream . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this here : <URL>
There should be a preference thing on YouTube to select HTML5 , but they 've reorganized the page so many times since I last tracked it down that I have no idea where it is now . Instead , I have ClickToFlash installed ( it 's under " Most Popular " in the Safari Extensions Gallery ) ; open its preferences ( Safari Preferences ... > Extensions ) and you can tell it to always use HTML5 for YouTube and other sites that support HTML5 in place of Flash .
There are a few extensions that will add a nice download button to the Youtube video page , and give you the option to download in various resolutions . <URL> <URL> <URL> You can also try <URL> , which does a lot more than just offer a download link , but it does that , and it 's one of my favourite extensions . Makes watching web video much nicer .
The frame that 's used is called the " Poster Frame " . It looks like iTunes chooses a frame 10 seconds into the video by default . To choose a specific frame as the cover art : Start playing the video . Pause the video on the frame you want to use . Right-click on the video and choose " Set Poster Frame " .
I have n't tried this myself . But I know if you have a video open in QuickTime the Youtube option is available there . So basically you can 1 ) select " Reveal in Finder " from the File menu , 2 ) open the video in QuickTime and then 3 ) share to Youtube . Good luck .
No , this is currently not possible due to restrictions with 3rd-party keyboards in iOS . From <URL> Custom keyboards , like all app extensions in iOS 8.0 , have no access to the device microphone , so dictation input is not possible .
You only have two options , and they 're both supported by all current MacBook Pro and MacBook Air models : Use a DVI splitter to spread a single DVI output across multiple monitors ( which will look like a single external monitor to the OS ) . The maximum resolution for an external monitor on all MacBook Pro or Air models is 2560 x 1600 , so your maximum for the split displays will be 1280 x 1600 each ( or maybe 2560 x 800 ) . Use a USB graphics adaptor for the third monitor , which will thus not have hardware graphic acceleration .
You can send a notification from the command line with this <URL> utility . Getting the notification data off a site can be fairly involved , requires at least some decent scripting and/or web coding knowledge , and is probably a better question to pose on <URL> . The basic outline of such a script would be : Open a site Send login data if necessary Scrape the page for the data you need ( unless you 're lucky and the site has a JSON or XML API , in which case you can parse that ) Send the appropriate data via the terminal-notify utility This sort of thing may be more common in the future though , as Safari 6 and Mountsin Lion add support for <URL> , which will allow a site to display notifications , when Safari has an open tab for that site . Support for this needs to be coded into the site however , so it 's not really an end user solution I 'm afraid .
It seems that an USB cable is still required . The <URL> in Apple Support that shows how to import videos into iPhoto has not been updated recently . Either Apple is still behind in updating these support articles ( not likely ) or there is nothing to update -- in other words , you still need USB . The <URL> for iPhoto 9.2 list the major updates to the app . It mentions that iCloud support is now included , but nothing specific about importing videos wirelessly . Hope this helps .
The only other app on the Mac that can access photostream is Aperture . So your choices are migrate to Aperture - and that 's even less designed with sharing in mind - or fix iPhoto . Performance issues like you describe can be down to a number of issues - Disk Space , Ram , bunged up caches and so on . What fixes have you tried ?
Two of the best apps for this are <URL> and <URL> . Cloud app has an option to automatically upload screenshots ( image courtesy of Softpedia ) . It is very drag and drop friendly and pastes the URL to your clipboard for convenience . Skitch is a little more heavy on the screen snapping controls . It 's like grab on steroids . You can quickly hide private information , point out items , and edit the snap before uploading . The free version of both are well worth it . Both have paid upgrades that are low cost , but you do n't need to pay to use either . I have also heard really good things about <URL> so you might check it out as well . Both <URL> and <URL> are available on the App Store . The two are better together - skitch is better for grabbing a great screen shot , and droplr for upload and sharing it .
Not unless you use custom firmware ( Rockbox , iPod Linux for older models ) . The iPod depends on a database file for playing files and if you just copy the files over they will not be in said database and subsequently the iPod will not be able to play them .
Try this ( not automated , because i do n't like automated delete for anything ) : Make a " smart album " in the iPhoto with the condition " Photo is Movie " . With this you get all movies into your new smart album . press info ( for check how much MB they 're occupied ) Simply drag &amp; drop movies out of the iPhoto ( long time ) ensure ( double check ) they are really OK move the movies from the smart-album into the Trash empty ( triple check before deleting - do not blame me , when your computer get destroyed or so )
The paid version of quick office ( quick office connect mobile suite I think it 's called ) allows you to add various online storage services : google docs , dropbox , box.net and mobile me . You upload/sync your files on your computer to one of these services then add your account to quick office and you will be able to access and write to the files on the service you added . Quickoffice also has local storage where you can download files to from one of the services . This is useful if you know you 'll want to access a big file when your not on wifi . You can download it while on wifi and then access it later offline . And vice versa you can create a document locally when and the upload it to a service later . Each iPhone app has it 's own sandbox which it can modify and read . It ca n't see or modify any other apps sandbox . So iPhone browser will only see files you added using iPhone browser . iOS 4 now has a documents facilty where if an app can read a word document such as quickoffice it registers that it cam do that and if an app can list files such as the official dropbox app you can open a document in the dropbox app and it will show a Hutton which you can press to open the document in quick office . Quickoffice also has the ability to openema attachments . However I have n't used this so I do n't know how it works .
Simple answer : Nope . Sorry to disappoint you . I also dislike this new picker . It is found all over the new UI and it is just terrible . Whoever decided this was good design missed the boat .
Specifically the browse button is disabled because there is n't a file browser ( like Windows Explorer/Finder ) on the iPhone . Most people do n't notice that , because the iOS is designed around avoiding the need for a user interface to the iPhone 's file system . For simplicity 's sake file management is turned into a programing problem instead of a user problem . For security 's sake applications ca n't directly access the documents of other applications . As Jawa mention , a lot of sites have iPhone applications to allow uploads .
iOS does not provide a shortcut for skipping directly to the bottom of documents , but there is a reasonable alternative , if you 're not already aware of it : scrolling views in iOS respond to swipe frequency , scrolling more quickly the more quickly and frequently you swipe the screen . While swiping a long document , email , or webpage , try several long , quick swipes in rapid succession : you should notice the scrolling speed accelerate accordingly . This is n't nearly as elegant as a tap shortcut , but does let you quickly skip to the bottom of a long view .
end question
start question
How to bypass the Lync for Mac error complying about incompatible version of Lync server ?
See this <URL> . Basically , you have to edit the plist for Lync , and enter a registry key equivalent . The explanation is below : Basically , the equivalent to the registry keys for windows needs to be entered in the Lync config plist file on the mac , a file named MicrosoftLyncRegistrationDB.xxx.plist that you can find in ~ / Library/Preferences/ByHost . In it , you will need to create an entry for each segment of the reg key path for the DisableServerCheck flag ( all lower case ) . It should look like this : hkey_current_user \ hkey_current_user \ software \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ communicator \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ communicator \ disableservercheck The value for each of the path segments is " < > " and type string . For the disableservercheck flag , the type is " Number " and the value is 1 . You can use a plist editor ( there 's a few free ones for the mac , or you can also use Xcode ) to edit the plist file . The screenshot below shows you how it should look like .
After several hours of looking and using to trace files , I have come to the conclusion that the certificates are indeed stored in the keychain . ( which in hindsight is a DUH moment ) . Here are the files iTunes reads on launch and during a sync on my mac . 18:38:16.776 stat64 / Library/Keychains/System . keychain 0.000010 iTunes 18:38:16.776 open F = 5 ( R _____ ) / Users/me/Library / Keychains/login . keychain 0.000007 iTunes 18:38:16.801 open F = 5 ( R _____ ) / Library/Keychains/System . keychain 0.000016 iTunes 18:38:26.013 open F = 48 ( R _____ ) / System/Library/Keychains / SystemRootCertificates.keychain 0.000024 iTunes I have been unable to uncover which specific keys or chain of keys are needed . They keychain in my home folder appears to not be needed since other user accounts on my mac see content of my locked iPhone even before iTunes launches . Whether or another low level daemon is reading a system level certificate or the API to access iOS data relies on a common library for access in bypassing the passcode lock on iOS 4 is unclear . It is clear that the iOS passcode wo n't protect from someone that can access the files on your hard drive ( and has the detailed knowledge that is n't yet clear which certificate or file has the keys stored ) FileVault wo n't protect you since the certificate appears to be stored outside the user folder .
<URL> seems to provide the best predictions for updates . They use the average timescale for updates to provide a guess as to whether an update will come soon . They also include prominent rumours towards updates .
Ah , OK , I think I found a resolution . It 's still not quite clear why this works or why there is a problem , but : First , head to the Settings in your iPhone . Click on General . Next , head to Date and Time which is down the list . Once you 're in there , you 'll want to change Set Automatically to Off . Go to Set Date &amp; Time . Click on Today 's Date . Once you do that , you 'll be given the option to change the date . Move the year one year forward to 2013 . This will prevent the error from happening . If you wish to change the date back to the real date , simply set Set Automatically to On and everything will return to normal . Head into Passbook and marvel at the apps . ( <URL> ) That fixes the issue on my phone .
According to the <URL> : On the desktop , contacts are currently populated from emails that are synced with Mailbox . We do n't have a way to import your contacts from your email accounts at this time . We 're planning multiple contact improvements down the road , including full contact integration in the future . On a side note , you know about the ban on questions for software not publicly released , but you did n't search the relevant website for assistance before posting ? Tsk , tsk . ;)
When you create an image and you select Compressed , you are doing so at the sake of speed and read/write capability To access the data on a compressed image , you have to uncompress it first ; that takes cycles ( cpu time ) . Secondly , <URL> , the image is read only , not read/write so you will lose that capability as well . The " Compressed " format is great for archival of data , not for daily access .
The 3G radio requires more power . If you live in a weak 3G signal area , it may also cycle a lot between EDGE and 3G ; setting up the 3G connection draws more power . Finally , you may be able to save power by setting the iPhone to Fetch New Data less often ( Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendar > Fetch New Data ) .
The server admin tools and associated documentation will walk you through how this works on Mac OS X . There are even worksheets that help you work through the myriad possibilities before you set up OS X Server . It depends on how the server was " set up " so perhaps you can find out whether yours expects to control the user accounts and have the clients control themselves with a local policy file pointing to the server or if the server expects to set up the mac clients as well . Hit the books and do know you can ask more specific questions later of one specific item is holding you up . I prefer using <URL> until I 'm comfortable with the specifics for each site ...
Ok ... i did some digging around ... and struck gold . The digging part is not for the " faint of heart " since the Terminal is your best friend and some coding knowledge is involved . Suffice to say my trip in Wiki Server 4 land led me through Ruby on Rails code . I was surprised to find that i 'm able to read ruby code , and i do n't know Ruby at all . After looking through Model Views and Controllers i figured out the solution was simpler than i anticipated . To modify the title on the first page you need to edit a . strings file . You need to use the download version ( not the mac app store app ) of TextWrangler or some other editor that allows Authenticated Saves ( save files as other users ) . Make sure the Wiki service is off ... the slider in the server app is off . The location of the file depends on your language locale that you use : / Applications/Server . app/Contents/ServerRoot / usr/share/collabd / coreclient/locales/en . lproj where " en " can be either de , es , fr , it , ja , ko , nl , zh_CN , zh_TW depending on your wiki language . First ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " to " Read and Write " . Open the file in TextWrangler and find the key general.os _ x_server and under it you can modify the string " OS X Server " to anything you want " My own company Wiki " . Save ( ) the file . Second ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " back to just " Read " . Move ( ) the slider in the Server App to On again for the wiki . Enjoy !!!
I 've never tried any of the Mac Server products . But AnandTech has a pretty good <URL> . A few of the conclusions : ... server administrators will be happy to know that , in spite of its deeply cut price and consumer-friendly distribution method , Lion Sever stacks up favorably against Snow Leopard Server . and OS X Server is most useful in a handful of different scenarios : the first is that you have a small network that 's in need of a full-featured but easy-to-manage and simple-to-license server product . The second is that you 're managing a network of any size that used to be all-Windows , but hosts a growing number of Macs ( this is often the case in education , for example ) - OS X Server knows that it 's going to be finding its way into a lot of Windows houses , and as such it integrates fairly well with existing Active Directory setups . The last is that you have a bunch of iOS devices flooding your network and you have no idea what to do with them - iOS management may be Lion Server 's ace in the hole . ( emphasis mine ) Seems to fit your intended usage pretty well . About your other question : Besides , and this is a bonus question , do you have some experience in using Lion server to manage centralized Xcode development ? ( we currently use our own MacBooks and we keep in sync using Git , I 'd like to know for different approaches based on OSX Server ) . Keep using git , use the OSX server as central repository ( maybe consider buying <URL> or using an free/open source alternative for managing your git interaction ) . Install a CI-tool ( <URL> or similar ) on the server and use it to create automated builds . Should work quite nicely .
You could do it from the command line and/or write a script with the relevant services : And for ssh ( remote login ) for example Bringing them back up then with ( instead of stop )
First you should figure out whether or not compression is worth it . This depends largely on the type of content you 're storing . If the content is not compressible ( JPEG images , most video formats , ZIP archives , etc. ) , there 's little benefit and the added overhead of decompression may even cause a ( minor ) slowdown in file access . HFS + compression is most likely the wrong tool , for several reasons . First , compression is n't transparent , only decompression is . That is , if a file is stored compressed , it will be transparently decompressed when being read , but a newly created file will not be compressed by default . Worse , when you overwrite or append to a compressed file , it will once again be stored without HFS + compression . Therefore , if you wanted to use HFS + compression with user data , you would need to copy the entire volume first ( using ditto or afsctool ) , file by file . On 60 TB this might take rather a long time . Furthermore you would regularly have to run a process that determines which files were added/modified recently ( or are n't compressed ) and ( re ) compresses those . As the ditto man page states , HFS + compression " is only intended to be used in installation and backup scenarios that involve system files " . It 's great for your folder , but not very suitable for your filer . Only if you 're really desperate for capacity and have a lot of files that never get written to I would even consider it . Key being desperate :) I 'm not aware of any transparent file system level compression packages for OS X. ZFS supports transparent file system compression , but switching your filers OS and FS may not be an option ( since sadly there 's no complete ZFS implementation for Mac OS X ) .
The restrictions only apply to the format . From the iBooks Author Publishing and Distribution FAQ of 2/7/12 : Are there any restrictions on the distribution of works produced with iBooks Author ? If a fee is charged for the work and it is in the . ibooks format , the work may only be sold through the iBookstore . If the work is in a different format , such as PDF or ePub , this restriction does not apply . Here 's the relevant part of the updated license agreement regarding the distribution of work : ( i ) if the work is provided for free [ ... ] , you may distribute it by any means ; ( ii ) if the work is provided for a fee [ ... ] and included files in the format [ ... ] , the work may only be distributed through Apple , [ ... ] , however , that this restriction will not apply to the content of the work when distributed in a form that does not include files in the format [ ... ] . You retain all your rights in the content of your works , and you may distribute such content by any means when it does not include files in the format [ ... ] .
IMO , if you have a UNIX background with previous experience with Emacs , it might make sense to " carry it forward " onto OS X . As a new text editor , I personally do n't think it makes sense . Yes , it is a fully capable text editor and it can do everything , but as you 've said , it does not integrate well into the OS , which for me is a major hurdle . I use vim on OS X because its my editor of choice on Linux ( where I do much of the work that earns me money ) , however with that said , I 've started learning and using BBEdit .
The font used in the version of Terminal 's icon included with OS X 10.10.0 ' Yosemite ' has been identified <URL> on <URL> as ' Menlo , ' the same font used by default in Terminal 's own shells .
The drive is a nice , fast server grade drive but the controller is underpowered to be a NAS for professional video work . That being said , even with two people reading / writing lots of small files , the Time Capsule works surprisingly well . At times when 3 or more people are hitting the drive at the same time for small IO , you will certainly see a slow down . Much more so than on a real NAS or server that has RAM to cache the filesystem and not be limited to the physical disk access . So if the usage is low or you are on a tight budget , have at it ! Do be sure to have one of your clients be responsible for backing up all data stored on that volume since most backup solutions do not read from a Time Capsule directly . Using the built in clone tool is not at all optimal for production use , but is fine to make a snapshot over night or over a weekend when you have occasional cause to snapshot the data .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
See this <URL> . Basically , you have to edit the plist for Lync , and enter a registry key equivalent . The explanation is below : Basically , the equivalent to the registry keys for windows needs to be entered in the Lync config plist file on the mac , a file named MicrosoftLyncRegistrationDB.xxx.plist that you can find in ~ / Library/Preferences/ByHost . In it , you will need to create an entry for each segment of the reg key path for the DisableServerCheck flag ( all lower case ) . It should look like this : hkey_current_user \ hkey_current_user \ software \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ communicator \ hkey_current_user \ software \ policies \ microsoft \ communicator \ disableservercheck The value for each of the path segments is " < > " and type string . For the disableservercheck flag , the type is " Number " and the value is 1 . You can use a plist editor ( there 's a few free ones for the mac , or you can also use Xcode ) to edit the plist file . The screenshot below shows you how it should look like .
You first need to enable Apache in the Sharing prefpane . Check " Web sharing " and your web server is running . Note that since Mountain Lion , Web Sharing was removed from the Sharing preference pane , but Apache is still included . Check <URL> for controlling Apache in Mountain Lion . To activate PHP you 'll need to edit in Terminal.app . This requires root credentials . is a very accessible command-line editor if you are uncomfortable with . Find the line ( you can press ctrl + W to start searching in ) : and uncomment it . Next find the line and uncomment that as well to enable virtual hosts support . Save the file and exit by pressing ctrl + X , then confirming the changes by pressing Y ( es ) , then enter . You can now edit your virtual hosts in the file Important to note is that the first defined host will be the default host for unqualified host names . For resolving additional hostnames apart from I recommend hardcoding them in . To install MySQL , download the installer from the MySQL website ( 64bit installer should be ok ) . Follow the instructions to install it . Finally , to configure PHP for MySQL , copy the default : Now you can edit ( again root access required ) and replace any reference to with ( the default location of the MySQL socket after running the installer ) . There probably are about 3 references to that path . Finally , restart Apache for the new configuration to take effect : Alternatively you can restart Apache by toggling it off and on again in the Sharing prefpane . Done .
It can be done , although you need to find the Mavericks volume feedback sound file . The filename is " volume.aiff " and ( for both Mavericks and Yosemite ) it is located in : / System/Library/LoginPlugins / BezelServices.loginPlugin / Contents/Resources Find the Mavericks volume feedback sound file and put it on your Desktop for easy access . Open the Terminal and navigate to the folder containing the sound file : Create a backup of the original file in case you want to reverse the changes : Provide the password when prompted . Now copy in the Mavericks sound file placed on your Desktop : Restart
end question
start question
Is there a PDF viewer with a vertical split screen feature ?
A quick look suggests that this feature does not exist in any PDF reader . One responder on this forum [ <URL> ] believes that there are no such readers . Most of the links in this Google search [ <URL> ] are requesting such a feature be implemented in some reader , any reader .
The keyboard command for sleeping all displays is Control ^ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏ . This shortcut does n't put the computer to sleep , but only shuts off the display .
No . The organic material is applied during assembly . I 'm not aware of any place that can " replenish " the lipophobic substance . Apple has this to say : " Please note that the ability of this coating to repel oil will diminish over time with normal usage , and that rubbing the screen with an abrasive material will further diminish its effect and may scratch your screen . " Source : <URL> You can , however look into replacement covers that also contain lipophobic properties : <URL>
Siri dictation is never going to be 100 % accurate and the easiest way to get the result you want may be to edit the text by hand after you 've dictated the body of the message . Jim Rhoades provides a useful list of <URL> .
There is no limit to how many iOS devices you can sync with iTunes . The 5 computer limit is how many computers you can have authorized simultaneously with iTunes .
I use iSSH : <URL> It 's available on the app store , but if you 're jailbroken you can ssh to 127.0.0.1 and it works just fine . Costs $ 10 though .
No , because the capture is capturing the pixels that comprise the selected area , not the ' screen ' as it is displayed to you . It 's something I 've wished for in the past , too .
You might also be able to do this using Quicktime X. Open the movie , then choose Edit - > Trim ... Trim away the second part of the movie file and do a save as to get the first part in a separate file . Re-open the original file and trim away the first part , save as to get the second part in a separate file . I 've only been able to try it with a 5 minute long movie , which was quick enough , but I 'm unsure of how quickly it 'll work with a 2 hour movie .
Is this what you 're looking for ? <URL> : Disable Autosave and Versions on Lion - Setting Go to System Preferences > General Untick " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps " . Then reboot .
No . As of version 4.5 of the kindle app for IOS in pdf searching is not available . As of version 1.10.7 of the kindle app for OS X in pdf searching is available .
Yes you can . Enable Screen Sharing by connecting the computer to a display ( and keyboard ) once . Then you can easily unplug display/keyboard and access the computer via Screen Sharing . As long as you do not mess with the network and screen sharing settings of the headless computer you also can turn it off and reboot it without loosing the ability to screen share again .
The points raised are both correct . While having the protector will prevent scratches on the screen , it will also reduce the quality of the display quite significantly . When I bought my Mac , I was also met with this dilemma . After having tried the best screen protector that the Apple Store had , I decided not to go with one . The display does n't really scratch all that much , and I have not been able to induce a scratch even after using a cheap cloth . I would suggest you to use a screen cleaning liquid every time you use a cloth , as that is how I have been able to prevent the scratches .
This is fine , providing there is no link within the app to your website to purchase access .
Turns out Inkscape has a command line mode . I added this to . bash_profile : and now this command converts from PDF to SVG : Unfortunately , the current version of Sketch has very rudimentary SVG import capabilities and ca n't correctly read any of the files I 've made even though they display fine in Opera and OmniWeb . The company says future versions will do better .
There is no a way to do this in Xcode . It must be related to the project or workspace . It even does this if you deselect the target . It sounds like what you need is a text editor and not an IDE like XCode since XCode is built for OS X and iOS development primarily . You may want to try <URL> for free , or it 's purchasable counter part BBEdit . If your doing C/C + + , Python or PHP work , you may want to try some of the other <URL> products like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There is also <URL> , with it 's many plugins , the heavy favorite amongst many developers .
Unfortunately there is no way to do this in native iOS . The emergency call option is available with both the simple and complex passcode . I assume the goal is that it would allow anyone to make an emergency call even if they do n't know or forgot the passcode , and as a result could be an important safety feature . The only way to disable it is to turn off the passcode - something with obvious undesirable effects .
LICEcap is free ( GPL ) , works on MacOSX , and capture animated GIF directly . <URL> It 's never too late ;-)
Sorry , but Apple does n't allow this , and it does n't even look like there is a jailbreak tweak for this .
This is not possible in iOS 9 . Only one instance of an app can run at any given time . There is a small change in iOS 10 allowing two instances of Safari to run concurrently , but that is a special case .
A cursory look at the iTunes Store reveals <URL> ( iTunes Store Link ) . Since you can not compile on the iPad itself , this app leverages a web service ( <URL> ) in order to run the program and return the results to your device . The app is USD$ 3 and a universal binary ( iPhone + iPad ) . The web service appears to be free , if not just a little ugly :) .
end question
start question
Is there a keyboard shortcut for 3 fingers slide ?
That would be the Ctrl-Left or Right Arrow to slide between full screen applications .
Insert a comment ⌘ + OPTION+A Turn track changes on or off ⌘ + SHIFT+E From <URL>
You can <URL> that opens the specific preference pane . You can find the preference pane bundles in the set of folders : / System/Library/PreferencePanes / Library/PreferencePanes ~ / Library/PreferencePanes Preference panes are special bundles that when opened from the Finder , will launch System Preferences.app and automatically switch to their settings . Create an Automator Service Drag the desired preference pane onto the Automator workflow Add the Open Finder Items action ... ... and select System Preferences.app in the action Add a Watch Me Do action to record any clicks and interactions with the panel To assign this workflow as a keyboard shortcut , see this Tuts + tutorial , <URL> .
Doing Command + Tab will let you go through all the running applications , even if it 's hidden . More tricks are discussed at <URL> .
I posted about this on the Google Groups for iTerm2 . The program author has now added to the program the option to rotate clockwise .
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
I ended up getting <URL> power pack and setup a hotkey there . It 's much much faster than the automator service .
I realise that this thread is probably quite old by now , but for all the options that has been given here , the simplest way has not been discussed . Apple allows you to lock your screen with a keyboard shortcut . You do n't have to create one , there is one built right in to OSX -- via the " Require password after sleep or screensaver " feature . Here is how to use it : Make sure that you have " Require password after sleep or screensaver begins " set to " immediately " . To do this , follow these steps : Open System Preferences Click on Security ( on Lion , " Security &amp; Privacy " ) Go to the General tab If you do n't already have one , put a tick in the box next to " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " Set the time interval to " immediately " Exit System Preferences When now when you want to lock your Mac , simply use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏
Why not use Disk Utility to write zeroes or if you have more time , interest in being sure it works repeatable , set it to write more passes of random data . The drive will report IO errors in the system.log if there are hardware errors . If you have an SSD or want a tool to read back the random bits to ensure everything not only wrote properly , but can be read back with perfect fidelity , see the free tool <URL> written by <URL> . You might also like to read over <URL>
A few months ago my organization made the decision to make docking stations a standard item to be ordered with all Macs . We 've evaluated the Belkin Thunderbolt dock , the Matrox DS1 , the Kwikdock , the LandingZone docks and had previously used Henge docks . The Henge docks proved to be a constant pain for both users and our support team . The connections in the bottom of the dock frequently came loose , meaning the end user would lose USB connectivity , network connectivity , etc even though from their perspective the Mac appeared to be docked correctly . The Kwikdock did n't have the build quality we desired . The Belkin Thunderbolt dock and Matrox DS1 dock are both very similar in that they 're a hub that you connect all of your connections to , then connect to your Mac via a thunderbolt cable . The downsides we found to these two were cost the necessity to order a thunderbolt cable in addition to the dock . Our end users are also much more accustomed to the traditional docks offered by Dell and other PC manufacturers , were you click it into place and go . This is the same reason we did n't pre-order a Zendock . We ended up going with the LandingZone . It offers the traditional docking style that our users are accustomed to , the build quality seems to be very good , it 's much cheaper than the alternatives and can be further reduced in cost by ordering in bulk . It DOES require a separate driver for network connectivity but it 's very lightweight and they seem to be committed to providing updates in a timely fashion . I 've deployed about 25 of the LandingZones so far and aside from two support calls where it had n't been locked completely in place I 've only heard good things from my end users . We have yet to receive our 13 " Retina MBP docks but we do have a tracking number so I 'm confident they 'll arrive soon . Hope that helps !
Does control + shift + eject ( sleep displays ) solve your problem ? ( if you set authentication for login ) Or you can use Option + Command + eject Put the computer to sleep .
( At least on the Retina display MacBook Pro ) use the Power button the same as you previously used the Eject button . So Control ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Power puts the display to sleep and Command ⌘ + Option ⌥ + Power puts the machine to sleep .
<URL> provides most of what I 'm looking for . The developer explains in his FAQ that Apple places restrictions on the number of notifications allowed and when they can repeat . However , the app includes the ability to repeat reminders as well as to " snooze " and/or " postpone " them when they sound .
You can set up a custom shortcut , for example a key , for that purpose . Open System Prefrences , go to Keyboard - > Screen Shots ( or navigate to the Screen Shot-options ) , and double click on the shortcuts you want to change to change them to the keys you use less frequently . If you have a huge keyboard like me , you can for example set the F5 and F6 to be the shortcuts . Here is a screen shot of the settings window where you set the shortcut ( captured with those as well ! ) The " Copy " - screenshots are the ones with Control + Shift .
<URL> gives you window previews for each running app in the dock , which helps tremendously .
You did n't mention what keyboard , but on the Apple keyboard : F7 - restart current song F8 - pause/play F9 - skip forward Note that you need to have the box unchecked in OSX that says use function keys as normal . In the event you use your function keys for something , I 've also successfully created trigger hotkey combos in Quicksilver . You can also probably just remap them in keyboard preferences .
You can also set a shortcut of your choosing by adjusting Lion 's built-in keyboard preferences . If you go to System Preferences -- > Keyboard , one of the settings menus on the left side bar is for Launchpad &amp; Dock . Make sure the check box next to ' Show Launchpad ' is selected , then double click to the right under the listed shortcut to turn dock hiding on/off . You 'll see a data entry box selected , and you can then enter whatever shortcut you 'd like .
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
You could use an application like Alfred or Automator services to assign shortcuts for opening folders : If you want to open the folders over the current Finder window , you could use <URL> to assign shortcuts to scripts like this : <URL> allows adding custom shortcuts that work in both file dialogs and Finder .
fn + return works while navigating with the up and down keys . Edit the song , then press return again to submit changes . For the other columns just press tab to reach the desired column .
end question
start question
What 's taking up all of this " Other " space on my iPhone ?
This space is taken by Application Metadata , and is also taken by Jailbreak applications since iTunes does n't know that these are regular apps . Doing a full restore of your iPhone through iTunes should clear up this space . There are n't any utilities like DaisyDisk for iOS and the closest thing is iFile on Cydia , an application for managing the files on your device .
Whilst you ca n't restrict the size of Time Machine backups on a Time Capsule , you can reserve space for other files and Time Machine will expand to the remaining space . Open Disk Utility and go to File → New → Blank Disk Image ... . Give the image a file name , then select the options that you would like at the bottom of the window . Here you set the size that you want to reserve for other files . The others should be set to default ( but you can have a custom name ) . Select your Time Capsule → Share as the destination for this image . Click Create . You can then store any files you wish inside this disk image and Time Machine will not intrude upon the space you selected when you created the image . You can change the size of the image later if you have sufficient space using the Resize button in Disk Utility .
The most efficient method of deleting multiple voicemails at once on the device is using multitouch to swipe left on multiple voicemails at once , then tapping delete . If your device is jailbroken , you can delete voicemails from the location that they are stored in ( and the SQLite3 database in ) :
Your statements are all true . Though the geotagging on the first iPhone was n't really precise since there was no built-in GPS : it used the GSM triangulation to localize the phone ( <URL> ) .
<URL> Put something -- a contact , a photo , a video , a file -- on the Mover table , connect two iOS or Mac OS X thingies to the same Wi-Fi network and slide away . It 's that simple , really . ( Yep , you can also use Bluetooth between iPhones , iPod touches and iPads , if you 're on the go ! ) ∞ labs , the developer of Mover , shut down a while ago and the app is no longer available .
Prompt response via email from Julia at Cultured Code to my support request using the <URL> answers the question : When you revert to Things 1 mode , the data from Things 2 can not be converted to the older database format . There should be a note warning about this when converting to Things 1 mode ; if not , I apologize for the confusion this caused . Basically , if you want to have the to-dos from Things 2 in Things 1 , you have to re-enter them manually . Since this downgrade path is one that only very few customers chose to take , we did n't spend time on implementing a downgrade path for the data .
There is a syndication setting that you choose when you upload a video to youtube in the video settings page under Broadcasting and Sharing Options that allows it to be played on mobile devices or not .
No . The white iPhone 3GS does not have a white face , just a white back cover .
Shift-Space Space goes down a page , and Shift-Space is the opposite , scrolling up one page .
Yes , videos and photos are stored in messages and they take up too much space . Try deleting any large discussion thread you do not need if you would like to free some space . Or , if you would like to weed out individual photos or videos , you can tap and hold on any message bubble for the context menu . It will appear with two options : " Copy " | " More " . Tap " More " for a list of checkboxes to appear on the left side of the screen . This allows you to easily delete one or more ( large ) individual messages . Up to iOS 6 messages just were n't in the usage tab , and consequently one could n't easily see how much space it consumed . Also note , that you are just deleting those messages off of that device . If they are iMessages , and you have other devices ( a Mac or OSX device ) with those accounts synced there , the messages will stay there .
No , I do n't believe this can be done . This is how the service works - copies of everything in the drive is copied to all devices that have the drive enabled . You can choose to disable iCloud drive entirely , but you ca n't pick and choose what files arrive on which device . Other cloud storage service like Dropbox and Google Drive behave in this way as well .
On your iPhone/iPad , go to Settings - > iCloud - > Storage and Backup - > Manage Storage . On your Mac , go into System preferences - > iCloud and click on the button labeled " Manage ... " to see an overview of the usage per app / service .
It would seem that have too many files in Spotlight does indeed slow down " All My Files " in finder . It does n't really matter that the files are in code repos , although repos do tend to have lots of files . Upon removing my ~ / Sites folder from spotlight which contains only 15GB of data , but more than half of the 500,000 files Spotlight was indexing " All my Files " came up nearly instantly again .
Backup means copying your personal data from your phone to your computer . That includes application settings , text messages , voicemails , etc. . Sync means copying new apps , music , video , or books from iTunes to your phone , or from your phone to iTunes . You can think of it this way : backup saves a copy of stuff you 've created , and sync copies media you have downloaded via the iTunes Store . Backup copies everything , but Sync only copies what you choose through iTunes . By default , it copies everything , but you can fine tune it all you want . You might want to stop movies from syncing to your phone if you never use it to watch movies , for example . Unless you 've changed the settings , when you connect your iPhone to your computer , iTunes always performs a backup first , then a sync . When you connect a new iPhone to your computer , iTunes will offer to reconfigure it using the latest backup it has . So if you connect your old iPhone , let it backup/sync , then connect your new iPhone , it should transfer everything so that your new phone is just like your old one , but faster !
Most <URL> charges for 0.5 A . But not all USB are standardized - there are some that go for up to 1.8 A and even the MacBook Pro <URL> to raise up to 1.1 A when relevant . iPhone 's charger do little more than 1.1 A and it 's pretty decent . That 's why iPhone charging on regular USB usually take double the time to fully charge . <URL> are <URL> 10W and 5V which <URL> 2A . <URL> that can happen with the charger because USB devices are made to work with the same standard voltage ( about 5V ) . The USB hosts are only outputting the maximum energy it can provide up to what the client can receive . A 10W energy source will only give up to 10W and just 1W if the plugged device can only take 1W . I 'm no electrical specialist but ... Having bigger power supply ( measured in watts ) or bigger current ( measured in amperes ) on itself ca n't break any system because what puts them in movement is the difference of potential measured by volts . Think of a light bulb and picture all USB devices are prepared to receive about 5V ( actually little more ) . If you get a 220V and put in on a 110V nothing wrong happens , but it will be very weak . Apple 's chargers only go up to 5V , which is within the USB standard . So yeah , it 's all good and safe .
It is possible you have an email account with " Notes " enabled on your iPhone , but do n't have the same account set up on your Mac . On your iPhone , in the Notes listing , tap " Accounts " in the upper left corner . Mentally review those accounts . On your Mac , click the Navigation icon that shows two lists next to a box , and makes sure the accounts are the same . If the accounts are n't the same , setup the missing accounts on your Mac in Mail Preferences . Also , if you have an Note " Account " on your iPhone that is named something like " On my iPhone " , transfer those notes to an account that syncs . You can accomplish that by , tapping the Share icon in the note , tap " Copy " , tap " Notes " to view your list of notes , tap " Accounts " , tap an account that will sync to your Mac , tap the " + " icon , tap and hold , paste the note that . ( Hopefully you do n't have too many notes that need that action ) .
This is your <URL> . The number of lit dots indicates how much battery you have left .
In a Terminal : This will create a file named on your Desktop , containing the full paths for everything that OS X considers to be an " Application " on your system . This is might be a lot more than you want . You can limit the search to a given folder by adding , so : will limit the search to the folder ( and its subfolders ) . Note that you might also have apps under , i.e. , inside your Home folder .
Yes . Go to System Preferences → Spotlight and uncheck the box for the Spotlight window keyboard shortcut . Alternatively , replace the shortcut with a different shortcut . You can also enable/disable/modify the shortcut through System Preferences → Keyboard → Spotlight → Show Spotlight Window :
have a look at <URL> . Its not expensive and it has " Screens " and " Frames " function which both should to be doing what you need .
end question
start question
I noticed a . myPassword file in my home folder root . Is this supposed to be there ?
This is not where your password is stored . At least by the system , no way . I do n't have one there , which tells me you have a 3rd-party app that 's doing this . Take a close look .
From some experimentation here ( not official documentation , so interpret accordingly ) , it appears that You can run most applications successfully from any folder , but Yes , there are some special properties of the folder . I include the caveat " most " in point # 1 because any application could be written to contain a script that ( unwisely ) had a hard path coded in it to , in which case it would break if run from somewhere other than the folder . Bad design , but certainly someone could write that way . From experimenting , I did not come across any applications that I use that did n't work when from from various folders in my directory , but <URL> that such applications exist , and include MAMP . However , I have found that Applications downloaded and run from various points in do not show up in Launchpad . In contrast , as soon as an app is placed in , it shows up in Launchpad , and remains there correctly pointing to its current location even if you subsequently move it back to a location in your home directory . I have not been able to determine whether Applications need to be in an officially supported or directory to properly register Services with the operating system . So my tentative answer here is yes , you can run applications from outside , but there is at least a little that is special about that particular folder .
Yes this is normal , Intel lists a " Thermal Junction " for the <URL> at 105 Degrees Celsius . This CPU information is referenced from details in EveryMacs ' <URL> . Modern CPUs pretty much detect when there is a temperature problem and will shutdown if it detects that its overheating . Large Compiling tasks can take the CPU to its limits , which is causing your MacBook Pro to have to dissipate way more heat that it does normally , hence why its hot and blaring its fans to keep it from overheating . This happens pretty much across the board with most Apple laptops when you push the CPU 's to 100 % for an extended period of time . Ear plugs , a laptop stand , headphones , or a <URL> desktop ( with whisper quiet fans ) may be good accessories if you plan on compiling a lot of software packages on a regular basis .
It was custom installed by MongoDB , this the default folder for writing database . So it has nothing to do with OSX .
If you absolutely have to use a Mac to open the xdi file , and you have Parallels or some other virtual environment that can run Windows , you can install WinArchiver and open the file that way . As far as I know there is no utility for Mac that can open xdi files because they are created using WinArchiver which is a Windows only app .
I have an early 2011 MacBook Pro , formerly with 4GB of RAM . A few months ago , I bought an 8GB stick and made the exact setup you 're describing . With the exception of <URL> that lasted a few minutes one day ( and that I have no proof was even caused by the RAM setup ) , it 's been working perfectly ever since I did the upgrade . So yeah , you should be fine . Source : My own experience doing exactly the same thing .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
By default there is n't a shortcut to move an email to a specific folder . You can use to choose the folder . However , you can create an Applescript and then map that to a shortcut through System Preferences > Keyboard . <URL> ( <URL> is the original source if you would like to learn more ) . You can save the file wherever you 'd like , but the default Outlook scripts are saved in : Note : as of Office 11 SP2 , this location has been changed to : To create the shortcut , open up the Keyboard Shortcuts panel , and under Application Shortcuts hit + . It will give you a list of applications to choose from ( Outlook 2011 ) , and then for the menu title make sure you choose the name of the name of the script as it appears in the menu .
While TextMate does n't have built-in FTP or SSH capabilities there are a few bundles for it that have tried to remedy this shortcoming . In particular the <URL> aims to provide what you seek : a way to define a " project " that can be synchronized ( both up and down ) with a remote file system . The bundle is a touch dangerous if you 're using FTP as it requires your password be left in plaintext in the file that you leave on disk at the root of your project folder to tell the plugin how to connect to your remote file system . The other option , if you 're not set on TextMate and just want something like TextMate , is to take a look at <URL> . I 'll be honest , I was a die hard TextMate guy , but in the last six weeks Sublime Text 2 has won me over . The active development from the company on the product , the very active bundle community , and it 's incredible speed when it comes to working on large files have really taken me in . There 's an <URL> for ST2 that 's a cut above the plugin for TM I mentioned above . It leverages keychain for password storage and does n't require you keep your passwords in plaintext on disk for it to work . It also lets you set up mappings for remote < - > local connections directly from the editor UI .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
After many hours finding for something at least useful to my problem , I found a website called <URL> , which provides a lot of common Mac OS " defaults write " commands . Anyway , thank Tony and drfrogsplatless for giving me clarifications and tips that were helpful to me .
You ca n't talk Eclipse into treating app bundles as files . Mac apps are actually " bundles " , which are special folders , not files . The Finder treats them as files , but anything that uses lower-level file system APIs will see a . app file as the folder it actually is . If you look at the <URL> script on Github , you can see that just making a few plain folders in a specific structure will cause the Finder to treat them as a file .
The Newstand app is built to be a more or less a folder of it 's own . As you probably have noticed , you ca n't put folders inside other folders . Because this is a native app on iOS , we do n't really know why they did this , but I 'm confident it is indeed because of it 's folder type style .
<URL> appears to be related , it seems to be a permissions issue . I worked around this by creating a new folder at my destination and moving the folder contents into that new folder , instead of trying to directly move the folder itself . This invoked a proper Move operation without any special commands or key combos , and the files were moved instantaneously .
The Apple-sanctioned method to accomplish this is the use of the <URL> feature in iOS6 . Settings > General > Accessibility > Learning > Guided Access .
The answer was basically in my original question . Spotlight is indeed the sole arbiter of the Date Added column . And the Trash , not being a real folder , is not Spotlight indexed . If you move a file with a Date Added into the Trash , it keeps the Date Added from its original folder . If you then put it back , its Date Added ( to the original folder ) is updated to the present . It would probably take a significant engineering effort to make this work for the Trash , so I 'm not expecting to see this fixed before Mountain Lion , if ever .
Though I do n't have a tool now , I guess it can be done in couple of ways . Yes , no one click solution . Email each url to your personal instapaper id ( <URL> ) Can parse your export list and use simple API from Instapaper to add the links to your account . <URL> Update : As I said earlier , it is not a one click solution but doable . As a matter of fact , I did create an extension for chrome to do this . Here is the link <URL> Update 2 : The source of the extension is available @ <URL>
Enabling the root user decreases security . Apple turns it off by default which means that someone trying to perform a remote log in both has to guess an admin user name and the password . It 's not a huge decrease in security , since all admin users can become root knowing an admin password , but by enabling root , you have either doubled the exposure ( the first account on a Mac has to be an Admin account and the root doubles the exposure ) or if you have several Admin accounts , it increases the number by one . Since it only takes one password to be guessed or " stolen " - having fewer openings is a more secure stance from a numbers and chance standpoint .
If you can already log in on an account with administrator privileges ( normal OS X account ) and know its login password , you can reset the passwords of other admin accounts in System Preferences > Accounts . If you ca n't , you can reset the passwords of admin accounts in single user mode . See <URL> . If you actually mean the password of the root user , it can be changed from / System/Library/CoreServices / Directory Utility.app / , but you have to be logged in on an admin account and know its login password .
<URL> I recommend WebArchiveExtractor . You can drag . webarchive files to this app which will extract the file into its individual files in a folder . You can customise the output in Preferences , including setting a custom index file name : WebArchiveExtractor is open source on GitHub
end question
start question
How can I force an app to redownload from Mac App Store ?
Answering my own question . I enabled the debug menu and then selected Reset Application , restarted the App Store and now the Download button shows up again . To enable the debug menu , open Terminal and run
Apps are paused when backgrounded and resume when opened . If an app does not correctly resume to the state it was left in , this is something only the developer can fix . It 's not possible to run an app in the background as if it was in the foreground . Apps can only run a limited set of tasks in the background for a short period of time per Apple guidelines , or use structured backgrounding such as Background App Refresh . Also see <URL> .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
The programmatic and direct feedback channels to Apple and the developer are as follows : Report a problem from the purchase summary in iTunes on a computer . This also is useful if you wish to ask for a refund in the case where the app was paid and does n't function in your judgement . There is a general problem link in the store as well as a link to developer support . These are best for technical or minor bugs that do n't ruin the app experience or if you expect it to get fixed and continue to use the app . You can write a formal review that Apple may eventually publish detailing why you feel the app is buggy or non-confomant with design guidelines or rules . You can rate the app in stars Those three procedures are standard ways to provide feedback about buggy apps or problematic purchases . Deleting the app sends less formal feedback as your devices stop asking for updates to that title .
Administratively , it might be easiest to use the gift feature to purchase all the 10 apps at once and file your expense reports . You are then free to use that account to redeem one copy - or pass off one ( or more ) of the redemption codes to whatever deploy accounts you use . Currently , the iOS app store has more volume purchase options : <URL> <URL> I would join one of these if you can and inquire if/when it would extend to the Mac App Store for OS X. ( Nothing speaks louder than action ) . In the mean time , you can use gifting to separate the payment from the redemption and hand out the redemption codes as needed to the actual accounts you use to deploy the apps . I have n't had any issues with one account on 15 macs to ease the administrative burden . Do make sure to buy enough copies before adding new macs to keep things within the terms of the license . My reading ( and I 'm not a lawyer ) is a person can install their apps on macs they control and own with no limit ( not 5 or 10 ) and businesses/organizations are to buy one license per machine . I do n't see a technical or moral reason to actually redeem each copy ( especially if you secure / never further distribute those redemption codes ) . I personally ca n't wait until a unified volume plan arrives for the Mac App store - discount or not , having it centrally managed and downloading a spreadsheet to track things is so useful as we 're more constrained with time and expertise than the cost of the software at present .
There are 2 apps on mac that name colors to help people with color blindness : A free app called <URL> . It basically does the same job as WhatColor , although with a more simple color naming system . It 's small , has instant color naming and stay on top of other windows . Also a free app called <URL> . But this app takes more screen space and is quite slow . I did not find a way to make it stay on top , a deal breaker for me . As a background , I am colorblind too and I personally use ColorCompass on my Mac to work with Mac Office all day long on a daily basis .
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
The App Store does n't offer support for paid app updates . You can release new features as in-app purchases for the current app ( as @Jason said ) . If , however , you want to charge for a new version of the app itself , then you need to release the new version as its own app and remove the previous version from sale . A common convention is to name the new app " MyApp 2 " ( with the " 2 " as part of the name ) to distinguish it , since its actual version number will be 1 since it 's a new app . Yes , it 's a little confusing ... One issue to be aware of with this approach is that , because MyApp 1 and MyApp 2 are separate apps , users of MyApp 1 wo n't get any kind of notification that MyApp 2 is available , since it 's not an " update " of that app but rather a separate thing entirely .
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
It sounds like there 's a little confusion . Let me elaborate a little bit ... I used to be a Senior Advisor for Apple and this was by far the most common call . First , migrating to a new Apple ID can be difficult , but you can do it . To make sure all future purchases ask for your new Apple ID , go to Settings > iTunes &amp; App Store and then select your Apple ID . Is this your new one or your old one ? If it 's your old one , tap " Sign Out " and try signing in with your new one . All future purchases should then prompt you for your new Apple ID and password . However , keep in mind that any apps that you 've already downloaded with your old Apple ID will prompt you for that old Apple ID and password when the apps need to be updated . ( This is what everyone else is talking about ) . In order to never see or think about that old Apple ID again , you 'll need to delete those apps over time and re-purchase them on your new Apple ID . Second , it is imperative that you understand what email addresses are and are n't associated with each Apple ID . To check this out , go to id.apple.com and sign in to each of them . It is possible to have multiple emails associated with an Apple ID . It is also possible to have an " alternate Apple ID , " which basically means you can use either to sign in . One more thing -- with the announcement of iOS 8 , Apple IDs can be conjoined or paired using Family Sharing . It may just be more confusing , but check out the synopsis on Apple 's website <URL> .
Yes . Xcode has built-in support for targeting specific devices with your app . It 's as simple as selecting the target device from a drop-down list . This could enable you to create an initial version that targets either iPhone or iPad , and then later switch to Universal and submit it as a new version . The App Store will then automatically recognize that the new version of the app is Universal , and you would need to add additional screenshots , etc. for the new devices .
If you have Lion , then you can also hold down the option key in Launchpad ; the icons will start to wiggle and show little x 's on all the App Store installed apps very much like iOS does . Click the x and confirm the deletion and it will be the equivalent of dragging it to the trash from Finder ; which means supporting preference files , etc. still remain , but for most users that should be of no concern .
Yes , you can move the applications . Providing the destination remains in the Spotlight index , the Mac App Store will continue to update the app .
You have to trust the developer of the app . Period . Besides code analysis there is no way to eliminate the possibility that an app does send your password somewhere . And even tools like Little Snitch wo n't help you if the app is allowed to send emails from your account . If you send an email to somebody it would just use the established connection to afterwards send another email with your password . Since the connection is encrypted you ca n't see what the app is doing . And because the whole purpose of the app is sending emails the connection is not suspicious at all . Same thing is true for all apps that need access to the internet , if you enter the password to an facebook app it could just use facebook to send a private message with your password and so on . To make it even more difficult to detect , the developer could implement it in a way that the malicious routine waits 30 days before it sends your password . And if the developer is a smart criminal ( he wrote a great app so he probably is ) he can detect testers who just fast forward their device date setting too . If the developer is smart it is nearly impossible to figure such things out without looking at the code . Entering your password somewhere is all about trust . And with all those apps from unknown developers it 's hard to figure out which app you can trust enough to give it your password . That 's the reason Twitter , among others , uses an authentication process where the app never knows your password . Having a different password for different services helps in case you have accidentally trusted an untrustworthy developer . But your email password is a little bit special because usually it can be used to gain access to almost all services you use .
No , the name of your app as it appears in the App Store must be unique . When creating your app , you will receive the following error if you try to use a name that is already taken : The Application Name that you provided has already been used . Please provide a unique Application Name . But the name on the icon can be whatever you want - it can be the same as another app 's icon name . Source : <URL>
This has now happened a couple of more times . I 've been able to resolve this the last couple of times by tapping the app back on the main screen ( ie not in the app store ) . The label below it changes to ' Waiting ' . Then tapping it again it changes the label to ' Loading ' or ' Installing ' and the update finally completes . I can then update other apps . Otherwise the only other solution is to delete and reinstall the app .
Yes . Just run the App Store app on the second Mac and go to the Purchases tab . You 'll see a list of the apps you 've already purchased , with an Install button next to each one - click the button to install on the second Mac .
So I got the message " An error occurred " when it was nearly done . I gave up , shut my Mac down later that day , started it back up , tried the download again and it resumed from where it failed
From <URL> : <URL> Cabel Sasser on what it 's like for existing Mac apps that are now in the App Store : PS : If you 're a current customer , there 's no way to convert a previous purchase into a Mac App Store purchase -- that requires a re-buy . But remember , what you have now will continue to work just fine . UPDATE : The Mac App Store may show software bought from us previously as " Installed " , even though they 're two different licenses . You will not get Mac App Store auto-updates unless you purchase from the Mac App Store . To re-enable the " Purchase " button in the Mac App Store , just drag the app to the trash . Your preferences/sites will not be affected . In other words , for apps that use the same bundle ID for the both the Mac App Store and non-App Store versions , the Mac App Store will not install updates to already-installed non-App Store versions , but it will recognize them as being already installed . If you want to get updates via the Mac App Store , you 'll have to re-buy the app through the App Store .
This works for both iTunes Apps and the App Store on the Mac . Log into your account via the App Store account link . Look for iTunes in the Cloud Click the View Hidden Purchases link . Select Unhide next to the App you want back in the list . Items are n't deleted from the list , just merely hidden .
end question
start question
How can I relist an App in App Store Purchased list that was inadvertently deleted ?
This works for both iTunes Apps and the App Store on the Mac . Log into your account via the App Store account link . Look for iTunes in the Cloud Click the View Hidden Purchases link . Select Unhide next to the App you want back in the list . Items are n't deleted from the list , just merely hidden .
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
I get receipts by e-mail from Apple whenever I buy something in the iTunes store . If you do n't delete them they should still be there .
Google shows various links that say that it is not possible to automatically re-download Audio Books in iTunes . For example , this recent one - <URL> - from 3-Nov-2011 : You only get one download of audiobooks and movies . It is your responsibility to backup your purchases . Similarly : <URL> <URL> A few replies , like <URL> , include extra info : <URL> ( though that Apple page says " This article has been archived and is no longer updated by Apple . " ) <URL> Conclusion If you have any past back-ups of your desktop machine where you run iTunes and sync ( ed ) your device , you should be able to restore your purchase . Otherwise , your best bet is to contact <URL> .
There is no official way to do so , but if you 've jailbroken your iPad , you can use <URL> . It 's a Cydia Tweak and I can highly recommend it . It does exactly what you want .
From <URL> : <URL> Cabel Sasser on what it 's like for existing Mac apps that are now in the App Store : PS : If you 're a current customer , there 's no way to convert a previous purchase into a Mac App Store purchase -- that requires a re-buy . But remember , what you have now will continue to work just fine . UPDATE : The Mac App Store may show software bought from us previously as " Installed " , even though they 're two different licenses . You will not get Mac App Store auto-updates unless you purchase from the Mac App Store . To re-enable the " Purchase " button in the Mac App Store , just drag the app to the trash . Your preferences/sites will not be affected . In other words , for apps that use the same bundle ID for the both the Mac App Store and non-App Store versions , the Mac App Store will not install updates to already-installed non-App Store versions , but it will recognize them as being already installed . If you want to get updates via the Mac App Store , you 'll have to re-buy the app through the App Store .
No . You need his username and password to update . As alternative you can create an account for your company , and then download Xcode again .
Yes , you can move the applications . Providing the destination remains in the Spotlight index , the Mac App Store will continue to update the app .
I actually just tried this and iChat does it automatically . As you can see I have a different window for each account , and I think you can actually set the window 's title by setting the account description under - > . As you can see I even have different groups for each account . Although I usually have them unified using Chax 's feature
From Citrix.com - <URL> This is the instructions for Online rather than Receiver . The process is identical for each , substituting the Receiver . dmg file ( the Receiver instructions are in a pdf rather than online &amp; ca n't be copy/pasted ) Citrix Online Plug-in ( client ) for Mac installs files into multiple folders . Here is an easy way to uninstall : Download the installer from <URL> . Open the file and select Uninstall option . <URL>
Currently there is no way to sort them in mass , you could one-by-one right click on each app , select ' Get Info ' and then a window will pop up with app info . Under the summary tab you will see ( middle right hand side of the window ) ' Purchased By ' and ' Account Name ' . Sorry but that 's currently the only way . Unless your on a Mac and can code a shell script .
Awesome , I figured it out . Run this command , which rebuilds LaunchServices : And everything should be back to good ! Immediately after running , the App Store allowed me to re-purchase the app . Source : <URL>
EDIT : Legally it 's extremely unlikely that you are allowed to do that as @fbara explained in his/her answer , but you can definitely give it a try and worst case I 'd expect the app to be kicked off the store . Seeing as other apps have already done this successfully its not impossible to get done , just not as reliable as using your own assets . Since icons are nothing more than just an image , yea its definitely possible . Now about whether or not apple will allow you to use the emojis , I did n't find anything saying that you can or can not use them . However there are countless apps which already do so , so I assume it should be fine . <URL> Removed line 1 as it probably doesnt answer what the question really was asking
Yes . Open the App Store and scroll to the bottom of the featured tab . Tap on your Apple ID and select " View Apple ID " . The tap Ratings and Reviews :
You can check the version of Messenger installed by going here : > > > > Version will be displayed next to app icon . And you can check the latest version of Messenger in the App Store by going to its page and check the version . If they are the same , you are good to go . If not , I suggest closing App Store , restarting your iPhone and then checking App Store . It will probably says and you can do so .
A GSM iPad should work in any country where GSM carriers operate and offer data plans . <URL> is a great resource . They have a list which is up-to-date with live and planned availability as well as supported frequencies . Of course you can use your iPad in any country where your carrier has roaming agreements . But at a very high rate . And you might have to call your carrier in advance to activate the option . But this will cost you much more than getting your data access from a local carrier . If you chose to get your data access from a local carrier here are a few things to consider : The carrier will not necessarily offer a micro SIM . In that case you will have to <URL> to the right dimensions yourself . You will have to setup the <URL> yourself on most networks . Internet access could mean something else than data plan . Beware of obsolete offers with WAP or very limited access . Some carriers will have better coverage than others . Check the coverage of each carrier before committing . Some carriers will not sell prepaid data . In some countries there could be restrictions for foreigners or non residents and you might have to get your SIM from someone who can buy it for you . Does this mean that any iPad 2 purchased in the U.S. is incompatible with 3G service abroad ? No . The GSM version ( AT&amp;T ) will work in most countries . The same can not be said of the CDMA version ( Verizon ) . Wikipedia tels us the iPad supports UMTS / HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM / EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Two networks are referenced as providing support for GSM based 3G in japan : NTT DOCOMO , INC. ( DOCOMO ) 3G on 2100 MHz SOFTBANK MOBILE Corp. ( SoftBank ) 3G 2100 MHz Note : I would recommend a 3rd party solution if you go abroad for a short period of time . There are mobile WiFi modems like the <URL> that could offer a better alternative if you need internet access on more than one device at a time .
You 're right Christian , I did n't even notice it but the gamecenter app has been removed . It is stated under gamekit in the IOS 10.0 <URL> Apparently it wo n't be missed by many :)
Well , in my point of view , if the app works 75 % of the time playing AVI files , I would try to contact the developer directly , there might be something required ( like a plug-in ) or a bug that needs fixing . Like it says in the FAQ , if contacting the developer produces no result , then I guess you could ask for a refund . I have heard that they gave refunds to people who were unhappy before , but it was a last-resort solution if I remember correctly . Also , I presume the App store staff will fight for you more if you paid 100 $ for your app , and a little less if you only paid a buck ... :-)
Back up your iPad with iTunes . Back up that hard drive . Unplug that backup and store it far away from any internet connection . If you do update Sykpe by mistake , restore the iPad from the backup . It wo n't keep Skype from updating , but it will preserve your ability to undo the update .
App Store is divided by countries it is available in and each country 's App Store is a separate entity . For an end-user ( me , you , anyone who buys apps basically ) there is no cross-over between them . If you 're from Finland you 're most likely using Finnish App Store ( possibly with interface in English ) . Only users of the same store will see the reviews posted in it . Reviews are not shared between individual ( country ) stores so it is perfectly fine for reviews to be in country 's native language .
end question
start question
Why are there no hubs for the new USB Type-C Port ?
It 's a question that is very unpopular . You 're right , but you 're not supposed to say it . Yes , the hub someone wrote about has two USB-C ports out of it , but they will be compromised . What the problems is - how the USB-C lines within a cable are used is determined at plug-in time , depending on what you plug in downstream of the port . For example , you ca n't have full speed USB 3.1 and full video at the same time . So the USB-C makes a choice for you . If you plug in both a high-res monitior and USB 3 , then you ca n't have both at once . So it will be interesting to see how the various hub supplies will handle this problem . People think that a hub will be much like a USB 3.1 hub , where the function of USB does n't change when you plug things into it . But if you plug a high-res monitor into a USB-C hub , your USB regular data will suddenly drop down in speed to what two interior wires can handle , instead of four . The bandwidth just is n't there . Today 's USB-C is USB-C on training wheels .
I found a solution that does use the existing backup . The trick is to use ( see ) . My old disk was mounted under and the new disk is mounted as . My backup is under . ( If your old and new disk have both the same name , you have to follow all of the steps , because the name of the disk is not sufficient to associate an old backup with a new disk ) Stop time machine to do backups ( in the preferences ) Restore the old data to the new disk ( the command is one line ) : ( note this does not restore files starting with at the top level ) Tell time machine to associate the new disk to the old backups ( the command is one line ) : Start time machine to do backups Now time machine does not try to backup the entire new disk . Instead , it creates incremental backups based on the old snapshot . However , it seems not possible to go back in history using time mashine . I have tried to associate all old backups with the new disk without much success :
Yet the the dock is designed to just provide charging power and to hold the device , there is no line out on the dock . This is incorrect . The description for this device <URL> ( sorry , I could n't find any information on it that was n't on a for-sale site ) has this feature listed : Built-in , 0.125-inch stereo line-out audio jack lets you attach an audio cable directly to your stereo , or run the included cassette adapter into your stereo 's tape cassette player Apparently the device does have an line out on it some place . And this is why your headphone and volume controls are disabled when you dock your phone in it .
SSH is simply a protocol used to connect to a remote computer . It does n't really restrict what you can or can not do once you 're logged in to that computer . And iOS does n't really have any restrictions on typical SSH usage ( except that you ca n't set up a tunnel for other apps ) . So if you can do what you need to using SSH from your computer to your school 's computer , then you should be able to do the same on the iPad with an SSH app . There are several iOS SSH clients around , my favourite is <URL> ; <URL> is pretty popular as well .
An application on a Mac is just a folder full of files with a . app extension . However , OS X hides this fact from you and displays the folder as a file with an icon . Now when you download something it 's very uncomfortable to download folders ( without a download manager ) . Therefore this " App Folder " has to be put inside a single file somehow . This can be done in three ways : Put in a zip file ( or comparable file format ) Put it in a dmg file ( which is kind of a flat file filesystem ) Make an installer ( which , however , also has to be either in a zip or dmg because those are folders to on a mac ) Since most apps are self-contained and do not need anything besides the App Folder , an installer is not only overkill but also slower than just distributing the app folder . You can obviously launch apps from wherever you want , it 's only a custom or a recommendation to put them into as it easier for you to find it again and it works with multiple users .
I 'm not aware of a USB adapter that directly takes the 4-pin 3.5 mm connector that the Apple headset uses , but you could combine one of the many USB adapters with an adapter cable <URL> . That will convert the 4-pin connector to the separate 3-pin stereo &amp; microphone connectors that are standard on PCs and should work with any USB adapters with an in &amp; out . You will likely lose the volume and clicker controls on the headset .
Another option to run GreaseMonkey scripts is <URL> ( which is what I use ) . It 's a Safari 5 extension , which means it 's just a tad safer than GreaseKit .
Syncing Google Contacts via CardDAV will allow you to store the relationship information in your address book entry . See <URL> for instructions .
If Chrome is n't too heavy for you <URL> has very capable spreadsheet facilities that improve all the time . You can even <URL> if you 're going to be away from an internet connection .
An alternate OS is <URL> . It is a free firmware replacement that works on many music players . Rockbox supports : iPod 1g through 5.5 g , iPod Mini , iPod Nano 1g and iPod Nano 2g One downside to Rockbox is that you have to make your iPod a Windows formatted partition on a Windows computer . There are many different <URL> . Here 's an example of just one :
If you bought the device without a contract , it 's unlocked ! The information about AT&amp;T and Verizon is important when talking about LTE availability in the US . Only AT&amp;T and Verizon provide LTE networks in the US that work with the iPad . 4G LTE is supported only on AT&amp;T and Verizon networks in the U.S. and on Bell , Rogers , and Telus networks in Canada . <URL> This is important to note as LTE frequency bands used in Europe , Australia and probably most of Asia are <URL> . You will use DC-HSDPA , HSPA + or UMTS instead for fast internet access .
<URL> . But , if you 're dead set on an IDE , the standard for open source , free IDEs is <URL> . For C and C++ development , <URL> which gives you all of its heavyweight IDE-type things for your C and C++ code : introspection , code completion , refactoring tools , syntax highlighting , debugger integration and so on . It 's been around a long time now and is both stable and robust . The CDT Project provides a fully functional C and C++ Integrated Development Environment based on the Eclipse platform . Features include : support for project creation and managed build for various toolchains , standard make build , source navigation , various source knowledge tools , such as type hierarchy , call graph , include browser , macro definition browser , code editor with syntax highlighting , folding and hyperlink navigation , source code refactoring and code generation , visual debugging tools , including memory , registers , and disassembly viewers .
Just hold down the Command key ( Cmd ) while double clicking the folder and it will open in a new Finder window .
There are no native IDE available for iOS . Apple restricts unsigned code from being run on all iOS devices , thus making an IDE on iOS impossible . ( this is possible on android to run code directly on the device that is written on device ) Your best bet is to get a regular text editor such as <URL> or anything that can checkout documents and edit them from git , svn or dropbox . You will never be able to run this code on iOS , so you will need to push it to your repository and compile and run it via a remote desktop client or via a SSH terminal . To really fully automate this process you would have to edit your code , push it to the repository , compile it on another machine and then have that compiled binary shipped to your device using a distribution mechanism like <URL> via a series of scripts ( test flight has an API for this ) . It 's not impossible , just hard . Another option is to use a remote desktop client and remote to an IDE on a PC to edit and run your code there .
Most typically , it is used for the <URL> , which can control iTunes , QuickTime and various other built in software . Additionally , 3rd party software ( see <URL> and <URL> ) also makes use of the device and can tie in much more functionality . In the past ( prior to Lion ) , the Apple Remote was an excellent companion to <URL> , a media manager that some call the predecessor to the Apple TV interface .
<URL> Touchpose is a very simple Cydia tweak that will show finger positions on screen . Requirements : firmware ( > = 4.0 ) , mobilesubstrate , libactivator , preferenceloader
This separation of " sound effects " and " games/music " exists in iPod Touch 4 as well . There is no way for tuning a master volume on these devices . But you can set the " sound effects " volume as constant ( - - turn off ) and pressing volume buttons will only change the " games/music " volume .
I would go for USB-C to DisplayPort directly . That would be one relatively inexpensive ( $ 20 to $ 40 US prices ) cable to do the job . Since your display wo n't charge the MacBook and do video over a single USB-C cable and you have several ports ( display side and Mac side ) - a dedicated cable would be my choice . I like the USB-C to HDMI adapter you mentioned for my MacBook since there is only one port and charging plus USB is needed , but on the MacBook Pro you have several ports and can use one per display without too much hassle . It will work for you , though - just not my first choice . Apple even recommends against using the adapter you mention for bridging between a Mini DisplayPort device and thunderbolt 3 . - <URL> Note that although it uses a Mini DisplayPort connector , the Thunderbolt 3 ( USB-C ) to Thunderbolt 2 Adapter does n't support connections to Mini DisplayPort displays . If you only want two external displays , both 13 inch models of MacBook Pro are suitable . You 'll need the 15 inch models to support 4 displays . That might be a non-issue if you only have one Dell display to connect .
This is default behavior and is not an issue with jailbreaking . Even my new iPad 2 straight out the box does this on 4.3 . I see this as a bug and hope Apple fixes this . The fastest and simplest iPad app that I 've found that I like for rotating , cropping and flipping is called Crop Suey HD . UPDATE : It appears as though iOS 5 has finally fixed this annoying bug . And the even better news is that they are now throwing in photo editing tools right in the photo viewer app ; including the option to rotate .
Mac OS has always had a <URL> . Applications like TextEdit can have multiple main windows open without requiring multiple instances . The open command does n't usually open documents over the current document . The close button might also quit the application after closing the last window like on Windows . But what if you want to create a new document ? Many applications create an untitled document on startup . Should closing it quit the application ? There 's no real harm in keeping applications running in the background . They do n't usually use CPU , and you should have enough free or inactive memory anyway . Quitting and opening applications all the time would take more time . OS X has also supported <URL> since 10.7 . Automatic termination eliminates the need for users to quit an app . Instead , the system manages app termination transparently behind the scenes , terminating apps that are not in use to reclaim needed resources such as memory . [ ... ] Automatic termination transfers the job of managing processes from the user to the system , which is better equipped to handle the job . Users do not need to manage processes manually anyway . All they really need is to run apps and have those apps available when they need them . Automatic termination makes that possible while ensuring that system performance is not adversely affected . Apps must opt in to both automatic termination and sudden termination and implement appropriate support for them . The close button does actually quit some applications with a single main window , like Dictionary , System Preferences , and Calculator . Opening them again does n't take that long and quitting them frees users from having to do it manually .
end question
start question
Fake.app : How to loop thru the rows in a CSV file and use the data in my Workflow ?
The best approach is to use the Repeat With Action with the lines in file option selected . This allows you to read the CVS file on disk and iterate thru the rows as Fake Variables . You can then access these Fake Variables in other Actions which can fill out the web form ( or whatever you need ) . As seen in the screenshot above , I 'm using a Do JavaScript action to initially fetch the current Variable and then split it into an array of comma separated values . Then I use Fake 's JavaScript API to set individual variables for each column : Then use other Fake Actions to work with the data you 've fetched . In this case , I 'll fill out a simple web form using the Set Value of HTML Element Action . In this Action 's text fields you can access Fake Variables with this special syntax :
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
If all you want is to make it work in Safari : results in : This is left to right , &#8238; but this is right to left , and then this is back to left to right again . The important bit is the &amp; # 8238 ; -- everything after that will be reversed . Note : this assumes that the web page is using UTF-8 ( and if it is n't , it should be ) .
My 64GB iPhone has several hundred apps on it , mostly games , about 9GB of photos/personal videos , 3GB of music , and ~ 5GB of free space right now . I do have to prune from time to time but it 's not too bad . My 32GB iPad on the other hand ... I really wish I had bought the 64GB ( the largest at the time ) . I am constantly having to juggle what games/apps are on there , and that 's really what 's taking the majority of the space . iPad-specific apps can get huge ... even universal apps can . I 've seen several 1GB + games , and have a bunch that are in the 250MB to 500MB range . I have only a fraction of my photo library on there , and no music or videos to speak of . I am excited by the idea of a 128GB iPhone possibly being introduced Tuesday , and when I have saved for a new iPad I will get at least the 64GB model .
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
Open the video file in Quicktime player and then go edit > Trim or command + T and you can trim the video in the editor . Save the video and you 're good to go .
Right click on finder left panel choose " open sidebar preferences " go to advance tab uncheck the " show all file extension "
I figured out that the problem came from fingerprint ( Touch ID ) , as when I turned their options off , it worked like charm . Just turn off those settings under " Touch ID &amp; Passcode " section : 1 . iPhone Unlock . 2 . iTunes &amp; App Store .
If you mean the usage on the mobile network , it is shown in Settings - > Mobile network , all the way down , scroll down to see when it 's been reset .
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
You can move your wallpapers into and have them in single location . This should n't affect the system because I have the wallpapers since Leopard and each OS update only include more wallpapers . Go ahead and include yours in there . Make sure you make a backup of just in case you want to revert them back to default state .
Turns out I figured it out not long after typing this question ! I just thought I 'd experiment a little and found out how to do it . You change the language in Edit > Spelling > Spelling ... and then reopen the document . That did it for me . I 'm guessing it is a bug : I do n't think having to close and open a document for language error display settings to make effect it 's very intuitive , but I 'm glad it can be done ! I 'm posting this anyways to share the knowledge and in the hopes it will be useful to somebody else , struggling with those dotted red lines !
iPhoto Photos Location iPhoto stores photos and meta-data in the user 's home folder : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library Within this folder , the original photos are stored at : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library/Masters Bulk Copy with rsync If the user name was , the <URL> all the original photos to the local desktop would be :
The following AppleScript will <URL> from Contacts.app . It was written for OS X 10.9 but should work on older editions ; you may need to change to to talk to the appropriate application : To use this AppleScript : Launch AppleScript Editor from Applications > Utilities Copy and paste the code below into a new document Run the script On completion a will appear on your desktop Export Contacts to CSV AppleScript
You can also enter the following in Terminal : then This will display the full path in the titlebar . to turn it back off change the - bool to Or if you want to copy the text of the path you can drag the file into Terminal .
I am unsure if you are asking how to exclude folders from showing up in your finder spotlight search , or if what you are after is to hide specific folders from being shown in a finder window . If you are after excluding folders from a spotlight search , you can do this in the privacy tab from system preferences / spotlight : If you are after having the ability to show or hide files and folders from being viewed while you are in a finder window , then you can create an automator service to do just that : <URL> NOTE : the tip above only toggles all files that have the hidden flag set , so if you need to quickly mark a folder or a file as " hidden " , then you need to set this bit attribute for that file or folder . An easy way to do this is via a free utility software download that does just this here ( used to be shareware , but now free ) : <URL> NOTE 2 : If you are happy using the terminal command line , you can just type the following on the terminal : or Hope this helps .
In a Terminal : This will create a file named on your Desktop , containing the full paths for everything that OS X considers to be an " Application " on your system . This is might be a lot more than you want . You can limit the search to a given folder by adding , so : will limit the search to the folder ( and its subfolders ) . Note that you might also have apps under , i.e. , inside your Home folder .
Yes , the downloads folder comes default with a PDF explaining what that folder is there for . But there should be no " invisible " file . If you 'd like to investigate the matter more , fire up Terminal ( Applications/Utilities ) and type the following commands ( or copy paste them ) . If you are new to the commandline , it is one per line and hit ENTER after each : The first will navigate to your Downloads folder . The second will list all the files in it , hidden or not . The following is a print-out of my Downloads folder : The " d " in front of all those other letters ( rw-r -- r , etc. ) denotes a directory ( or a folder ) . If there is none , that means it 's a file ( or a document of some kind ) . You can see the size of the file/folder in the column after " staff " ( this is the group you belong too ) . And lastly , the date the file was created and the file name . There are no relevant or important system files that are placed in Downloads . This is simply files the user downloads . I ca n't speak why it 's there , but I can assure you that deleting it will not cause any harm to your system .
Yes it is safe . You will need a US plug adapter or a replacement cord , but the mac itself is good to go . Reading through the specs it states : Electrical and operating requirements Line voltage : 100-240V AC The power supply can handle both the frequency and voltage changes . And for the question about buying a power cable or use an adapter - > Up to you I did use both and did n't have any problems . I 'd go for a US power cable since that is less clunky , if you stay for longer . If it 's only for a few weeks I would n't bother buying a cable .
iWork for Mac , at the time of writing of this post , has not been updated to work with iCloud . Last version on the App Store came out in July , 20th , and does not have iCloud integration . Meanwhile , you can upload and download documents from <URL> , which is a web interface to iCloud . The process is described in <URL> .
end question
start question
How to make custom footer section stick to bottom of page in Pages 5 ?
This is currently not possible . You can have it at page 1 and page 2 using a normal footer as you 're probably aware , but not automatically move to the last page of a document . You can do it manually as you 're also probably aware by using the section inspector , but that 's still not automatic and would require you to delete it from page 1 and then add it back to page 2 . You can notify Apple that you would like this feature implemented using their Pages feedback page : <URL>
So , after some tinkering , I was able to do it using Automator . I 'd be very surprised if this is the most efficient way to do it , but you only need to create the workflow once . Basically , there 's an " Extract Odd &amp; Even Pages " action that you can use to split the file . Here 's a list of the workflow : Ask for finder items . Extract odd and even pages ( Odd ) Move finder items ( this moves the extracted PDF to a folder you specify , must be empty ; otherwise , it 'll be in a temporary folder that 's hard to find ) . Ask for finder items ( select the original file again ; otherwise , Automator will continue processing the file created in Step 2 ) . Extract odd and even pages ( Even ) Move finder items ( same as 3 ) Ask for confirmation : Basically , it 's a way to pause the workflow while you crop the pdfs . This is optional , you could just create a separate workflow ( if you do n't already have one ) to combine the pdfs , and execute that once you 're done . Otherwise , the idea is that you click " OK " after cropping both PDFs . Get folder contents/Ask for finder items : Point to the folder where the two separate PDFs are located ( or select both , if you used " Ask for finder items " ) . Combine PDF pages : Shuffle option Move finder items ( wherever you want the output ) . That 's the general idea , there are some refinements that could be done , if not a complete ' rewrite ' to make it more efficient .
Sadly ( it happens to me too ) , most of these pages use either a Meta or some form of Javascript to accomplish the reload every XX seconds . For the former case , Firefox ( not Safari ) had an option to disable it ( Tools >> Options >> Advanced >> General >> Accessibility - > Warn me when web sites try to redirect or reload the page ) . However that option not always works , specially with newer sites ; also that is a Firefox option only , which apparently you already knew about . In the latter case ( Javascript ) there is n't much we can do . As far as I understand , no CSS trick can prevent that ( which would be the only tool we could have at the moment ) . I 'm sure that at some clever ( and bored ) coder will create an extension that captures that and tries to prevent it . In the meantime , you ( and the rest of us ) are out of luck while using Safari . The ideal would be those sites to implement an AJAX form of communication that informs the user that there 's new content . All in all , it 's a series of hacks over a static protocol that maintains no " session " by design .
First , ( Automator - > New - > Service ) to paste the code , and then ( System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Shortcuts - > Services ) to bind the Service to a keyboard shortcut . BetterTouchTool Karabiner
Click the down arrow on the column header and select Sort Ascending or Sort Decending .
You can delete videos from the Videos app by tapping and holding on the thumbnail , then pressing the red X that appears in the corner ( just like deleting apps from your home screen ) . To delete audio podcasts , find them in the Music app , swipe your finger across the name of the podcast ( or episode ) and press the delete button . ( The same way you would with emails . )
For future reference I found <URL> perfectly ! That solution actually wraps the script mentioned in the other answer as an automator action to make it easier to use by those unfamiliar with Terminal . To re-create the service , use Automator to create a service that receives selected files and folders , select the Run shell script action , and paste pastix 's script into the script area .
Select desired process , click the gear button or the View menu , and then select Sample Process . The 5th line in the sample window shows the path to the executable .
Unlikely . Such functionality is indirectly excluded by the iOS Developer Program Licence Agreement under section 3.3.4 . There it is stated that applications may only write data to an application 's designated container area on the device . Therefore , the library data for ringtones can not can not be manipulted unless there were API to do this . I am not sure if I 'm allowed to post a direct link here , therefore use <URL> to get to the document .
Select the picture , then in the Arrange tab uncheck Constrain Proportions [ you may have to revert to original size before that will un-grey . Then dragging the image by any edge will stretch . If you need to crop , that 's in Image - Edit Mask [ though crop does n't constrain anyway ]
My Magic Trackpad did this right out of the box . I believe you should select " Swipe to navigate . "
After flipping through " iWork : The Missing Manual " and digging a little deeper , I discovered that those watermark style background images were immobile because they were " Locked . " So I clicked " Unlock " in the Arrange menu , and then I could delete or manipulate those images .
Using KeyRemap4MacBook , you could add this to <URL> : Further details : Open KeyRemap4MacBook - Mis &amp; Uninstall - Open private.xml Edit and Add the above snippet between and Go to the tab in the KeyRemap4MacBook and press Then select the " Powerpoint " box under
You could use an application like Alfred or Automator services to assign shortcuts for opening folders : If you want to open the folders over the current Finder window , you could use <URL> to assign shortcuts to scripts like this : <URL> allows adding custom shortcuts that work in both file dialogs and Finder .
The short answer is you are safe as long as the ambient temperature and charge hardware do n't overheat . The empirical evidence is you can measure the temperature of the wall adapter and the charging puck to approximate the amount of current that 's flowing through the inductive charger at any point in time . I like to use a <URL> for things like this , but you can use your fingers to know that the charger is within specifications by comparing the temperature change when you take a charging watch off the charger and then let the charger sit against your chosen piece of metal . Apple 's official safety information are at : <URL> or <URL> <URL>
Click and hold the Reader button , and a menu of available feeds appears . ( Discovered after much Googling at <URL> . )
Right click on the misspelled word and select " Unlearn Spelling " . As Pages uses OS X ' global spelling services , you can use this method anywhere text input is spell checked by it ( more or less any text area , with the notable exceptions of MS Office , OpenOffice / LibreOffice , Firefox and a few other apps ported from the non OS X world ) . If a misspelled word is not underlined in red and the " Unlearn Spelling " option is missing from the context menu , it may be that you originally used " Ignore Spellin " rather than " Learn Spelling " . In that case , try opening a new document and pasting in the misspelled word -- the red underline will appear in the new document if you ignored the spelling in the original document .
There may be other ways to do this , but a simple way would be to create your own homepage , which could look anyway you like . Then , just set the Homepage in Safari to point at that file . Make a file called " home.html " with these contents : Open that file with Safari , and use the preferences dialog to set the homepage to the current page . Also set new tabs and windows to start on your homepage .
Maybe <URL> helps you out ? Choose Format > Font > Capitalization and choose an option from the submenu . Choose Small Caps to change the text to smaller capitals with larger capitals for uppercase letters
Turned out it was n't a problem with the certificate after all , it was that the application signature used by parental controls changed when the certificate changed . This was fixed by manually editing the parental controls file to contain the new signature .
end question
start question
How tough is the aluminum body of a MacBook ?
The unibody construction is substantially more impact resistant than the previous plastic design . This is especially true in the display area where the front glass and the rear aluminum act more like an I beam than the old design . Not only is the construction more sturdy , but in falls , the damage tends to be less expensive to repair should you actually break things . For example , the unibody macs with enclosure damage usually cost between $ 300 and $ 400 to repair where a cracked screen can cost upwards of $ 800 to $ 1200 for an Apple repair . The unibody parts require better tools and training to repair inside them , so that 's about the only down side I can see to the newer design . Aluminum is really much stronger than the old LCD panel with thin metal braces and a plastic shell to cover the display . Even the new macs with matte displays are much stronger than the old pre-unibody displays on MacBook Pro / PowerMac line . Of course , many single falls can break even the expensive parts in a unibody mac as the tolerances inside the machines leave little room for deformation to safely absorb the shock of a fall , but I have seen far more unibody macs that have skidded across pavement at highway speeds that still worked and had only surface damage than the previous generation of non-unibody macs . ( Yes - it happens more than you might guess and when placed on the top of a car or truck , sadly they do n't actually leave the vehicle until you get up to highway speeds . Now the ones run over by a following vehicle - unibody stands up better , but still does n't usually survive that ordeal . )
The shift modifier has been around for most animated sequences since at least Panther ( 10.3 ) . I do n't know that there was ever an official reason given but it 's widely assumed that it was built in at the request of Steve Jobs in order for him to highlight Expose ' as he announced it to the world at the 2003 World Wide Developers Conference . You can see this announcement here , with the slow motion effect being used for the first time around the 2:00 min mark . <URL> Given the crowd 's reaction I think it 's clear why Apple did n't remove it from the final version . It 's always been one of those little easter eggs that Mac users use to impress their PC using friends . So there you go , no practical purpose , just a bit of fun for Apple . You can also use shift to slow down most functions that have an animation . Minimizing windows , opening Mission Control , etc. .
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
Yes - Apple provides an internal SATA drive with standard connectors but custom firmware . <URL> if you take the screen off carefully you can replace it , you may have to buy a bracket to secure it SSD that do n't match the existing 2.5 inch drive mounting screws . Looking at the steps it does n't seem to be to complicated to do but with the 5k iMac you need to be extremely careful since you have to remove the speakers . I would paste in the step by step images however there a load of them and you would be better off going to the site and taking a look at the images . Also make sure you have the right screw drivers since its a t20 screw you would need a T20 * 100m screw driver .
Do not stick anything else in the slot . Really . The inject / eject mechanism is keyed for a full sized disc and you do n't want to wedge it in the wrong direction or retract that delicate part any further by fishing around inside the narrow slot . There is no eject button so you will need either luck or finesse and skill to get the CD out . Power down the Mac and hold it firmly with the Apple logo facing you at chest height with the CD slot pointing to your lap . Gently rock and shake it to see if the CD is loose and encourage it to peek out the felt skirt that is inside the unibody enclosure . Your Mac when powered off is very strong and you gently start it down and then quite forcefully yank it back up vertically . One or two shakes is all it takes to get the mini CD poking out just a bit . At that point , the felt will hold it and you can return the Mac to a level table and use tweezers or needle nose pliers or nimble fingers to remove the CD . If you ca n't get it out - take it in for service . Unless you work on these regularly , you do n't know which model superdrive is in your Mac and how hard , deep , gentle you can be with tools to help dislodge the CD . Also , if you are comfortable popping the back off your Mac - you could use iFixit to get to the drive itself and the CD will likely fall out once you have that component out of the Mac and away from the felt skirt . Again , have a good firm grip - if you are so nervous that your palms are sweaty , that 's your signal to see about getting a technician to help or waiting a bit to convince yourself you can shake it loose . These computers are made to endure UPS and FedEx shipping , packing in luggage in a bumpy car and your shaking should be on that level of violence and no more . If it 's lodged behind the eject mechanism , you 'll need someone to get inside and clear things in most cases .
In the " unusual " camp there 's a program called <URL> that purports to turn your trackpad into a Wacom-like tablet . They also sell a special stylus and sketching software . For music there 's <URL> , which allows you to create music using trackpad for input , and <URL> , a DJ ' ing app that lets you " scratch " records with your trackpad .
is an application that will show you hardware information to determine which bus the CD drive is connected . Once you know your hardware specifications , you can shop better . Check <URL> and <URL> for housings that work physically with SATA connectors . Also check <URL> on the issues you might face moving to an SSD / HD combination .
MacBook 's do n't have the extended keyboard which contains the additional 7 function keys ( F13-F19 ) . They 're only on <URL> ( with numeric keys ) keyboard as presented on this photo :
Since <URL> you could use a cronjob to just clear the file every now and then . For that you will need the Terminal . If you are not familiar , <URL> . Use the following command to open the crontab file ( just call if you want to use vim instead ) : Insert the following and save the file ( with Ctrl-X - > y - > enter ) . You must change the file to the log file Let me explain : means that on every full hour the command will be executed ( unless it 's turned off of course ) . See <URL> for more info . The command being executed is basically saying " redirect nothing to the file " effectively truncating it to 0 bytes . You may recognize it from . FYI : The cron daemon will automatically be started by launchd if a cronfile exists .
There is almost no value in a user trying to " calibrate " a unibody MacBook 's internal battery since it has multiple cells and the system handles this continually . Older MacBook that were non-unibody construction with removable batteries did benefit periodic calibration runs to update the Mac 's estimation of time remaining . Calibration did n't actually give you more power , just a more accurate estimate of the time remaining before that battery needs a recharge . The canonical reference for which models can benefit from calibration is <URL> . A nice primer on battery technology in general is <URL> site . For more technical data , I like reading at the <URL> site . If you seek to extend the time between when you buy a battery ( or computer ) and the time when it needs to be replaced three things will help prolong the useful life of your battery . Discharging it until the Mac sleeps at least once every month or two . Not letting it drain totally for months . Avoid exceeding the re-charge cycles ( new models typically are rated for 5 years and 1000 equivalent charge cycles ) . Avoid storage in very hot temperatures and use ( charging / discharge ) in hot temperatures . In the end , you might pay between $ 100 and $ 150 for a new battery , but something that happens once every 3 to 4 years , Apple 's new battery technology is far better than the old days where heavy users needed a new battery yearly and failures were far more common .
They write on the refurb store : We test and certify all Apple refurbished products and include a one-year warranty . They are even eligible to the AppleCare program if you buy it up to 1 year after your purchase . So I do n't see what problem you would face . It 's a used device but verified , repackaged and certified by Apple .
Ars Technica did an <URL> and one that <URL> of an Apple installed Fusion drive from a Mac Mini . From that article : As you can see , the recovery partition is " outside " the Core Storage volume which gets mounted by the OS and functions as " the Fusion Drive " . The Fusion Drive is comprised of one standard partition from each disk , rather than using the full drive and storing the configuration data out of or in-band by hiding it . Everything we know so far about standard Fusion Drives is pretty straightforward and transparent .
It 's a good idea to keep the machine shaded , if only because it 's very hard to read any screen in bright sunlight . Also , on my deck in Carmel Valley California I 've had a thermometer placed in direct sunlight read well over 100 deg F ( 37 + deg C ) when the air temp has been around 80 deg F ( 26 deg C ) . Your Mac exposed in direct sunlight could well burst through Apple 's upper limit even when the ambient temperature is below .
Launchd will run your jobs next time the mac wakes from sleep . So if you shut down your mac , this wo n't work . You will need to put your mac to sleep to get your daily script to run when the mac wakes if the last time it should have run was during the sleep duration . man launchd.plist : If the system is asleep , the job will be started the next time the computer wakes up . If multiple intervals transpire before the computer is woken , those events will be coalesced into one event upon wake from sleep . Or in other words : You do n't have to do anything specific , it 's the default behavior anyway . If you also want to run the command once after reboot , add to your launchd plist .
<URL> Freeware benchmarking solution for Mac OS X. EDIT : The download link is in the right-hand corner . Main Window Graphics Test
Yeah , on a 2010 MacBook pro , there is no way to separate the keyboard from the top case without disassembling the entire machine . The best way to clean out those keys is to get some compressed air and go to town on it .
The unibody construction is substantially more impact resistant than the previous plastic design . This is especially true in the display area where the front glass and the rear aluminum act more like an I beam than the old design . Not only is the construction more sturdy , but in falls , the damage tends to be less expensive to repair should you actually break things . For example , the unibody macs with enclosure damage usually cost between $ 300 and $ 400 to repair where a cracked screen can cost upwards of $ 800 to $ 1200 for an Apple repair . The unibody parts require better tools and training to repair inside them , so that 's about the only down side I can see to the newer design . Aluminum is really much stronger than the old LCD panel with thin metal braces and a plastic shell to cover the display . Even the new macs with matte displays are much stronger than the old pre-unibody displays on MacBook Pro / PowerMac line . Of course , many single falls can break even the expensive parts in a unibody mac as the tolerances inside the machines leave little room for deformation to safely absorb the shock of a fall , but I have seen far more unibody macs that have skidded across pavement at highway speeds that still worked and had only surface damage than the previous generation of non-unibody macs . ( Yes - it happens more than you might guess and when placed on the top of a car or truck , sadly they do n't actually leave the vehicle until you get up to highway speeds . Now the ones run over by a following vehicle - unibody stands up better , but still does n't usually survive that ordeal . )
I called Apple 's Sale Support , and I asked them what their policy was for batteries in a refurbished Macbook . Their answer is that the battery will be replaced if it has a defect , but if nothing is wrong with it , then the laptop will include the original battery which may or may not have many used cycles .
You can SSH into another Mac and use in the shell . Enable remote login in the sharing preferences on the other computer
No - the cable routing for the pro comes to the left side and the MacBook on the right . Check fixit.com for the details - it matters if you have a 2009/2010/2011 MacBook pro - each part is slightly different .
end question
start question
Why does n't Airport reconnect after sleep or shutdown ?
The problem got partially better on its own , and it 's not clear why . There were also a lot of old networks in the list of previous wifi networks in System Preferences , and it helped to delete them . The complete fix , however , ended up being to go into the list of wireless networks ( in System Preferences > Networks > Airport , Advanced ) and move the desired network up to the top of the list so it was joined first . There was one called " linksys " on top that was matching a neighbor 's network , and then failing to get internet access for some reason ; I think it was added a long time ago for a different network of the same name . I thought I had tried this before , but either something changed or I did n't actually try it . I 'm asking this question to help me troubleshoot someone else 's computer , so I 'm not aware of everything that might have changed since I originally posted the question .
I 'm pretty sure you can do this with a hot-corner and the built-in VNC server . ( You would need a VNC viewer for iOS , there are LOTS of them . You could also create an applescript : and run it using the VNC connection . Alternatively , you can turn on ssh , ssh in , and issue the command : ( See the <URL> ) to put the mac to sleep . This would require a ssh client for iOS . Again , there are a LOT of them . Personally , I have used iSSH , and it works fine . As @mankoff stated in a comment , <URL> states in it 's store description : SLEEP AND WAKE : Put your Mac to sleep by holding the Play button for 3 seconds while controlling any Apple application , just like the hardware remote . Rowmote automatically wakes up sleeping machines which are connected via Ethernet !
I have to remove a PGP plug-in from / Library/Mail/Bundles to get the Mail App running again . Just open Mail and immediately open Accounts , disable the accounts one by one to find out which one is causing the crash . Then delete this account completely and restart Mail . Then add the account all over again . It worked on my gmail account .
You can safely leave your Mac powered on all the time . Safe and Harmless There is no practical damage or harm that will occur because the Mac is constantly running . Use your Mac as best suits your needs . Restarting is helpful every so often -- if only to install updates and clear out caches or temporary files . Environment As <URL> , environmental factors like dust and heat build-up should be considered . Keep your Mac away from sources of dust , like limestone or sandstone walls , where the fans can draw in <URL> of particulate matter .
Not yet on a 2nd gen 802.11 n Express . Apple has published <URL> on the Airport Express : <URL> The three expresses prior to that were not 802.11 n so perhaps that 's where the three previous generations ( and the 1st and only newer generation names have come to be ) A tad confusing , no ?
Just click on the AE icon and it will display a list of connected wireless clients .
Using the included Script Editor.app with OS X , try experimenting with these snippets . Wait 30 Seconds The following snippet will make your script wait 30 seconds before showing a dialog : Sleep The following snippet will put your Mac <URL> : Wait and then Sleep Combining the two snippets above gives an AppleScript that will wait 30 seconds before putting your Mac to sleep : Displays and Desktops I am not sure how best to determine if a monitor is connected . You could certainly poll regularly ; calling and parsing the output would work . Polling is computationally expensive and best avoided . Alternatively , maybe an approach whereby an AppleScript could determine if the number of active desktops has changed ? When two monitors are connected to my Mac , the following snippet returns a two item list : Expanding on this , the following snippet provides more display information to work with :
Take a look at this SuperUser question <URL> . It recommends installing and using the command : You can then use a tool like <URL> to trigger the command <URL> the power failure . <URL> I work on Power Manager , so feel free to ask technical questions .
Check the console for the time of shutdown In the terminal , go to Find launchd-shutdown . log that was last modified by your system at the time of shutdown and perform a more on it
Yes . This setting reliably prevents a Mac from sleeping . I 've had my iMac set to " Never " sleep for over a year , and it 's still running ( though its display turns off after 10 minutes or so per the other setting on that screen ) .
You can send the Apple event : The four letter codes for Apple events are listed in . See <URL> for more information .
Apple used <URL> as their marketing name for 802.11 Wi-Fi . Due to legal reasons it was called AirMac in Japan . AirPort was used for all hardware products ( access points , routers , cards ) . It was also used everywhere in Mac OS X in the user interface . For a couple of years now the use of the word AirPort is restricted to hardware products ( e.g. AirPort Express ) . OS X and iOS use Wi-Fi ( or local variants like WLAN for German ) to refer to 802.11 networking in the user interface ( menu bar and system settings ) . See these screenshots with the <URL> word use . AiPort in old version os OS X <URL> Wi-Fi in current version of OS X in Japanese , English , German . Screenshots from the <URL> <URL> found . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Wireless is a complicated topic and you need to consult a speciality website like smallnetbuilder.com if you want to understand things like range , performance , and capabilities of different routers . The Apple Extreme/Express are more expensive , require an Apple utility that runs only on iOS/OS X/Windows , and are not the most feature rich . However , they are simple to use if you live in a mostly Apple world and have some unique Apple features that can be useful in that world . For example , it 's dead simple to wirelessly extend an Extreme/Express network and Apple Express routers can be hooked to speakers to use with AirPlay . I just used three Expresses to replace an old 802.11 g network ( it used four old Linksys routers wirelessly extended to get about 50 % coverage ) at a friend 's condo . It 's only a single floor with about 2500sf but the walls are all steel-reenforced concrete so wireless range was extremely limited . It took all of about 10 minutes to install three units and network them with a single SSID and WPA password . I would have preferred wired connections but it was n't a practical option due to the construction . I ca n't see much advantage to the Extreme over the Express with the current models unless you want to use the gIt might have better antennas and thus better performance but I think that 's an edge case . It also may have some additional features so you 'd need to do a feature-by-feature comparison .
Anecdotally , the drives of 5 to 15 years ago would run longer if you never spun them down . When I managed servers - the drives failed less rapidly than the inexpensive hard drives that were in workstations ( which typically spun down ) . It 's not clear if we would have seen similar failure rates if we placed the higher priced ( and presumably better built for the long run ) drives in the workstations . I have seen no credible studies that show any drive from the last 5 years lasting longer by disabling sleep . It 's hard to imagine a case where you would n't want to have a computer sleep even if it were going to decrease the useful life of an inexpensive storage drive due to other components failing over time and the waste of energy . We do n't yet have good data on SSD wearing out either as OEM parts ordered from Apple or aftermarket SSD , but it will be interesting to see how they wear out due to write failures and if sleep writing of large RAM images will add up to enough writes to shorten the life of an SSD that otherwise would be healthy in the absence of storing sleep images .
I believe the full procedure is Unplug the unit Press and hold reset ( e.g. with paper clip ) Plug the unit back into power outlet ( while pressing reset ) Wait for rapid green flashing Release reset button From your description , it 's not clear how you were managing the AC power
The activity recorded on the Apple Watch is separate from the activity recorded on the iPhone . As such each is recorded as a separate source in health.app . Also only activity recorded on the Apple Watch is reflected in activity.app . Source : <URL> - Apple Software Engineer <URL>
Booting to Internet Recovery Mode boots directly to a netboot image provided by Apple/Akamai servers . The netboot image is a stripped down OS X version which only provides some diagnostic tools and a tool to either restore OS X or a Time Machine backup . The downloaded OS is completely loaded to RAM and nothing is written to hard disks . After shutting down/rebooting the Mac the RAM is wiped and everything has to be downloaded again if you want to start to Recovery Mode a second time . To create a Recovery HD on your Mac you have to install OS X ( Restore OS X ) . While downloading and installing OS X a recovery partition will be built also . Another option is to set up a Mac running Server.app and <URL> . That will keep a copy of the recovery image locally in cache and speed up the download - perhaps 100x as fast if you have a gigabit speed network locally .
Well , we can only speculate as to why Apple does n't include a JavaScript console but we can make some assumptions . Screen real-estate is limited on a mobile device , and it would be cumbersome to use ( imagine trying to code with an iPhone keyboard ) . Mobile devices are , in general , not intended for web development . Apple wants to keep their UI/UX as streamlined as possible . Including a feature which , in Apple 's opinion , is unnecessary , works against this goal .
You can use Workgroup Manager and OS X 's managed preferences ( MCX ) to restrict access to the Restart and Shut Down commands in the Finder : . . then use the Accounts prefpane to show or hide the Restart , Sleep , and Shut Down buttons at the loginwindow :
It should automatically reconnect but it might take a couple of seconds , more depending on the speed of your wireless router . How long are you waiting ? It will automatically join a network if you have configured it to remember networks you have previously joined . You can check this in the System Preferences > Network page . Click on the WiFi entry then on the Advanced button . In the Wi-Fi tab is a list of Preferred Networks . Make sure your network is listed , with the correct security mode . If it is listed but not at the top , perhaps the laptop is trying other networks first . Move your preferred network to the top of the list . If that still does n't work , try deleting it from the list , click OK , click Apply . Then turn off the Wifi by clicking the " Turn WiFi off " button above . Then turn it back on and choose your network , making sure that it is set to remember . Save/Apply and close the System Preferences and try sleeping again .
end question
start question
Is it still possible to update my iPad from iOS 7.0.4 to IOS 7.1.2 and not to iOS 8 ?
Nope . It 's not possible on any iPad or iPhone because Apple stops signing the older iOS versions after newer ones are released . It 's impossible to upgrade to iOS 7.1.2 Three options you have right now Upgrade to iOS 8.1 [ download the firmware separately and update before Apple stops signing ] Upgrade to iOS 8.1.1 from iTunes Stay on iOS 7.0.4 iOS 8.1 has jailbreak , so this could be your chance to upgrade before the window closes .
If I understand correctly , you want to backup your iOS devices to a drive other than your Mac 's ( because they have small SSDs ) . It <URL> to backup multiple Macs to a single Time Capsule . Sadly though , it seems that Time Capsule does n't support backing up iOS devices ( yet . I really do hope this becomes an option soon , and <URL> ) . Here are ways you can make sure those 50GB in your iPhones do n't end up in your Mac 's SSDs though . Photos In terms of pictures , iOS8 should have you backed up with <URL> . If enabled , all your pictures and video will automatically be stored in iCloud , which gives you 5GB of free storage ( or 20GB for $ 1/mo , 200GB for $ 4/mo ) . If that is not your jazz though , you can always sync to iPhoto , but <URL> to an external hard drive . iPhoto stores all your photos a single archive , the iPhoto Library on your folder , which you can move as you please . When iPhoto opens , it will automatically look for the iPhoto Library where it last saw it , but if it ca n't find it it will ask you were it is , and keep working as if nothing had happened . Backups iTunes backups might be a little more tricky , but it seems to be possible to move the folder where iTunes stores its backups to an external hard drive , and then trick iTunes into backing up there . I have n't tried doing this myself , but here 's a <URL> that claims you can do it and outlines the steps to follow , both for Windows and OSX . The instructions for OSX are n't too bad , as long as you are n't too scared of using the application ( ) . In a nutshell : Copy to a new location , say . This directory has a folder called , which is where iTunes stores backups for mobile devices . Note 1 : is an alias computers use for your home folder . Note 2 : Your folder is hidden by default . You can open it in Finder by opening typing in . Remove/rename . We wo n't need it anymore . Create a symbolic link to the new location for in your external hard drive . This is basically like an alias in the old location of to its new location . To do so open and type in If you launch iTunes now it should follow the symbolic link and go on with business as usual , not knowing that in fact it 's now working with a folder that 's on an external hard drive . You 'll need to have the hard drive connected to backup , Hope it helps !
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
Devices not supported by iOS 5 : iPhone ( original ) iPhone 3G iPod Touch first generation iPod Touch second generation AppleTV Source : <URL> . " iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS , iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod Touch 3rd generation , iPod Touch 4th generation , iPad , iPad 2 . "
No , you ca n't do that . Apple only allows users to update to the latest software , as it fights version fragmentation . I recommend just updating to iOS 8.4.1 . For the most part , whatever bugs existed in iOS 8 are fixed by now . You could also just wait until iOS 9 comes out in a couple of weeks , bug fixes and performance enhancements will be a major part of iOS 9 . This all is an effect of " code signing " where you need Apple to sign the version of code at the moment it gets installed . Since <URL> , you would need to jailbreak or bypass that entire process . Unless you 're into the details of Jailbreaking you can stay at iOS 6 or upgrade to the versions Apple supports/signs . I strongly recommend against jailbreaking , though .
The steps seem strange , but first you must create your appleid using a non Apple address ( note that if you already have an @icloud , @mac , or @me email address that email address is already an Apple ID ) Once your Apple ID has been created , on the device go to Settings > iCloud and flip the mail switch on , you will be prompted there to create your @icloud . com email address . <URL>
Quoted from Apple.com Continuity features are available on iPhone 5 or later , iPad ( 4th generation ) , iPad Air , iPad mini , iPad mini with Retina display , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) .
Go to the photo in Photos , tap Edit , then tap the Crop button to show the Rotate button . Tapping the Crop button is what 's new here as in iOS 7 this was n't required .
Yes , without a doubt . Unlike with the new ability to update only changes to the OS with iOS 5 delta updates , downgrading your OS will require you to restore the phone . Which essentially reformats the drive .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
Unfortunately no , but this is something I would also greatly appreciate .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
Yes , it does involve authentication by certificate . From <URL> from Apple : iOS supports VPN On Demand for networks that use certificated-based authentication . You specify which domains require a VPN connection by using a configuration profile . The VPN connection is made whenever the device tries to connect to certain domains . Specific apps do n't need to do anything ; as soon as they try to access such a server the VPN connection is initiated . Visit <URL> for information about how to use the Configuration Utility to create a configuration profile that sets up VPN On Demand .
Go to settings > phone First line is My Number
There should n't be a problem . I believe I 've done an iCloud transfer from iOS 5.1.1 to iOS 7.0.4 , which is a much larger gap . If anything , going from iOS 9.3.2 to iOS 8.4.1 might be a problem , but you are n't doing that , so you 'll be fine . iCloud is built with moving to a new device in mind . It would n't make much sense for Apple to make it impossible to restore a backup from a previous iOS version .
Briefly ; no there is no easy way to update them . ( Assuming that compiling from source is not considered easy ) I would strongly caution against modifying the system installed versions as you 're likely to have your updated versions broken when Apple issues an update that updates them . ( Usually Security Updates and has bitten some users/sysadmins when Perl has been updated ) If you wanted to update them it 's a matter of downloading the source files and installing it over top of the provided versions . As a reasonable alternative I recommend installing your own managed version of PHP and MySQL into or using your packaging software of choice ( MacPorts , Fink or Homebrew ) or prepared installer ( eg . MySQL 's . pkg installer that installs into ) .
<URL> , ( scroll to the bottom of the page ) only the two most recent generations of each device can upgrade . So both iPads , the iPhone 4 and 3GS and the 3rd &amp; 4th generation iPod touch . One exception : The CDMA ( Verizon in the US ) iPhone 4 is staying on 4.2.6 for a while . It has some , but not all , features of iOS 4.3 . That leaves the first two generations of iPod touch and the original iPhone and iPhone 3G unable to use it . The 3G and second-generation iPod touch got stripped-down versions of 4.0-4 .2.1 . ( No multitasking , homescreen wallpapers , or printing . ) The other two devices left out ( 1st-gen iPod touch &amp; iPhone ) did n't even get 4.0 .
iOS Numbers does not support conditional formatting , and it is removed from the document upon import . According to <URL> the following changes are made on iOS ( my emphasis ) : 3D charts are converted to 2D charts . Chart data is retained and editable . Conditional formatting is removed from imported spreadsheets . Cell content is retained . Table Categories are removed . Tables remain organized and category names are retained as static text . Filters are removed .
Nope . It 's impossible to upgrade iOS firmware without connecting to the Apple servers . Currently , there is a jailbreak for iOS 8.1 using <URL> which is being signed at the moment . iOS 8.1.1 update which is due in a few weeks will patch the jailbreak . It could be the right moment to upgrade your iOS version and re-jailbreak it . <URL> that the current iOS 8 jailbreak is stable .
The important thing to know is that once an OS is no longer supported , it does n't immediately become full of security problems . It 's also not beyond Apple to give updates to non-current ( for want of a better description ) versions of iOS for major security problems . Therefore , it 's not possible at this stage to say when iOS 7 will be insecure .
end question
start question
How can I diagnose an iPad that seems super slow to recharge ?
Be sure you are using an iPad charger . If you are using a standard USB charger or an iPhone/iPod charger then it will take a very long time to charge .
HP does n't make any iOS apps with this functionality , no - have you tried opening the printer 's webpage in Safari on the iPad however ? None of my OfficeJet 6500 or 4500 printers can run the scan functions from their status pages , but perhaps your model is slightly different .
How does an iPhone send iMessages to iPad : Make sure iMessage is set " on " on both devices On your iPhone , go to Contacts and find your friend 's name to check whether or not you have his email address . If not , you need to add his email address . On the iPad , go to settings >> messages >> recieve at >> add email . Put your friend 's email address from step 2 . It will say " verify " . Your friend need to verify by checking his email . There 'll be an email from Apple . Open the email and he 'll be asked to click on the verify link . Click on it and he 'll be directed to Apple 's homepage . Just follow the instructions there . Once your friend has verified his email address , the word " verify " in step 3 disappears . Now you can iMessage him . On your iPhone , go to contacts and choose your friend 's name . Click on " send message " and choose the email address that was just verified . You 're now directed to the message screen . In the " To " field , you 'll see that the email adress is missing " @ " . Ignore it . Make sure that the send button is blue . Now just type your message and send . Hope this works !
You 'd have to have one app that does both the displaying and input , and I know of no apps like that . There is no provision for split-screening apps , even iPhone apps . The best you 'll be able to do is fast app switching .
You can unlock the disk while booted from other partitions . You 'll be prompted for a password when mounting the disk . You can choose to save the password in your keychain if you prefer . Also , you can just right-click on the volume in the Finder and select , it 's the same as using Disk Utility .
Without jailbreaking , I believe your options are the use of apps that provide this kind of lock functionality built-in , unless Apple decide to implement some kind of <URL> in future iOS versions for devices like the iPad . I 've previously come across <URL> or <URL> ( there may well be others ) which provide passcode protection schemes when starting and , judging by the screenshots , appear to be frontends to the relevant webmail pages ( as opposed to a native application like the Apple Mail app ) . I 've not used either , but they may be of use to you .
<URL> is a nice open source video conversion tool . <URL> is a blog post with some good info on settings to use for iPad rips/conversions . As for getting videos added to iTunes automatically , that is not something Handbrake will do . If you are using OS X however , <URL> AppleScript seems like it would be up to the task . The script watches a folder , when a file is copied in it waits for the file to stop getting larger ( when the copy or encode [ in this case ] is finished ) and then adds the item to your iTunes library . I have n't had a chance to test this for myself though , so I ca n't guarantee it will work as desired .
Yes this is definitely possible . I have created an ad hoc network on windows 7 and connected to it with my iPad 3 . Go to control panel > Network and Sharing Center Click setup a new connection or network Scroll down and choose Click setup a wireless ad hoc network give a network name and choose WEP encryption from the dropdown list . The password should be 10 characters long and I used all numeric digits for this . tick save this network . and click next at the bottom to create the network . On your iPad or other device select your network which will be broadcast with the name you chose and connect to that network with the password yo uused in step 4 . If the device fails to connect , try repeating this process again . It took me a couple times but worked eventually . After Connecting , you must also setup network sharing in order to connect to the internet . You must have an internet connection on either LAN or a different Wireless card or some other device . Go to the Network and Sharing Center again in COntrol Panel . Choose on the left sidebar Change adapter settings to get to Network Connections select the network connection that is connected to the internet ( The LAN or alternate wireless / other device ) and right click and choose properties . Go to the Sharing tab and check Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's internet connection . Select the network connection that you were using to broadcast the ad hoc network for the associated network connection . Click on the Settings button which will bring up a window with a list of services to allow or deny for users using this internet connection via the ad hoc ICS ( internet connection sharing ) Check at least HTTP and probably HTTPS protocols , SMTP for email , POP3 for email as well if you need , etc. . . and Click Ok when you 're done . Click Ok again on the original window . In some cases you may need to restart the network connection connected to the internet for the changes to take effect . I hope this helps !
Troubleshooting a slow mac is fairly easy , but sometimes tedious . You will want to and quit all apps . You might even go to the Users &amp; Groups preference and remove all applications that start when you log in to your Mac . Turn off WiFi and then shut down the Mac so you can start isolating it . Remove all peripherals except the keyboard , display and power cord . Power on and then log in and let it run for 5 minutes and then take a snapshot of the Activity Monitor . Look and see what CPU usage is and if the background tasks are taking any CPU time . If so , dig deeper - open terminal and run " sudo sysdiagnose " If not , go ahead and connect your peripherals one at a time . Check the CPU/Activity Monitor and watch both the Memory Pressure graph and the CPU . If you want , you can also look at energy , but that 's better for half hour snapshots for me . At this point , you should know the OS is fine and all of your peripherals and hard drives are not causing the slowness . Now go ahead and start the apps you choose to run when it 's slow . Again , you are still disconnected from any network - just checking the OS and the CPU . When that 's fine , you can conclude that the data coming in from the network was causing a load the OS was n't handling . If you can narrow things down , get a from a clean start and again when it is " slow " and post a second question with details of what your initial troubleshooting has shown .
Technically the format you want is called composite video , so you might have better luck searching for a HDMI to Composite converter . RCA is just the name of the connector . For example : <URL>
Mine 's the same as yours ( MacBook Pro 2009 2.53 GHz ) and I 've definitely noticed it 's slower than before .
<URL> A PC , like a Mac , will see the iPad as a camera . Instead of using an application to load the photos , you can just browse to them in Windows Explorer and copy them to a local folder .
I use GoodReader for reading Apple manuals , synced via Dropbox . GR remembers positions in all PDFs I read . It also keeps all my annotations and highlights in sync with PDFs on my Mac . Overall , very convenient solution IMHO .
I do n't really have a direct answer for you , but I would like to help by sharing what I know . I have a Mobile Me account , and there are no tools for editing your photos online . It 's an image gallery . A gallery is meant just for viewing and not for editing . Mobile Me was designed to work in conjunction with the iLife software on a desktop mac . You edit the photos , order the prints , make the cards , and the books in the iPhoto app on the Mac . Photo editing on the iPad is the easy part , but I think you are approaching it from the wrong angle . There are tons of free ( and cheap ) apps that allow you to edit photos . ( Photoshop Mobile for instance . Just check the Photography category in the App Store ) . Once you edit them in an app , then I would upload them to a service that supports printing services . The hard part is going to be the ordering of prints , cards and books from the iPad . We can only hope that sometime in the near future , Apple creates a mobile version of iPhoto just as they did with iMovie . That would be ideal . EDIT You can order prints from this app as well : <URL> You can also order prints from the Walgreens app : <URL> This might solve your issue as well ! <URL> You might want to check out this app and service : <URL> ECCE TERRAM announced a new service this week that will allow people to order prints of photos stored on their iPhones from the phones themselves . With their Photo2lab Client , users may select a photo ( both those taken with the iPhone and those transfered from iPhoto ) , add text and create prints , post cards and even mini photo books . You 'll even be able to add an address to a post card from the iPhone 's built-in contacts list .
This is by no means a complete answer but if the DVD you are ripping contains Closed Captioning subtitles then <URL> gets you this for free . Simply add the subtitles as a track . You 'll be able to clearly see what must be burned in and what does n't have to be by the options that have been greyed out . I actually really like this option and use it whenever I can because different software can display these subtitles in different formats and all of the Apple playback software that I 've used does a really nice job of displaying it readably and beautifully . I should also note that unchecking the check box wo n't make any difference on an iPad . The problem is with bitmap subtitles . Essentially , I have found no software that can preserve alpha transparency when they rip bitmap subtitles and thus they require burn in to the resultant file if you want to use them directly in any Apple playback software . If you want to go this route , I have enough space to simply rip it twice , once with subtitles and once without . What you 're left with is a variety of OCR techniques that are shoddy at best as far as what I 've seen on the Mac . I have heard good things about <URL> if you have any access to Windows . Another option is to download an open SRT file and add it manually to the container . You could search for these via traditional means or give <URL> a try . YMMV . As long as the container format you 're ripping to is mp4 ( it should be if you 're ripping for Apple devices ) , you can use <URL> to add the external SRT track in post .
The straightforward way is to wait until the current version of iOS is jailbroken , and then upgrade and rejailbreak - there are applications you can use ( a handy range is described at <URL> ) to back up the ' jailbroken bits ' of the device , but I personally prefer just upgrading and then putting back on those cydia apps that I really want on my own - they way I also have had the chance for a bit of a clear out .
Check this thread out <URL> otherwise you might ask directly on askubuntu . You can log in on askubuntu using your stackexchange credentials
Adding dictionaries is possible . Finding the one you want may not be . See <URL> For info on creating dictionaries for dictionary.app , see <URL> <URL>
Yes you can , but there are some aspects of the environment of the beach life that need to be controlled . Salt water corrodes electronics fiercely . Waves crashing means that the atmosphere at a beach is saturated with water droplets with a high concentration of salt in many cases . Direct sun on the front black face of any iOS device can over heat it rapidly . You will probably feel it uncomfortably hot before the point where the device shuts itself off to prevent battery damage . Even if the device is powered down , you can permanently damage any Lithium Polymer battery in a few hours if the temperature is hot enough . Sand can get in the home button mechanism and may never come out . The 30 pin connector , the headphone jack , a SIM slot are easier to clean and less likely to be functionally impaired than the close tolerances of the glass on glass home button gap . Bright light makes it harder to see the backlit screen and if you are wearing polarized sunglasses , you will see that the display is highly polarized . It 's fun from a science experiment aspect , but bad for reading or color accuracy of the display . I would probably have a <URL> or two with me and bring an umbrella or shade to control the light and direct heat . A ziplock bag also works if you do n't think the closer fitting sleeve is worth spending money on . Depending on your beach some or all of these concerns may be disregarded , but I tried to cover the common beach scenarios . Other than that - keep it cool , heat yourself up and enjoy your iPad on the beach .
Since there are a lot of causes - let 's try to narrow down some things . If you are on Snow Leopard - you can get some more detail on the MacBook to know if there is interference or if there is potentially a hardware error . Hold the option ( or alt ) key and press the WiFi icon in the menu ( you 'll have to add it if it 's not in the menu for this testing . ) All the mac cares about is transmit rate - it 's the best number to tell how much data your mac thinks it can send reliably to the router . The higher the rate , the better . A high transmit rate is all that matters - even if the signal is weak , you still have a good connection if you have a solid transmit rate . Next is RSSI - it 's less intuitive . I tell people think of sunlight into the ocean . If you are -20 feet below the surface it 's really light . RSSI of -100 is really dark / really faint signal . In ideal environment - no noise , good antennas on both mac and router and good amplifiers reading the singals - you can still operate at -100 , but any interference or extra distance , you could stop getting a signal . Different macs have different RSSI - so if you have a close match in hardware you can be sure the problem is the mac by comparing with another . If not , it 's more guesswork . Your iPhone WiFi antenna is likely 10 times as big as the Mac 's antenna so it 's looking more like a signal issue than anything else . I hope this helps you decide what next steps to take to find the cause . You can change the router , change the physical location or change the hardware . If a repair shop is close , maybe try a diagnosis there . If not , you 'll have to take the mac to other locations with that router and try changing the things you can control . It 's not likely software since moving the mac closer to the router does n't change the software , but you might check for updates if some new firmware does better with interference or error handling . It 's a long shot so I list it last . EDIT - I am home and can report some transmit rates . On my older equipment , transmit rates of 24 to 54 are seen on an old linksys 802.11 b router . My MacBook Pro gets transmit rates of 200 to 300 pretty much all around the house . Even when I have one bar in the menu bar for airport signal strength , these transmit rates stay high as the RSSI goes to -90 ( which is getting far away from the base station )
end question
start question
Is it possible to download data from a lost iPod ?
No you ca n't initiate a backup remotely , but you could log into iCloud on another device or a computer and look to see when the last iCloud backup of that device was completed to know what might be lost if you erase it . Also look in iTunes under the preferences for devices to see if you have a local backup of the device as well . On the iCloud preference pane for Mac , you can press the manage button next to the storage graph at the bottom of the window and inspect the date/time of the last backup for each device you have established .
Does n't seem to be possible . Even the limited Help for Grab.app suggests using Preview to convert away from TIFF . I presume you need " Timed Screen Captures " otherwise you would use the keyboard shortcuts ? Note that you can take the grab , then copy the image without saving ( CMD+A , CMD+C ) , then ALT+TAB to Preview.app , then CMD+N , then save . Not very elegant . You could also just deal with Grab.app saving as TIFF , but then set up an Automator action that watches a folder and converts TIFF to whatever you want each time a TIFF shows up in the folder . This ought to be fairly easy and transparent way to use Grab.app and get the file formats of your choice .
In general , it 's not possible to downgrade the modem firmware / baseband software version on iOS , <URL> or use software designed to install modified software on an iPhone . It 's a popular request , so I imagine many people are working on it but nothing is out today to perform the task you ask on the iPhone 4 .
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
Nope . It 's impossible to upgrade iOS firmware without connecting to the Apple servers . Currently , there is a jailbreak for iOS 8.1 using <URL> which is being signed at the moment . iOS 8.1.1 update which is due in a few weeks will patch the jailbreak . It could be the right moment to upgrade your iOS version and re-jailbreak it . <URL> that the current iOS 8 jailbreak is stable .
Cydia > Sections > Edit Turn the toggle to " Off " next to the " Theme " sections .
Use <URL> worked OK for me except for Firefox where it duplicated the book marks each time I used it . Althougn now in Mavericks or because of a later version of Firefox it works
In Mail click the button Show which is in the top left of the application window : After step one you can see all your inboxes and folders . You can export any inbox or folder via the right-click menu dialog .
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
The window that popped up was probably the Photos app , that will typically auto start when a new device with photos is attached . Your friend did the right thing by closing it when he saw it happen . No copies of your photos would have been made at this time , only thumbnails were downloaded and those would be removed when Photos was closed . He theoretically could have copied some data , but Xcode will not automatically copy anything sensitive , so unless he is a really sneaky ' friend ' that set up his Mac to copy in the background in advance , I think you are probably OK .
There 's a way to take a screenshot on the Apple Watch , and it 's exactly what you 'd expect it to be if you 're familiar with the iPhone 's screenshot function . Press and hold the Digital Crown . Immediately press and release the side button . Release the Digital Crown . You should see the screen flash and get some haptic feedback acknowledging it , and then the screenshot should show up in Camera Roll . Good luck ! <URL>
I would install aspell with a package manager like brew and then run that on the . tex file . Unless I 'm mistaken emacs has support for aspell built-in . You can also turn on spell checking in your terminal ( iterm2 ) or emacs GUI .
Yes . Just leave the app in full screen mode when you quit the application . As long as it 's using Lion 's full screen library ( and not some hack of its own ) , the next time you start the app it will start back up in full screen mode . Just tested this with Safari and Sparrow and they both restarted in full screen mode . Chrome 15.0.874.106 , however , did not . I do n't think Chrome 's full screen support on Lion is quite right , it might not be using Lion 's full screen window methods in the ways necessary to have it resume in full screen mode .
You should be able to use <URL> to do most of what you want . Certainly requirement 1 is met and you should be able to achieve most of 2 with it too .
You ca n't " install " it , but you can clone an image of the OS on your laptop using Disk Utility and save it to an external hard drive , then restore that image ( also with Disk Utility ) onto your Mac mini . Even better , if you can use Target Disk Mode ( requires both Macs have either Thunderbolt or FireWire ) , you can use the same restore feature in Disk Utility to clone directly between the drives without requiring the external media/image file . This will of course wipe your Mac mini drive in the process and wo n't give you a clean install . If you 're OK with that though , then it might be an option if you really ca n't afford the download .
You ca n't recover from an iPhone backup , but there is other way . You can check your apps directory within you iTunes Media Folder Location ( under iTunes → Preferences → Advanced ) . This will tell you where your iTunes are located ( example : ) . If you go to you can find that this is the directory where apps are saved . Check this folder to see if the app you are looking for is there . Apps have version number in it 's name . If not exists what you want , or exists the latest version , you must use a backup to recover ( If you have it ) .
You can not export the wallpaper , depending on the pattern ( if it were repetitive ) it would be possible to take screen shots and after emailing these to your self you could edit in Photoshop ( other editing software is available ) You would need to take one shot of a page in iOS with only one app , and then if it is a repeatable patern you can edit out or clone out the app on the screen and the apps at the bottom . Alternatively you can or tap and hold an app to get to wiggle mode , and go to the far right to get a " clean " page , then screenshot this . Not great but that is the only way , I 'm afraid .
In a word , no , it 's currently available for any App to read , and then subsequently use as it sees fit . However , Apple recently made clear that they would not approve future Apps that request it , and so it 's use will be negated over time , but of course this wo n't necessarily apply to the millions of apps already approved .
Apple Mail does n't have a way to do this natively . I ca n't think of another email client that does what you 're describing either . Here are some ideas and workarounds that might help you accomplish something similar to what you describe ; perhaps one of them will suit your needs . The closest option in Apple Mail is to use flags . That only gives you the ability to flag a message . You ca n't even add a note , let alone highlight the text and annotate it . You could try a third-party application like <URL> ( Mavericks 10.9 support is currently in beta ) . It 's a paid application with a robust tagging system , as well as the ability to add notes . This is n't a perfect solution since it does n't allow you to highlight specific text within the email . MailTags has a free demo ; you might want to download it and see if you can reach a solution that works for you . Another option would be to try Outlook : Mac . It has both categories and flags built in . You can also do things like create a task or a note from a message . Once you have created a task or a note from a message , you can do things like highlight text , but not annotate it . It also is n't the original message , but rather a copy of the message . If you do find something that works for what you want to accomplish , please do share it here . Being more effective with email is a goal for many people , after all .
end question
start question
How to turn off slide transition when switching between two full screen applications on OS X Mavericks ?
There is no way to disable the animation but you might want to look at <URL> , which replaces the builtin workspace manager . You can disable transitions altogether with this ( as well as use different animations and layouts for spaces ) . It 's not free ( $ 18 ) but there is a 14 day free trial .
In your Settings go to Messages > Send &amp; Receive and you should be able to set your preferences from there . Go to the " Start New Conversations From : " section and set your phone number to be the default . If your phone number does not appear , turn FaceTime off and on . Phone number should show up
Bluetooth MIDI in Yosemite ( and up ) Only You can not use Bluetooth MIDI in OS X Mavericks as it is not supported . Bluetooth MIDI was implemented in Yosemite . For more info , see <URL> but I see nothing that actually states it can not function on Mavericks . It is very unlikely that you are going to see a statement from Apple stating that an OS three versions back specifically does n't support a feature that was introduced in an OS that one version back . Features that are listed are what 's supported , not listed as to what 's not .
If by " 3g chip " , you are referring to the iPad MicroSIM card , then no , you do not need to power off the device to switch it out . However , if you 're referring to the actual 3G radio inside the iPad , my advice is to take it to an Apple store and have the repair done by an Apple technician , as operating on the device yourself is likely to void the warranty .
Grab ( mouse click ) the item you want to drag from say the desktop or email . Hit on the keyboard to switch through the open apps you have running ( holding down continuously , and hitting repeatedly ) tell you get to the app you want to drop the file on . KEEP HOLDING DOWN ON THE MOUSE BUTTON WHILE YOU DO THIS . When the app you want to drag the item to is the foreground app , you should simply be able to drop ( let go of the mouse button ) the item you 've been dragging , and it should be copied or attached to that app .
Click View menu > Full Screen at the very top of the screen . Or press Command-2 .
You can take a look at <URL> but be sure it 's the same model !
Real FullScreen applications will normally run on the Primary Display and they will rarely allow you to configure that . Some applications , however , are running in a " false " full screen , and are just " maximized " applications on top of everything , including the dock and the MenuBar . Some of the latter can be moved by applications like SizeUp and similar ( note the usage of the word ' some ' ) . In order to change what your primary display is , you have to go to System Preferences - > Display and the click on the " Arrangement " Tab . And then you have to click and drag the white menubar to the display you want to make primary . Take a look at the attached picture . Remember you have to click on the white square representing the Menu Bar and drag it to the other . The consequences of doing that is that your Dock and your Menu Bar will be moved onto the other Display .
I use ctrl + & #x 2325 ; + space . It 's typeable via left hand , does n't collide with the search window shortcut ( as & #x 2325 ; + & #x 2318 ; + space does ) and I have n't found any other overlap yet .
I ended-up installing macports and using it to install rpm ( ) It took about an hour to compile all the dependencies , even if I do have 4 cores and a SSD .
User " Gauzy " posted this in a comment . I 'm posting it here and marking it as the correct answer : For Safari ( or any other app with a text input box , for the most part ) right click ( or control click ) the text area , goto Spelling and Grammar , and deselect Correct Spelling Automatically . Screenshot -- Gauzy
Click the minimize/maximize button a second time or press Control-Command-F simultaneously . The button can be green or grey depending on how you have configured the appearance under the General pane of System Preferences . To resize window , simply double-click window bar . The best way to do this that I have found is to put the cursor in the upper left hand corner and wait a second . The green button reappears ( you also get the top bar back in case you want to do other things than change the view . ) and you can click on it to get back to normal view .
As another answer pointed out , iOS 8 <URL> , much the same way FileVault encrypts a hard drive on a Mac . The more data you have , the longer it will take to de-crypt or re-encrypt all this stuff as you toggle it . The secondary reason for this is by design : Mac OS and iOS have <URL> , as most are aware ( side note : how cool is it iOS auto-fills ' underpinnings ' after I type ' UNIX ' ?! ) . UNIX systems implement a <URL> , which is designed to resist brute-force attacks because it takes so damn long . While the effectiveness of this technique has waned as processors become faster and more powerful , it 's still noticeable as the little spinny thing on your login screen just before you log in to your Mac , which would make sitting there and typing random passwords very annoying ( read up on pam_unix if this interests the developer side of your brain ) .
No , you ca n't . The only way to achieve some kind of manual ordering is disabling the " Automatically rearrange " option in the Mission Control prefpane , and switching all your apps to fullscreen in the correct order from left to right ( new spaces get added to the right ) . That said , you wo n't be able to move anything left of the first desktop space .
<URL> provides a compatibility list for multiple versions of OS X . You can search for an application by name or compatibility status , to quickly scan for apps that are known to be incompatible . <URL> <URL> Apps can be <URL> , and also includes iOS compatibility if applicable . You can also check for feature support , to see if apps contain the latest features available in the new OS , such as iCloud Keychain and App Nap .
<URL> states this clearly : To download OS X Server , developers should access the iOS or Mac developer portal to retrieve an App Store redemption code . If you have iOS development program go to : <URL> Scroll down Click Get download code Redeem the code Download your free version of OS X Server 3.0.3 This text is next to the button : OS X Server 3.0.3 Includes Xcode Server to enable continuous integration . Works with Xcode 5 to configure bots that automatically build and test your apps . Requires OS X Mavericks .
<URL> For current Mac keyboard layouts . Control + Shift + Eject works for older keyboard layouts that still include the Eject key . <URL> explains some alternate solutions as well . Also , if you have " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " set to immediately in System Preferences - > Security &amp; Privacy , it will ask you for your password after doing this .
You can directly copy to/from the desktop to/from fullscreen mode using drag-and-drop . You need to go via the desktop " preview " window of mission control ( at the top ) : Here 's a <URL> demonstration .
You can use the keyboard shortcut Command + Control +1 ... 0 to switch between servers while using Limechat . Example : Use Command + Control +5 to switch to server 5 . Source : <URL>
You can switch which monitor is the " Primary " monitor by opening the Displays in Preferences and dragging and dropping the menu bar to your secondary monitor . That should make fullscreen apps use your other monitor .
end question
start question
How to find file system of external hard drive ?
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
Use FFMPEG It 's open source , free and its libraries are what Handbrake ( and others ) use to encode MPEG file formats . If you are going to have to use their software anyway , why not get it from the source ? You can download it from here : <URL> Once you have it installed , just issue the command in Terminal : Where input.mov and output.mp4 are the actual file names and paths of the files you want to convert from and to respectively . I used to use Handbrake and VLC in the past to do this sort of thing , but ever since I discovered FFMPEG command line utility , I have no need for either apps any longer .
The easiest way to format any disk is to use Disk Utility ( in ) . Just start the application , select the drive to be formatted in the left column , make double sure you 've selected the right one and select the file system type , partition sizes etc. on the right hand side .
I can tell you , this is n't normal . You should n't hear the hard drive very much at all , and only a little chatter when you 're using it extensively . Since you 've clearly established that it 's a hardware problem ( because pressure fixes it ) , you should probably try to get it fixed . Rather than open the machine and do it yourself ( violating your warranty ) , you should get Apple to fix it . Since your computer is pretty new , it should definitely be a free repair . You can take it to the Apple Store and tell Apple what happens . They 'll take it and do some tests , then replace the drive ( or whatever part they think needs it ) . Make sure you back up all your data first ; you wo n't get your old drive back .
This can even be done in Time Machine : Choose the 5 TB HDD as only Time Machine backup drive ( OK , my disks are smaller ) : <URL> Then exclude your internal drive by adding it to the excluded items - the backup drive is excluded automatically : <URL> The final result : You get a folder Backups.backupdb with one folder vm ( the name of my Mac ) containing folders ( with date names representing the backup date ) and each with two folders representing the two drives ( Data1 and Encrypted ) . I added and modified files successively on both volumes and initiated a backup after each step . <URL> Needless to say : it 's recommended to backup your main drive/system drive also !
Two things happen : Time Machine sees if the format is acceptable and makes a change to enforce enhanced security on that drive if needed . Time Machine makes a folder named Backups.backupdb if needed and makes a folder for each machine that uses that drive . Assuming you do n't have a Backups.backupdb folder - then everything on the drive wo n't be touched by Time Machine . If the drive is n't in a mac format , you may be asked to erase the drive and reformat it . Do use care and read any messages carefully before you start that first backup . Full details on this is at <URL> - look for the section titled Changing your backup disk about a quarter of the way down for the restrictions on which format drives are supported and which need to be erased .
The getting started page you posted a link to explains how to create a simple one disk pool . This is the only thing you need to do . Creating a pool will automatically create a file system with the same name as the pool , which is what you call formatting a drive . In your case , you can run from the command line : and you 'll have a new volume named available . If you happen to run software with inconsistent file naming , like Adobe products and possibly Nikon capture , you might want to create a dedicated file system with case insensitivity set using something like :
You can use Disk Utility to create an image of the external hard drive . Plug in the external hard drive and then start Disk Utility -- it 's in the Utilities folder under Applications -- and then select the external hard drive from the list along the lefthand side of the Disk Utility window . Once you 've selected the external drive , click on New Image at the top of the window and it will ask you where you want to store the image file . Select a location and then let it do its thing . Once completed , you can restore the image to the same or another external drive or you can simply double-click the image file to mount the disk and explore its contents using finder as you would normally .
[ I 'm answering for anybody ending up here , as the original OP most probably is no more interested . I still refer to his problem description . ] I tried using Testdisk 6.13 ( latest stable release ) and it worked like a breeze for both NTFS and HFS + . I had the luxury of an empty HFS + partition , so I just removed it and recovered it using Testdisk - it was rather fast . I followed the following tutorials : <URL> <URL> If you indeed just removed one partition , it should be fast . Otherwise , it might take more time , but probably waiting is the most sensible option . But if you 're really impatient ( as I am ) and you know very well what you 're doing , you might want to read on . A ( dangerous ) tip to speedup Testdisk from my own experience If the partition entry is just removed , Testdisk will look for the start of the partition in sensible positions ( by default , at the start of every cylinder , since partitions should usually be cylinder-aligned ) , ignoring the existing partition table . Once it thinks it found a partition and you confirm its guess , it will skip searching inside the partition . If there is a lot of free space ( without a filesystem ) before the partition , this might be very slow . So I could speed up search a lot by creating a filesystem in an empty partition before the missing one , so that Testdisk would skip that space . However I knew perfectly where to create this filesystem , especially because it did not border with the lost partition . Otherwise , creating such a filesystem can easily destroy the wrong data - hence only attempt this if you know very well what you 're doing .
The issue is probably that the space is being taken up by swap files and possibly a hibernate sleep image . To see this do an These files are deleted on a reboot and start increasing as you use more memory and Xcode takes a lot of memory . You need to reduce the space used by the rest of the system . apps and data . Basically 120GB is too small unless you only use it for development and not any music or other media files . You can save a bit of disc space by removing unused applications and clearing out other languages ( see other questions here ) but getting a bigger or external hard disk is probably a better use of your time . To see where the space goes see the applications in this <URL> or from the command line .
Have you considered cloning your current hard drive ? With a utility like Carbon Copy Cloner ( which you can use for free for 30 days , I think ) , and an external interface for your new hard drive ( USB , Firewire , etc. ) , you can clone -- i.e. make a bit-for-bit copy of your operating system and installed programs -- the drive that 's currently in your computer . Then , when you install the new hard drive , the computer should see it as the boot disk and everything should pick up exactly where you left off -- just with a lot more storage .
You can check it via Finder . Just select the Hard Drive and press . Or Click on the Apple icon on the menu bar Select , then click on . Select Storage
I definitely would not use electrical tape . Honestly , if for some reason you do not have the plastic tab that came on the HDD , then you can go without it when you replace it with the SSD . The opening is large enough you can get a finger between the SSD and the side rails , should you ever need to replace it . You can see <URL> for another opinion on the matter .
Yes - Mac do not care if the boot drive is connected internally or externally . I usually recommend installing the OS on the new drive with it connected externally since you do n't do the swap until after you know the drive boots externally , but the opposite order is fine . Now , if you have problems , it 's going to be because of hardware issue ( cable , or drive failure ) or possibly the software is n't complete / correct .
You should be able to use <URL> to do most of what you want . Certainly requirement 1 is met and you should be able to achieve most of 2 with it too .
Your question is hard to answer because you do n't mention the layer you are looking at . There at least four layers to consider : Hardware layer Usually the hardware consists of some administrative blocks , the " payload " blocks and some spare blocks . A hard drive contains some dozen and an SSD drive up to 15 % of the official size of spare/reserve blocks . Bad blocks are remapped to the spare/reserve blocks by the drive 's firmware . The operating system only knows the size of the payload blocks . Some low-level disk tools ( e.g. <URL> ) may read out the number of available spare blocks . Partiton layer Depending on the size of the hard disk - propagated by the firmware/hd-controller to your EFI/operating system - your partitioning tool ( e.g. Disk Utility ) may create partitions by determining start values and end values for each partition in the partition table . The free space on your hard disk is determined by the final block of the last partition and the beginning of the second GPT table ( provided that you partitioned your drive continuously and gaps do n't exist ) . You may read out the free space on your hard disk with . Volume layer Usually partitions have to be formatted with a file system to be usable . Almost all important filesystems contain a volume bitmap . The volume bitmap is a representation of all ( file system ) blocks or clusters of a volume . Free blocks and occupied blocks are marked differently . So one method to determine the free space on a volume is counting all blocks tagged free in the volume bitmap . LVM layer ( Logical Volume Manager ) or CoreStorage The LVM layer is an abstraction layer in between hard disks , partitions and volumes . Though determined by the basic partitions ( " Physical Volumes " ) a Logical Volume may span over several Physical Volumes ( Fusion Drive ) . I do n't know it for sure , but a Logical Volume Group probably contains a counterpart of a partition table holding all informations about all contained objects ( like Physical Volume ( s ) , Logical Volume Family ( ies ) , Logical Volume ( s ) ) . The available free space may be read out by entering block/cluster layer ( this is not relevant for OS X file systems ) Some file systems support <URL> . In short words : A lot of files do n't occupy a full block/cluster of the volume layer because they are smaller than the block/cluster size . In the free space of the cluster you may store a second/third/forth small file . I do n't know how to determine this free space ( probably some i-node/B-Tree magic ) . Depending on the layer you may now choose the appropriate method or tool to determine the " free space of your hard disk " .
I have n't seen fixed disk support in Parallels Desktop . All my virtual machines has about 64Gb HDD , but space occupied is about 8-10 Gb . I have configuration " Automatically compress virtual disks " on ( as default value ) .
It seems you have another system - in that you are able to post the question . If it is a mac , you can start the problem system in <URL> ( if it has FireWire ) , connect it to the working system with a firewire cable and you should be able to change the name remotely . If you can start in single-user mode <URL> that may allow you to bypass the problem . If you start in verbose-mode , ( same link as above ) , you may be able to see the problem . If you can start from the Lion recovery disk , or a DVD , that will also allow you to change the drive name . Finally , if you do get the system restarted , I urge you to check it through Disk Utility ( applications > utilities ) . I hope this helps .
Open a finder window and set the view to list view . Press command-J and select " calculate all sizes " then click " use as standard " . Now folder sizes will show in your finder . I do n't think it is possible to show sizes for multiple folders , but this might be a good workaround .
<URL> is an award winning general purpose utility for Mac OS X This app does exactly what you are after ( plus much much more ) , but it will set you back $ 15 . Alternatively , the command appears to do this as well , but without the fancy GUI . For example will prevent all disks from spinning down within 60 minutes of activity when plugged in . You can change the part to specify a different power condition : The - a , - b , - c , - u flags determine whether the settings apply to battery ( - b ) , charger ( wall power ) ( - c ) , UPS ( - u ) or all ( - a )
end question
start question
How to display the MiniPlayer in iTunes with AppleScript ?
AFAIK you can only do this using UI scripting , here are some ways to switch to the miniplayer : Simulating a click on the button in the interface : Using the keyboard shortcut : If you want to display the miniplay AND the fullsize player ( your request is n't clear ) use :
I have n't found any " one click " method , but these steps do the trick : Create a new playlist and give it a title . This playlist should now be open in the right sidebar in iTunes 11 . Open the Up Next list via the blue icon to the right of the current song 's title . Click on the first song you want to add to select it . Shift-click on the last song you want to add . All songs between and including the first and last should now be highlighted in the Up Next pane . Click and drag the list into the open playlist . You 'll need to switch to the History view in the Up Next pane and repeat the process of selecting tracks and adding them to your new playlist . Click " Done " in the playlist sidebar once you 've finished adding tracks and putting them in the desired order .
You can download the Display Menu app from the <URL> I use it all the time . Best of all - it is free !
In iTunes , you can opt back out of sharing details by opening the preferences and selecting the store preferences tab .
fn + return works while navigating with the up and down keys . Edit the song , then press return again to submit changes . For the other columns just press tab to reach the desired column .
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
There is no built in concept of a menu in the dialogs-alerts within the AppleScript language . The closest you could do would be to name some dummy files ( in a temporary folder ) with the appropriate action and have the user choose the file labeled with the action you wanted to perform . A horrendous " solution " to a problem that needs a cocoa menu - whether you make it in Xcode or someone else does - Xcode/IB is the tool that creates a menu . MacRuby is a nice way to script an app that needs a more full featured UI than AppleScript . You do n't need Xcode/IB to ruby up an app from pure script . You could create a NIB using Interface Builder and script it all using AppleScript , but the nib defines the menu itself - not AppleScript ( even if AppleScript can populate or delete the menu items at run time ) .
Ok , days of reading later ; the answer is ' Yes ' with following requirements Need to output a native dual link DVI signal at 2560x1440 Need a mini Display port to Dual Link DVI ( Apple or Monoprice )
You can use the current version with other hardware , but it is n't trivial . The LED Cinema Display connects to Macs using a Mini DisplayPort , which is n't popular on non-Apple hardware . However , you can get a converter like <URL> that lets you use the monitor with an HDMI connection . So , if the other machine has an HDMI out you could use that . I 'm sure you can also find converters to use with VGA or DVI outputs . The next version of the display will ( almost certainly ) use ThunderBolt instead of Mini DisplayPort . The physical connector is the same , but the data that travels over the cable is very different . These converters may or may not work with ThunderBolt ; we 'll have to wait for the product to come out and for someone to test .
If you uncheck " Live updating " in the smart playlist edit screen you will be able to delete tracks from the smart playlist . However the playlist wo n't repopulate until you right-click the playlist and select " Update Smart Playlist " . Interestingly that command does n't do anything unless the tracks have been deleted .
The file you mention is a binary formatted property list . You can convert and edit these files with developer tools such as <URL> . The following article walks through the steps required , <URL> .
For Firefox OS X 3 options : Force Reload Page ( override cache ) Cmd + F5 Cmd + Shift + R Shift + Reload button Edit : Wikipedia has an overview about how to <URL> .
Right click the song in iTunes and choose Get Info . Second from the right is the section " Lyrics " where you can paste the lyrics of the song . The lyrics will show up on top of the album art when the song is played on the iPod . Tap the album art to show it if you do n't have all the controls visible .
To select a continuous grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Shift key , then click the last one in the group . To select a random grouping you select the first one and then press and hold the Command ⌘ key ( on a Mac keyboard ) or Windows key ( on a Windows keyboard on a Mac ) , then click the next one and so on until all are selected . You can let up on the Command ⌘ key or Windows key in-between selecting however make sure you press it before selecting the next one or it will break the grouping and you 'd have to start over . You can deselect by pressing the Command ⌘ key or Windows key , then click the one ( s ) to be removed .
I 've noticed the same thing , but only when there was a notification on the lock screen . I 'm chalking it up to that , and not worrying about it . But still interested to learn more if anyone knows anything .
Quite easily with an Applescript : You could replace " display alert " with . . to have it automatically restart if you desire . Paste this into . save it , and then you could add the script to your user 's startup items for future use . The timing there may be a bit tricky though if the script starts before Dropbox - adding a or something before the first would solve this . For future use , anything involving is a great place to look for solutions to these kinds of meta-system-wide tasks .
Whilst I do n't have a PS4 controller to test this on , you should be able to use <URL> 's Device Key action to run AppleScript or any other action .
There 's a lot of applications out there that will do this . The feature in iTunes was never that good anyway since it did n't really let you compare files to make sure you were n't deleting the wrong files ( like songs that appear in compilations , best-ofs , etc ) . Probably some free options out there , but <URL> is pretty good ( $ 13 ) . I 'm sure some Googling might yield more results
This code will do it for you : Note that stripping the last three will get rid of the extension . If that is n't what you want to happen , let me know in a comment .
Yes . Open up AppleScript Editor , and go to File - > Open Dictionary , and select the app you want to find out more about . When you open it , you can browse through the available applescript commands for that application and find what you want .
end question
start question
How to convert WMV to QuickTime MOV ?
As for recommended way that is subject to opinion . As for doing it with installed applications , this is one way to do it . This requires 2 applications . If you really need a MOV file this is how I found to do it . ( If MP4 is suitable then skip step two . ) Step One Using <URL> , convert the WMV file to MP4 . Step Two Using <URL> , convert the resulting MP4 to MOV ( the process can take considerable time depending on your movie size/length ) NOTE : Last update to the software was in 2012 . So be aware that it may or may not work well on your system . There are other free converters out there too that can convert MP4 to MOV . But this 2 step process is what I found to be effective . Testing with a WMV file duration of 2m :18 s : WMV original size : 7.2 MB MP4 converted size : 9.7 MB MOV resulting size : 14.8 MB EDIT : As noted by user3439894 in the comments , QuickTime Player will convert MP4 to MOV . QuickTime Player is already installed in OS X.
If you are going to jailbreak your iPhone , I can strongly suggest <URL> . It supports schedules texting <URL> . A killer app !
You ca n't convert a GSM iPhone to run on the CDMA network , unfortunately . Neither the functional nor the cosmetic components are interchangeable . If your friend is willing to give you his iPhone and if it 's still in decent condition you could probably sell it for enough to fund the purchase of a Verizon iPhone . If it 's not in great condition and you still have the urge to tinker , you may be able to find cheap cosmetic parts to restore it to salable condition .
The <URL> states : To report security issues that affect Apple products , please contact : product-security@apple.com ... PGP key information You can use <URL> to encrypt sensitive information sent via e-mail . The e-mail address is used to monitor for potential product security issues . Because we focus our response efforts to have the greatest impact across Apple 's product line , we generally will not respond to the e-mail messages unless further information is needed for a security issue .
Go to Settings Reset Reset All Settings and the process will start over . You 're not losing content this way , because that 's the 2nd option on that page .
Unfortunately , the firmware signing window has since closed for iOS 8.4.1 ( as well as all earlier iOS builds for your device ) , so it should not be possible . Source : <URL>
My guess would be that there is a login item for the dead server . To Remove it access Systems preferences via : - > - > - > - > - > Select the Dead Server and press " - " to remove it .
<URL> including <URL> is a collection of useful scripts that you can run from the Finder or the command line . Of course they all use iTunes to process data , but you might find it more convenient than having to use iTunes ' GUI and mouse commands to convert files .
Do n't forget the built-in <URL> actions for encoding . The video plugin is very nice and has pre-sets starting with 480p ( VGA size ) and up . The Encode for : Greater compatibility toggle keeps the audio and video at a lower bit rate . Depending on what your tolerance for " less degradation " is , you might experiment with Higher quality if you see too many H. 264 artifacts on the default setting . It 's unlikely as the encoder has a lot of room with 1.5 Mbps as the ceiling for the video data rate . You could set up a few services to test the various settings and then make a folder action to apply your favorite encode setting to anything you drop in that folder . Automation is fun -- you might even be able to set up a folder action to do your uploading as part of this process .
<URL> is a great tool for ripping DVDs and otherwise converting video . The legal question is probably beyond the scope of this forum , but if you own the dvd and are only ripping it for your own personal viewing , I would n't worry about it .
You 're not going to find a magic bullet that can dramatically speed up your conversion . You really have two options : either reduce the quality of your target file , or throw more iron at it . Upgrading your hardware ( including possibly putting more RAM in your machine ) would help a lot . The bottom line , though , is that the conversion app has to look at the whole file frame by frame and convert it , and that 's an O ( n ) proposition -- the time it takes scales linearly with the amount of data to convert , and there just are n't good ways for even a very clever program to shortcut that . Some programs may be fractionally more efficient than others , but in general , the algorithm takes as long as it takes to chew as much data as it has to chew .
Open Applications > Services > VoiceOver Utility and go to Speech > Pronunciation . Add a subsitution for " Tony " and tell it to pronounce it as " toe nee " . Interestingly , my computer running 10.7.3 with the Alex voice pronounces Tony correctly . Because of this , I was n't able to test this solution , so it may not work .
That 's pretty normal to see only the files for windows , when you are mounting the ISO image on a windows ! Even if you have inserted a MAC OS Installation DVD ( physical ) into tray and openned it in a windows machine , you would have seen only the Windows files and not the MAC files .
Drag the photos from the album to your photo stream . Careful though ; I did this and ca n't find a way to undo what I 've added to my photo stream !
Never forget your little fellow <URL> , sitting in a hard drive near you :) Launch Automator , create a new workflow . Now you need to add two actions : In the " Files &amp; Folders " select Ask for Finder Items and drag it . In the PDFs Category , find " New PDF from Images " and also drag it . Your workflow should look like this : Now read the options for each Action and customize accordingly . Investigate similar actions ( especially in the Files &amp; Folders category ) and perhaps the Photos if you want to transform your images from JPG to something else . In fact , go ahead and look all over automator , there are a lot of interesting things there . :) When you 're satisfied with your Workflow , click " Run " on the top right corner . Watch the magic happens and depending upon the number of items and your CPU power , you might go grab a coffee/tea .
You should edit your top sites and pin what do you want to see every time .
<URL> is a great site for converting videos to gifs . I 've used it several times and the gif always comes out great .
The shortcut CmdOptQ is for " Quit and Discard Windows " which will quit the app ' the old way ' , and not reopen the windows the next time it 's launched . So if you only need to suppress this functionality some of the time , this is a good shortcut to know .
You have four options . Turn on Do Not Disturb and lock the screen ( or configure it to block all calls whether the screen is locked or not on iOS 7 ) Place the phone in AirPlane mode - this disables the cellular data , SMS and cellular calls as well as WiFi . You can turn on WiFi while in AirPlane mode to access data and still be undisturbed . Use your carrier to start call forwarding . It will send your calls to another number ( google voice is a nice place to send them if you do n't have another appropriate line ) . On AT&amp;T , you dial the following to start forwarding , call : ** 21 * 1234567890 # - assuming your other number is (123)456-7890 . To stop the forwarding , call # 21 # Remove the sim . If you have another sim ( same carrier or unlocked phone ) that would in effect turn off your primary phone service without deactivating the phone .
When you connect your iPad/iPhone you choose your device in left column under the Devices section , then got the Apps tab and select the Apps you want to sync ( Screenshot in german but looks the same in english ) : Afterwards select " Synchronize " at the bottom right to update your iDevice .
end question
start question
When will PHP 5.4 appear in default OS X installations ?
Great page , though I did n't find the PHP versions there . Nevertheless , OS X 10.9 came with PHP 5.4 :)
Briefly ; no there is no easy way to update them . ( Assuming that compiling from source is not considered easy ) I would strongly caution against modifying the system installed versions as you 're likely to have your updated versions broken when Apple issues an update that updates them . ( Usually Security Updates and has bitten some users/sysadmins when Perl has been updated ) If you wanted to update them it 's a matter of downloading the source files and installing it over top of the provided versions . As a reasonable alternative I recommend installing your own managed version of PHP and MySQL into or using your packaging software of choice ( MacPorts , Fink or Homebrew ) or prepared installer ( eg . MySQL 's . pkg installer that installs into ) .
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
In iTunes Connect , under Agreements , Tax , and Banking , you can add your bank account . Apple will then pay the money into the account when it reaches a certain amount .
You can not legally install OS X on VMware Workstation or Virtualbox and VMware has checks to prevent it . You have to hack it to get it to work and we do n't provide hacks here . You can read more about it <URL> .
Instead of Uninstalling these apps , you could just hide them . Doing this in Terminal : Will hide the application from sight , but will still be there . Here is the link for the source : <URL>
You can disable Smart Zoom by going to System Preferences → Trackpad → Scroll &amp; Zoom and unchecking the Smart zoom gesture .
By default this file does not exist on any version of OS X. And yes , it is up to you to create it manually : Alternatively , you could use nano as well if you want to edit the file at the same time : Do not monkey in unless you know what you 're doing .
I do n't have a Snow Leopard install handy but this info is available in System Profiler ... Apple Menu > About > More Info In the resulting app there should be a way to view the installed applications . In that list there will be a column " Kind " that will state " Intel " , " Universal " or " PPC " . Screen shot of how this looks in Mountain Lion : ( may look different in Snow Leopard , but idea is the same . )
I recommend <URL> which lets you set up macros with various actions that can be triggered with keyboard shortcuts or other triggers .
You can set the default boot disk in System Preferences > Startup Disk .
Flipping Byte flip and word flip will swap bytes or words . Technically it works like this : Let 's say we have a two byte value ( hexadecimal ) : 0x3344 The number consists of two bytes , the lower one is 0x44 , and the higher one is 0x33 , so let 's put them into two imaginary cells of one byte size : Now , flip the cells : Therefore byte flipped value will be 0x4433 Same way with words , considering word consists of two bytes . Let 's assume we have a two-word value : 0x12345678 Split them into two imaginary cells , now containing one word ( 2 bytes ) each : Now , flip the cells : Therefore word flipped value will be 0x56781234 Shifting Shifting shifts values bitwise . What does it mean ? Let 's take a very simple decimal number : 5 Then , let 's convert it to its binary representation : 101 Then , let 's shift it left by 1 : We basically moved the whole binary sequence left one position and filled the empty space with zero . Now do the same , but with shifting right : our number is 10 now . The lower 1 is lost by shifting right . The zero on the left is just for display and has no value . / / Technically there 's a CPU flag which indicates that the bit was lost , but it is not relevant to the calculator . Rotating Rotating works absolutely same as shifting with one exception : bits are never lost . So , we take the same decimal value 5 and its binary representation 101 . Then we rotate it right within a byte : As you can see , the [ 1 ] which was lost on the shifting right was carried on the beginning of our byte . Same with shifting left , let 's perform series of rotations by 1 bit left until we carry one bit :
Yes , you will see a mounted drive for each existing partition on the existing internal drive .
On a high level , it 's like an automatic transmission - when you press the gas gently , the throttle increases but when you stomp on the accelerator pedal the engine downshifts the transmission to increase the mechanical advantage . You can influence switching to the powerful GPU by hitting the API with significant work and expect the " transmission " to dispatch that load to the non-integrated GPU . The documentation on the API are all in Xcode ( and online too , but I prefer using search on Xcode to hunt for a document ) . I would start with : xcdoc : / / ? url = developer.apple.com/library/etc/redirect/xcode/mac/1153/technotes/tn2335/_index.html ( <URL> ) Those links cover the Mac Pro and the " What you should know when using OpenCL " section contains a helpful note that WWDC 2013 Session 508 : Working with OpenCL describes how to switch between two GPUs in a Mac portable using power considerations .
There is a alternative way to do that . Go to System/Library/Sounds and create a sound file with the same name as Basso.aiff and it will supersede Basso without the need for deleting a system sound file .
The best way to do this is to create a chroot jail for the user . I 'll clean up the answer here when I get home but I posted the solution on my blog . <URL> Below are most of the instruction from the above post . First , you should create the new user in Workgroup Admin and either assign them access privileges for SSH via Server Admin or assign them to a group that has SSH access privileges . Further discussion is below . From the Terminal , start off right . Every additional new user added will then be something along the lines of the following . Every folder it the path to the chroot jail must be owned by . I do n't think it matters what group the folder is in . What I did above was to backup change ownership of the root directory to change permissions of the root directory to 755 create a chroot folder create a user folder inside the chroot folder create a folder inside the user folder that user can modify set ownership and permissions Now to edit to the following . This creates a chroot jail that when the user logs in will drop them into the folder , in that folder is a folder they can add things to . If you want to create a Group in Workgroup Admin for ' Chroot Users ' then add the new users that you created in Workgroup Admin to the Group you wo n't have to keep editing the file . Instead of the above , add the following . Make sure you add the ' Chroot Users ' group to the SSH access ACL in Server Admin . To test whether the above is working , issue the following from the terminal .
This is a tough one to answer . I have seen discussions on <URL> about just this subject . And if you keep up with news online about such tings you will find that opinions vary from " Chicken Little " to , " nah , do n't worry about it on a Mac . " The truth likely lives somewhere between the two . Generally viruses of all types have a bit of a harder time on the Mac . I run without an installed virus scanner on all my Macs . But I have been working , professionally , supporting Macs since System 6 . So , with care , recent backups and an alert mind ( yeah right ... ) you are fairly safe without a virus scanner . That said I always recommend that you have a virus scanner installed and kept updated . Ransomware usually ( like many other forms of malware on the Mac ) requires that you enter a username and password to give the malware installer rights to do it 's dirty work . However there are vulnerabilities on Mac O/S that supposedly do n't require administrative authentication to root your computer . There is also malware that tries to masquerade as ransomware . A co-worker recently opened a link to a video that then infected Safari on his Mac with what looked like some malicious javascript . But starting Safari in Safe mode , resetting to defaults and then a thorough cache cleaning ( we used Onyx ) removed the so called ransomware from his Mac . he was annoyed with himself for falling for it saying , " I knew better and never should have opened that video . " Yeah that does not fully answer your questions ( parts of 1 and 3 ) but an online search for articles on ransomware on Macs and a search of MacInTouch , might help educate you further . Or maybe someone here has some more experience with it .
The <URL> is not deleted , when the app is deleted . So if the keychain still contains the necessary credentials the app can just log in .
Your initial guess that it 's Google Contacts is right - if you 've set it up to sync with Google Contacts , it 'll pull down the same contact photos as you have in Google Contacts , and it works both ways ( assign a photo on iPhone , syncs back up to Google Contacts ) . If you 've got a contact photo set in Google + or the like , it 'll pull that photo automatically , so that 's the photo which 'll appear to others .
You do NOT need to install a third party app . Both Google Chrome and Firefox support this functionality . ( ok , technically these are third party apps , but lets assume you are not using safari . ) Chrome : Open gmail in chrome . In the address bar next to the " bookmark star " you should see a grey diamond . Click on the diamond Select " use gmail " . If you do not see the gray diamond , follow the instructions below . If you made a mistake and selected " No " and you really wanted to select " Use Gmail " With Chrome open , copy and paste this into your address bar at the top : Under the Ignored protocol handlers section , Click on X to the right to delete . Close and open Gmail . Answer the question correctly this time . :) Source : <URL> <URL> Firefox : See @Am1rr3zA answer on this question . <URL>
end question
start question
Is there simple note-taking tool available for Mac ?
I recommend <URL> . Simple interface with support for syntax highlighting , sync with Dropbox and etc. . Available in the Mac App Store
<URL> It works pretty well . I had similar issues on my Mac , did n't like being glued with the headphones forever so I got this just yesterday . And I loved it . It 's not free , but for $ 5 it works like a horse .
Edit : It looks like there is a solution described <URL> . I do n't know of a solution , but I 'd bet if anything could do this , it would be <URL> . Ukelele can assign multiple-character strings and can create " dead keys " , where a keystroke sets a new state that modifies the output of the following keystroke . Possibly combined with an Automator app . The initial keystroke C-x initiates the app , it captures the secondary keystroke ( C-s ) , uses a lookup table to convert C-s to CMD + s , and then passes that to the foreground app .
Check out <URL> : cocoaDialog is an OS X application that allows the use of common GUI controls such as file selectors , text input , progress bars , yes/no confirmations and more with a command-line application . It requires no knowledge of Cocoa , and is ideal for use in shell and Perl scripts ( or Ruby , or Python , or ... etc ) . It 's a pretty simple concept -- pass arguments to the executable to create a dialog , and it returns a result string . There are some good <URL> as well as <URL> .
Yes . At the login screen , login as with an admin password . To get the user name field , open the Login Options in System Preferences and change the default login window display option : <URL>
Since Voice Memos both plays and records audio , and recording ca n't be done in the background as far as I know , then the whole app does not work in the background . That sounds more like a design decision to me , rather than a technical limitation . In theory , Apple could have made the playing audio part of Voice Memos to work in the background . A very long-winded way to get to do what you need is to import the voice memos to your iTunes library . In iTunes , select your iPhone from the Devices list . One of the tabs ( probably Music or Info ) has a checkbox that will enable transferring voice memos into iTunes . When this is enabled and you sync your device , the voice memos get imported and a playlist titled " Voice Memos " is created . At this point , those audio files and the " Voice Memos " playlist should act like any other . You could , for instance , get to the audio files from the " Voice Memos " playlist and then set the metadata for each file by right-clicking it and selecting the Get Info dialog . Useful voice memos can be set to a Media Type of Audiobook -- which makes them available to you as audiobooks in the iPod app . If you make them Audiobooks or basically do anything that sends them to the iPod app ; then you could play them in the background while you open your note-taking app of choice . You do not need to set them as audiobooks , though . Once they 're in the voice memos playlist ; then you can sync the playlist as you would any other . The caveat is that without metadata , it becomes hard to find the files in the iPod app . In iTunes , for instance , they show either with a blank artist name or with an artist name of " Untitled " . That is why I strongly suggest adding metadata ASAP . I am just reminded of Dragon Naturally Speaking and Dragon Dictate . I do not have them , but I have heard nothing but great things about them . You may try their apps ( one of them is free , I believe ) . They may offer you better features over the included Voice Memos app . I 've seen screenshots where it looks like in addition to having a record option , the UI also has a text field for you to type on . Hope this helps .
I had some marginally bad memory that would crash the system occasionally , so for that reason I put the original memory back , and since that time I have n't received this error . So in my case it 's probably related to bad RAM , as odd as that may seem .
Found exactly what you are looking for . It 's called <URL> by , of all people lol , ... MySpace . Needless to say , it 's free and also can optionally post to Facebook &amp; MySpace simultaneously . It 's not too shabby actually .
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
Over wireless , I 'd assume less than 5gb per hour . More likely 2-3 , putting your backup in the 5-6 day range . Your best bet is to use an ethernet cable to connect to the Airport Extreme while the first backup runs . You should average 10 + gb per hour over a cable and I 'd hop
Siri dictation is never going to be 100 % accurate and the easiest way to get the result you want may be to edit the text by hand after you 've dictated the body of the message . Jim Rhoades provides a useful list of <URL> .
Are you talking about a <URL> ? To my knowledge , they are predominantly single ear because they are meant to substitute putting a phone up to your ear . However , there does exist bluetooth stereo headsets that can handle music and make calls using their built in microphone . They are n't nearly as compact however , and likely not as battery efficient . Take a look at the <URL> if that is what you are in the market for . Do give the guys at the store a break when you return the product . You are a rarity to request a stereo headset as 99 % sold in stores today are single ear piece units .
There are no native IDE available for iOS . Apple restricts unsigned code from being run on all iOS devices , thus making an IDE on iOS impossible . ( this is possible on android to run code directly on the device that is written on device ) Your best bet is to get a regular text editor such as <URL> or anything that can checkout documents and edit them from git , svn or dropbox . You will never be able to run this code on iOS , so you will need to push it to your repository and compile and run it via a remote desktop client or via a SSH terminal . To really fully automate this process you would have to edit your code , push it to the repository , compile it on another machine and then have that compiled binary shipped to your device using a distribution mechanism like <URL> via a series of scripts ( test flight has an API for this ) . It 's not impossible , just hard . Another option is to use a remote desktop client and remote to an IDE on a PC to edit and run your code there .
iOS 4.0 supports a very rapid secure erase called " Data Protection " . If you upgrade from 3.0 you need to do a restore to set the stage for hardware encryption of all the data . If your device is n't capable of hardware encryption ( often called secure data at rest ) , then you can use the Erase all content and settings function . This <URL> has been around since iPhone OS 2.0 As this does n't work the same way on all iOS devices , do read <URL> before you depend on this to clear data securely . Once you are through erasing the device , you might want to connect it to a clean iTunes library and restore the device and set it up as new . Making a new account on your Mac or PC is an easy way to have a library with no account , no songs , and no apps just to be sure the device has a clean ( and easily verifiable ) start to it 's new life .
Having no password on the OS level effectively means that ssh is disabled for that user . The protocol insists on a non-zero password and thus the hashes of whatever password is supplied fails to match the absence of a hash . You must supply ssh keys or otherwise arrange some authentication to log in should your account have no password .
None that I know of ( as advertised by Apple , I mean ) . I found this on my bookmarks : <URL> , which might give you a better idea of what to do before and after installing applications . There are a few apps that take care of this too like : <URL> which tries to find the documents and settings the application uses ( though it 's debatable how efficient/reliable this apps or any app of this nature really are )
You can set up a custom shortcut , for example a key , for that purpose . Open System Prefrences , go to Keyboard - > Screen Shots ( or navigate to the Screen Shot-options ) , and double click on the shortcuts you want to change to change them to the keys you use less frequently . If you have a huge keyboard like me , you can for example set the F5 and F6 to be the shortcuts . Here is a screen shot of the settings window where you set the shortcut ( captured with those as well ! ) The " Copy " - screenshots are the ones with Control + Shift .
Simplenote has an iOS app and it syncs back to the Web , so can be accessed from the iOS device , and/or your Mac or PC . <URL> On your Mac , apps like Notational Velocity will also sync . There are apps for PCs well .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
Try <URL> . The last time I tried it , it was pretty quick ( quicker than OpenOffice ) and according to the website , can open files .
end question
start question
Is there a way to prevent a Macbook Air from sleeping when external monitor is plugged in but power is not ?
The power adapter is required for closed display mode on any Apple portable machine , without it you ca n't use closed display mode . Reference : <URL> There is however a third party solution , called Caffine . Which when enabled , forces the mac to stay on until the battery dies , it wo n't ever sleep . <URL>
Yes , I just got a new Mid-2012 MacBook Pro 13 " and did this very thing over USB 3.0 . I know of no reason why it would not work on a MacBook Air . When booting from an external spinning hard drive over USB 3.0 on my new MacBook Pro , the external hard drive sends data back and forth to the Mac about as fast as it would if it were installed internally . I have not specifically measured drive speeds in this scenario ; I 'm just saying that it performs quite well . As far as I know , all Macs with USB have been capable of booting from an external drive connected via USB -- all the way back to the first iMac circa 1998 , which only made use of USB 1.0 . Booting from an external USB 2.0 drive , whether a flash/thumb drive or a spinning hard drive , is , however , quite slow . When you boot your Mac , immediately after the startup chime , hold down the Option key . Your Mac will show you a row of icons of each volume or partition currently connected to the Mac ( internally or externally ) that holds a Mac OS X installation that you can successfully boot from . Use the arrow keys to select which one you want to boot from , and hit the Return key to boot from that volume .
That 's actually pretty easy , you just double click the icon in the Menubar .
The Dock process on OS X is responsible for more than just the actual Dock on your screen . It does a bunch of background stuff , including Dashboard . Most notably , the Finder wo n't function properly if the Dock process is n't running , so turning it off completely is pretty much a no-go without breaking OS X in the process . The best I can suggest is keeping the dock hidden , and make the size as small as possible so you 're less likely to trigger it . You can also position it where it 's least likely to get in the way - as you probably know , you can put it on the left , right or bottom of your screen . But you can also pin it to a particular corner , just use the command . Type that command in Terminal ( replace with to change which corner it goes in , or to go back to the default ) , then to restart the Dock and apply the change .
every few weeks ( 3 or 4 ) , disconnect the iPad and use it until you have about 50-75 % battery left , then charge/connect it again and your battery will not suffer at all .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
⇧ + ⌃ + ⏏ puts the display ( only the display , not the whole computer ) to sleep and will then prompt you for a password if you have enabled under . If your Mac does not have an & #x 23CF ; ( eject ) key , you can use ⇧ + ⌃ + ⌽ ( power ) .
You can . All you need is an app such as <URL> .
Yes , The answer is positive . The power bank capable to charge a laptop needs to supply not only the USB standard charging port but also ( or only ) a DC output port , or a build-in power inverter with an AC outlet . Here i collect some power bank that can charge laptop : 1 . Anker ® Astro Pro2 Multi-Voltage Portable Charger -- 20000mAh Multi-Voltage 5V 12V 16V 19V for iPad Air , Mini , iPhone , Samsung Galaxy , Note , HP , Dell , Acer , Asus , Toshiba Netbooks 2 . RAVPower ® Xtreme 3-Port Portable External Battery Charger with Multi-Voltage 23000mAh Multi-Voltage 9V/12V/16V / 19V/20V -- for Apple Macbook , UltraBook , Digital Cameras , Surface Tablets , Asus Tablets and more 3 . Poweradd ™ Pilot Pro Monster Capacity Multi-Voltage Portable Charger -- 32000mAh Multi-Voltage 5V 9V 12V 16V 19V 20V for Tablet PC , Netbooks , Notebooks , Laptops , Smart Phones 4 . BiXPower 153 Wh ( 42500mAh ) Super High Capacity 12V &amp; 19V External Rechargeable Battery Pack -- BiXPower BP160 Made with high quality Panasonic Li-ion battery cells . Compact size can easily fit into a laptop/notebook carry bag 5 . Energizer XP18000AB Universal Power Adapter with External Battery for Tablets/Laptops/Netbooks / Smartphones Energizer XP18000AB Universal Power Adapter with External Battery for Tablets/Laptops/Netbooks / Smartphones 6.Qi-Infinity ™ Powergrid External Battery Pack/High Capacity Power Bank charger -- 34200mAh For Laptops , Notebooks , Netbooks , Tablets and Smart Phones 7 . Lizone ® Extra Pro Super Capacity Portable External Battery Charger 40000mAh For Apple Books , HP , IBM Lenovo , Tablets , Smartphones and more 8 . Intocircuit ® Power Castle PC26000 External Battery Pack/High Capacity Power Bank charger -- 26000mAh 12 Connectors for Laptops , 10 Connectors for Phones and Tablets , AC Adapter Included There are power banks available with various plug in connectors for laptops , but they cost around 15,000 . I have seen one on ebay india , and the ad says that they 've even sold 29 units . These are not marketed by laptop manufacturers so I am not sure what your laptop warranty status will be if you purchase one of these banks and use it charge your laptop . Most laptops charges through its adapter only . Powerbanks on the other hand have only usb 2 output interface . Replacing laptop batteries with Extra cell batteries available in the market can help . One desi jugaad is using a UPS to charge a lappy but it wont make it handy and portable .
I 'm afraid this is n't made possible by the S.M.A.R.T ( Self-Monitoring , Analysis and Reporting Technology ) system that is used to provide details of Hard Drive operation , I was hoping to find a <URL> that details the current ' park ' status , but it seems that there simply is n't one , and as this is a low level activity that is fully handled by the drive itself without any OS input I can not see a way of ever retrieving the status as the value is n't available in the first place .
Under Settings → Users → [ you ] → Login Items → select iTunesHelper , then click the minus sign and log out/into your Mac . No devices will cause iTunes to launch ( that 's the whole purpose of iTunesHelper ) .
Set the NVRAM variable to and restart to apply the changes . It restores the pre-10 .7 clamshell mode behavior where the internal display does not turn back on after you open the lid of a laptop . The laptop will also go to sleep when you close the lid even when an external display is connected . To undo the changes , run and restart .
You can leave your MacBook Pro running when plugged into an external power source . This should not dramatically reduce the life span of your computer . Be sure to allow the display to sleep after idle time . Leaving a typical display powered on constantly can reduce the life span and cause problems . When your Mac is not plugged in , try and follow <URL> . Apple recommend running down your MacBook Pro 's battery once a month or so . This will help maximise the battery 's life .
I ended up using <URL> to do this . Overall I found it to be the most configurable . Here is a screenshot of my configuration , whereas Cmd + Ctrl + W moves a window to the next monitor . If you have a 3 monitor setup ( 2 external monitors and the Mac monitor ) , you can set up the " Move Window to Next Monitor " to the right by doing the following : set up a new shortcut , specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the Predefined Action click Attach Additional Action and again specify " Move Window to Next Monitor " as the action Voila , you can now move a window to the monitor on the right ( a little hacky I know , but it works until the developer of BTT updates the app ) The only shortcoming of BetterTouchTool is poor Lion support ( not all features are available ) but it is available as an alpha release . This specific keyboard shortcut should work fine in Lion with the stable version , I reckon .
Normally , yes . Click the Bluetooth icon in the menu bar , your phone should be listed in the " Devices " category . From there , you can toggle actions on it .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
I used to get this issue as well and what I did was to prevent iTunes from auto syncing when I connect a device , this option is found in the iTunes Preferences/Devices and tick the checkbox as shown in the screenshot It 's also worth going into the user preferences then login items and remove " iTunes helper " which should stop it from launching iTunes anytime you connect a device .
You can disable sleeping in the preference pane of . Alternatively , you can use a free app called <URL> to easily prevent your Mac from sleeping just with a click of the mouse . Both work exactly the same , but Caffeine makes it easier to dynamically switch between the two settings .
You can hide it from from Finder by setting the hidden flag with Terminal and if you want to remove the flag
You have to add the following line to your Preferences → User Settings :
end question
start question
how to convert all mp3 to m4a and save tags and covers ?
The conversion &amp; the discard of the old mp3 will have to be done in 2 steps , so you need to make sure you 've enough disk space to temporarily store double the amount of space the mp3s currently take up . If not , you 'll have to do the conversion/discard in small batches , one album at a time . Start in iTunes Prefs > General > Import Settings ... Set to AAC Encoder . Then , back in iTunes main window , switch to My Music &amp; sort by Songs , which makes things easier to find . If it does n't show already even if you scroll the window to the right , then right-click the top of the columns in the main window &amp; add a column for Kind . Click this column to sort by Kind The sort is simply alphabetical , so at the top will be AAC files , Apple Lossless etc. , further down MPEG [ mp3s ] Below that may be other file types so make sure you do n't accidentally select any of those . Click the top MPEG file , scroll down &amp; shift/click the last one . Right click one &amp; Select Create AAC version . Wait until the process is finished - minute or hours depending on how many tunes ... You then need to find all the original mp3s that will still be in their original locations , now with an AAC file next to each one . Navigate to your iTunes Music folder ~ / Music/iTunes/iTunes Media/Music hit Cmd ⌘ F &amp; type mp3 . The search will offer name matches : mp3 or kind is mp3 audio , pick kind . Assuming you converted all your mp3s , anything showing in that search result can now be deleted . Simply select all &amp; Trash . To be certain , relaunch iTunes &amp; scroll down the song list , making sure nothing has an exclamation mark ! at the left , which would indicate a missing file . One you 're sure , you can empty the trash .
Humm , this is weird , mine does ok , but I never tried with both on iTunes ... always one of a time . I did found several forum discussions regarding the out of sync with Nike Plus , and this is from Aug 26th and already have 8 pages : o it describes plenty of out of sync workouts ( maybe it 's an app bug ) <URL> probably is a good idea to post on <URL> as well .
You 're not going to find a magic bullet that can dramatically speed up your conversion . You really have two options : either reduce the quality of your target file , or throw more iron at it . Upgrading your hardware ( including possibly putting more RAM in your machine ) would help a lot . The bottom line , though , is that the conversion app has to look at the whole file frame by frame and convert it , and that 's an O ( n ) proposition -- the time it takes scales linearly with the amount of data to convert , and there just are n't good ways for even a very clever program to shortcut that . Some programs may be fractionally more efficient than others , but in general , the algorithm takes as long as it takes to chew as much data as it has to chew .
If you can bring the image into Disk Utility , use the convert option . Choose CD/DVD master , it will save as a . cdo . Rename to . iso .
Are you sure you need to have a software solution within Windows ? Many HDTVs let you adjust current display settings to disable the overscan . See <URL> . Quote : If you do n't see every pixel you should see , you 're not viewing a true 1920 by 1080 progressive-scan picture . The name of the viewing mode differs from brand to brand , but it 's commonly called Dot-by-Dot , Point-to-Point , Just , or simply Overscan Off . To add to that , on my own HDTV , choosing " Studio " under the Aspect setting has the effect of eliminating the overscan . I 've also seen it called simply " PC " on another TV , and " Just Scan " on another . Check your HDTV 's settings ... chances are it has something like this and you are n't aware of it . Though , admittedly there are some HDTVs without such a capability ( sadly ) and for these you 'll need to find a solution that lets you reduce the resolution output to the HDTV . Update : I found the following article explains well both the issue and troubleshooting steps : <URL> . Plus : some folks have successfully replaced the Apple video drivers in their Bootcamp Windows with ATI drivers , in order to access settings to compensate for the HDTV overscan . See this blog post : <URL> . Got ATI video in your Mac ? Worth a shot perhaps , if you do . Take a backup before messing with drivers , of course .
You could make a screenshot of the photo by pressing the home button and power putton together . After this you can edit one of those photo 's
Step one - try the free trial of <URL> ( 30 $ ) . Step two - buy it . These is no step three . It 's that good .
This is hard to guess , as you can imagine . If the machine had kernel panics the usual ( but not only ) suspects are RAM chips . You can probably try new RAM ( google for OWC , CRUCIAL , etc. ) . The battery can be replaced at an Apple Store ( of course you 'll have to pay for it ) . The Hard Drive could be a problem too , so maybe if you had to replace it , adding an SSD instead would boost the performance . In the end , there 's little else you can replace without having to ditch the entire motherboard , and that 's probably not worth the cost outside the warranty . Running a Linux ( more tolerant sometimes with dubious RAM/Hardware in general ) is a decent alternative . Ubuntu ( among others ) is a decent OS for casual users .
Is n't it how it 's working already ? I just tried drag 'n' dropping a folder on the Textmate icon , it opens in " project mode " , then I added a file to the folder , which Textmate did too , when gaining focus . And deleting the file and focusing Textmate made it disappear from the project pane .
Go to settings , general , usage , music , swipe across all music and tap delete . If that does n't work , try restoring it in iTunes . Plug it in and turn your iPod off , then hold the power and home buttons for eight seconds ( a little bit after the screen turns black again ) then release the power button but hold the home button for about seven seconds , or until iTunes recognizes it and tells you to restore it . After it is restored you will be able to restore your save data with iCloud if your device runs ios 5 . If it does n't , wait for another answer .
You can force Preview to prompt for save on quit with the following Terminal command : Quit and re-open Preview once and you will be prompted in future closes
As for recommended way that is subject to opinion . As for doing it with installed applications , this is one way to do it . This requires 2 applications . If you really need a MOV file this is how I found to do it . ( If MP4 is suitable then skip step two . ) Step One Using <URL> , convert the WMV file to MP4 . Step Two Using <URL> , convert the resulting MP4 to MOV ( the process can take considerable time depending on your movie size/length ) NOTE : Last update to the software was in 2012 . So be aware that it may or may not work well on your system . There are other free converters out there too that can convert MP4 to MOV . But this 2 step process is what I found to be effective . Testing with a WMV file duration of 2m :18 s : WMV original size : 7.2 MB MP4 converted size : 9.7 MB MOV resulting size : 14.8 MB EDIT : As noted by user3439894 in the comments , QuickTime Player will convert MP4 to MOV . QuickTime Player is already installed in OS X.
Firstly , you should be sure why you would like to do this and what a fresh environment would provide . This is going to be a bit tedious to do since you have multiple sources for the installs . For homebrew , follow the steps in <URL> . For MacPorts , follow the steps from the <URL> page . For PHP and Apache , it may not be simple to revert them to what the OS came with if you installed these outside of solutions like homebrew , MacPorts , MAMP or XAMPP . The non-tedious way , which may take longer to complete , is to Clone your drive ( using a tool like <URL> or <URL> or <URL> ) . Reinstall the OS afresh . Then use Migration Assistant to bring everything over from the clone . You would have to uncheck the " Other files and folders on ... " option in Migration Assistant to prevent it from bringing back the locations that homebrew , MacPorts , etc. , use . This method would also skip many files ( like in / Users/Shared ) that you would have to copy over manually from the backup .
Only one window can be frontmost , at a time , however the following AppleScript code will unhide and un-minimize all windows .
This was changed in Lion along with the introduction of Auto Save and Versions . Save As is still available by holding ⌥ alt whilst in the menus .
I intentionally was searcing for hidden defaults1 and fortuitously stumbled across a setting that disables Auto Save , Versions and Resume , all at once . If you have a tolerance for potentially breaking things ( joke ) , try the following Terminal command ( for Preview in this example ) : Replace with the name of whatever app you wish to perform this on . Alternatively , you can configure this globally with this command ( but beware that this causes slow logins , so not recommended ) : I can confirm that this works for TextEdit , Preview , Automator and Safari ( for disabling Resume ) , but it should also work for other Apple applications like iWork , Xcode , iPhoto etc. . It also works for some , but not all , third party applications . My machine has n't gone up in flames ( joking again ) but as long as you have a good backup system , these settings seem stable to change and test . For TextEdit , you must additionally run the following command , in order to avoid sandbox errors : [ This effectively disables the old-style , pre-Lion autosaving completely , so the sandbox wo n't complain anymore about TextEdit trying to automatically save stuff without your " consent " . ] Another option , is a TextEdit fork called " TextEdit + " , that thankfully is n't sandboxed ( surprisingly , TextEdit is actually open source ) . It can be downloaded <URL> . Disabling also restores Save As in most apps , except in Preview , iWork and maybe some others . In those cases you can use the menu item instead . This is almost identical to Save As , except that you have to manually open the document after saving it . Just <URL> Command-Shift-S to in these applications , and you 'll get something very similar to Save As there too . To restore normal behaviour , run : 1 Thanks to <URL> for his excellent <URL> for finding hidden settings .
It does . <URL> you can find a list of all the import and export formats QuickTime Pro 7.7 supports .
In iTunes under the File menu choose Add to Library ... and select the songs you want to add to iTunes . When iTunes is done adding the files , sync your iPhone with iTunes on your PC . That 's all there is to it .
The conversion &amp; the discard of the old mp3 will have to be done in 2 steps , so you need to make sure you 've enough disk space to temporarily store double the amount of space the mp3s currently take up . If not , you 'll have to do the conversion/discard in small batches , one album at a time . Start in iTunes Prefs > General > Import Settings ... Set to AAC Encoder . Then , back in iTunes main window , switch to My Music &amp; sort by Songs , which makes things easier to find . If it does n't show already even if you scroll the window to the right , then right-click the top of the columns in the main window &amp; add a column for Kind . Click this column to sort by Kind The sort is simply alphabetical , so at the top will be AAC files , Apple Lossless etc. , further down MPEG [ mp3s ] Below that may be other file types so make sure you do n't accidentally select any of those . Click the top MPEG file , scroll down &amp; shift/click the last one . Right click one &amp; Select Create AAC version . Wait until the process is finished - minute or hours depending on how many tunes ... You then need to find all the original mp3s that will still be in their original locations , now with an AAC file next to each one . Navigate to your iTunes Music folder ~ / Music/iTunes/iTunes Media/Music hit Cmd ⌘ F &amp; type mp3 . The search will offer name matches : mp3 or kind is mp3 audio , pick kind . Assuming you converted all your mp3s , anything showing in that search result can now be deleted . Simply select all &amp; Trash . To be certain , relaunch iTunes &amp; scroll down the song list , making sure nothing has an exclamation mark ! at the left , which would indicate a missing file . One you 're sure , you can empty the trash .
You can add the System files and File visibility attributes to the filter bar : Files that start with a period are still excluded though . This makes Finder show hidden files : <URL> includes system files by default , but it does n't include hidden files unless you specify kMDItemFSInvisible = 1 .
end question
start question
Why is iTunes only syncing some of the pictures ( seemingly randomly ) in each Aperture Event to my iPad ?
Well , two trips to the genius bar could n't solve it ( " you need to start a new library from scratch and retag your 15,000 photos " - WHAT ?!?! ) , but I dug around and experimented and finally came up with the answer : iTunes wo n't sync pictures without up-to-date previews ; so , if they stop auto-generating for some reason , you have to force it to update previews for the pictures that are n't syncing . You may want to go to iTunes and select " Sync all Photos " and note the number of photos that appears in the upper right of the window , so you can make sure that it 's higher after this process . Go to Aperture and select " Photos " up near the top of your library , in order to select your whole library of pics . In the " Photos " menu up top , you should see " update previews for library " . ( If you 're not seeing it , you probably skipped step 2 , or selected an individual photo , in which case , it will be replaced with " update preview " . You want to do it for everything , so be sure to highlight " photos " first . That may take some time , depending how many you were missing , but once it 's done , go back to iPhoto , and uncheck " sync all photos " and then recheck it . That should force it to recount the pics , and you should now see a number that matches your library ( less any in a format that iTunes ca n't handle . )
There are lots of little application launcher utilities available , to name two <URL> and the venerable <URL> . Personally , I prefer keyboard-based launchers like <URL> or <URL> . OS X Lion will have feature called <URL> which looks like it will be a good replacement to the dock for launching applications . Organizing Apps in the Finder or launching them all via the Dock is rather futile , in my opinion -- unless you have a very small collection of Applications ... If you 're looking for folder icons , there are tons of online sources . I recommend the <URL> to start . Customization : in the Finder if you use the Command in the file menu on a selected folder ( also available in the right-click contextual menu ) , you can select the icon in the info window top-left . From there you can copy the icon resources and paste them . So that 's how you can customize the folders , copy icons from a downloaded folder source , and paste them into your new folders . Panic software produces an excellent Application for icon management that can also streamline this process called <URL> .
Yes , Greasemonkey or " User scripts " were the ones that popularized this . For one option on Mac/Safari , please see <URL>
Run Activity Monitor ( Applications/Utilities ) ; do you see the iTunes Helper service running ? Make sure you set the view to " All processes " , not " My Processes " . If it 's not running , that 's your problem . Re-install iTunes and away you go .
One iCloud account is the primary account and only that account can use Find My Phone and Backup services , so to have one account with multiple devices implies that that same account also gets the iCloud backups . However , iCloud does n't co-mingle a backup from one iPhone 5 and another iPhone 5 ( although you may want to choose different names for each to avoid confusion when restoring if you happen to have two of the same device ) . Unless you are OK switching up accounts manually to push a backup to an alternate account and then switch right back , there currently is n't a way to do this with stock / unjailbroken iOS .
It is possible you have an email account with " Notes " enabled on your iPhone , but do n't have the same account set up on your Mac . On your iPhone , in the Notes listing , tap " Accounts " in the upper left corner . Mentally review those accounts . On your Mac , click the Navigation icon that shows two lists next to a box , and makes sure the accounts are the same . If the accounts are n't the same , setup the missing accounts on your Mac in Mail Preferences . Also , if you have an Note " Account " on your iPhone that is named something like " On my iPhone " , transfer those notes to an account that syncs . You can accomplish that by , tapping the Share icon in the note , tap " Copy " , tap " Notes " to view your list of notes , tap " Accounts " , tap an account that will sync to your Mac , tap the " + " icon , tap and hold , paste the note that . ( Hopefully you do n't have too many notes that need that action ) .
There are cleaning kits targeted for the iPad that might give you a better result than just a damp cloth . I personally bought the Hama Premium Cleaning Kit for iPad and I 'm quite happy about it . The second parameter in the equation are ofcourse your hands , the dryness/greasiness of your fingers will influence the comfort of the moment . Personally , I 've found that just after washing my hands I feel some resistance when swiping the screen , and it works best with a more natural greasiness .
I ca n't speak about the iPad specifically , but I 've used 3G through Verizon as my primary Internet connection for about 4 years . Ii actually started out as 1xRTT , but the cell tower were upgraded . My choices are either 3G , satellite ( line-of-site to the satellite may be a problem ) , or dialup . The joys of country living . I have n't had any problems with it . Some things are slow : PS3 updates , large downloads , etc. , but its fine for email , web browsing , etc. . My account is old enough that its does n't have download limits . I think I hit 7GB last month .
Unlikely . Such functionality is indirectly excluded by the iOS Developer Program Licence Agreement under section 3.3.4 . There it is stated that applications may only write data to an application 's designated container area on the device . Therefore , the library data for ringtones can not can not be manipulted unless there were API to do this . I am not sure if I 'm allowed to post a direct link here , therefore use <URL> to get to the document .
I think I figured it out . It 's because Photoshop creates it 's own preview , which appears instead of the automatically generated Finder preview . To turn this off , go to Photoshop Preferences , find the file saving preferences , and set it so it never saves previews . From what I can tell , that saves it with the border , like you needed . Also , to add a border back to an image without going back and resaving it , you can click it 's icon in Finder , and then click File > Get Info . Then click the icon in the upper left corner and push Delete on the keyboard . That gets rid of the custom preview from Photoshop . Hope this helps !
Go to the Security pane of System Preferences . Uncheck the box that says , " Log out after [ ## ] minutes of inactivity . "
You can delete videos from the Videos app by tapping and holding on the thumbnail , then pressing the red X that appears in the corner ( just like deleting apps from your home screen ) . To delete audio podcasts , find them in the Music app , swipe your finger across the name of the podcast ( or episode ) and press the delete button . ( The same way you would with emails . )
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
Well , two trips to the genius bar could n't solve it ( " you need to start a new library from scratch and retag your 15,000 photos " - WHAT ?!?! ) , but I dug around and experimented and finally came up with the answer : iTunes wo n't sync pictures without up-to-date previews ; so , if they stop auto-generating for some reason , you have to force it to update previews for the pictures that are n't syncing . You may want to go to iTunes and select " Sync all Photos " and note the number of photos that appears in the upper right of the window , so you can make sure that it 's higher after this process . Go to Aperture and select " Photos " up near the top of your library , in order to select your whole library of pics . In the " Photos " menu up top , you should see " update previews for library " . ( If you 're not seeing it , you probably skipped step 2 , or selected an individual photo , in which case , it will be replaced with " update preview " . You want to do it for everything , so be sure to highlight " photos " first . That may take some time , depending how many you were missing , but once it 's done , go back to iPhoto , and uncheck " sync all photos " and then recheck it . That should force it to recount the pics , and you should now see a number that matches your library ( less any in a format that iTunes ca n't handle . )
The reason why they release patches so often , iTunes is the app where all their management of iPhone and iPad occurs , which means they often need to update it to add support for new iPhone/iPad/iPod touch models , and to support new features in those products . The fact that it is also where they handle a lot of their DRM ( which they may have contractual obligations to update in some instances ) probably is part of the reason as well . The fundamental issue with delta patches is that they are more complex , and have higher support costs for the vendor . A full updater can run against any version of the app that is installed , a delta patcher most be made against specific version . A full updater will work regardless of whether the app has been modified ( user hacking the binary to do something , tweaking the artwork , etc ) , a delta updater will fail against a modified app . Given the extra work involved in preparing a delta patch , and the increased chance that it wo n't work , they tend to only be used in very specific cases . Apple tends to create delta updates for software updates , but they only create a delta against the most recent released version of the OS , rather than making dozens of versions that work with every release they make the one that will get most people , and then for everyone else they do a combo update that is a full updater that also incorporates every previous software update as well . For smaller things like iTunes , they do n't tend to bother with delta updates at all due to the increased workload , support , the increased number of versions that exist , and the fact that iTunes is fairly small in the scheme of things ( it is smaller than an OS update , or an iPhone/iPad firmware ) .
If Location Services are on for the Camera.app , EXIF data will include GPS data . If it is not , it will not for photos that are taken with Camera.app . Location data can be inserted on an app by app basis . I tested , for example , Camera.app , and Camera + . The former had Location Services disabled , and the latter was enabled . As expected , the former had no GPS data , while the latter did . Furthermore , photos that are downloaded from other services may or may not contain location data . For example , Facebook strips GPS data out of photos , while Photobucket does not . Any testing I have done has been with an iPhone 5 , and also an iPad mini .
Mac OS has always had a <URL> . Applications like TextEdit can have multiple main windows open without requiring multiple instances . The open command does n't usually open documents over the current document . The close button might also quit the application after closing the last window like on Windows . But what if you want to create a new document ? Many applications create an untitled document on startup . Should closing it quit the application ? There 's no real harm in keeping applications running in the background . They do n't usually use CPU , and you should have enough free or inactive memory anyway . Quitting and opening applications all the time would take more time . OS X has also supported <URL> since 10.7 . Automatic termination eliminates the need for users to quit an app . Instead , the system manages app termination transparently behind the scenes , terminating apps that are not in use to reclaim needed resources such as memory . [ ... ] Automatic termination transfers the job of managing processes from the user to the system , which is better equipped to handle the job . Users do not need to manage processes manually anyway . All they really need is to run apps and have those apps available when they need them . Automatic termination makes that possible while ensuring that system performance is not adversely affected . Apps must opt in to both automatic termination and sudden termination and implement appropriate support for them . The close button does actually quit some applications with a single main window , like Dictionary , System Preferences , and Calculator . Opening them again does n't take that long and quitting them frees users from having to do it manually .
iPhoto Photos Location iPhoto stores photos and meta-data in the user 's home folder : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library Within this folder , the original photos are stored at : ~ / Pictures/iPhoto Library/Masters Bulk Copy with rsync If the user name was , the <URL> all the original photos to the local desktop would be :
I know of no other solution to sync the handheld device . If you want to get files on and off the device , you may be able to find tools/apps to help you . I 've had to resort to a tool to get some audio and video content off of an iPod once that was loaded on someone else 's machine ; when you associate an iPod with a new machine , iTunes really wants to zap the contents , and I assume that may also be true with iPhone . Also , the way some of that content is stored on the device may not be what you 'd expect ( files in a file system ) , it 's more like cryptically named blocks of data in a database . But there are tools that can help you deal with the problem .
You can enter events to specific calendars by holding down the + button See here the entry from iCal help : Add events to a calendar You can add any kind of event to your iCal calendars . For example , you can add meetings , doctor appointments , and family activities . You ca n't add events to a calendar you subscribed to . Open iCal Click Add ( + ) at the top of the iCal window or press Command ( ⌘ ) - N. Events are added automatically to your default calendar . If you want to choose a different calendar for the event , hold down the Add button ( + ) , and then choose a calendar . To change your default calendar , choose iCal > Preferences , click General , and then select a calendar from the Default Calendar pop-up menu .
end question
start question
How can I add a new search engine to Safari without any 3rd party add-ons ?
The Safari Extension <URL> allows you to change the search engine used by the Safari search bar/unibar , without any hack-ish stuff such as changing the hosts file .
Well Adobe Reader 's slow page scrolling is simply unbearable . In the end I decided to use <URL> , which a lot of people seem to be using as default PDF viewer on OS X already . I 'll only use Adobe Reader if I 'm dealing with very important/complicated document , or if I want to change the background color of the document when I read .
Save a script like this as and make it executable with . You can then add a LogoutHook key to with . It can be deleted with . You can run a script at login by adding a LoginHook key or by using launchd . See also these questions about running scripts on <URL> and <URL> and <URL> .
Adding dictionaries is possible . Finding the one you want may not be . See <URL> For info on creating dictionaries for dictionary.app , see <URL> <URL>
While the Dock does n't have the concept of " folders " for the apps that are pinned to or running in it , as of Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard the <URL> feature can provide something similar . Dragging the Applications folder from the Finder into the " Stacks section " ( right of the white-dashed line ) of the Dock will add it as a Stack . You can then click the folder to see something like this : If you want subsets of your Applications as separate Stacks , you can create folders for each somewhere in your filesystem , and add <URL> for the desired applications . ( Note that dragging an app from the Applications folder to another folder makes an alias by default . Convenient ! ) The results look like this : All this being said , an alternative if you have OS X 10.7 Lion is to use <URL> to organize and access your apps , keeping the contents of your Dock as minimal as possible .
There used to a be a method where by you edited the iTunes Music Library.xml file on the second computer to make your device think the two computers are the same computer . I 'm not sure if it works any more though . Explanation guide <URL> Alternatively the easier way of doing it is to take advantage of <URL> and use an application from the app store . The advantage of this is that most app store video playback applications support more file formats than would be supported though the default video playback app so you wo n't need to do any conversion before copying the videos across . The application I would recommend , and use myself , is <URL>
On iCloud.com , open Contacts . Then , click on the ribbon with the people icon until the groups appear . Now , hit the plus icon at the bottom , and name the new group . Click back on " All Contacts " . Now , simply drag each contact that you want to move into the group . If you want to select more than one at a time , just hold down the Command key ( control key on Windows ) and click on each one , then drag them all into the group .
I read nothing about a limit in the different user guides for iOS devices ( e.g. <URL> ) . Because of that I think there is no limit for groups .
I 'm assuming by " desktop toolbar " , you mean the bar at the top of the screen ( properly called the <URL> ) , please correct me if I 've made the wrong assumption . You can add the eject item by opening in Finder , and double-clicking the file named . It should appear in the menu bar right away . To add the battery indicator , open the Energy Saver pane of System Preferences , and check the Show battery status in menu bar box , near the bottom of the window .
You can add one on iCloud or on your Mac . Just navigate to ' File ' and create a ' New Calendar ' . And there , you 'll be able to create a new calendar , and with ' Get Info ' ( right-click ) , you can choose your color .
In Finder , go to preferences , then click Sidebar . Under the Shared group , tick Connected Servers .
You can not access individual files on iCloud other than the ones made with the iWork suite and that are available on the iWork section of the icloud.com website . When introducing iCloud , Steve Jobs mentioned that Apple did not think of this service as a big folder in the cloud -- a direct contrast with Dropbox . I wrote about this before the launch of iCloud on this Ask Different <URL> . In short , iCloud is meant to be app-centric . I would not be surprised if the iWork section of the icloud.com website went away once native iCloud support is added to Keynote , Numbers and Pages . Like it or not , this makes business sense , as it encourages app purchasing . Hope this helps .
Use a smart folder . Right click the Finder in the Dock Select New Smart Folder Press the plus button Select kind . Select Last Modified/Opened or whatever you want . Select ' This Mac ' Save your smart folder . When saving , make sure ' Add to Sidebar ' is checked . Name your smart folder and you 're good to go !
Fire up Safari and check the settings for the default search engine . For me that is google and searching the way you described it for me opens safari ( currently my default browser ) with a google search . The option is right there on the first settings tab . I included an image detailing where to find it ( sorry for the german ) :
Add this to the CFBundleDocumentTypes array in : Change the default application back to Safari in Finder If the application is signed , modifying an Info.plist <URL> . It also makes a few applications like TextEdit and WriteRoom crash on launch on 10.8 .
The recent 5.1 software update to Apple TV seems to have fixed it .
It 's not a huge effort to go through , but it does involve a little effort on your part . I have n't tried this myself ( though will try it shortly just out of interest ) , but the basic principle seems to be to make a . webarchive file and drag it into the signatures preference box . <URL> <URL> <URL> EDIT : so I went and tried this and it DOES work in the current version of Mail.app , on Snow Leopard . The trick is essentially ; a ) create a . webarchive of your desired signature . Bear in mind that any graphics you put in there need to be graphics that are out on the ' open web ' , rather than references to files on your own computer etc. . I think it 's this bit that catches a lot of people out . b ) Go into Mail and go through the motions of creating a new signature . In the Library/Mail/Signatures folder you 'll see Mail creating a new file with a guid-like filename ( eg 61F51203-5C18-4061-A8EF-F53B17C41476 . webarchive ) . Make a note of this filename ! c ) Close down mail , and replace the contents of that signature file with your webarchive file . The best way of doing that is ; paste your webarchive file into the same folder ( eg rob.webarchive ) , then highlight the new file that Mail created and press return - the filename should become selected for you.Press Apple-C to copy this filename , and then alter the filename ( eg add ' old - ' to the front of the name ) . Press Return to close the ' name editing ' session.Now select your own webarchive file ( eg rob.webarchive ) , and again press return to edit the name . Now Apple-V in the name you copied from the first file , and press Return to close the editing . d ) When you restart Mail , the new signature you 've made will be available . Gotchas include ; you 're linking to images , css files or whatever that are not available on the internet.you 're not composing your message in ' rich text ' form But I 've just been through this and even though I have no use whatsoever for a HTML signature , it does work . :-)
No - the playlists only get curated from the playlist tab . The iPods with physical buttons have an " add to playlist " functionality that worked this way but there 's nothing yet in iOS 4 or less to do a similar thing . The drawback there is everything got added to the " on the go " playlist - not an arbitrary one .
No : the dictionary files OS X ' Dictionary app uses are read-only , and Dictionary.app does not support annotations . You can <URL> ( though that is not a trivial task ) , but not modify the existing ones .
In the Privacy tab of Safari preferences , check the box to Prevent search engine from providing suggestions .
end question
start question
The cheapest and reliable way to unlock iphone 5 ?
The reliable way is to get the carrier to unlock it . In the US - this means Verizon 's are sold unlocked in the US whether you have a contract or not . AT&amp;T 's are locked , but they have a <URL> once your contract is fulfilled . Sprint 's <URL> . T-Mobile 's are <URL> when they start selling iPhone . Cheapest depends heavily on your specific contract details and if you want to risk paying a third party to do something the cell carriers do not like . You could always look for a jailbreak and circumvent the lock , but between paying off your contract early or selling your locked phone and buying one that is legitimately unlocked is an easy , and simply about time and money now that unlocked iPhones are mainstream in the US . I suggest dealing locally in selling and buying an iPhone - connect on craigslist or wherever and meet in an Apple store so that you can check the serial number - be safe in a public space , etc. . .
Double tap on the photo to make it full screen . Alternatively , you can see toward the end of the commercial , a simple swipe to the left or the right brings up subsequent photos full screen without the overlay of controls on the top or bottom .
Yes - you can find large files in many ways . In the finder search field type size : > 9000 and add a size field if you wish in the list view to sort descending . Add zeroes to the number to get less results back for your file sizes . This does n't work well for network backups in my experience due to lag or incomplete spotlight databases . If that does n't work , get a tool made to analyze Time Machine backups like BackupLoupe . It is crafted specifically to efficiently scan time machine backup drives and network volumes . It creates a comprehensive backup database of all the files and revisions that would make your size query a snap . <URL> Install the app Let it index one or more intervals Use the app 's find window to sort on size after setting the search criteria as follows : Type is directory and match type of none of the following is true <URL> It also helps to reveal the files in Finder so you could decide to remove that file across backups or just to delete that interval entirely . <URL> <URL> Since Time Machine stores each backup in folders , you could unleash any other tool ( DaisyDisk , Grand Perspective , WhatSize or other ) on the backup , but they do n't know how to interpret hard links and may take days or months to make a picture that does n't represent the actual storage allocations . BackupLoupe is smarter than the existing tools and does n't double count hard linked files . It also runs in the background if you wish . Lastly , it reads a database file summarizing the backups so the results are near instantaneous and you do n't even need the backup drive mounted to do the reporting .
Apple 's App Store requirements are very vague . <URL> for learning how to get your app rejected from the App Store . In short , it says nothing about backwards compatibility .
The worst that could happen is that the iPod could become " bricked " ( or unusable ) during the install process . This rarely happens , but if it does , it 's easily solvable by restoring from iTunes . What I would suggest would be to create a complete backup of the iPod before you upgrade . Once you 've done that , then I would have no worries about upgrading the software . Really , unless you 're messing around with jailbroken devices , iOS software upgrades are almost always painless . I 've upgraded all four of my iOS devices . Only one has been jailbroken in the past , but all of them upgraded without a hitch . So rest easy , and have fun updating your software !
Instead of using Clean Up By , use Arrange By . This both cleans up the layout and sets the default sort order for the folder for the future so that any modifications to the folder will update the sort order .
The <URL> lists the available network features per model in more detail . GSM model A1428 : UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) CDMA model A1429 : CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 ) GSM model A1429 : UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 ) In short , the two biggest differences are the CDMA vs. the GSM models . Depending on what you get , you wo n't even be able to do voice calls on the other type of network . Across the two different models with GSM antennas , it appears that the same frequencies for everything but LTE are supported , so you are likely to get 3G and GPRS support across all GSM networks if the carrier supports it .
The following works . System Preferences - > Login - > Login Options - > Check Enable Show Input menu in login window
Dropbox 's email management service app , <URL> , allows you to open attachments in Dropbox or <URL> , which in turn saves the attachment to your folder , but then again , this same thing happens in the stock Mail app ( minus the Dropbox integration ) . What happens is iFile just registers itself as being able to open any file type , so that any application can open its files in iFile . This is how almost every application does it - they simply let iFile do all of the filesystem handling , so they do n't have to ( it 's tricky on iOS ; just ask the guy who made <URL> ) . If that does n't fit your needs , however , there is a paid jailbreak tweak called <URL> that should do everything you 're looking for , and it integrates directly with the stock Mail app ( plus , it even looks like it uses Sandcastle ) , and it 's recently been updated for iOS 7 .
Well , iOS 6.1 seems to finally have solved the problem for me ; after updating my iPhone 5 happily connects to the company Wi-Fi again . I have n't yet tried connecting with the iPad , but I hope that works as well .
It 's very likely to be the speaker . Because yes , speaker use magnets . It 's on opposite side of the top speaker only and looking at <URL> ( courtesy of <URL> ) there is nothing else that is magnetic .
There are three microphones on the iPhone 5 . This setup is used to eliminate background noise while on call . One is ideally placed at the back , and two in the front . So basically when you 're covering the bottom , the mic on the ear piece picks up the audio input .
Yes , start with <URL> which easily <URL> and then move on to <URL> once you have a feeling for what you want to open up past one app at a time as your two year old gets more able to use more than just one game at a time . .
As far as I know , you ca n't unlock with Apple after you 've purchased an iPhone . In the US , the laws regarding cellphone unlocking have n't changed , but a Library of Congress exemption to the law has recently not ben renewed so you might only legally unlock if your carrier allows .
I ended up buying the unlock service even though I did n't have the original sim card . Fortunately the unlock service was n't able to unlock the iPhone 5S so they refunded me my money . I ended up going to the mobile operator and explaining my case , and even though I was on contract and had recently bought the phone , they agreed to unlock it . I might 've been lucky or it might 've been some new law against locking the new iPhones , however the person in the other country was able to activate the iPhone after the unlocking without the original sim card . The carrier the iPhone was locked to was Telenor and was based in Sweden .
You might consider searching the App Store . A few that turned up were : <URL> <URL> <URL> .
This is not supported by the default calendar app at the moment . An app called <URL> from the App Store might be what you 're looking for . Its listed features include : Works seamlessly together with all iPhone supported calendars ( Google Calendar , CalDAV , Outlook , Exchange , iCal ) . Snooze function with intervals of your choice .
The charger supplies the power that is demanded from it ( up to it 's rated output ) , not the other way around . So it 's entirely possible that the same unit will charge different devices at different speeds . It 's entirely possible that a newer battery will charge faster than an identical but older battery , and also possible that the new phone is allowed to pull more charge because it runs a little cooler ( charging generates heat , and one of the metrics for deciding how fast to charge is the heat generated as well as the batteries capacity to drink it up ) . Basically , it 's really hard to measure , without you do a from flat to full charge with the same unit to different devices with batteries of the same age and condition . Even then , be aware that the phone does n't stop charing when it says 100 % , that 's an artificial figure and your phone will continue to charge a little ( the equivalent of a little over 5 % more logically speaking ) , then run from battery a little , then charge a little , then run from battery etc - this is to keep your battery in good condition ( the same is true for 0 % , it will go lower in order to perform a clean shutdown - the battery figures are only an indication , not an accurate gauge ) - the actual methods for each device may also vary as to how they handle this .
Settings App - > Notifications - > Messages - > Repeat Alerts change that to " never . " :-) Let me know if that helped ...
Theres been <URL> online of messages sync being a bit buggy if you do n't set it up exactly right . Heres a few solutions that should get everything syncing nicely for you : Firstly , you need to have all devices set up to the same Apple ID iOS Devices ( iPhone , iPod Touch , iPad ) : Navigate to Settings > Messages . Make sure iMessage is turned on . Tap on Receive At . Check your Apple ID . Make note of this Apple ID . Tap on Caller ID . Use your email address . If you use your phone number ( assuming you &#8217; re on an iPhone ) , then the non phone devices ( including the Mac ) may not ( and probably won &#8217; t ) see the messages . Mac version : Navigate to the Messages app . Go to Preferences > Accounts . Add the same Apple ID as you used on the iOS devices . In a nutshell : everything needs to be consistent . Use the same Apple ID everywhere and an email address as a caller id for best results . If things are still not syncing , try the following . Delete all your previous conversations : <URL> that they had to delete all of their conversations before things would sync up . Make sure you have your phone number added to your <URL> .
end question
start question
Does Mail.app send or can request read receipts ?
I tested this using Mail on Snow Leopard connected to Exchange 2005 . There is no ability to set a request to receive read receipts . Reading an email sent from Outlook in Windows to mail on Snow Leopard with a read recipt requested , does not send a read receipt . Lion may vary .
GMail keeps no such logs , and neither does Mail.app Unfortunately , you 're kind of stuck searching for the messages yourself . If you read a lot of text-based mail , and want a " buffer " of sorts to prevent yourself from doing this in the future , a command line mail client like <URL> can be configured to only synchronize changes like message flags/folders on a configured interval , rather than immediately on the remote side . Homebrew has a package for it :
Not directly to iBooks , no . But you can email it to whatever email account you have set up on the iPad . Then , using the Open With button you can send it to iBooks or any compatible app on your iPad . I do this all the time with whitepapers I find on my work computer that I want to read on the train . Alternatively , I send my self a link to the file if it 's not behind a paywall or lead generation form .
I do n't believe this is possible at this time . Read receipts in iMessage appears to be an all-on or all-off option only .
The <URL> is not deleted , when the app is deleted . So if the keychain still contains the necessary credentials the app can just log in .
Mail.app uses more than one approach to junk mail . Some spam gets reported by other users . You can forward your junk mail to spam@icloud.com and it gets added to Apple 's filtering system . Mail servers sometimes mark messages as spam . When a tool like spam assassin has marked an incoming message as junk , Mail.app respects that and passes it to the junk folder automatically . Mail.app also supports custom filters . You can make your own filters that will direct junk mail into the junk folder .
You ca n't use Time Machine to back up Windows , if that 's what you mean . The only way you could do that is if you 're hosting the Win installation in a virtual machine like Parallels ( Paid ) or VirtualBox ( free ) , then of course your entire VM would be backed up to TM along with everything else on your mac . Still , rolling back to a particular state ( or recoveing a particular file ) that way would be like finding a needle in a haystack . I 'd suggest you 'd be better off keeping a clone of your windows installation and a separate clone/or TM backup of your OS X installation ( on a separate disk ) . Not only is this the only practical solution , more importantly its also the safest . Never keep all your eggs in one basket ( hard drive ) when it comes to backups , especially with Time Machine , which has a habit of getting itself corrupted just when you least want it .
With iTunes 11.0.1 , Apple restored the Find Duplicates functionality in the new iTunes .
Try searching your email for the string : Here 's an example email receipt I received from the iTunes App Store which included an in-app purchase ( in this case , an X-Men comic from the comiXology app ) :
From the Messages app section of the Apple Mountain Lion <URL> : Turn on read receipts , and they 'll see when you 've read a message . According to this <URL> , you can send read receipts in the Message app by following these steps : Open Preferences in iMessage , and select the " Accounts " tab Select the Message account from the left Check the box next to " Send Read Receipts " to enable Close out of iMessage Preferences Screenshot from this post : I can confirm the presence of the checkbox on my own Mac .
According to ISO/IEC INTERNATIONAL STANDARD 10149 ( Second edition 1995-07-15 ) , which is the basis for the " 1x " speed , the linear velocity at whatever point on the disc is being read needs to be between 1.2 and 1.4 meters per second . That would translate into a different RPMs at different parts of the disc . A back of the envelope calculation suggests that the fastest a drive in a modern MacBook Pro would spin the disc would be during 24x read at the center of the disc ; that would be around 12,000 revolutions per minute . The full text of the standard is downloadable for free at <URL>
You need to download <URL> , however every time MacOS X is updated the version of GrowlMail becomes outdated and wo n't run ( under Snow Leopard , at least ) . I think that the current version of GrowlMail does n't work with Mac OS X 10.6.7 at present . Details of why it keeps breaking are <URL> . It is annoying but seems unavoidable .
Try running the Apple Hardware Test . If I remember right , reboot holding D . If that does n't work , reboot while holding D , with an OS X disk in . Of course you 'll need to have an external DVD drive for that to work .
For iOS 8 or later , in iMessage once you have your conversation with the contact ( s ) you wish to send your location with , tap " Details " and then tap " Send Location " .
According to <URL> : Check that each person has an active Wi-Fi connection . Since both parties must use Wi-fi , no cellular data or voice usage will be charged . More information can be found in this <URL> , as it may be possible to use Facetime over 3G if the phone is jailbroken .
For that kind of things I use <URL> . I have a very easy way to filter PDF contents based on rules . The below image contains a rule that I use to organise my invoices . Hazel keeps watching a folder , and acts on every new file there based on your defined rules .
Time machine does n't care what else is on the destination drive as long as the volume ( partition ) you choose meets the minimum requirements . If the volume you select is n't formatted properly , Time Machine will offer to erase and reformat the part of the drive that will contain your backups . You might want to try resizing partitions using whatever tool you want before you start accumulating a lot of Time Machine data in case you want to be able to adjust the size of the partitions down the road , but that 's more of a problem with partitioning and not something that Time Machine causes .
<URL> is my VNC client of choice , and does precisely this .
One solution would be to use <URL> or <URL> to hold/sync your notes and read them with a simple text editing or note taking app . I use <URL> .
You do it right at the point of sending an email ... right after you hit send , this screen appears ...
end question
start question
Sync Photos without iTunes ?
Use <URL> it 'll sync pictures automatically between Mac and iPhone ( it does also work with iPad , Apple-tv 4 and iPod Touch 5/6 ) with iOS 8.1 or newer .
I 'd go for the ' not quite cave-man ' approach - though still a bit manual ... Launch Image Capture . Plug in iDevice Select any/all photos you wish to delete The Delete button is at the bottom of the window [ the ' no-entry ' sign ] After comments - the button is still there in Yosemite . Update Nov 2015 - the button is still there in El Capitan , though it is now black &amp; white , not red . Picture updated to Image Capture 6.7 after further queries on the button not being there . Update July 2016 , as people are still missing this bit ... If the Delete button does n't appear , eject &amp; re-plug the phone . <URL>
If you email the epub file to yourself , opening the attachment in iBooks will be an option in iOS Mail .
On iOS 7 Open the Photos App and make sure you are in the " Photos " section from the three icons at the bottom of the screen ; Look at the top of the screen and make sure the view is " Moments ; " Now you can tap individual thumbnails one at a time to select them , or you can tap the word " Select " that appears at the top of each grouping to select an entire grouping . On iOS 6 Go to Settings → General → Usage → Photos &amp; Camera ; Swipe on the " Camera Roll " entry ; A " Delete " button appears . This solution does not work on iOS 7 ( last tested on iOS 7.0.4 ) . It is probably a bug . Any iOS , but using a computer If you have iOS 7 , you can use Image Capture on your Mac to delete photos from the iPhone without importing them : Plug the iPhone to your Mac with the iPhone cable ; Quit iPhoto if it launches automatically ; Launch Image Capture ; Select the photos you want to delete ; Click the red icon to delete the photos . <URL> <URL>
The UI for configuring Google Contact Sync in Address Book and in iTunes is intended to support the same feature . If it is enabled in one place and not enabled in another place , it is a bug in the Apple software . Pre-iCloud , all contact syncing worked through a service called Sync Services . Google Contact Sync is one of the clients of contact syncing via Sync Services , and both Address Book and iTunes provide a user interface for enabling Google Contact Sync .
Yes ; The Geo tags are written into the images via the native Location Services within the phone , primarily via the GPS chip the phone contains . Since the information written is merely latitude/longitude , you do not need to have a data connection in order for that information to be determined and added . The need for a data connection in tandem with photos is the ability to place them on a map , when using iPhoto for example .
No , iTunes will not " listen " for music in a given folder ( like the popular BT program Transmission , which will load torrent files once they 've been downloaded to a given directory ) . You have to manually add music by dragging it in the iTunes window or going through the file menu ( CMD + O ) . However , you could achieve what you are after perhaps with some voodoo in Apple Script . Or simply sort the contents of your music folder by " date added " ( provided you are using Lion ) and manually add the songs as they arrive . But then if you are going through all this trouble of manually managing files , you may wish to ask yourself , " why " ? It might be less of a burden to just let iTunes do its thing ( like it was mentioned before , you can tell iTunes to copy the music anywhere you like , on any drive connected to your system , even on a network ) than micro-manage a bunch of files .
There are really two answers to this question , and they depend upon how the game is made . If your game is using Steam 's <URL> , your save games will be automatically copied across your machines . <URL> Not very useful , but the best I could find . Most non-Steam games will create a file somewhere on your Mac which contains your save data . This save file could be in the game directory , it could be in your Library folder , it could be elsewhere . That 's going to change depending on the game , and is up to you to find out . We can sync this file via Dropbox . Now , if the game lets you choose where to place your save file , you could save it in your Dropbox folder , and let that sync it across devices . Just make sure it 's fully synced on every device before loading it . If the game does n't let you choose where to save , we 're going to have to do it manually . We need to create a , which is kind of like having the same file exist in two places in your filesystem at once . Time Machine makes extensive use of it . Lifehacker <URL> detailing using symlinks to sync files and folders for Dropbox . Now , I have n't tested it , and you should be very careful with this . What you want to do is to open up Terminal and do something like this : ln - s / Users/PutYourNameHere/Library / Preferences/com . nakiwo.doukutsu.plist ~ / Dropbox/MySaveGames/CaveStory / com.nakiwo.doukutsu.plist You 're going to need to replicate that on both computers . Now , be very careful with this method , and make sure you back up any files you try this with . I 'd be very , very careful about doing it with whole folders , especially important ones like the Preferences folder . But in theory , it should work . Good luck !
I highly recommend importing your photos at full resolution , on the off chance that you ever want to crop or make a big print or display on a high res screen in the future . With Apple Photos , you can import at full resolution and it will upload the full image to iCloud . Then , under Preferences : iCloud Photo Library select Optimize Mac Storage . Photos will now automatically switch to thumbnails when you start running low on space , and will automatically download the full-res version whenever you need to edit , view or export an image .
The first part of the sync error message means exactly what it says - your iPhone can only be associated with a single iTunes library . The second half is tricky for people that are analytical , but for most users it 's meant to make them want to back up their phone before they erase it . Regardless of how you choose to copy your content ( sync manually or automatic ) it maintains a connection to a single library to which is is allowed to copy music/films/apps etc to and from , and where backups/restores etc can be made . Unless you know exactly what was synced - you could be inadvertently erasing some content hence the scary general error message . If you introduce your iPhone to a new iTunes library , then it can remove any content that is associated with the previous one . Assuming you still have access to the old one you can copy the files from one computer to another to enable you to sync them back again after , or you can transfer the purchases to the new iTunes library assuming it has been authorised using the same Apple ID . This is an attempt to limit unauthorised copying of music and other content etc , otherwise you could happily take your phone or iPod around to all your friends laptops and merrily copy all their stuff onto your device , where you could then happily sync it back to your iTunes library at home . Other phone content , like emails , contacts , settings should remain unaffected , as these are not held within the iTunes library ( even if you have set iTunes to be the sync mechanism for putting them on your phone , they belong outside of the library . Rule of thumb : if the original iTunes copied the content on in the first place , it will be removed . It wo n't just wipe the whole phone , just what came from iTunes .
I use <URL> from FatCatSoftware to merge my libraries . I 've merged more than 12 libraries and 500 GB of photos .
As I have access I 've made a screenshot for you . I do n't know why Apple hides this behind a login , but I do n't think it 's a secret .
The procedure of photo transfer from iPhone to Mac is astoundingly simple and takes few minutes . You can simply follow below steps : Download <URL> Firstly you will need to download the iPhone to Mac Wi-Fi transfer app to your iPhone through Apple App Store . No installation on your Mac required ! Connect your iPhone and Mac to the same Wi-Fi network . If you do not have multiple routers at your place , your iOS devices should detect and connect to the same Wi-Fi network automatically . Otherwise you might need to manually choose the Wi-fi network for your iPhone to the same as the Mac . Run the iPhone Photo Wireless Transfer Run the photos iPhone to Mac Wireless transfer app on your iPhone . You will get a local IP address through which your Mac can access your iPhone photos library . Browse through your iPhone photo library from your Mac browser Open the web browser on your Mac , type the above IP address in the address bar of your web browser on the Mac . It could be Internet Explorer , Chrome , Firefox , Safari , or any other web browsers you have . Press Enter on the keyboard , all photos and albums from this iPhone 's photo library will be listed on the Photo Wireless Transfer interface right on your Mac browser . After the Wi-Fi connection between your iPhone and Mac established , you can use the web browser on the Mac to browse through photo library and albums on iPhone . Open the target photo album , you will find all photos listed as thumbnails . Transfer photos from iPhone to Mac Now it 's time to pick up the photos from iPhone photo library and transfer to Mac over Wi-Fi . You can click the ' preview ' to enlarge the photos ; you can click ' Download original ' to download pictures one by one ; you can also select multiple photos or all photos in the album and download them as a compressed zip file . With this iPhone to Mac transfer tool , to copy photos from iPhone to Mac over the air is much easier than ever before .
The iPod nano and classic iPods get loaded a custom firmware that could be downloaded from the internet and possibly loaded with a tool other than iTunes , but on a PC you could easily use whatever disk tool you want to erase the drive by reformatting it . Since this would render the device unbootable , you will not want to sell it to a user that 's not familiar with why it 's not working , so the elegant solution would be to rent another computer with iTunes and restore it . Apple 's retail stores usually will even loan you a cable to restore your device from any of the display Macs . iTunes on a new computer would want to erase all the content anyhow - so going another step to wipe and restore the device will leave a clean slate and you might even be able to sync some demo content to the device depending on how iTunes is set up in the store you visit .
Indeed there is . You can try <URL> - it encodes video on the fly and sends it straight to your AppleTV . I 've used it for a while now , and although it can be a little unstable from time to time , it really is very useful . Of course , you could always install XBMC following <URL> and control it , play all sorts of video , and make tons on neat customizations however you see fit . Good luck .
First of all , to remove any confusion , iCloud 's , and are two different things , and will behave differently . iCloud Photo Sharing From the <URL> : How many photos and videos can be stored in a shared album ? A shared album can hold a maximum of 5000 photos and videos combined . When you reach your limit , you must delete some photos or videos before adding new ones . My Photo Stream Limits Uploads to My Photo Stream per month : 25,000 photos Also note that photos are automatically deleted from your photostream after 30 days .
The best browser for this is <URL> ( <URL> ) . It supports full Firefox browser syncing . There is a .99 upgrade to remove ads .
Use Image Capture . You 'll find it in your Applications folder . It 's surprisingly robust , and it 's made by Apple .
As far as I am aware , invoking iCal 's " refresh " function , under the Calendar menu should do all server side communication and updates . Refresh will only update the calendar that hosts the event you currently have ( or last had ) selected . Refresh All will of course update all of your calendars . This should be a two-way process , and not just pulling down new changes , it should also send local changes back assuming it 's not being done automatically .
File > Export > Export Unmodified Original ... will export a full size image to the folder of your choice .
end question
start question
Is there any way to set Gmail app as the default mail client in iPhone and iPad ?
This does n't appear possible . In order to utilize email functionalities from within apps , you will have to enable the Apple Mail app . I recommend turning off all notifications for Mail if you want to use the Gmail app as your primary iPhone mail client .
Do n't know of a way to specifically do that , but you can set up browser bookmarks and/or desktop icons that will connect to specific hosts , if that 's any help . For the former , create a bookmark that points to vnc : / / hostname.blah.com rather than the more usual <URL> . For the latter , create a text file with the . command suffix ( e.g. ' myvnc.command ' ) that contains the single line : which will start the screen sharing session when you double-click it in Finder . You can also drag it to your dock if you wish .
You can define a preset from the print dialog . First change the settings for what you want , and then choose the Presets > Save As ... menu . If you leave your preset selected , it will be selected the next time also , so you will never have to change it .
There are several options you can use here . They can do practically the same : <URL> : It 's an app which will allow you to create watchlist and share them with your friends . And you can even write reviews for movies and share them with your friends . <URL> : My personal favorite since it has the biggest library and community . You can watch trailers , share items , see actors , make cross-references , share movies with your friends and make watchlists . I personally enjoy using this app ! And something out of category : <URL> : Here you can check into movies/books/shows / music / ... you saw/read/watched / listened . And you can follow your friends and by so , see what they 've been up to . It 's not really what you want , but it 's the closest I could find !
Go to Settings > Notifications > Stock Widget and turn it Off . Notifications for all apps that can display them are managed in Settings . Two built-in apps , Stocks and Weather , get exceptional treatment and show in Notification Center as widgets . In the Notifications Settings , they are listed as Stock Widget and the Weather Widget . To prevent an app from displaying in Notification Center , click the app in the list and make sure the option " Notification Center " is set to off .
There is no official way to do so , but if you 've jailbroken your iPad , you can use <URL> . It 's a Cydia Tweak and I can highly recommend it . It does exactly what you want .
<URL> is $ 10 on the MAS and does have a status-bar only option .
Dropbox 's email management service app , <URL> , allows you to open attachments in Dropbox or <URL> , which in turn saves the attachment to your folder , but then again , this same thing happens in the stock Mail app ( minus the Dropbox integration ) . What happens is iFile just registers itself as being able to open any file type , so that any application can open its files in iFile . This is how almost every application does it - they simply let iFile do all of the filesystem handling , so they do n't have to ( it 's tricky on iOS ; just ask the guy who made <URL> ) . If that does n't fit your needs , however , there is a paid jailbreak tweak called <URL> that should do everything you 're looking for , and it integrates directly with the stock Mail app ( plus , it even looks like it uses Sandcastle ) , and it 's recently been updated for iOS 7 .
In the Terminal application , type and voilà , there is your answer !
Yes , the two models are physically different . The radio is different . As <URL> , the radio frequencies are n't the same . The verizon iPad supports Verizon LTE , and as per <URL> , AT&amp;T 3G . However , the Verizon iPad does not support all LTE frequencies that the AT&amp;T iPad does . From Apple.com : Wi-Fi + 4G for AT&amp;T model : 4G LTE ( 700 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Wi-Fi + 4G for Verizon model : 4G LTE ( 700 MHz ) ; CDMA EV-DO Rev. A ( 800 , 1900 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Notice that there are some differences between the listed frequencies . They 're nearly the same , but not quite . Edit : To confirm , the difference is a hardware difference , not a software imposed limitation on AT&amp;T LTE . From <URL> : The Verizon iPad hardware supports only the 700 MHz band for LTE to match the carrier 's technology , while the GSM version sold for use on AT&amp;T 's network supports both the 700 MHz and 2100 MHz bands as used by that carrier . If you 're looking to travel internationally , go with the AT&amp;T iPad . ( I got the Verizon iPad because I wanted the free hotspot feature , which AT&amp;T does not offer for free at this time . )
Yes - this is a per blog preference . I found <URL> ... Double click the blog in the main window to open settings . Click the " Editing " pane . Find the " Preview Defaults " at the bottom of that section . Here 's a picture showing that you can choose to have it off or remember the last state as well as the default option of opening .
Unfortunately , there is no way to do this in Apple Mail . It only works for messages which you are replying to ( they automatically use the same outgoing address which received the original message ) . There is no hook in AppleScript , nor an option in Automator by which to make this happen . If it were possible , as of right now , it would still require a third-party plugin , which I have not been able to find either . So unfortunately , the answer is now . Note : Also , if you select the inbox of the account from which you want to send the message , then compose , Mail will automatically use that account 's email address for sending , unless you change it . Not quite as helpful as what you were hoping for , but at least something worth considering . Good luck and happy mailing !
I believe that if you make an encrypted backup using iTunes it will include passwords .
There is no easy way to do this , you only have one artist field per track . What you could do is listing the name of all artists in the artist field and then create smart playlists with rules for " Artist contains " .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
I use the following bookmark , which you can create as many as needed , to resize my safari window to a specific size : This moves the window to the far left , top and then makes the width 1250 pixels and makes the hight fill to the available ( limited by the dock hight , if not hidden ) . To use , bookmark any page and then edit the address with the code above . Every now and again , an update to safari will break this , and then it 'll work again after a subsequent update .
Here is an applescript I just put together that is working for me ( 10.9 ) You can place it in the Applescript menu and run it on the selected Emails . The script will : Try and grab the select emails in Mail . Send a Request to google translate Convert the resulting HTML to plain text Display a temporary text file with the translation . You can set the original language to auto or one of the languages in the languages_code list . And also set the result language from the list . There is no reason you should not be able to create a service using this script . But I will leave that to you . Just note that for the device to work you will need to right click/crtl + click in a message 's body for the service menu to show up . Or use the Services menu .
As @jaume has mentioned , you can use the Mac App Store Preview on Apple 's Website to browser apps from the Mac App Store . The same exists for iOS apps and is labeled as iTunes Preview . As you will have already noticed , the search box on Apple 's website is not very helpful when searching for Apps . The best alternative I can think of uses a google query . In the Google search box type : <URL> ... which uses the URL : Copy and paste the URL Add your keyword to the end ( separate multiple keywords by )
iOS does not have an option for this , nor does apple approve apps which alter the status bar . If you want this function you will have to jailbreak your iOS device and install a third party status monitor . As pointed out in another answer , LockInfo does this . SBSettings used to , but no longer does . If you 're running an iOS 4.x device , OpenNotifier might be useful as it does this as well as give you pull-down notifications similar to android and iOS 5 . If you 're developing for this device , however , you can add this function yourself . As a developer you can run custom code without jailbreaking the device - you just ca n't submit that code to the app store . The trick , then , is going to be finding example code for this feature . I expect someone in the jailbreaking community will have some info on what the code needs to do , and if you 're lucky you 'll find an open source project for it . Then you can compile and sign it yourself , and as long as you keep your ad-hoc license current and recompile/re-sign it yearly , you can use it on your personal devices . I think a lot of developers overlook the fact that they can run any code they want on their own devices without jailbreaking . They can also distribute such apps in a limited manner to their friends using adhoc distribution as well . It looks like OpenNotifier is open source , and has the functionality you need : <URL> I do n't know much about the status of the project , but it might be usable for you as a developer to bring this functionality to your devices .
You do it right at the point of sending an email ... right after you hit send , this screen appears ...
end question
start question
Securely erase deleted files ?
You can erase free space using Disk Utility . ( ) . In the sidebar of Disk Utility , select " Macintosh HD " ( or the drive where you 'd originally stored the file ) . At the top of the window , select the " Erase " tab . Towards the lower left-hand corner of the window , there 's a button labelled Erase Free Space . This lets you overwrite all of the free space on the drive ( which is where your deleted file currently resides ) . You can choose a one-pass , three-pass or seven-pass erase -- hopefully that 's more than enough . And if not , I guess you can just do it multiple times . As always with Disk Utility stuff , be a little careful . I did this a couple of years ago with a three-pass erase , something screwed up and I had to restore from a backup :(
Maybe in your Home folder ? It 's the default folder the terminal points to . Try to open it through the Go menu in the finder .
Booting to Internet Recovery Mode boots directly to a netboot image provided by Apple/Akamai servers . The netboot image is a stripped down OS X version which only provides some diagnostic tools and a tool to either restore OS X or a Time Machine backup . The downloaded OS is completely loaded to RAM and nothing is written to hard disks . After shutting down/rebooting the Mac the RAM is wiped and everything has to be downloaded again if you want to start to Recovery Mode a second time . To create a Recovery HD on your Mac you have to install OS X ( Restore OS X ) . While downloading and installing OS X a recovery partition will be built also . Another option is to set up a Mac running Server.app and <URL> . That will keep a copy of the recovery image locally in cache and speed up the download - perhaps 100x as fast if you have a gigabit speed network locally .
Not using the All My Files option , but yes you can , using your own search criteria . Open your volume in Finder Search for Any Document : Set the search location to the name of the drive : Alternatively , for all files ( not just Documents like All My Files ) you can set the search criteria by size : You can change the view to make it match the appearance of All My Files :
Apple does n't provide a way for you to withdraw an erase command from iCloud . Theoretically , if it has n't been withdrawn , an engineer for Apple could go in and remove it from the queue assuming : They could verify you were really you You figured out how to convince them to do this As for whether you can still track the device after an erase is sent , that depends on the version of iOS on the device . If you have iOS 7 or later - the erase action does not stop tracking or remove the activation lock preventing a thief or someone who finds / buys it from being able to use the device . It will still show your lock message and you can still track the device . Problem solved ! If you are on iOS 6 or earlier , you are correct that you will have lost the chance to track the device once it connects and receives the wipe command . If it ever connects to Apple 's servers , the wipe will happen and the device will be erased and you should get an email if/when that happens .
You can make an efficient copy of the Time Machine volume by using Disk Utility and making a disk image of the original volume . Store that image on the temporary storage / other drive as a single file . Once you 've erased the original drive and partitioned it as you wish , then use Disk Utility to reverse the operation and restore the image to the new partition . That will erase anything on the new partition so do the restore first then add extra files as needed . Time Machine will pick up and use the new destination and carry on with backups and cleanup operations assuming no corruption happens during the two copy events . I would just get a cheap drive and do the first step . Once I 've verified that the backup img file mounts and I can restore a sample file to my desktop from Time Machine , I 'd just erase the intended drive and start over with backups . Much easier that way and why spend the second half of the work - just archive that Time Machine data offline in case you need it down the road .
You can cancel current command with ⌃ CTRL + c . You can clear command to the beginning with ⌃ CTRL + u. To clear line after the cursor press ⌃ CTRL+K . Here are some great answers on <URL> .
I recommend <URL> which can recover a very wide variety of <URL> . Even if you do n't see the file type listed , ProSoft maybe able to help you recover the data . I once had a client delete a their QuickBook 's for Mac data file . It was a new version of QuickBooks with a radically different file format from prior versions . The current Data Rescue did n't recover the data ; however , ProSoft was able to provide a new file definition and all of the data was recovered . There are separate Mac and PC versions of Data Rescue . I have used both with good results , but I have far more experience with the Mac version . I find $ 99 for Data Rescue to be a very fair price , however , if you are only needing to recover image files from digital cameras , checkout ProSoft 's <URL> for $ 20 . I believe Image Rescue comes with both Mac and PC licenses .
[ I 'm answering for anybody ending up here , as the original OP most probably is no more interested . I still refer to his problem description . ] I tried using Testdisk 6.13 ( latest stable release ) and it worked like a breeze for both NTFS and HFS + . I had the luxury of an empty HFS + partition , so I just removed it and recovered it using Testdisk - it was rather fast . I followed the following tutorials : <URL> <URL> If you indeed just removed one partition , it should be fast . Otherwise , it might take more time , but probably waiting is the most sensible option . But if you 're really impatient ( as I am ) and you know very well what you 're doing , you might want to read on . A ( dangerous ) tip to speedup Testdisk from my own experience If the partition entry is just removed , Testdisk will look for the start of the partition in sensible positions ( by default , at the start of every cylinder , since partitions should usually be cylinder-aligned ) , ignoring the existing partition table . Once it thinks it found a partition and you confirm its guess , it will skip searching inside the partition . If there is a lot of free space ( without a filesystem ) before the partition , this might be very slow . So I could speed up search a lot by creating a filesystem in an empty partition before the missing one , so that Testdisk would skip that space . However I knew perfectly where to create this filesystem , especially because it did not border with the lost partition . Otherwise , creating such a filesystem can easily destroy the wrong data - hence only attempt this if you know very well what you 're doing .
Lion does not offer any customizations during the installation process . Thus a reinstallation is about as smooth and as linear as possible . You restart your Mac holding the OPTION key when you hear the tone . You will then be greeted with various partitions you can use instead of the main Lion partition . Should you wish to simply reinstall Lion , you would select the Recovery HD partition . Once loaded , you just need to follow the prompts and install it over your current Lion installation . The new installation will replace all the core system files , but leave your user profile and data complete untouched . Your music , documents , even passwords and bookmarks , and applications will not touched ; none of your personal information will be deleted ( nor will it backup your old system , as was common in older OS X versions ) . It is a seamless process that simply rolls Lion back to the default installation build . There will be nothing lost and no disk spaced wasted on old system files . <URL> . Note : It was the case that older builds of OS X allowed various types of reinstallations ( like Archive and Install or a complete erase ) , but these have been omitted in Lion , greatly simplifying the process .
No , once and App has been deleted , either by you or because of the expiration process , you can not reuse your SKU or app name in the same account again . It can be used , though , by another developer . Under the <URL> section of the iTunes Connect Developer Guide you 'll learn more about the ramifications of an App Deletion .
Actually , All My Files is a folder , but not the way you 'd expect it to be . It exists at the path . It is a special type of folder , called a bundle , that has an extension . You can usually access the inner part of these by right-clicking and choosing " Show Package Contents " , but with All My Files you ca n't due to Finder 's special treatment of it . The bundle contains a file called which is just a Smart Folder property list . This is a search for all files within your home directory . In your case , this does n't matter , because when you drag something into the All My Files folder , it goes to . The odd thing about this is it only happens for All My Files , and not other Smart Folders , which do n't allow you to drag-and-drop files into them .
If you have a USB Flash Drive of 8 GB of size , you can make a Lion Installer and use it to securely erase the Drive . <URL> You can also make a USB Bootable Recovery Disk as explained here by Apple : <URL> Once you have done either you can hold down the key while restarting your computer and booting from it . When it loads up , it will give you a few different options , you will need to use the Disk Utility part and highlight your HD and choose the Erase Tab . Under the erase settings will be a security option when you can write the disk to 0 once or even multiple times . There is a guide on it here : <URL> See the part where it says How to Zero erase and install OS X I hope that helps you out . Updated The guy at the bottom of this post : <URL> points out a work around to securely erase the SSD drive in the MacBook Air through encryption . This is what he says : cmace127 I found a workaround . Restart the computer and hold option to enter the setup screen . Go into disk utility and select the drive . Erase the drive using " Mac OS Extended ( Case-sensitive , Journaled , Encrypted ) . Make a password for the encryption , it does n't matter what it is because you wo n't need it . Hit " Erase " . Now select the volume and the " Erase Free Space " and " Security Options " buttons should no longer be grayed out . Click and select your level of security and off you go . I presume " Erase Free Space " and " Security Options " should do the same thing because you just erased the drive so all space is considered free . This worked for me so let me know if it helps . Let me know if that 's works , this should securely erase the drive since it will then be encrypted . Also , in the future with lion be sure to use File Vault 2 so that you do n't have to worry about this again .
Sadly , you 've passed the point where you get to save your work . Luckily , iMovie periodically saves the application database / library so you are unlikely to lose everything if you decide to shut down the Mac or force quit the application . Once you regain control of the application ( you already know you ca n't do anything with it stuck in a state where it 's no longer responding to messages , input - a.k.a spinning wheel of death ) you can see if the changes you made are missing . If they are , a call to apple support might be needed to restore the backup copies of the library it has made internally since Apple does n't document how to restore a previous iMovie library publicly . Going forward , you can set a timer and periodically save/quit iMovie and then back up the files . Time Machine allows you to make local snapshots if you do n't have your backup volume connected . Then to make a point in time snapshot of all the files , quit iMovie and then run in terminal : That saves a neat point in time version of all your files that you can then recover later using the Time Machine interface .
In the past - Apple had three methods to install : erase and install ( now deprecated ) archive + install + migrate upgrade install ( now deprecated ) Now , when you run the installer - it is always archive , install , migrate . SO the existing system folder is n't touched ( it gets archived ) and a new system folder and library are created on the drive . So some folders get erased entirely , some have modification scripts and most user folders do n't change . The user folders might get a light script run to clean known issues , but in general - the things in the user home folder are left alone . The system then reboots into the newly functioning system to run further installations and then kicks off the migration script . That script is responsible for the <URL> where it actually goes over each user folder and migrates all the apps , settings and checks for known incompatible software and packages so they can be disabled before any user logs in to the newly made system . The whole process usually takes 5 to 25 minutes for the system tasks and then the last user step can take a few moments or a few hours in my experience . Past an hour , it is usually hung and you might need to do an erase / migration from backup . <URL> The old system is then deleted unless the script detects a potential that it will be needed or the migration failed in some manner . I you wan to do an erase instal , you need to erase the drive using internet recovery , target disk mode or similar and then run an installer on a blank volume .
If the only two directories you have in ~ Library/Developer are Xcode and Docsets ( or Shared/Docsets ) then you should be safe to delete that folder . If you did re-install XCode you would get them ( or updated versions ) back .
Hold command and click and drag the alias out if the side to remove , I believe .
I guess the status bar was just hidden . You can show it by checking Show Status Bar from the View menu .
iOS 4.0 supports a very rapid secure erase called " Data Protection " . If you upgrade from 3.0 you need to do a restore to set the stage for hardware encryption of all the data . If your device is n't capable of hardware encryption ( often called secure data at rest ) , then you can use the Erase all content and settings function . This <URL> has been around since iPhone OS 2.0 As this does n't work the same way on all iOS devices , do read <URL> before you depend on this to clear data securely . Once you are through erasing the device , you might want to connect it to a clean iTunes library and restore the device and set it up as new . Making a new account on your Mac or PC is an easy way to have a library with no account , no songs , and no apps just to be sure the device has a clean ( and easily verifiable ) start to it 's new life .
If it is jailbroken , nothing could be simpler . Use iFile ( downloadable from Cydia store ) . If it is not , tough luck , I have no idea . You might make it with <URL> from the AppStore , but no promises here . Good luck !
end question
start question
How to access recent files or folders in Finder or in file dialogs ?
The option offered by techraf is one way to go , but I do think there is a built-in OS X option available that will meet your needs ( or most of them ) . In every OS X ' Open ' dialogue box or ' Save as ' dialogue box you have a drop-down menu which you can click on to select other locations . Clicking on this will also list your recent places and allows you to open from or save to these as needed . Depending on your setup , you may need to click on the arrow button appearing next to the field ( on the right ) to make the drop-down visible . As an aside ( and you 're probably aware of this - but for the benefit of others ) on a related note you can access recent applications and documents under Apple Menu > Recent Items . You can also increase/decrease the number of recent items listed here by accessing System Preferences > Appearance on older systems or System Preferences > General on newer ones . Hope this helps . [ EDIT ] Okay , here are some images showing an example of how to view recent places in Mac OS X Save As dialogue boxes and Open dialogue boxes . These examples are based on OS X El Capitan , but other versions also work in a similar fashion . <URL> <URL> Please note : Various applications may display these dialogue boxes differently , but all offer the ability to view recent places In my images , Desktop is shown in the Where drop-down menu . However , this may be different depending on your circumstances If you ca n't seem to see a list of recent places , make sure if there is an arrow next to the Save As field that it faces down ( see below ) <URL> Hope this helps !
These files starting with a dot are meant to be hidden in * nix . To see them in terminal add the flag to the command : To see them in the Finder you will want to set a hidden preference ( this is global change tho , you 'll see all your hidden files everywhere ) : and then restart the finder : To reverse and hide them again : <URL> Update to add : Lately I 've only been able to get this to work when the string is lower case ! I think this happened starting in 10.9 , but not certain . So you 'll want :
Try this ( not automated , because i do n't like automated delete for anything ) : Make a " smart album " in the iPhoto with the condition " Photo is Movie " . With this you get all movies into your new smart album . press info ( for check how much MB they 're occupied ) Simply drag &amp; drop movies out of the iPhoto ( long time ) ensure ( double check ) they are really OK move the movies from the smart-album into the Trash empty ( triple check before deleting - do not blame me , when your computer get destroyed or so )
<URL> including <URL> is a collection of useful scripts that you can run from the Finder or the command line . Of course they all use iTunes to process data , but you might find it more convenient than having to use iTunes ' GUI and mouse commands to convert files .
Answering this Is there an iPad app that that can open Mac files over WiFi on the iPad ? I bought a app called <URL> on my iPad , I use it to access files over the Network to access shared folders on my Mac using my iPad and iPhone . It is universal app for iPhone/iPad . It works also with Windows PCs , Dropbox and other services . You can also use it to access your iPad files using the Mac/Pc ( opposite way ) I bought for $ 5 , This is looking too much as a ad ( I 'm not related to this company ) , so read description for details . <URL>
Found some interesting solutions in the article <URL> . Someone in the comments of this article mentioned the app <URL> and this seems to be more along the lines of what I was looking for with more a seamless Finder integration and maintaining folder appearance , not sure if it works on just single files the same way , will need to try it . Eg I have a important Tax Documents folder , and now I have a Tax Documents Folder Encrypted , and not now I have a Tax Documents disk image file sitting there instead of a folder .
Select the picture , then in the Arrange tab uncheck Constrain Proportions [ you may have to revert to original size before that will un-grey . Then dragging the image by any edge will stretch . If you need to crop , that 's in Image - Edit Mask [ though crop does n't constrain anyway ]
In the find file window , press Command-Shift-G . It 'll ask you what folder to navigate to . Enter " ~ / . ssh " and press return .
I 'm not an expert on jail breaking , but AFAIK , that limitation is baked into iTunes - it does n't really care if your phone is jailbroken , at least for the purposes of your question - it just talks with the music app ( or more specifically , the database behind it ) . That said , there is software out there that can restore your iTunes library from an iPod or iPhone . <URL> works on OS X , there 's also <URL> . <URL> seems to be the goto option for Windows . You 'll have to use one of those programs to get your library back on your new computer , then re-sync your iPhone from your new library .
<URL> is a free OS X GUI to the <URL> command line utility . It will get you started on the path to rsync enlightenment . You can save common sync operations to recall them at a later time for easy rsync . And it supports the common rsync use case scenarios : push A to B but leave stuff that 's in B but not A in place , push A to B and delete stuff that 's in B but not in A , make A and B look the same ( with a conflict report ) .
You can use the Automator workflows . Choosing PDF on the left and then dragging the action " Set PDF metadata " ( or something similar , my version is in Italian ) on the right part of the Automator window you can put author , title and whatever in one or multiple PDF files . Issues and workarounds : if you update the metadata directly on your PDFs in the iBooks folder it will not update iBooks , so you wo n't see any change . I suggest to copy your PDFs on you desktop , erase the PDFs from iBooks , use Automator to add the metadata and then re-import ( drag and drop is useful here ) the books in your iBooks . I have just finished updating my files , you ca n't go wrong ;)
I 'm afraid not . iCloud is designed for iOS devices without a user accessible file system . iCloud files are strictly associated with apps and only allow one level of folder nesting . If you 're not happy with this , you can send feedback to Apple about it here : <URL> You could use Dropbox instead ( https://www.dropbox.com/ ) which has more flexibility around file organisation . The downside is that you only get 2GB free but you can earn more free storage in various ways . Google Drive ( https://drive.google.com/start#home ) gives you 5GB free .
Just found <URL> , an email client built open source and web-based . Has already a tagging feature and more but you can easily extend anything you want with JS-Skills . In future there should be a plugin for everything .
According to <URL> , and were removed when Apple released OS X for Intel processors . The ( excellent ) article also explains how to reenable the memory devices , namely using the kernel boot argument . To set it , open Terminal , type : and reboot . The article was written in May 2006 , but the Mavericks 10.9.2 kernel still supports the option . After a reboot I saw these two devices : If your Mac wo n't boot or you have any issues , reset the NVRAM by pressing ⌘ optionPR and holding the keys down until you hear the startup sound for the second time , as explained in " Resetting NVRAM / PRAM " in <URL> . If you wish to reset the argument , type and check that does not print any results .
Instruments -- a part of the Apple Xcode development suite -- can monitor all file access and writes . Open it from / Applications/Xcode . app/Contents/Applications / Instruments.app , select your application or process , and press Start . You have extensive filter options available in the menus . Older versions of Xcode are storing the App at / Developer/Applications/Instruments . app
⌘ + ⌫ Pressing Command-Delete ( or perhaps more commonly known as backspace ) also does the same trick . That 's all there is to it !
Both return and command + O work to open files in my version of coda . Is your enter key only an enter key or combined ? It does n't look like that plug in changes key bindings so you might have to search elsewhere for something that is altering the standard behavior . Other tweaks or software possibly ?
Look at the iOS app <URL> . GoodReader is a $ 5 app that allows you to transfer files from Windows , Mac OS X &amp; Linux via WiFi to your iPad , iPhone , or iPod Touch . You can then open the files in other apps based on the filetype .
iCloud.com does n't have an interface to access your <URL> . However there are other ways to access the photos if you do n't have access to iTunes for syncing . <URL> The <URL> has recently been updated with a feature that can automatically upload all the new photos from your Camera Roll to Dropbox when you open the app . I believe you can even <URL> . Once the photos are in your Dropbox account , you can access them through the web interface on Dropbox.com or the <URL> . <URL> The AirSharing app ( <URL> ) is essentially a general purpose file transfer client . It supports FTP , SFTP , WebDAV , Google Docs , Dropbox and more . You can use it to transfer photos from your iPad 's Camera Roll ( or other albums ) to your Debian machine via ( S ) FTP or a WebDAV folder running on your iPad . If you prefer to avoid a cloud solution like Dropbox , this is probably the way to go . These are just a couple options , there are certainly others out there ( the <URL> app would probably work similarly to Dropbox , and there are other apps similar to AirSharing ) .
Ok , I should have taken a look at SuperUser , <URL> a way to do what AllInOne says without fiddling with XML files ( and it 's faster ) . Simply create a new smart folder or hit cmd + F , choose " Raw Query " from the filters and type in the field .
end question
start question
What directory does homebrew use to build programs ?
When you install a Homebrew package , if it needs to compile it from source , it will extract the files to and compile them there before installing to . You can specify a different temp folder by setting an environment variable ...
To access any folder in Finder , press Cmd + Shift + G and enter the directory you want to access .
Just type this command into Terminal . With zero arguments it 'll print the names and values of variables in the environment . Alternative with a bit more typing :
Apple implements tethering , so if your app proxies TCP/IP traffic directly , you will probably run afoul of several aspects of the review process . Clearly , if your app is doing things to add value to the network you 'll likely have more legs to stand on that your app is n't just the same implementation as carrier tethering : linking IOT type devices speak protocols other than just TCP/IP allow filtering , reporting , proxy , QOS controls Like all app submissions , your milage may vary . You can do the work and take your chances or you can line up a big customer and sell the app B2B style if you are worried about Apple deciding to pass on your app .
If there is something FaceBook is good at , it 's in bothering it 's users :) So make sure you 've unchecked those items : Make sure you 've switched the Notification Center-slider to off and the Alert Style to none in such a way FaceBook is listed in the Not In Notification Center . And if you go to Settings < FaceBook , make sure you 're Push Notifications are all switched off .
Conceptually , it always uses OS API - the question is only in what way . There are essentially three options . using low-level OS API ( system calls ) directly . In your example the task is quite involved : get the list of items in the folder , check the type ( folder , file ... ) , for each of them create the corresponding item in the target folder , for files read the content from the source , write to the target file etc. . Since the task is so complex , it is easy to get something wrong , so most applications will avoid this . use a library ( API ) that simplifies the task . For example the Apple Cocoa framework provides class with the method which does all the dirty work using low-level OS API , so the application does n't need to use low-level API itself but can rely on something that requires less work and is always present in the system . Also Apple is likely to make sure that it works well . use an external process to do the task . In this case the external process will be using one of the two methods above to do the work . The application has to start such process , monitor it and wait until it is done . It is likely that such process can be run as a command line tool , so this would likely be a command you can run in Terminal . It is not guaranteed , but very possible . Most applications will use option 2 . because it is more simple than 1 . and more safe and efficient than 3 . In order to run an external process you need to set it up properly and you have no control over what it does . For example it is much harder to figure out what exactly went wrong in case of a failure and it is hard to know what it is doing ( e.g. show progress ) . That is why in most cases developers will likely choose option 2 , but there is no guarantee . A notable example are applications that use shell scripts for customization - such as installers . Advanced user note : you can use facility of OS X to find out what a particular application is doing . For example , you can check any processes it is spawning so you would see the tools it is using ( see ) .
<URL> offers a multi-charge/sync setup now , and apparently <URL> has one in the works . If you 're looking to build your own , the Datamation unit uses a <URL> with 16 USB ports for charging and syncing . You could integrate it into your own solution . You could also just get a 12 + port USB charger , however charging and syncing may take significantly longer this way . The Datamation site has some <URL> that support this .
It accumulates all the CPU time for input/output ( i/o ) processing delays and calculations as well as scheduling of processes and threads . If you watch it after a reboot you will see it starts with minimal RAM and CPU needs and instead grows only when other programs run and need the system services . To slim it down , shut off unneeded ports ( WiFi , bluetooth , etc. . . ) as well as idle / unused programs . If things do n't settle down , consider rebooting to ensure no task is stuck or leaking memory . If you have programs doing real work , they will cause the kernel to use both memory and processor time - just watch as you start things to see which other programs are causing this behavior . It 's rarely an issue with the kernel - even with badly performing programs - that ca n't be solved by logging out and back in again . The kernel_task cleans up well and generally takes care to only use the resources needed by the workload .
The iBooks app on iOS as well as OS X Mavericks uses the account you use to sign into the iBooks Store for syncing bookmarks , notes , collections , highlights and purchased books . So if you share an Apple ID/iTunes Store Account for purchases from the iBooks Store , then the sync will affect all the users who share the account . The iBooks sync is not based on one 's individual iCloud account , which is used for iMessage , FaceTime , Mail , Calendar , etc. . See <URL> for more information .
The paid version of quick office ( quick office connect mobile suite I think it 's called ) allows you to add various online storage services : google docs , dropbox , box.net and mobile me . You upload/sync your files on your computer to one of these services then add your account to quick office and you will be able to access and write to the files on the service you added . Quickoffice also has local storage where you can download files to from one of the services . This is useful if you know you 'll want to access a big file when your not on wifi . You can download it while on wifi and then access it later offline . And vice versa you can create a document locally when and the upload it to a service later . Each iPhone app has it 's own sandbox which it can modify and read . It ca n't see or modify any other apps sandbox . So iPhone browser will only see files you added using iPhone browser . iOS 4 now has a documents facilty where if an app can read a word document such as quickoffice it registers that it cam do that and if an app can list files such as the official dropbox app you can open a document in the dropbox app and it will show a Hutton which you can press to open the document in quick office . Quickoffice also has the ability to openema attachments . However I have n't used this so I do n't know how it works .
Personal Hotspot mode detaches the device from any network and is intended to make all data flow to and from the cellular account . If you pulled the SIM card your plan just might work as a stunt to connect two laptops in the absence of another router , but it certainly wo n't extend an existing wireless network in the manner you describe .
I 've migrated between many macs over the years , and I 've always found that the best way to do it , is manually . Normally I use a firewire cable ( but you can also use WiFi , USB , external hard drive , dvd/cd , etc ) to hook up the two computers , then just drag over files from one computer to the other . Mostly everything the average user has on their mac will be found in their user folder ( home folder ) . You can just drag/copy this entire folder over , or you can be more selective about which folders in your home folder you move ( for instance , you may not want the folder ) . Then , anything outside of your home folder ( Applications , for one ) you can drag/copy over if you want .
Yes you can , using the following code . Note that the UniqueID , if less than 501 , may not list the user in the Accounts pane of system preferences , depending upon the OS version . Be careful that it is not already assigned to another user account . You can assign a home folder outside of the normal / Users / hierarchy with : If you want a clearer name to show up in the accounts preference : If you su to the new user without having set a NFSHomeDirectory , the $ HOME defaults to .
I 've heard it was used because that was the approximate time at which the iPad was revealed originally , and given the Apple attention to detail , the clock had to match up . It was used in everything else because a lot of the same materials were used in the presentations as in the ads .
Depending on what you are looking for with HTML5 , one app that helps with creation is <URL> . This looks mostly like it would help with animations ( like you may have previously with Flash ) , but other HTML features are there too .
Found it : The UserDir module in Apache2 defaults to public_html . So ~ studentname was being directed to / Users/studentname/public _ html . Which does n't exist in any of the users ' folders . What does exist is / Users/studentname/Sites , so I just added this line to the httpd.conf : ... and it 's working perfectly now . Awesome ! Many thanks to @bmike for pointing me in the right direction .
Moving data is dependant on the application that manages it , e.g. if it 's a database you could do a dump and restore it on the new installation , if it 's a configuration file just copy it , etc. . HomeBrew packages create the config files for launchd in the <URL> ( read : formula 's install dir ) and at the end of the install process display an how-to install those files ( the method in formulas source ) which generally is a simple and sequence . <URL> is indeed easy , and the developers will happily accept your new or updated formulas . <URL> is , In summary : , , , , , Last but not least : take a look at the <URL> .
Some step by step instructions can be found <URL> . After opening Disk Utility : Click the New Image icon Place the contents of folder/directory into the newly created disk image .
If you ca n't work out what " Always Allow " does , I would suggest running something like <URL> to see what OS X changes . If it hits a plist file then you 'll be able to run defaults on it . I 'm assuming its probably in the com.apple.applicationaccess.plsit . ( But not tested )
Have a look at <URL> . The project tries to reproduce Ubuntu 's for Homebrew users on OS X.
end question
start question
6GB of " other " on my iPhone 3GS , should I do a clean install of ios ?
You can remove all settings and information from your iPhone using " Erase All Content and Settings " in Settings > General > Reset . If that does n't help you can also try the same from iTunes , see <URL> for details . Connect your iPhone to your computer Select it when it appears under Devices Select the Summary tab , and click the Restore button verify to reset to factory settings and erase all data Afterwards you can restore your data again from a previous backup in iTunes .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
If you install the X11 subsystem , it will only run when you have an X11 program running . Much the same as when installing the JVM - that will only run when you run a Java program .
The answer was actually to do with the silly way Apple works when you run a backup with iTunes . Person A backs up their iPhone which has an app called " Whatsapp " . Person B then backs up their iPhone which also has the same app . ( Itunes will not backup Whatsapp as Person A already has ) . Person B later restores their iPhone from their own backup . Silly iTunes then uses Person A 's backed up copy of Whatsapp to restore onto Person B 's iPhone , which later causes the password prompt when performing updates . We used the same laptop 's and desktops to backup iPhones when going from iPhone 5 to 6 , which caused this problem to happen all over the place . EDIT : YES this is 100 % what is happening which is why it is the answer , not sure why the down-vote , but probably from the unhappy guy in the comments that did n't like me calling his precious iTunes " silly " . If you have the problem I had in the question , then this is the answer for it .
Steve There is no method on either iPad or iPhone to move an item between folders .
You can save all the app data to migrate to another iOS device at a later date by backing the iPhone up to iTunes or setting up a free iCloud account . This will nicely complement your existing plan in case you forget something until after you turn in the phone . You can restore your backup on to a friend 's device long enough to retrieve that additional data and then erase the device . As long as you maintain the iTunes backup on the computer or iCloud access - your backup will be waiting until you get another iOS device to load the backup . Here are some other apps you may have used occasionally and want to transfer to your Mac : voice memos can be imported to iTunes call history , SMS messages and voicemail ( using an app like <URL> ) If you have a good backup , you can feel better about having the phone erase all content and settings so you give it back clean and with no personal data just in case your company does n't do a great job sanitizing the device before re-issuing it to someone else .
I would suggest doing a DFU restore . You can do this by : Plug your iPhone into a computer running the latest version of <URL> . Hold the home button and the sleep/wake button for exactly 8 seconds . After this 8 seconds is up , release the sleep/wake button , but continue to hold the home button until iTunes recognizes your iPhone . Then , choose the Restore option ( this should be the only option ) and wait for iTunes to download the necessary software and restore your iPhone .
You 're five major system updates back from El Capitan , and Apple has made a lot of changes to code , file arrangements , database structures , network connectivity etc. in the meantime . Apple usually does a pretty good job of clearing away the old to make way for the new , but things do slip through . I recently killed a few prefs files from 2007 that Migration Assistant kindly transferred to my 2014 mini . Invisible files and such often gets copied too . iTunes data structures have changed significantly , with loss of artwork or metadata upon upgrade being fairly common . Apple is pretty good , but they 're not infallible . With a jump of that many years , I 'd go for the clean install , followed by thoughtful installation of needed Apps , and manual transfer of docs , pics , music etc. . That way you 'll end up with a thoroughly modern System rather than a System that also contains a hodgepodge of used or unused pieces dating from an earlier decade .
That 's a Finder ( on Lion ) issue and as such , there are no settings to tweak for your problem . A faster way to reach the mount window is to simply click the Finder icon in your Dock .
Unless there is some reason to the contrary that I 'm not aware of , yes , you can use your MacBook charger with your iPhone . The power adapter will only convert as much power as is drawn , and the iPhone will only draw as much power as it needs . ( Note that it is not a good idea to charge your MacBook with an iPhone or iPad charger ! )
You ca n't consolidate them , but you can delete them . Just right click and click " Delete " .
Update There 's a very simple way to simply SSH to a BTMM/iCloud computer : In Terminal , in the Shell menu select New Remote Connection ... ( cmd + shift + K ) . From here you can browse by ssh/sftp/ftp / telnet hosts on the local or BTMM network . This is obviously much easier for the individual apps that support iCloud/BTMM lookup ( e.g. you 'll also see file shares in the side-bar of Finder , and remote Airport devices in Airport Utility ) , but I 'll leave the full instructions below for the more arbitrary use-cases . For command line tools , Apple have replaced the old , with ( where the field is a number automatically generated for your Apple ID ) . Step 1 : Find out your iCloud BTMM domain First , look up your domain using the DNS Service Discovery tool : The output is formatted slightly awkwardly , but what you 're after is the numeric ID , which should be on the last line . You 're after the full domain , something like , however will display it ( kind of ) in reverse order , on separate lines : You 'll also need to press ctrl + C after it displays the information you 're after ( it is designed to continue listening and updating ) . This applies to each use of , here and below . Step 2 : List Computers You can use these tools to browse that domain for services , e.g. for ssh servers : Or if you already know the hostname just access it directly as . ( Any spaces in your computer name will be hyphens in this domain ) . You can only access this from a computer that is also set up for BTMM on the same Apple ID account , because this hostname will resolve to an IPv6 address that is really the end of an encrypted network tunnel between your Apple ID 's BTMM computers . If you want to see the IPv6 address for a specific host , you can type And it 'll display something like : Step 3 : Connect Note I 'm not sure if that number will ever change , so you may or may not need to repeat Step 1 at some point later on ... mine 's been static for quite a few years now .
Back up your data . Boot into the Recovery System by holding ⌘ + R during early boot . Select Disk Utility and format your drive where OS X and your files were stored on . Quit Disk Utility and select " Install Mountain Lion " .
In short you ca n't . Apple has a very efficient supply chain so the window where they sell devices that are n't the latest version is very limited . On occasion a service replacement unit can sit in the " supply " chain a bit longer , so I have seen several people still getting phones from the Genius Bar / AppleCare with iOS 4 loaded . I would expect that to be mostly over as well . You will likely have to find a seller of a device and you can always ask for the serial number or look for one with AppleCare still active in case you have suspicions of the motivation of the seller . ( and since you or others may wonder ) There really is n't a good way to tell if a phone has been stolen ( no police database ( and if there were it could always be reported stolen at a later date ) . Due to privacy concerns you ca n't get data on prior owners from Apple . You do run the risk of problems if the device you buy ends up being stolen goods . You do run the risk of having to do some work to ensure any return policy is workable if you need to locate the seller if the phone does n't work as advertised . Given your problem you might offer to sell a brand new in-the-box phone and once you had a buyer , use your AT&amp;T subsidy to offset the cost of a new unlocked iPhone for your wife . It all depends how valuable your time is and how hot your local market is for current AT&amp;T phones . I would feel a lot more comfortable buying a phone when I could come to the store with you and see the new phone being bought . You could be sure the buyer had the cash in hand and everyone should end up happy .
Yes and No . There 's not a final answer on this . There are some basic things you do n't want to do : Never fill your drive , always try to have a minimum of a 20 % of the drive free , SSD performance goes down fast when the drive is full or close to it . Even with trim and whatever the OS does , at some point in 1 , 2 , 3 , n years you might have to completely reformat/repartition the drive to gain some speed . This has been true on Windows Machines ( I 've seen it ) . My MacBook Air ( 1 year old ) has n't yet shown any signs of slowness . SSDs have a limited number of writes before they wear out . At some point blocks just stop working , so if you are constantly writing/deleting files , you 're essentially wearing out your SSD faster than the average ( however this number is huge , say it can last 10 + + years under normal usage ) . One is expected to change the drive by then :) I recommend you google around , there are multiple guides and advice pages . You will find <URL> relatively accurate and up-to-date . Bear in mind that technology in the future may change and the article ( and this answer ) may be rendered obsolete if , for example , SuperSSDs are created and they do n't wear out or have a 1.000.000 years life-span :D
<URL> Freeware benchmarking solution for Mac OS X. EDIT : The download link is in the right-hand corner . Main Window Graphics Test
Repairing permissions only affects System files , and files installed from a package with the Installer , which give a BOM ( Bill Of Materials , stored in the folder ) that list the expected permissions . There is no meaning in repairing permissions for " a specific directory " , as an arbitrary directory has no expected permissions against which to compare , unless it is one listed in one of the said files . ( just for sourcing : <URL> ;) ) If you want to change permissions of a lot of files at once , for example by having copied them from another drive with permissions , and you encounter problems with them , you could use a tool such as <URL> :)
Set up Time Machine the first time you start you Mac , Set up Software Update so that your system is always up to date . A shutdown once in a while should clean most of little garbage but you will have to perform it anyway with some software updates . and Never log in with administrative privileges unless you have a serious reason to do so .
From my experience , 3.1.3 is indeed the best version for iPhone 3G , if you do n't want any new or updated app . I 've installed 4.2 on an iPhone 3G and it does become slower , though not so bad . If you put <URL> , you 'll see the 3 outperforming the 4 for most tasks ( other than some native multi-tasking maybe ) . Other than the slightly faster performance , the best iOS for any iDevice is the latest one , like wjlafrance said . Unless it is jailbroken , I ca n't tell what could possibly make iOS 3 slow . On iOS 4 it is only multitasking that can harm the performance AFAIK . Same issue with jailbreaking - gets slow if you install too much stuff running on the background . And an old device will suffer aging impact only on the battery . Hopefully a fresh restore would solve the " sluggish " but I 'm afraid it might not . Anyway you can easily * downgrade without jailbreaking . On 3G , you just * need the <URL> , <URL> and option + click on Restore from iTunes . * It is that simple , but there is more to it and it can become complicated . If you need more details , try <URL> or this another <URL> .
It appears there are multiple ways . The first , is <URL> Automatic Downloads and downloading previous purchases are not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Automatic Downloads and downloading past purchased music and TV Shows is supported only in the US and is not compatible with iPhone 4 ( CDMA Model ) . Previous purchases may be unavailable if they are no longer on the iTunes Store . Downloading past purchased TV Shows requires iTunes 10.4 or later . It details the following methods : Open the iTunes Store on your device . Make sure you are signed in with the same account used for the original purchase . Tap Purchased from the bottom navigation bar . From the Purchased tab , tap the artist name for the content you intend to download again . Once you 've located the music you are looking for , tap the download button . Note : To download all songs from a purchased album , tap on the Album 's toggle button to switch to Album view . Once you redownload the music to your phone , they will transfer to your iTunes library when you sync the device . And an alternate method using the new <URL> ( it 's of note that when I tested this method , I could redownload books and apps but not music ; your experience may , however , differ ) .
end question
start question
Is there a standard uninstall procedure on Mac OS X ?
None that I know of ( as advertised by Apple , I mean ) . I found this on my bookmarks : <URL> , which might give you a better idea of what to do before and after installing applications . There are a few apps that take care of this too like : <URL> which tries to find the documents and settings the application uses ( though it 's debatable how efficient/reliable this apps or any app of this nature really are )
OS X Software for Editing XML <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( commercial ) <URL> ( free/open source plugin ) for <URL> ( shareware ) <URL> ( commercial )
Open the Spotlight pane in System Preferences . Select the Privacy tab . Drag the Applications folder from the partitions that you do n't want indexed into the list area . Shortly thereafter the duplicate results should disappear from the list , leaving applications from the one Applications folder you want . You might need to force a refresh the LaunchServices database afterward too . Finally restart the Finder with the following command to rebuild any data cached within the Finder .
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
You do n't need to use a separate application . You can share wi-fi without any app . Go to System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing : You will be prompted to enter a network name and a password ( if you choose to ) . It does also require you to have a hard-wired Internet connection . ( If you are wondering why my sharing checkbox is greyed out , it 's because I do n't have a hard-wired connection ) You can also click on the Airport icon in the menu bar and then click " Create Network ... "
Here is a quick summary of running OS X on non apple hardware with ( and also without ) support from virtualization such as VMware . Possible - yes Supported , licensed , intended - no Legal - you 'll need a lawyer to help with that in your specific location . So , as long as the hardware was Mac you would be probably licensed for Lion and later OS X to run visually no matter what intermediary OS you used as part of the virtualization chain . The how is n't going to be easy since you 'll have to defeat either VMWare 's checks to prevent any Windows person from running OS X or OS X 's checks to ensure it 's running on Mac hardware .
This blog post helps confirm the problem : <URL> The experimental tool to fix the lag issue is here ( also linked from the blog post ) <URL>
You can start the System Preferences.app as Admin and from that use the Network Link Conditioner.prefpane . To do so use the following shell command : or the following AppleScript command : When I click on the Network Link Conditioner in the window that is opened after the password is given , I get a message that System Preferences needs to be restartet to open the PrefPane . After agreeing to this the Network Link Conditioner is working for me while I 'm logged in as normal ( non-admin ) user in 10.10 .
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
On my Mac mini under OS X 10.6.5 , a gives me Java 1.6.0 _ 22 . It 's an out of box + upgrade from 10.6.4 to 10.6.5 and installation of last Xcode 3 .
The Sound Card 's name comes from the Device itself , which " publishes " its name . The operating system reads the name from there . I do n't believe you can rename it , but you can definitely go to / Applications/Utilities/Audio MIDI Setup and create an Aggregate Audio Device ( with the names you want ) and select the input/outputs of each . For example , you can create your headphones like this :
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
I 've been in communication with the creator of Chax , and no , it does n't work on Lion ( it definitely works in Snow Leopard ) . He says he 's working on it . His site is <URL> . Addendum 9-11-11 : The main awesomeness of Chax is the ability to auto-accept Screen Shares with certain people in your Buddy List ... including yourself . For instance , if you travel with a laptop and suddenly need to get files from your Mac back home , you simply get a second iChat/AIM account for that laptop , set up Chax on the home Mac , set it up to autoaccept the laptop 's account , and you can screen share automatically with your home Mac . I 've come to completely rely on that weekly for the past couple years .
It is possible that you pressed the esc key . Yosemite has a similar feature to iOS 8 's QuickType keyboard that " intelligently predicts " what you are trying to type . It looks like this : Is this what appeared ?
As mentioned by the other comments , Apple 's default partition scheme is to have everything on ONE partition . While not recommended ( potentially due to not being easy to do ) , it is possible to move a home folder to a different partition . Here is how : Create a partition to use for the home folder ( Disk Utility is the built-in choice to do so ) enable the root user open System Preferences click on Users &amp; Groups click on Login Options open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner click on " Join " next to Network Account Server click on " Directory Utility " from the menu " Edit " click " Enable Root Account " and supply a password for that account log out of the current to-be-moved user choose " Other " at the login screen type in into the username field and supply the password you just gave it navigate to your other partition and create a base home folder ( to use Apple 's naming convention , create a folder named " Users " ) navigate to the system 's Users folder and copy the user 's home folder over to the other partition . open System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups open the padlock on the lower left-hand corner right-click ( or Ctrl + click ) the user you want to move and choose " Advanced Options " for the field " Home directory " , either click the button " Choose " ( if it is there ) and select the new path or type in the new path . If you type it in , the path starts with Important : Use the proper capitalization as depicted on your system or you may run into problems Do NOT change anything else on that form ( e.g. user ID ) or you may end up not be able to log in or use the system with the other user click on " OK " restart your computer holding down the Alt key until you see boot options on the screen choose the recovery option ( e.g. " Recovery HD-10 .10 " ) choose the language when asked from the menu " Utilities " choose Terminal type in and hit Enter choose the hard drive you normally use to boot from choose your user Click on " Reset " at the bottom of that window to reset permissions reboot your system normally and try to log in to your user If this is working for you as expected , here is the clean-up : remove your user account folder from the system drive ( to save disk space on your system drive ) disable the root user again to improve system security ( follow the same steps as outlined above and choose " Disable Root User " ) this time In case it is not working ( though I would understand that it will ) , you can use root to log in and move the home directory back to where it was using System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > Advanced Options ( right-click on that user ) . I hope this guide helps .
The best 3rd-party based solution for you is to use <URL> . About Caffeine : A tiny program that puts an icon in the right side of your menu bar . Click it to prevent your Mac from automatically going to sleep , dimming the screen or starting screen savers . Click it again to go back . Hold down the Command key while clicking to show the menu .
Are you positive you are in the Developer Tools group ? Try running this command That should add your user account to the group .
You could try <URL> It helped me troubleshoot my battery issues . I 'm not sure it will do exactly what you asked for but when you have it running ( on battery or power adapter ) : MiniBatteryLogger monitors your laptop 's battery , traces the graph of charge and amperage over time , compares your battery with other users , logs relevant power events and alerts you with Growl notifications . And right now it 's even free : We are undergoing some changes and can not issue licenses . ... In the meantime , you can use this evaluation key : <URL>
For the moment it only works on iOS . I would assume there will be plans at some point for Apple to release it to the Mac , however nothing has been mentioned publicly . Apple has also not provided any web interface for it , and I suspect if they do it will be part of iCloud .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
end question
start question
How can I exclude the display of specific pictures and videos in the Finder ?
I am unsure if you are asking how to exclude folders from showing up in your finder spotlight search , or if what you are after is to hide specific folders from being shown in a finder window . If you are after excluding folders from a spotlight search , you can do this in the privacy tab from system preferences / spotlight : If you are after having the ability to show or hide files and folders from being viewed while you are in a finder window , then you can create an automator service to do just that : <URL> NOTE : the tip above only toggles all files that have the hidden flag set , so if you need to quickly mark a folder or a file as " hidden " , then you need to set this bit attribute for that file or folder . An easy way to do this is via a free utility software download that does just this here ( used to be shareware , but now free ) : <URL> NOTE 2 : If you are happy using the terminal command line , you can just type the following on the terminal : or Hope this helps .
There 's no official way to achieve this . You have to jailbreak your iPad and use a software like <URL> ( works on all iDevices ) to do this .
I do n't fully understand your question but here 's my answer on what i think you want to achieve . Make sure you have your display connected when doing the following . Open the application you want to assign . Control + Click ( Right click ) on the dock icon You should see that a menu pops up and hover over Options You 'll see something that says Assign To and then some options Select the display you want You should be done :)
There is no way to reset your Apple ID security questions online after the Mat Honan hack and its aftermath . I was able to reset my security questions by calling Apple Support on the phone , provided I could remember at least one out of three . However if you ca n't remember any of the three , you might have trouble .
I looked for some generic commands that display/manipulate kernel extensions . got my attention and based on its output , the 4th column is The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies . If this is zero , the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts . The only problem was that its size was in hexadecimal . So I converted the hexadecimal to decimal and printed only relevant information ( like kext bundle id ) . Breaking it down : - print a list of loaded non-built-in kexts - pipe the output to , convert the 4th " size " column from hexadecimal to decimal , print that and the kext bundle id . - pipe the output to command and sort the list using numerical comparison ( so that " 10 " is not less than " 1 " ) . You can pipe the output to to get top 3 memory hoggers . Here are mine : Update : you can also pipe this to to see which non-apple kexts are loaded .
The best solution I use for adding the SSID to the menu bar is turning off Apple 's menu item and using WiFi Signal app from Adrian Granados : <URL> <URL> It 's much fuller featured than just displaying the SSID , but it does that job nicely . I am a very satisfied customer of all his Mac apps as they are powerful , well engineered and updated regularly .
Open a finder window and set the view to list view . Press command-J and select " calculate all sizes " then click " use as standard " . Now folder sizes will show in your finder . I do n't think it is possible to show sizes for multiple folders , but this might be a good workaround .
<URL> shows photos of a direct comparison : Standing in front of the white-LED backlight on the new MBP , it 's immediately apparent how crisp the whites are -- it 's very noticeable after staring into CCFL LCDs all day long . But even though the whites were whiter , the screen did n't necessarily seem a lot brighter , which is probably where some amount of CCFL dimming on our test MBP came into play in creating the dramatic difference we saw . Viewing angles were very similar on both machines , but as you 'll notice , at half brightness it 's the LED backlit MBP that 's dimmer , and the CCFL display that 's actually brighter . Interesting stuff . Also interesting could be the Advantages and Disadvantages sections of the Wikipedia article on LEDs ( <URL> ) : Slow failure : LEDs mostly fail by dimming over time , rather than the abrupt failure of incandescent bulbs . Lifetime : LEDs can have a relatively long useful life . One report estimates 35,000 to 50,000 hours of useful life , though time to complete failure may be longer . Fluorescent tubes typically are rated at about 10,000 to 15,000 hours , depending partly on the conditions of use , and incandescent light bulbs at 1,000 -- 2,000 hours .
Search by Kind One of the most useful ways to narrow down a search is by using the keyword . This allows you to restrict your list of results to a certain file format . For instance , if you type , Spotlight will pull up only PDF files containing the words " time " and " machine " . You can also limit your search to e-mail messages , music files , System Preferences , applications , and more . While the original Spotlight recognized only a limited number of file types , the Leopard version can look for files created by specific applications , as well as certain file formats . Searching for or will find files in one of those formats , and searching for or will show only documents created in one of those programs . For a list of useful keywords , see " My Kind of Keyword . " But remember , for the keywords to work , you must have the appropriate categories enabled in Spotlight 's preferences . you can get more info <URL> or <URL> .
Here is a simple Applescript that uses the Image Events built into OS X. Add salt to taste . <URL> is also good for cheap and easy automation via Applescript that will offer more choices than what Image Events , but Image Events is free so there 's that
According to <URL> : Use Your iPad Regularly For proper reporting of the battery 's state of charge , be sure to go through at least one charge cycle per month ( charging the battery to 100 % and then completely running it down ) .
I 'm pretty sure you 're ( sadly ) limited to the fields in the view options windows ( cmd + j ) .
In column view in the Finder , you can resize columns by positioning the mouse pointer over over the thin line that separates column panes , and dragging it to the left to make it narrower or to the right to make it wider . To make the Finder remember the new width , <URL> while dragging the pane separator to the desired width . The <URL> alludes to the fact that holding down option resizes " all columns at once " but does not explicitly say that this makes the change persistent .
<URL> appears to connect to the Bluetooth in your phone in order to be able to control it 's audio output . You could also purchase a dock with a remote for your iPhone . A remote of this nature would have a hardware Play/Pause button on it which you could press to quickly stop the music . For the sake of example : <URL> of what I 'm talking about . One other thing : double tapping the home button when the iPhone is locked comes up with Play/Pause controls which you could tap with your knuckle or something . This is also a fast and easy way to change tracks in general .
It is inconvenient , but if you add after your search term in the Finder , it will exclude Mail messages too .
I recommend <URL> , which gives you a hovering command prompt . It can automatically detect the current folder you 're in ( in Finder , or any document-based app ) . You can press return to run a command in the DTerm window , or ⌘ + return to open a Terminal window .
Yes you can disable the image previews on Finder . Right-click on the folder and select " Show View Options . " A long window will appear . On the 5th group from the top , you should see a checkmark called " Show icon preview " . Deselect it . Once you are done , select the " Use as Defaults " bottom , which is located at the bottom of the window .
Shift + Command + H takes you to your home folder Command + UpArrow takes you one folder up Have a look at the " Go To " menu in Finder for additional key combinations . Some people like to use the ~ character and the Go to Folder ... shortcut as that expands to the current user 's home folder like on other UNIX operating systems . You may also want to have a look at <URL> which contains a huge list of OS X Lion keyboard shortcuts .
I think I figured it out . It 's because Photoshop creates it 's own preview , which appears instead of the automatically generated Finder preview . To turn this off , go to Photoshop Preferences , find the file saving preferences , and set it so it never saves previews . From what I can tell , that saves it with the border , like you needed . Also , to add a border back to an image without going back and resaving it , you can click it 's icon in Finder , and then click File > Get Info . Then click the icon in the upper left corner and push Delete on the keyboard . That gets rid of the custom preview from Photoshop . Hope this helps !
In OS X 10.11 the default under System Preferences > Mission Control for the Automatically rearrange Spaces based on most recent use is checked . So to not have your Spaces rearranged on you , uncheck the checkbox for that setting . <URL> To have an App tied to a particular Desktop , open the target App on that Desktop , then control-click ( right-click ) the target App 's Dock Tile and select : Options > Assign To > This Desktop <URL> To have an App launch automatically upon Login , go to System Preferences > Users &amp; Groups > select the User > click Login Items and add the App . <URL>
end question
start question
Using a US-bought WiFi iPad in the UK with the AppStore ?
The iTunes store is related to the locale of the iTunes account ( which is determined by the credit card associated with the account ) . Several friends of mine have bought iPads in other countries ( US and UK ) and are happily using them in Sweden with the Swedish iTunes store .
At the very least , make sure you sync your old one to your Mac before you sell it . When you sync , it should copy purchased items from your iPod to your Mac . If you have time , back up your iPod : Connect it to iTunes , then right-click ( or control-click ) and select Back Up . You can then restore your new iPod from that backup . This will restore your mail accounts , sync settings and app data to the new iPod . It will not restore the correct locations of your apps or home screen folder contents .
Sorry , but it 's not possible to do this without jail breaking . The " Personal Hotspot " function on an iPhone only allows for sharing the 3G connection , not the wifi connection , so you ca n't use it as a wifi adapter . It 's feasible that Apple could add this functionality , but it 's a fairly niche case , so I would n't count on it . More immediately , if you have a laptop with wifi available , you could use Internet Sharing ( OS X ) / Internet Connection Sharing ( Windows ) and an ethernet cable to get connectivity to your desktop . Or if you 've got a Staples or something similar nearby , they usually have USB wifi adapters for $ 30 or less .
No , this is n't possible to do through official channels . The officially unlocked phones are unlocked from the manufacturer ; this is n't possible to do after the phone has been provisioned ( otherwise the iPhone hacking community would be all over this avenue rather than going after security holes in the baseband to achieve the same effect ) . Because if their agreement with AT&amp;T , Apple does not sell these units in the US , and every distributor outside of the US has to agree not to sell the units to US customers .
You are probably searching for the option " Full Keyboard Access " . You can find it under System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts
<URL> Contact customer support via e-mail and hopefully you can get a refund .
If you bought the device without a contract , it 's unlocked ! The information about AT&amp;T and Verizon is important when talking about LTE availability in the US . Only AT&amp;T and Verizon provide LTE networks in the US that work with the iPad . 4G LTE is supported only on AT&amp;T and Verizon networks in the U.S. and on Bell , Rogers , and Telus networks in Canada . <URL> This is important to note as LTE frequency bands used in Europe , Australia and probably most of Asia are <URL> . You will use DC-HSDPA , HSPA + or UMTS instead for fast internet access .
If you iPhone talks to the internet while connected to WiFi , then yes , it costs your home internet bandwidth . If it talks to the internet outside of of WiFi range , it costs your mobile internet bandwidth . Syncing your phone with iTunes does not use the internet , it only uses the local network . If your phone is configured to sync with iCloud , then it is using the internet .
The wireless card in your iMac , which is what is responsible for handling Wifi connections , is only capable of one connection at a time , to explain it most simply . The card can not connect to a Wifi signal ( your iPhone 's Hotspot feature ) and broadcast a signal at the same time . However , a solution to what you wish to achieve may be possible if you can use USB Tethering as opposed to Wifi Hotspot on iPhone A . Then your wireless card on your iMac would be free to broadcast a Wifi signal for internet sharing . I have not used any iPhone OS version since 3.1.2 , where it was not called " hotspot " anywhere and the settings for tethering were even in a different set of menus . However , a quick search seems to show that you can activate USB tethering by going into your Personal Hotspot on the phone ( Settings > General > Cellular > Personal Hotspot ) while USB and Bluetooth are turned off . Then turning on Personal Hotspot , and tapping " USB Only " when prompted . USB tethering is also supposedly turned on even if Wifi and/or Bluetooth are on , yet I personally prefer to not have them on , and especially to not have the phone making a hotspot if I 'm only going to use USB for connectivity . Be advised , the iTunes Helper process is required to be running to provide the network interface for iPhone USB Tethering . This requires iTunes to be installed . If the iPhone does not initially provide you a network connection on your iMac , install if necessary and open iTunes , and it should start the iTunes Helper process and also add it to your login items . At this point , your iMac should have a connection through your iPhone via USB . You can enable Wifi Internet Sharing in System Preferences and you should be good to go . Internet Sharing on most Macs , and I 'm pretty certain on every modern one , produces a network in Infrastructure Mode . Which means there should be no problems connecting to it , even for devices that do n't support certain other modes such as ad-hoc . So your other iPhone ( B ) should work fine .
That 's because you downloaded some app using that old ID . When the app downloaded using that ID tries to update , it asks for the password of that ID .
Well , iOS 6.1 seems to finally have solved the problem for me ; after updating my iPhone 5 happily connects to the company Wi-Fi again . I have n't yet tried connecting with the iPad , but I hope that works as well .
Sadly , ( as of iOS 4 ) , this can not be done . The location field of an event does not recognise an address , no matter how perfectly you enter it . [ UPDATE ] In iOS 5 , the location field in any calendar event will ( if properly formatted ) hyperlink to the Maps app .
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
You 'll have all of your apps for the life of your iTunes account , and you can download them again at any time for no charge . The only exception is apps that have been removed from the App Store for legal reasons -- generally copyright violation of some form -- or if they 're removed by Apple due to some rules violation , both of which are very rare . Apple has been gradually improving its App Store interfaces so it 's easier to determine which apps you already own . Until recently if you saw an app in the store that you already purchased the link to access it would still have the price : if you clicked it and you already owned it you 'd be presented with a dialog that indicated that you 'd already purchased it and asked if you just wanted to download it again . As of now the App Store app on the iPad now intelligently replaces the price with " installed " if you have it installed ( and , I believe , " install " if you 've purchased it but it 's not on the device ) , and the very latest iPhone App Store app seems to be doing it now , too . iTunes 10.3 appears to be doing it as well .
The charger is 10W like the old iPad . It 's called iPad 10W USB Power Adapter and has product number MC359LL . Specs and QnA are available at the Apple US <URL> .
Look at the iOS app <URL> . GoodReader is a $ 5 app that allows you to transfer files from Windows , Mac OS X &amp; Linux via WiFi to your iPad , iPhone , or iPod Touch . You can then open the files in other apps based on the filetype .
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
A GSM iPad should work in any country where GSM carriers operate and offer data plans . <URL> is a great resource . They have a list which is up-to-date with live and planned availability as well as supported frequencies . Of course you can use your iPad in any country where your carrier has roaming agreements . But at a very high rate . And you might have to call your carrier in advance to activate the option . But this will cost you much more than getting your data access from a local carrier . If you chose to get your data access from a local carrier here are a few things to consider : The carrier will not necessarily offer a micro SIM . In that case you will have to <URL> to the right dimensions yourself . You will have to setup the <URL> yourself on most networks . Internet access could mean something else than data plan . Beware of obsolete offers with WAP or very limited access . Some carriers will have better coverage than others . Check the coverage of each carrier before committing . Some carriers will not sell prepaid data . In some countries there could be restrictions for foreigners or non residents and you might have to get your SIM from someone who can buy it for you . Does this mean that any iPad 2 purchased in the U.S. is incompatible with 3G service abroad ? No . The GSM version ( AT&amp;T ) will work in most countries . The same can not be said of the CDMA version ( Verizon ) . Wikipedia tels us the iPad supports UMTS / HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM / EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) Two networks are referenced as providing support for GSM based 3G in japan : NTT DOCOMO , INC. ( DOCOMO ) 3G on 2100 MHz SOFTBANK MOBILE Corp. ( SoftBank ) 3G 2100 MHz Note : I would recommend a 3rd party solution if you go abroad for a short period of time . There are mobile WiFi modems like the <URL> that could offer a better alternative if you need internet access on more than one device at a time .
As you 've noticed , the <URL> . This is by design . The 3G radio consumes less battery power . When does the iPhone switch back to 3G even if it has WiFi signal ? As soon as you wake the phone it will being re-enabling sleep-disabled services like the WiFi radio . If you were previously joined to a wireless network that is still within range your phone should re-join that network a few seconds after you wake it up . Here is where problems can crop up - a burp in your router or temporary interference can prevent the WiFi from rejoining and if your data coverage is fast enough , you may not notice you are now on paid 3G data . Especially if you are streaming video or playing a game and the menu bar is hidden . If will switch back to 3G if you tell it to forget the current Wi-Fi network it 's joined to and have it set to no auto-join any other known network in range . Or shortly after you put it back to sleep . Can I modify this behavior somewhere ? All of the Wi-Fi behaviour is set using the Settings app , under the Wi-Fi menu . You can turn the Wi-Fi radio off completely here . This will stop the phone from searching for wireless networks altogether and you 'll be running completely on cellular data services . ( See # 1 in screen shot ) You can set what the phone does if the Wi-Fi radio is on , networks are detected , but it is not currently joined to any of them . In this circumstance the phone can prompt you to join a network or do nothing and let you manually join a network if you so desire . ( See # 2 in the screen shot ) . You can also manually chose a network here . And , if you 're currently joined to a network , you can click the > arrow next to its name to get the details and , if you want to , " forget " the network and disconnect from it .
Short answer No The background that tables , graphs , images etc. rest above is just a workspace . It 's not a canvas . ( Just to be complete I did try it with my Pencil in my iPad Pro )
end question
start question
Is it safe to buy MacBook Pro batteries on eBay ?
That depends on the product . I have gotten both good and bad batteries on eBay . If it comes from China , Japan , Korea , or any other Asian country , it may very well be a fake . I have ordered several from those countries , and most of them ended up not even being detected by my MacBook . Filter the listing so it only shows auctions within your own country . Check the seller 's ratings and their reviews from previous sales of the same product . Finally , make sure they have a good return policy in case your battery does n't work . As for the name-brand vs. off-brand question , you can get good off-brand batteries , and bad name-brand batteries . It 's like gambling , but the chances are closer to 50/50 .
" I would like to know if hard drive access speed is a bottleneck to my system currently . " Of course ! There are two aspects to a disk storage system : Bus speed Storage medium speed On ANY given bus , e.g. , SATA , SATA2 , SATA3 , a mechanical HDD will be an order of magnitude slower than an SSD for a given link speed . The secret is to always use an SSD that features at minimum the same link speed as the disk controller . It can be of benefit , however , to use an SSD ( or HDD if you 're financially challenged ) that features a faster link speed than its host . For example , I 'm using a Crucial M500 960 GB SSD in my MacBook4 ,1 . The SSD is a SATA 3 , 6 Gb/s drive , whereas the MacBook has a SATA 1.5 Gb/sec controller . The drive performance is marginally ( ! ) better due to its higher internal processing speeds than would be a 1.5 Gb/sec SATA SSD on the same system . Mechanical hard disks are painfully slow compared to their SSD counterparts . In ANY computer system , the HDD and its attendant controller will be the biggest bottleneck . As such , to ensure best performance , you should use the fastest storage medium possible .
I often use the smaller Airport cable to power the Mac power adapter without having a ground and you can safely do the opposite as long as you get a firm connection and support the AirPort hardware if the plug extends lower than the bottom of the device .
You can buy a contract-free iPhone directly from Apple . Just click on " Or get an iPhone unlocked and contract-free " :
Sounds to me like you need to identify your Mac model more than anything else . Give a try <URL> Once you know your precise model , you may want to go to <URL> to identify the precise piece number you 're looking for .
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
In Windows 7 running in bootcamp : To right-click using a trackpad : Place three fingers on the trackpad and click the trackpad button . Just make sure you install the Bootcamp drivers that are on the OS X Installation DVD
To your questions : Is it possible to upgrade the SSD at all ? I have heard rumours that they are soldered in after 2010 , and are not replaceable . Yes , it should be possible , <URL> have done it . This video ( How to Upgrade/Replace the Hard Drive in the 2011 15 " MacBook Pro ) shows the procedure ( just for information , I understand you do n't want to void your AppleCare warranty ) : <URL> . My city and country ( Tallinn , Estonia ) has no official Apple stores that I know of , but does have Apple-authorised resellers . Are they the appropriate place to get this done ? Yes , I 'd definitely go to an Apple authorized reseller . I could find Premium resellers in Tallinn ( see <URL> ) : You can select another country/language from <URL> ( though I used the trick explained here <URL> ) .
Nope . The only way you can run iOS apps on OS X is if you have the iPhone Simulator and have a version of the app specifically compiled to run on the simulator . The iPhone Simulator ( available from Xcode ) is not an emulator and ca n't run ARM code , which means that it has to run a specific version of iOS 7 designed for OS X , and is not able to run iOS apps that have not been designed to run on this version of iOS 7 ( i.e. IPAs from the App Store ) .
' Safe ' is a broad term . If you keep a backup though , there 's not much that can go wrong as you can always restore that backup . In addition , as there are no updates available for the 3Gs , you can safely restore to a jailbreakable version of iOS if anything goes wrong . As the last version of iOS that can be installed on the iPhone 3Gs is iOS 6.1.6 , this can be jailbroken using <URL> . Download it , then follow the instructions .
Yes . I own a MacBook Pro 3,1 . I installed 6GB memory and have been using it like that for more than two years . Note the specifications below . You can call the tech support people at <URL> if you have any questions . The RAM in my system is as follows : Bank 0 : 2GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz Bank 1 : 4GB DDR2 SDRAM 667 MHz
The process to enable FileVault will read the entire 500 GB of data - whether the block is empty or full and encrypt it with the keys you set up as part of the process . So , the background IO will run the fastest if you do n't have other user level disk IO running . The encryption itself will take less than 10 % of one CPU on that powerful ( fast ) Mac - so you are really just going to see a sustained 60 to 80 MB/s re-write of the entire drive if you let the Mac sit idle . A Mac with a spinning hard drive would see between 20 to 30 MB/s so an Air or any Mac with solid state drives will be two to three times faster in this operation . So - from the time you start , I would estimate 2-3 hours if you are getting at least 70 MB/s for writing the encrypted data back to the disk . This process does run in the background and is n't really reversible once it starts , so you can kick it off and then track the progress with .
According to the <URL> , <URL> , Page 20 , the maximum allowed temperature of all the new i3 , i5 , i7 cpus is 105 Celsius degrees so you are approaching the limit . However all cpus are designed in a way that they will send a signal to the motherboard in case the cpu is overheating to either shut-down the pc completely or dramatically reduce the performance ( by lowering the clock-speed ) . Studying <URL> review of the latest MacBook Retina it 's clearly visible that the Macbook pro retina automatically reduces the performance in case of really high temperature over a longer period of time . According to them while running various benchmarks in Half-Life 2 the performance of the retina model dropped by about 5 % compared to the old model which dropped by about 20 % ) . I think you do n't need to worry to much about the temperature . If the cpu is reaching its thermal limit it will automatically try to do something about it . You may even think about investing in a cooling pad as the enclosure of the mac is made out of aluminium , it acts a a massive heat-sink and theoretically you could lower the temperature by using a cool-pad for laptops and fit it underneath .
Yes . Hold the & #x 2325 ; key while booting up to select your install USB . Also note that if you upgrade to the most recent version of Lion you should get the recovery partition to boot up without having to use the USB ( internet connection required ) .
Replacing an entire keyboard on a MacBook ( Air or not ) is a hard operation or a delicate operation if you just do the key caps . It is in the realm of possible , but almost never is it practical . In every case I 've seen , there is at least one difference ( typically a handful of differences on the 82 or so keys ) in the key cap physical size between a US model and a european model . Total replacement of keycaps is n't a viable option . Apple does n't sell key caps to end users , so you will want to look up a Service Provider to ask them what they would charge you to sell you the black replacement caps if you ordered a set for the US model of your Mac . <URL> You 'll also ask them how much the scissors underneath would cost ( and how long parts take to arrive ) in case you break the delicate plastic parts while removing the caps . My guess is you 'll get many of the keys replaced easily for not a whole lot of money , but the special keys will be shaped in a way that you ca n't replace them . Source : <URL> German ( G ) : US :
To disable deep sleep , run the following command in Terminal : This is a description of " standby " ( deep sleep ) from the pmset man page : Battery savings depend on how much time your Mac spends in standby . While in standby mode , your Mac consumes 0 power , it 's as if it is shut down ( note : not taking Power Nap into consideration ) . My personal recommendation would be to set the " standbydelay " value to something bigger . 2 hours , for example . This means that if you open the lid back in less than 2 hours , your Mac would be in regular sleep and wake up instantly . If longer than 2 hours , your Mac would enter standby mode and consume no power , and waking up will take a bit longer . Example for 2 hours :
Applications bought through the Mac App Store are handled by Apple 's mechanism . Most non-App Store Mac applications include their own built-in software updating mechanisms . I would approach this as a question of what value does Mac Informer offer over the risk of opening up your Mac to an unknown company . At some stage , the application will need your administrator privileges to install software updates . This will expose your Mac to any actions , positive or negative , the application wishes to take . The lack of identifiable individuals , lack of physical address , and lack of registered company details on the about page does concern me .
Homebrew on its own acts like a command-line App Store . It 's safe , if you know what you 're downloading . If you are concerned about downloading hijacked binaries , verify the SHA/SHA1 sum of the binary you 've downloaded against the SHA/SHA1 sum published by the developer , usually on their webpage . Personally , I 've never had any bad experiences with Homebrew . I 've explored many projects and never had any bad experiences .
4GB of RAM is n't much to be running all of those heavyweight apps at the same time . My guess would be that it 's doing a lot of paging to disk . Check the size of the swap files on both machines . Go to the Finder 's " Go " menu and select " Go to Folder ... " . Enter into the box and press the " OK " button . Add up the sizes of the swap files . If it 's more than 1GB I usually reboot . That will clear out these files . I 've seen these files up to 4GB on a machine with 8GB of RAM . Since running out of RAM can cause writes to disk , the difference in disk speed may be what 's causing the delay .
The usual way people upgrade between revisions is to buy the newer revision , shift any hardware over that they want to keep ( like a high-end graphics card ) , wipe the drives &amp; reinstall MacOS X , and put the old machine up for sale locally or on eBay . Unless you live nowhere near a major metropolitan area , you wo n't have issues reselling the machine if you want to . Every time there 's a new model , you usually see a bunch of folks selling their old systems . The logic board may be interchangeable between different systems , but you 're flying in unknown territory with that one - the logic board is tightly integrated with / customized to a lot of other components in the chassis ( front panel controls , power supply , etc. ) Since Apple only sells parts to Apple Authorized Resellers and their technicians , your only option for purchasing a logic board ( or replacement non-standard PC components ) would be through ebay or a handful of used-mac-parts companies ( like iFixit . ) They buy new or used systems and disassemble them for parts . CPUs on systems with socketed processors have some upgradeability ; people have upgraded their Mac Pros this way ( some Mac Minis and iMacs also had socketed processors , too ) and documented as such on the usual Mac-related web boards/forums . This is expensive on the Mac Pros , given they 're Xeons . There should be no need to upgrade the power supply ; they 're reliable and designed to handle the maximum capabilities of the machines , which include some pretty ' big ' GPU configurations . No , you ca n't pop an ATX supply in . Depending on which generation of Mac Pro , the memory is specialized ; some take FB-DIMMs . There have been reports that some aftermarket ram modules do n't work well in some Mac Pros ( temperature/heatsink issues ) , but a major manufacturer/reseller like Crucial should supply working memory . Drives are completely standard SATA . Same with CD/DVD-ROm drives ( verify the drive model works with OS X first . ) There 's an optional hardware RAID controller card that 's probably not worth it . Areca , Adaptec , and others make compatible RAID controller cards ; if bootability is important to you , check on this , as not all of them are . Graphics cards are standardized for the most part ( save some which have custom connectors ; for example , mine has a DVI port and a mini-displayport . ) The question is compatibility with MacOS X , but there are a very large number of compatible cards , and the Hackintosh community has pretty thoroughly documented that one for you already . Sidenote : consider an iMac . It can drive a second display out of the box , they have a second internal hard drive bay , the i7 's are as fast or faster than the Xeons in some applications , and they 're a LOT cheaper than a Mac Pro ; probably quieter and use less power , too . Spend the $ on more memory or an SSD , etc - an iMac with an SSD will wipe the floor with a Mac Pro without .
end question
start question
Does Find My iPhone use location services only when necessary ?
The location services are only used when specifically required to do so . You should see a small compass symbol in the menu bar when the services are being used . You can see what apps have made use of the service recently by checking in the settings app . For Find My iPhone , what happens is that the device maintains a connection much like being logged into a push mail account to the iCloud services . This allows the iCloud service to communicate with the phone , and when you log into iCloud and request a location for the device in question , it is able to send a message to the device over this IP data connection , and request that it turn on the location based services , locate the device and report back the findings , as well as tell it to display a message , play a sound etc etc. . So you are quite free to leave it turned on all the time and it will only use it when you need it . You can test this by setting yourself a reminder with a geofenced alert - if I am at work and I set an alert for when I get home to feed the cat , the icon will display constantly as it needs to know exactly when I arrive at a location , and the services and as such battery drain associated with it will also be used during that time . Clear the reminder , and it will turn off .
Try something like and see what stops working . does n't make any permanent changes , so the plist is loaded again when you log out and back in . Some processes that might be disabled if you are trying to simplify the UI : : Also disables Mission Control , Launchpad , Dashboard , full screen windows , the application switcher , and the Notification Center sidebar , and makes desktop backgrounds gray . : Also removes the window of the desktop . Does n't affect Quick Look or file dialogs . and : Disables Spotlight indexing and makes the Spotlight menu , mdfind , mdls , and for example searching in Finder and Mail stop working . : Disables notifications and removes the Notification Center icon and sidebar . : Removes services from the Apple menu , context menus , and the keyboard preference pane . : Removes menu extras and the Spotlight menu but not status menus or the Notification Center icon . This concatenates the man pages of processes that have man pages :
I definitely would not use electrical tape . Honestly , if for some reason you do not have the plastic tab that came on the HDD , then you can go without it when you replace it with the SSD . The opening is large enough you can get a finger between the SSD and the side rails , should you ever need to replace it . You can see <URL> for another opinion on the matter .
Although Nathan has a valid point for wall charging , from personal experience it is possible to discharge the battery while it is plugged into a powered USB port . Even though my iPod Touch 2nd Gen was plugged into my MacBook , playing Need for Speed Undercover was sufficient to cause the device to power down due to low battery . It seems that a powered USB does n't provide sufficient charge to offset the drain caused by a graphically intensive game . To sum up : if you are worried about exhausting the battery while charging , use a wall charger .
It is not compatible . Bell 's new network ( shared with Telus ) is a <URL> ( on top of their existing CDMA network ) which the iPhone 2G <URL> .
You seem to misunderstand virtual memory . Virtual memory is simply a mechanism that the OS uses to make it look like each program has its own , extremely large ( 4GB on 32-bit , 16 EB on 64-bit ) address space . It also provides a way for the OS to use paging , all while making it look like ( to applications ) only real RAM is being used . In short , it 's only an abstraction , and the " Virtual Memory " stats in Activity Monitor are meaningless ( for 99 % of use cases ) . You should not be worried at all about whatever number appears there , because it has nothing to do with whether " real " RAM is being used or not . About your paging stats : you gave no details on how you use your system , so it 's hard to know whether something 's wrong or not , but I would n't be alarmed by a value of 7 GB . Also note that the reported values are Page ins/outs since boot , so if you keep your laptop on all the time like me , it 's no wonder that the number accumulates after a while .
Yes . Email works well when not connected to internet . You will get warnings that it can not connect to your email accounts . One warning pops up for every email account that you have set up on your device ( and possibly one for all the outgoing servers as well ) . After canceling all of these , you are home free . If you send an email and are not connected to the internet , it will sit in the outbox , and should send automatically as soon as you reach wifi connectivity . ( It may alert you that it failed to send . ) Like you thought , there is an icon that appears for any attachments that are n't downloaded . If you are n't connected to the internet , you wo n't be able to engage the download of the attachment .
Crowd-sourced Wi-Fi and cellular Location Services If Location Services is on , your device will periodically send the geo-tagged locations of nearby Wi-Fi hotspots and cell towers in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to augment Apple 's crowd-sourced database of Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower locations . In addition , if you 're traveling ( for example , in a car ) and Location Services is on , a GPS-enabled iOS device will also periodically send GPS locations and travel speed information in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to be used for building up Apple 's crowd-sourced road traffic database . The crowd-sourced location data gathered by Apple does n't personally identify you . <URL>
Open the Console from the Application - > Utilities , you will see the log files .
That is pretty bizarre . The iPhone 4 is <URL> for a total of 512MB , but it sounds like , for some reason , your phone is n't seeing one of them . Your numbers bear this out too - the iPhone hardware sets aside 9MB of the total memory , resulting in the OS seeing 503MB or , in your case , 247MB . Definitely take it in and try to exchange it or replace it .
Apple uses WiFi hotspots ( and presumably the corresponding signal strength ) to triangulate your position using a data from Apple . Similar to how Google maps a hotspot using their StreetView cars , a 3rd party at one time scanned the area you travelled to and mapped the SSID and probably MAC address of the local hotspots . Though I do n't know if they still do , Apple at one time did not maintain this information internally but sourced it from a 3rd party . Some of the initial privacy concerns about iOS regarded how this information was ' phoned home ' to Apple without consent ; That is , when your iPod was connected and ' knew ' its location , it would also scan the local SSIDs and send them to Apple to improve/update the database . This data was sourced by <URL> . Based on my own inference from experience ( though not 100 % sure , and I no longer use an iPod , so even if this was true at one time it may not anymore be so ) , when you map a route in Maps , it caches the relevant SSID information for the areas to which you are travelling before it goes offline .
Yes . It 's the only place where the AirPlay Mirroring options can be accessed . Of course , AirPlay can also be accessed from the the player controls while playing a movie .
It 's not possible ( at least not that I know ) to specify Filevault 's target dir . It will work by automatically working with your home folder by creating ( if you are in Leopard or above ) a <URL> ( or a <URL> if you are in Tiger ) . The reason for the change has to do with Time Machine ( and to allow - to a certain extent - to backup a FileVaulted home ) . However , you can pretty much " replicate " the functionality of FileVault for a specific folder ( s ) by using <URL> to <URL> in question . You 'd have to mount this image every time you want to use it but the " effect " is similar . You can create <URL> to the files and add the image to the login items if you have an application that needs the data in its original location ( which is pretty common ) . You will possibly have to add the image password to the " Keychain " for it to be automatically expanded . It would be important to read about <URL> 's limitations too , since a FileVault home directory can only occur when you 're logging in ( or out ) . In order to make Time Machine to act as a regular , you need OS X Server edition as a target . According to the wikipedia entry ( which I should have quoted at the beginning since it has all this information , better written and more complete ) : FileVault is limited to encrypting home directories only in versions of Mac OS X prior to 10.7 , and only those directories in their entirety . FileVault can encrypt entire disks starting with Mac OS X version 10.7 ( emphasis added by me ) It remains to be seen whether this is true or not , since we do n't speculate about future versions , but keep that in mind . As an alternative , there are " multiple " programs that will also help you keep a secure " vault " of things . I 'm mentioning <URL> because I got it from a Bundle a couple of years ago . I used it three times and it works ; there might be free alternatives ( as well as using the plain " Disk Utility " ) . Update : Added the link provided by Kyle , because it explains how to do it , but kept my answer because it 's " longer " :)
Yes , the device can communicate with Find my iPhone over Wi-Fi . Find my iPhone uses the currently available network connection , regardless of whether that be Wi-Fi or cellular . The GPS is still used to obtain location information along with Wi-Fi data and the location is sent over Wi-Fi to Find my iPhone .
Find My Mac needs two things to work : An working internet connection , so that the Mac can contact Apple 's servers and register its location . A means of determining the Mac 's location . For the first condition , either a wired ethernet or Wi-Fi connection will suffice . For the second condition , only Wi-Fi will work , because the Wi-Fi radio is used to triangulate a position , based on Apple 's database of Wi-Fi networks around the world . Essentially , you can take the names of Wi-Fi networks around you and their relative signal strengths , and Apple 's database ( and others like it ) can determine where you are , within a relatively small radius . While you can get a rough geolocation based on an IP address , it 's not nearly precise enough to be useful for locating a Mac , hence why an ethernet connection alone is not enough ( it could probably determine the city the Mac is in , but nothing more concrete ) . A few useful things to keep in mind based on this : A Mac can be located if the Wi-Fi adapter is turned on , but not connected to any networks and the ethernet connection has an internet connection . You can test this easily enough yourself . If your Wi-Fi is on , but not connected ( nor is the ethernet ) to the internet , Find My Mac still wo n't work . Turning off Wi-Fi will disable Find My Mac , regardless of whether there 's any ethernet connection . However the Find My Mac service does cache recent locations ( although I 'm not sure for how long ) . So , for the best chance at recovering a lost Mac , make sure that the Wi-Fi adapter has n't been turned off . If you need to do so ( i.e. getting on a plane , etc. ) , be sure to turn it back on when possible .
iTunes does indeed compress large images when syncing to the first-party Photos app on an iPhone or an iPad . It calls this process " image optimization " and it even gets its own progress bar when you sync your device . Currently , the solution is to use some other third party image vieweing app . <URL> , for example , can handle high resolution images , and there are many others .
I ran into the same annoyance myself , and stumbled into this workaround : Edit the " Repeat " setting for your alarm , and set it either to " Every day " or " Never " . Now the alarm goes off when it should , unlike when it 's set to e.g. " Weekdays " . Here 's a screenshot -- green works and red does n't : For more background info , I recommend these <URL> articles : <URL> <URL> The latter post contains Apple 's recommended workaround ( same thing as above , but with some additional information ) : To resolve this behavior for existing alarms , set the repeat interval to Never . You will need to reset these alarms for each day you need them . After November 7th , 2010 , you can set your alarms to repeat again . Update : It 's now past November 7 , and I just verified alarm works correctly again , even if repeat is set to e.g. " Weekdays " . Which is nice . But I hope they fix the bug once and for all before the next DST shift occurs !
iOS 7 introduced support for Bluetooth Low Energy ( BLE ) <URL> . These are small Bluetooth devices that can be placed to indicate a very specific location and the system respond in some way when they are detected . Enter a shop and an app for the shop showing you the latest offers might be one way for this to be leveraged . This would be different from usual geolocation APIs which become inaccurate when you are inside large structures ( offices , malls etc. ) as they can not get a GPS fix , and WiFi coverage tends to be meshed with repeater stations
Yes . This is a feature usually only offered by professional photo software . Removing metadata ( like or ) requires an additional step by the one that wants to share his/her photograph . Aperture for example offers to export picture as either an original or a version . When you choose to export a version the meta - and gps-data is removed from the original . I know from experience that sharing via the following options does not remove these and from pictures : Mail for OS X Tweetdeck for OS X Uploading via a web browser Here 's what the metadata of an export as original look like : Here 's what the metadata of an export as version by Aperture look like . This is an exported version of the same original . The data will differ depending on the export options for a version .
It look like <URL> who is fighting this issue . That guy uses the same router ( Linksys WRT54GL ) as I do and just switched the WLAN channel to solve the problem . This does also solve the problem for me .
end question
start question
How to share internet connection via thunderbolt ?
Now OS X ( Mavericks ) supports Thunderbolt networking just like any other networking interfaces . Then , you can share internet just like any other interfaces . Anyway Thunderbolt interface is pretty picky , then sometimes you will not able to make connection . I do n't know why , but if established , it provides at least 100MiB/s bandwidth ! I expect this is limited by HDD in my iMac , and if I have both SSD , it will be even more faster .
pppd automatically registers the PPP network interface upon successful registration ! From my experience performing this on OSX Mavericks 10.9.1 , the / etc/ppp directory starts out empty . Populate / etc/ppp I had to populate it myself , and I did so from my Ubuntu installation which was already configured properly . These are the files I happened to import based on my needs : / etc/ppp/options / etc/ppp/pap-secrets / etc/chatscripts ( optional ) - you only import this if you are using one of these chatscripts yourself . Delete Default Route before running pppd It might help to remove the default route before running pppd to assist in enforcing that the PPP connection becomes the default connection to the internet : note : I found this more of an issue on my Ubuntu installation , but have n't had to this on OSX . Still here are the commands : OSX command : Other Linux : When you disconnect pppd and reconnect your regular internet , the route will be restored .
Apple maintains a knowledge base article listing which Mac models support either one or two external thunderbolt displays . <URL> The technology does allow for multiple monitors to be daisy chained . In fact , the devices you daisy chain does n't matter , nor does the order they are in . However , like with the Display Port and eSATA , the problem at the moment is finding actual devices that support this feature . Until Apple or another manufacturer provides monitors with the ports needed for daisy chaining , this will not be possible . The advantage here is unlike eSATA and Display Port , the bandwidth available will make this more then manageable from the port itself . The biggest obstacle will be the ability to provide enough power to run all these daisy chained devices . Therefore just getting a cable will not be sufficient . Each device will be required to have its own incoming and outgoing port . Give the technology another year or so it will be more then doable and more mainstream . Apple would most likely also add these ports to their monitors fairly soon , I suspect during the next iMac/Monitor refresh schedule .
According to this <URL> this is standard for most users . But there is Jailbreak solution with external app called Insomnia <URL> is an iPhone native application that , when enabled , will prevent the iPhone from sleeping , thus overriding its default behavior . This allows background applications to continue to run and WiFi to work long after the screen has been switched off . ( The iPhone 's default behavior is to sleep 30 seconds after the screen has gone off , when not docked and charging that is ) . Downside of this is your cpu etc is still running so battery will go down quickly . There is also a <URL> for Cisco VPN with SBSetting with Jailbreak that might work for non-Cisco software ( as in the built-in VPN ) but as I have n't tested it it 's hard to say :-) It may be that the blog mentions the built-in VPN but I ca n't verify it myself . It 's not clear whether it mentions Cisco app or the built-in VPN ( and just names it Cisco VPN ) .
You should be able to do this via Ethernet or wireless , depending on whether you want to buy a wireless dongle for your TV or whether you have the Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air . If you have the <URL> , you should be able to follow the instructions found <URL> : Set up the Sharing - The first step is to set up sharing on the host Mac . Head to Set up the client - make sure your TV uses DHCP General instructions from <URL> : To set up Internet sharing : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences and click Sharing . Select Internet Sharing . Choose the Internet connection you want to share from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . For example , if you 're connected to the Internet over Ethernet , choose Ethernet . Select how you want to share your Internet connection in the " To computers using " list . For example , if you want to share your Internet connection over AirPort , select AirPort . If you share your Internet connection using AirPort , click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Either approach should work - it 's most likely a matter of the hardware that you have ( or are willing to acquire ) . Getting the USB Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air is likely to be cheaper ( and of more use long-term ) than a dongle for the TV .
Have you checked out the built in Screen Sharing in OS X ? Check out System Preferences - > Sharing - > Screen Sharing . Click on the Computer Settings button and you should see a dialog which allows you to enable VNC connections . You should then be able to use any VNC Client like Chicken of the VNC to connect to the remote system running Lion .
To show various drive icons on the desktop use the following commands in Terminal : External hard drives : Hard drives : Removable media : ( To complete all options available in the Finder preferences : mounted servers :) Afterwards restart the Finder : To disable showing the respective desktop icons simply replace true by false
There can be no such thing . Thunderbolt is an active technology , Display Port is passive . Adding the required circuitry to one end of such a cable would be pointless - it needs both ends to work . Edit : Now I read your question again ... You have a Thunderbolt machine &amp; a Display Port monitor ... That 's Thunderbolt to Display Port not Display Port to Thunderbolt . In which case DP to DP would be sufficient ; the Thunderbolt circuitry would simply be inactive if you used Thunderbolt to Thunderbolt . Display Port &amp; mini-DP are the same thing , but different sizes .
Try pinging the broadcast address . This should work as long as the Pi got an IP from DHCP and responds to ping . First , open up a terminal and run . This should give you the info for your ethernet interface , if not , just use and find it yourself . Make a note of the broadcast address . In my case , it 's 192.168.2.255 : So I 'll run the command . Do the same with your broadcast address , and hit CTRL-C to stop the ping once you have some results : The broadcast is intended to go out to everything on the network . Everything that hears it should respond . In my case , I only see my IP and my router 's - I guess it did n't bother passing the request on to my other machines , but you 're directly connected to the Pi so you should see it there .
You can use the <URL> tool on the executable file inside the MyApp.app package . After downloading the . zip file , to compile the binary go to Terminal and enter ( or wherever you extracted the zip file ) , then enter . Next enter . Next find my MyApp.app in Finder . Then type , type a space , and then drag MyApp.app into the Terminal , and push enter . Then enter . Next enter . Now your app no longer has a signature . When users try to open it , they will get an " Unidentified Developer " message . Therefore tell them to right-click on it and select " Open " to be able to open it .
You do have to create a new shared album , but you can create the album from the contents of the existing album so you do n't need to find the images again manually . Open the album . Choose Select in the top right , then Select All in the top left . Tap Share in the bottom left , then create a new iCloud Photo Sharing album as usual . Once you 've created the shared album , you can delete the old album .
Taken from <URL> support article : OS X Recovery includes a built in set of utilities as part of the Recovery System . To start your computer from Recovery , restart your Mac and hold down the Command key and the R key ( Command-R ) . Press and hold these keys until the Apple logo appears . The recovery feature is limited to OS X Lion , Mountain Lion , Mavericks , Yosemite , and El Capitan .
Forward the MMS to your E-Mail . The Email client of your computer can then extract the attachment . In the SMS/MMS view , touch edit in the upper right-hand corner . Touch the circle to the left of the audio clip ( s ) you want to keep or send to others . Touch forward at the bottom and then type in the email address that is linked to your phone , or touch the + and you can pick any of your contacts and send it to their cell/email .
Turns out , according to several sources you ca n't do it . You would need to separate the lines ( i.e. not use connection lines ) .
No , it can not . That 's the reason Apple is still selling the non-thunderbolt 27 " display , for the devices like yours . Source : Apple Online Store , where under system requirements it says : System Requirements Thunderbolt-enabled Mac computer , including MacBook Air , MacBook Pro , Mac mini , and iMac
Hold Alt when clicking at the AirPort icon on the menu bar . It should say , where x is the type of connection . You can also launch Wireless Diagnostics from that menu to capture packets and graph signal and noise measurements .
HP does n't make any iOS apps with this functionality , no - have you tried opening the printer 's webpage in Safari on the iPad however ? None of my OfficeJet 6500 or 4500 printers can run the scan functions from their status pages , but perhaps your model is slightly different .
The Apple mini-DisplayPort to VGA or HDMI adapter terminates the Thunderbolt chain where it is connected , so until Apple released new MacBook Pro with two Thunderbolt ports ( similar to the iMac that has two ports ) then you will only get one video signal from the device through the Thunderbolt port . You may find an inexpensive USB to VGA solution to get around this limitation . Initially they were slower , but the newer ones are getting much faster and the software much better . You can then put the most important content on the Thunderbolt port and have the secondary display served over USB . Should a Thunderbolt adapter come about that drives two displays , I 'll update the answer , but nothing has been released ( or even rumored ) even though it 's clearly something the protocol could support . I like this knowledge base article for the clear deprecation of which Macs support two Thunderbolt displays and which ones only support one . <URL>
I found an app in the appstore called undock that does all the unmounting and advice when it 's safe to unplug . <URL>
You can use xattr . This copies the tags from file1 to file2 : The tags are stored in a property list as a single array of strings : If the kColor flag in com.apple.FinderInfo is unset , Finder does n't show the circles for colors . If the kColor flag is set to orange and the file has the red tag , Finder shows both red and orange circles . You can set the kColor flag with AppleScript : prints the value of the bits used for the kColor flag . Red is C , orange is E , yellow is A , green is 4 , blue is 8 , magenta is 6 , and gray is 2 . The flag that would add 1 to the values is not used in OS X. Edit : you can also use <URL> : tag can be installed with or .
end question
start question
What is the difference between Top Grossing and Top Paid in the App Store ?
There are three categories : Top Free , Top Paid , and Top Grossing . In the Top Free category , the apps with the most downloads that have a price of $ 0 make the list . In the Top Paid category , the apps with the most downloads that have a price greater than $ 0 make the list . The Top Grossing category lists the apps with the highest total revenue ( that is , price * quantity sold + revenue from in-app purchases ) . A $ 50 app is likely to have fewer downloads than at $ 0.99 app . The Top Paid list will likely include many inexpensive apps that get purchased often . The Top Grossing category is to indicate which apps have the highest total spent on them .
The standard way of approaching these terms is to say that an " application " is a specific , static program on storage . It 's some piece of code stored on a hard drive , a CD-ROM or elsewhere . A " process " on the other hand is a specific instance of a running program . I.e. it is registered by the operating system as executing or being able to execute whenever the operating system feels like it . If you take for example Calculator.app , it is a single application . However you can have multiple Calculator processes if you start the program multiple times . As chananelb wrote , it is also possible to have processes which are not " just " ordinary applications that have been started up . That could be for example kernel processes , or simply ordinary processes spawning up subprocesses to do specific tasks . Regarding services , I chananelb 's answer leads you in the wrong direction . His answer tells you about what is called a " Service " in Mac OS X. . . but you asked about what is called a " Service " in Windows . The counterpart to a Windows Service is a Daemon on Mac OS X ( and other Unix-derived systems ) . Daemons are normally categorized by running in the " background " , i.e. without direct user interaction through a graphical or non-graphical user interface . The distinction is a bit blurry though , as a Daemon might for example have a web interface for user interaction . Daemons on Mac OS X are controlled by the launchd program , which is responsible for for example starting up daemons on boot , and letting the user start and stop daemons at request .
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
There is no official way to do so , but if you 've jailbroken your iPad , you can use <URL> . It 's a Cydia Tweak and I can highly recommend it . It does exactly what you want .
If you want to measure the speed ( bandwidth ) between your iPad and your PC , take a look at . It is available for computers and there are versions on the App Store for iOS too ( the one I use seems to have gone away , but searching the App Store for " iperf " reveals several possible options ) . You run an iperf server at one end ( eg the PC ) , and a client at the other ( eg the iPad ) . It runs for a configurable amount of time ( I think the default is 1 minute ) , and then tells you how much data it managed to transfer . Compared to eg copying a file , the figures you get this way are a more accurate reflection of the available network speed , because copying a file requires retrieving the data from a hard drive , writing it at the other end , sending acknowledgements , the overhead of the file transfer protocol etc. . . iPerf is simpler than that : it just transfers data as fast as it can .
. command - ( Terminal shell script ) Specifically associates a shell script with Terminal . Sometimes referred to as a " Terminal File . " . tool - ( Terminal shell script ) Same as the " . command " file extension . . sh - ( Shell Script ) A basic shell script that is associated with Xcode 4.1 . Programmatically , I 'm sure the difference between the first two ( . command vs. . tool ) are subtle , while the third is essentially a simple , default shell script . And does in fact associate with Xcode 4.1 .
Well , in my point of view , if the app works 75 % of the time playing AVI files , I would try to contact the developer directly , there might be something required ( like a plug-in ) or a bug that needs fixing . Like it says in the FAQ , if contacting the developer produces no result , then I guess you could ask for a refund . I have heard that they gave refunds to people who were unhappy before , but it was a last-resort solution if I remember correctly . Also , I presume the App store staff will fight for you more if you paid 100 $ for your app , and a little less if you only paid a buck ... :-)
launchd does a lot more than cron . In addition to running programs at certain times , it can also run them based on other triggers : incoming network connection , when a file is added to a certain folder , etc. . It can also relaunch a program if it crashes . If you 're interested in it specifically as a replacement for cron , the main difference is how it handles being asleep or shut down when a job is scheduled to run . In this case , cron simply does n't run the job , but launchd will notice that a scheduled run has been missed , and run it at the next opportunity ( although if it 's missed multiple scheduled runs , it 'll only run it once ) . Edit : I should also point out some things that cron can do that launchd can not : automatic emailing of failure reports ( you 'd have to write a wrapper script to do this with launchd ) and user-defined jobs that run even when the user is n't logged in ( a user can define launchd items in ~ / Library/LaunchAgents , but they only run inside a login session ) .
Badges are the little numbered icons , like the one that appears on the Mail and SMS apps when you have new messages . Alerts are popup messages like this :
An iCloud account , iTunes account and Apple ID are all the same thing . Apple just refers to them a bit inconsistently . You can ( and typically should ) have a single Apple ID for all of them , unless you specifically need to separate them out . Account " Types " iCloud Account Typically refers to the Apple ID that is used for iCloud services , such as backup and syncing documents and settings between apps . This is set in Settings → iCloud → Account . iTunes Account The Apple ID that you use to purchase downloads from the iTunes , iBooks and App Stores and what syncs your iTunes Match songs , if you use that service . It 's set in Settings → iTunes &amp; App Stores → Apple ID . It 's important to note that your purchases are linked to your Apple ID ( although music is now DRM-free ) , and are not transferrable to other Apple IDs . So you should be sure to make all your app , video and music purchases on a single Apple ID to save yourself future headaches . iMessage Your Apple ID is also used for iMessage . Set in Settings → Messages → Send &amp; Receive . Using Multiple Accounts You can be signed in to different accounts for each of these services , which can be useful if , for example , you want to have a single family account for iTunes purchases , but keep your iCloud and iMessages separate . Other Information Apple has a few support pages that are helpful for untangling all the intricacies of the Apple ID : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Currently , it is not possible to gift Mac App Store apps directly . There is a workaround where you could buy an iTunes Gift card ( from the iTunes store home menu ) for exactly the price of the app and the recipient can redeem the code in the Mac App Store
Comparison of Mac Mini and Mac Mini Server ( as of <URL> ) Processor : Server : Quad core i7 Mac Mini : Dual core i5 The base model of the Mac Mini does not support AES-NI which is recommended when using FileVault 2 . Graphics : Server edition and Mac Mini base model : integrated HD Graphics 3000 High end Mac Mini : dedicated graphics , AMD Radeon HD 6630M with GDDR5 Note : This is very recommended for Lion on large external displays . The integrated HD Graphics 3000 do <URL> in Lion as of 10.7.3 - even on my 15 '' MBP . Hard drive : Server : 2 x 500GB at 7400rpm Mac Mini : 1 x 500GB at 5400rpm - and thus quieter Optical Drive : Server : none Mac Mini : none Weight : The server edition weights 0.3 pounds more . Video , Audio , Network , Dimensions : same
From the <URL> : Sparse bundle disk images appear as a single file but are actually stored as a folder with many files inside . This makes it more efficient to back them up using Time Machine or other backup utilities , as only the changed parts need to be copied . Additionally , sparse bundle disk images work well with the Compact Image ... command . Compatible with Mac OS X 10.5 and later . Sparse disk images are stored as a single file . This can make backups inefficient for large disk images , because the entire file must be copied each time . The Compact Image ... command generally does not reclaim as much disk space as with sparse bundle disk images . Compatible with Mac OS X 10.3 and later .
TotalTerminal might be a better option . TotalTerminal has a visor mode that allows it to stay on top of all the other windows . You can choose to place it anywhere on the desktop , of course , and choose to have it slide out from one of those positions when you use CTRL - ~ key combo or anything else you 've set up . Plus it 's free .
The menu for this is hidden under Edit > Find > Google Search ... . The shortcut is Option + Command + F.
You should edit your top sites and pin what do you want to see every time .
The rainbow spinning pinwheel is usually controlled by the OS . The blue pinwheel is shown by an app to indicate loading . The spinning wait cursor ( shown below ) is also standard , but it is displayed automatically by the window server when an app ca n't handle all of the events it receives . In general , if an app does not respond for about 2 to 4 seconds , the spinning wait cursor appears . If the app continues to be unresponsive , users often react by force-quitting it . Source : <URL> The blue pinwheel is sometimes called the JavaScript pinwheel as JavaScript in websites are one of the primary ways a user will see this cursor , for cross-platform reasons , as in OS X a ' waiting ' cursor is generally not recommended .
So lets compare the i5 family of CPU on MBP . The i5 is a brand name for a family of processor , that is why is it still called i5 . Core i5 " 2.4 13-Inch ( Late 2011 ) features a 32 nm " Sandy Bridge " 2.4 GHz Intel " Core i5 " processor ( 2435M ) , with two independent processor " cores " on a single silicon chip with a 3 MB shared level 3 cache . The <URL> has up to 2.9 GHz dual-core Intel Core i5 processor ( Turbo Boost up to 3.3 GHz ) with 3MB shared L3 cache . Based on this alone the 2015 model is > 30 % faster .
If you mean taking software that you do not hold copyright to , and which you are only allowed to use and copy because it was licensed under the GNU GPL , then no . The <URL> : section 6 of the GPL says " You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients ' exercise of the rights granted herein " , and the Mac App Store Terms of Service explicitly add other restrictions . The <URL> confirmed this : the App Store agreements , on all platforms , are incompatible with the GNU GPL . Apple seems to be disallowing GPL programs in the App Store as a matter of policy , but if you managed to sneak one through , then the author of the program could go after you for violating their copyright . A completely different case is where you hold the copyright to a piece of software . In that case , you are welcome to distribute it under more than one license . ( For example , Firefox was for a while licensed under the MPL , GPL , and LGPL . MySQL is licensed under the GPL and also a proprietary license . ) So if you sell a program through the Mac App Store , you can also release it under the GPL -- assuming you are allowed to do each of these things independently . ( If you wanted to use somebody else 's GNU GPL-licensed code in one of the App Stores , you could write to the copyright holder and see if they 're willing to sell you an alternative license to their software . They 're under absolutely no obligation to do this , of course . ) VLC ran into trouble ( I think ) because copyright for the software was held by many different people , and the whole program was only allowed to be distributed under the GPL . Some programs sidestep such issues by requiring contributors to <URL> to them , but most do n't .
I 've noticed the same thing , but only when there was a notification on the lock screen . I 'm chalking it up to that , and not worrying about it . But still interested to learn more if anyone knows anything .
end question
start question
How to I protect my jailbroken iPhone/iPod Touch/iPad ?
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
I solved this by creating a separate iPhoto Library and storing that Library within a password-protected encrypted sparse image . ( You create sparse images using Disk Utility . ) I 've appended a step-by-step tutorial to the end of this answer . I then created an alias to the private library and stored that alias in my Pictures folder alongside my regular libraries . To open the private Library , double click on the alias icon . You will be prompted for a password so that the encrypted image can mount on the desktop . When you 're done , be sure to " eject " the disk image . iPhoto defaults to opening the last Library opened so if you want the program to open the " regular " file next time , go ahead and open that Library . ( You can either double click it 's Library icon or open iPhoto while holding down the Option key . ) I 've just developed the habit of opening iPhoto using the appropriate Library icon from my Pictures folder . The disadvantage of this method is that you ca n't mix " private " images into your iPhone sync and it 's possible that leaving iPhoto with the wrong " default " library could interfere with an iOS sync . ( I use Aperture for my main photo collection/iOS sync anyway , so I have n't fully explored this . ) Creating an encrypted , Password-Protected iPhoto Library -- Step-by-Step The reality is that many of us have pictures we want to keep but do n't necessarily want to share with partners , children or grandparents . What happens at Burning Man stays at Burning Man . Right ? To keep those pictures from prying eyes -- and inadvertant display on your big screen TV via AppleTV -- I advocate using a separate iPhoto library for your private pictures and protecting that library by storing it inside an encyrpted container . I 'm keying this tutorial to Mac OS X 10.7 Lion and iPhoto '11 ( current at time of writing ) but this system will work for previous versions of the software . ( To a point -- the encrypted disk image was added to the OS in 10.3 . ) You can use this method to safeguard Aperture libraries as well . Open your existing iPhoto Library and select the images you want to put into the encrypted library . One way of doing this is to <URL> to those pictures . I used fmeo ( short for for my eyes only ) . Next <URL> that includes the images you tagged . Export or copy the tagged images into a folder on your desktop . Leave the images in your original iPhoto Library until you 're sure you 've sucessfully completed this entire process -- but do n't forget to go back and delete the images once you 're satisfied with the results . Next you need to <URL> for your private images . Quit iPhoto if it 's open . Open iPhoto while holding the Option key down . Create a new library from the dialog box displayed . I named mine FMEO . I strongly suggest you not give it a name like Pictures I Do n't Want My Spouse To See because the filename will be visible in the Finder if follow my complete plan . Import the images you want to protect into iPhoto ( making sure you 're using the FMEO library ) and organize them as you see fit . When you 're happy with the results , quit iPhoto . You can safely delete the Finder folder containing these images . Use <URL> if you 're concerned that someone will try to recover the deleted files . So far , all you 've done is created a separate library for your private photos . It is n't protected in any way . In fact , assuming the FMEO library was the last library used , iPhoto will display your private images the next time it 's opened . The secret to keeping those images from prying eyes is to store the library inside an encrypted container . Fortunately , Apple provides everything you need to create this container free of charge in OS X ( 10.3 + ) . Open Disk Utility . ( It 's in your Utilities folder . ) Create an <URL> : Choose New > Blank Disk Image from the menu Enter a name . Again , be discreet as this name will definitely be visible from the Finder . Choose a size for your container . It must be big enough to contain the current library and , assuming you want the ability to add images in the future , should allow ample room for future growth . You can afford to be a little generous with this because you 're going to use a <URL> image format , meaning the container will initially only take up as much disk space as its contents plus a little overhead and will grow ( but never shrink ) as necessary up to it 's maximum formatted size . Do n't worry too much about creating an image that you might outgrow someday as you can always create a new sparse image file and transfer the library into a bigger home if your library becomes too large . For Format Just use the default Mac OS X Extended ( Journaled ) unless you have a compelling reason not to . Same for Parition settings , just leave them be unless you know better . Encryption : I 'd suggest 128-bit ( more than adequate for most purposes ) but you 're free to use a higher level if you think it 's necessary . Click Create button . Enter a good password when prompted . Do not store the password in the keychain because that would
Camera sensors are not only limited in their resolution , but also in the rate at which the image data can be read off of them . Just because a sensor can take 5-megapixel still images does n't mean that all of that data can be read off the sensor fast enough to record ( smooth ) video . Even reading just a subset of the pixels ( called pixel binning ) to reduce the amount of data may not be enough to get 1080p images at , say , 30 frames per second . A web search indicates that the iPhone 4 uses an Omnivision OV5650 sensor . According to Omnivision 's own <URL> for that sensor , it 's limited to 720p video , so it 's not just a software thing . I could n't find any specifics about the sensor in the new iPod touch , but it 's almost certainly a different one if it records 1080p .
For starters , encrypting your Home folder using FileVault ( in the Security Preferences pane ) is always a good idea . You might notice a bit of a performance hit ( some people say they do , others do n't notice a difference ) , but the tradeoff of additional security can give you some extra peace of mind . As far as an iPhone-esque " wipe memory after [ x ] failed login attempts " function , the OS does n't have anything like that built in , so you 'd need to search out a 3rd party solution . I do n't have any recommendations offhand for that , but likely someone else here could point you in the right direction .
I 've found that the best substance is no substance . If you can grab some microfiber lens cloths online , you wo n't be disappointed . They absorb the finger oils well . I usually just breathe on my screen a little bit , then use circular swipes with a microfiber cloth . If you are careful , any glass cleaner is fine . The reason this is n't recommended is due to the large percent of the market that would just blindly spray cleaner all over their device ( causing a short ) , and the other percent of the market with non-glass screens . If you spray the cloth you are using , then wipe , it 'll be fine . Update 3/21 : My favorite method now is using Zeiss Pre-Moistened Lens Cloths Wipes . They 're at Amazon and Sam 's Club . I keep a box in the office and box at home .
There 's a small app you can find <URL> Do n't worry , it 's all Japanese . But the app works really fine and reads all ( ! ) ID3 tags of the current song playing . Since I am listening preferably to classical music , too , I hate iTunes non-existent ability to show all relevant tag information .
Chrome and Firefox have n't been developed for iOS yet , but you could try Dolphin Browser . It 's very similar to Chrome , and you can download extensions for it . Opera Mini and Murcury Web Browser ( quite similar to Desktop Safari ) are another couple of nice alternatives to Mobile Safari , and Atomic Web Browser is slightly better than Safari , but does n't have many features . If you want to watch Flash videos on your iPad , try out Skyfire . It 's limited , but it does what it says . If you want an interface which looks like Chrome , you might like <URL> . Here 's a <URL> which may help . You could search for " browser " on the app store , but realize that most of the applications that you find will still be using the same rendering engine that Apple developed . It 's only the stuff around the rendering engine that will look different . There are some rumors that Firefox will eventually release an iOS version . Personally though , I prefer Dolphin as my favorite . :3 <URL> Gestures : create a personal symbol to access the websites you use the most Visit your favorite sites with one touch . Tabbed browsing Bookmarks Bar Full Screen Mode
There is an insanely detailed step by step process on how to do this using the cydia app appbackup on <URL> which basically grabs all your app data and puts it in one folder for you to ssh into and get .
This is included by Apple in the latest iOS . You want to list that network as Auto-Login in the preferences for that network . When you are in range , you first have to go to the Wi-Fi Networks sheet in Settings.app , Press the white > with the blue circle and set your preferences for each network : Auto-Login controls whether the log in credentials are saved , so turn that on . You do n't need to enable auto-join , but it will reduce the taps to re-join this saved network if the device sleeps or is really out of range . Turning on Auto-Login makes the device attempt to load www.apple.com and watches as you enter the wifi credentials needed for whatever web site is used to join the wifi network . Many open public sites are automated so do n't worry if it sets itself up without prompting you at this point .
There is an <URL> . You do n't need to keep a sim in the phone but you need to put one into it to activate it before taking it back out . Here 's the procedure for 3G and 3GS : You can use any SIM card associated with the carrier that your device supports to activate the phone . Simply place a SIM card from the last carrier with which you used your iPhone into the device , and activate it . Then remove the SIM card . You can now use the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS as you would an iPod touch ( Wi-Fi only , no cellular service ) . Note : You can use the activated SIM card from your new iPhone to do this . To re-activate an iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS that displays the " Connect to iTunes " screen : Insert a SIM card from the carrier with which you used your phone . Note : If you are using the same carrier , you can use the activated SIM card from your new device to do this . If your device is unlocked by your carrier , you can use any SIM card . Connect the iPhone 3G or iPhone 3GS to iTunes on a computer connected to the Internet . iTunes will then activate the device . You can remove the SIM card at this point and use the iPhone as if it were an iPod touch .
Apple uses WiFi hotspots ( and presumably the corresponding signal strength ) to triangulate your position using a data from Apple . Similar to how Google maps a hotspot using their StreetView cars , a 3rd party at one time scanned the area you travelled to and mapped the SSID and probably MAC address of the local hotspots . Though I do n't know if they still do , Apple at one time did not maintain this information internally but sourced it from a 3rd party . Some of the initial privacy concerns about iOS regarded how this information was ' phoned home ' to Apple without consent ; That is , when your iPod was connected and ' knew ' its location , it would also scan the local SSIDs and send them to Apple to improve/update the database . This data was sourced by <URL> . Based on my own inference from experience ( though not 100 % sure , and I no longer use an iPod , so even if this was true at one time it may not anymore be so ) , when you map a route in Maps , it caches the relevant SSID information for the areas to which you are travelling before it goes offline .
One option is to use the Zoom function from the Accessibility options . From the Settings app , choose General > Accessibility > Zoom and turn Zoom on . Zoom provides several features : Once Zoom is turned on , you can double tap with three fingers ( assuming you can fit three of your fingers on the screen at once ! ) to zoom in or out . With three fingers you can drag your fingers around to change the area of the screen that is zoomed in . Tap with three fingers then tap again and drag your fingers up and down to zoom in and out more . These should make the targets a bit easier to hit although it will probably slow you down a little . This function was discovered by a friend who accidentally turned it on after a few drinks and could n't work out hour to turn it off . An iPod touch is really hard to use when zoomed in if you do n't know why it is zoomed in .
Having used 4.2 GM on my iPhone 4 for a couple of weeks now I personally find it much much better at managing and minimising memory usage ( regular checks using iStat ) . This should translate to better performance on older devices with limited RAM as less RAM to flash swapping will be required .
By definition , the software only allows certain brightness levels so only by modifying that software ( jailbreak or perhaps Apple changes things ) can you go dimmer . There are many apps that use the colors and draw dimmer text ( Instapaper uses black background at night and many stargazing apps only draw in red ) . You could try using the accessability features to invert the white / black system wide . Even though the screen is still as bright , the largely black screen will block most of the light from escaping . You can even set the triple press of the home button to toggle this rapidly . Lastly , there are 3M polarized privacy screens ( watch for vertical or horizontal privacy - most only work in one direction ) to help solve the light escaping to your side issue . If she is seeing the light reflect off of you , you 're going to have to look for other options . Psychologically , most people can fall asleep with light , but light and motion or light and noise are much harder to sleep with . Hopefully it 's just the light as you might just need to drop the phone or move to another location if it 's not really the light that 's the source of the irritation .
You will have to jailbreak your iPhone to password-protect the Mail app . Sorry , there 's no other way . :-) I ran across <URL> , which has three apps for password protecting iOS apps . Lockdown Pro FolderLock Locktopus All are paid apps . <URL> mentions an app called iAppLocker . It is free . Hope this helps you !
No , you ca n't currently . Im assuming this is a 4th gen iPod Touch - since its the only one with a camera . It can do 720p videos , but it looks like they also limited the picture size to be about the same . This was a large complaint when the new Touch was announced , since the iPhone now has a 5mp camera .
I believe the lack of accessories may be due to the power requirements of the iPad . The iPad comes with a 10 watt charger while most iPhone chargers are only 1 watt . According to this article lower wattage chargers will work , they will just be slower . <URL>
No need for a jailbroken iPad , iCab can block ads <URL> And it is a great browser .
The 6th generation iPod touch has 1GB of RAM and runs at 1.10 GHz according to <URL> .
The USB-to-30-pin-dock cables are electrically identical . All of them can carry enough charging current for both devices . The same is not true for the power sources as the iPad gets a 10W supply and the rest 5W . What power source are you using with the cables ? iPads need more power than most USB ports offer to charge with the screen on .
end question
start question
Do Thunderbolt to Display Port cables exist ?
There can be no such thing . Thunderbolt is an active technology , Display Port is passive . Adding the required circuitry to one end of such a cable would be pointless - it needs both ends to work . Edit : Now I read your question again ... You have a Thunderbolt machine &amp; a Display Port monitor ... That 's Thunderbolt to Display Port not Display Port to Thunderbolt . In which case DP to DP would be sufficient ; the Thunderbolt circuitry would simply be inactive if you used Thunderbolt to Thunderbolt . Display Port &amp; mini-DP are the same thing , but different sizes .
<URL> are universal . So , once you have the IEEE standard used , you should be able to resolder a new connector with no problem . In this case , the USB connector used on the <URL> is a USB v1 .1 connector . <URL> I have included the pinouts for USB 1.1 / 2.0 below for reference . <URL> Short of that , I am sure you could use the <URL> on a multi-meter on a USB cable to figure out which pin goes where
Spotlight can , if you just search for " - kind : folder " . It also shows the files . It looks like a bug to me , but it works . Found <URL> .
<URL> provides a managed and trusted connection to the internet that immediately reacts to and protects against emerging threats and unwanted tracking that affect mobile devices and desktop computers . Another alternative exists in the form of extensions for Chrome &amp; firefox : <URL> <URL> I have however only tried these extensions on the aforementioned web browsers on the Windows platform , and as yet have not tried them on OS X.
Now OS X ( Mavericks ) supports Thunderbolt networking just like any other networking interfaces . Then , you can share internet just like any other interfaces . Anyway Thunderbolt interface is pretty picky , then sometimes you will not able to make connection . I do n't know why , but if established , it provides at least 100MiB/s bandwidth ! I expect this is limited by HDD in my iMac , and if I have both SSD , it will be even more faster .
This is intentional . Most websites are n't designed for retina displays and only have 1x assets . If these 1x assets were drawn at native resolution on a retina display , they would appear at one quarter the size ( half the height , half the width ) . That would obviously be impractical : it would be like browsing the web with your browser 's zoom level set to 25 % . To get around this , the browser simply draws everything at 2x ( retina ) by default and then upscales any 1x assets to match . This way , websites appear at the same physical size on a retina display as they do on a non-retina display .
As it turns out , you do this through the " View " menu , rather than through " Preferences " : Close all tabs but one , so you only have one tab open In the " View " menu , click " Show Tab Bar " which will make the tab bar appear This preference will stick , even if you close and reopen Safari Simple , but not what I expected !
I have the same MBP . It only has a single displayport/thunderbolt output , which can drive a single monitor . The only way for it to drive multiple external displays is to use a daisy chained Thunderbolt display , or an adapter that drives multiple displays from a single input ( Matrox makes one ) or possibly a usb driven adapter .
I do not have the Yosemite but on <URL> : The trick is to assign a second Space to the desktop . You do that by pressing the Mission Control button on your Mac keyboard ( F3 ) or whatever you 've assigned in System Preferences > Mission Control , and moving the mouse to the upper right of the display until you see a Plus ( + ) icon . Click it to create a new Space . After you 've created a second Space , your dock option will change . Now you 'll see this : Now you can assign the app to the Desktop of your choice , typically either the desktop on display # 1 or display # 2 .
You should get a mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter ( sometimes referred to as a Thunderbolt to VGA adapter , but it 's the same thing ) . Apple <URL> , but they can be had elsewhere for less , including at my personal favourite , <URL> . You could do HDMI to VGA , but it would require a ( typically bulky ) active adapter . There are some HDMI to VGA adapters that are n't active , but they rely on graphics card support that Macs do n't have . The DisplayPort to VGA adapters are technically active adapters , but for whatever reason they seem to be much more compact than HDMI to VGA ones . There are USB based display adapters , and some of them have VGA output , but I 'd only recommend them for situations where other outputs are n't available . They 're essentially a USB connected graphics card , which means that performance is lacking , and it takes up CPU and memory resources that the built-in outputs do n't . Useful for some situations , but in your case I 'd stay away .
Set it as a Nickname instead . Then it would only be seen by you . Do n't hand the contact card to anyone , though , as it would be in that . See <URL> for a cautionary tale ;-) A friend of mine has been " Young Master Johnson " [ fake name ] for 15 years without anyone else knowing .
To permanently block outgoing traffic to specific domains and/or ports you should create a new anchor file and add it to pf.conf . Create an anchor file org.user.block.out in / private/etc/pf . anchors with the following content and a trailing empty line The additional domain names/IP addresses in mybad * hosts are just an example how to add additional domains . The same goes for the ports 80/5353 in mybad * ports . A simple but less flexible solution is : Modify the file / private/etc/pf . conf but keep a trailing empty line original file : to Parse and test your anchor file to make sure there are no errors : Now modify / System/Library/LaunchDaemons / com.apple.pfctl.plist from to You have to disable System Integrity Protection if El Capitan is installed to accomplish this . After editing the file reenable SIP . After rebooting your Mac pf will be enabled ( that 's the - e option ) . Alternatively you may create your own launch daemon similar to the answer here : <URL> . After a system update or upgrade some of the original files above may have been replaced and you have to reapply all changes . Murus : Open Murus . Click the gear in the configuration panel to create a custom rule : <URL> Enter all necessary details : <URL> Hit the blue button Add Custom PF rule and start PF in the upper right corner with the rightwards arrowhead ( or " play " button ) .
My suggestions : <URL> -- great app , can record in-game videos , records both microphone and system app , compress video and still fast ; $ 29.95 . QuickTime -- records audio only from system input , supports in-game screen capture , slower then iShowU HD , but still smooth , free and built-in . <URL> -- Ugly interface , very buggy . <URL> -- No demo available ; $ 14.99
It 's a question that is very unpopular . You 're right , but you 're not supposed to say it . Yes , the hub someone wrote about has two USB-C ports out of it , but they will be compromised . What the problems is - how the USB-C lines within a cable are used is determined at plug-in time , depending on what you plug in downstream of the port . For example , you ca n't have full speed USB 3.1 and full video at the same time . So the USB-C makes a choice for you . If you plug in both a high-res monitior and USB 3 , then you ca n't have both at once . So it will be interesting to see how the various hub supplies will handle this problem . People think that a hub will be much like a USB 3.1 hub , where the function of USB does n't change when you plug things into it . But if you plug a high-res monitor into a USB-C hub , your USB regular data will suddenly drop down in speed to what two interior wires can handle , instead of four . The bandwidth just is n't there . Today 's USB-C is USB-C on training wheels .
According to <URL> , this should work . <URL> confirms it . These are the troubleshooting steps I would try : Run all software updates on both the iMac and MacBook Air . A lot of times there are firmware updates that address issues like this . Open System Preferences > Displays and click Detect Displays . Reset the <URL> on both the iMac and the MacBook Air by restarting the computer and holding & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + P+R on boot but until you hear the POST chime twice . Then you can let go and boot normally . Be sure to do this on both machines . Try going through these steps and let me know if you 're able to resolve the issue .
Mac OS X Hints has <URL> : To go back to pre-Lion behaviour enter the following command in Terminal : To undo this change type type the following command or zap the PRAM ( press Cmd + Opt + p + r at power up ) :
Several built in tools exist to assist with this sort of thing , but many of them are intended to help people with limited vision etc , whereas I understand that you want to hear particular words etc possibly as a learning tool . You can still configure certain settings to help you do this . In you can use to read out all screen interaction , allowing you to also perform a quick 3 finger down swipe across text to have it narrated to you . There are various options for altering the lnaguages and dialects , the voice pitch and quality etc , but it does all tend to compromise using your device for anything else unless you are of limited vision etc. . In the same area , there is also ; this is far more subtle , allowing you to select any text via the usual techniques , to which the option to the selection is added , and you can configure various options as per the screenshot below . This latter method is ideal for speaking snippets of text because it is a system tool , and will allow for the technique to work in any app in which you can select text . The downside is that it is intended to be an accessibility tool for visually impaired people , and the pronunciation of the text is still very much " computer speak " , resulting in some words being pronounced oddly or even incorrectly as all the narration is being synthesized rather than using a base of real natural language to form words . In the same text menu , you also have the , allowing you to pull up a dictionary definition of the word . I 've never been able to make any sense of the pronunciation hints in dictionaries that appear next to names , but if you can , then here it is to see ( You can also change dictionaries if appropriate , you should be prompted to download one if you do n't already have one ) As for 3rd party apps , I do n't know of any that are available which have the specific purpose of reading aloud content with a primary purpose of pronunciation , this sort of tihng often requires large and complex databases containing snippets of genuine voice recordings which can be cut together to read aloud text with a far more natural sound that many of the simpler synthesized techniques as per above .
The retina display of the new iPad has both ... a four times higher pixel density a better color saturation More vibrant colors will improve the looks of anything displayed on the screen . So this should make " non-retina compatible " games more fun as well . However , all of the iOS apps by Apple are in high-res and due to the huge difference in the used pixels , non-retina apps will appear to have worse graphics . The retina display is theoratically able to display four times the content . Apps that make use of only 1/4 of the pixel resolution are perceived less detailed .
Yes , it works , but it 's not graceful , it 's ungainly : Source : <URL>
The best guess is that it is going to depend on the computer . <URL> But , yes , assuming that a given Thunderbolt port is carrying the DisplayPort signal , there should be no reason why the Thunderbolt display will not work on that port as a display , regardless of the kind of computer . Now as for other features included , it may depend on drivers for those features and how the host operating system recognizes what other things are included in the Thunderbolt display . For example , how customized the drivers are for each extra included device in the Apple Thunderbolt display is probably yet to be determined . For example the speakers , extra USB/FireWire ports , network card , etc. may not work if the host OS ca n't find a driver . The specifics of how a motherboard-based Thunderbolt port can talk to any given PCI-Express graphics card installed in that board is also an interesting detail to address , hopefully the next generation Mac Pro will give an example of this since its implementation is questioned as well in the Thunderbolt wiki article as well : Because the PCIe bus does not carry video data , it is unclear whether a standalone PCIe card could offer a Thunderbolt port . The Intel Thunderbolt Technology Brief does not give a conclusive answer . Intel disclosed documentation where video stream is sent to a dual-Thunderbolt controller , with the video stream being only sent to one of the Thunderbolt ports , giving the assumption that video stream is not mandatory on Thunderbolt implementation . It looks like many of questions will be answered in the future as more hardware is rolled out but here is a bit of speculation on the noted <URL> . Another aspect that makes the DSL3510 interesting is that it supports multiple internal DisplayPort inputs . What this means is that it could in theory interface with a discrete graphics card as well as the integrated graphics from an Intel CPU . This is likely to be the chip used by Apple in its desktop systems , whereas the more power efficient DSL3310 will end up in notebook products .
end question
start question
How do I un-claim a Time Machine backup ?
I had this a long time ago , so I am not 100 % sure that I remember the solution correctly , but I think it was rather simple : Rename the existing backup image or tuck it away in a folder .
When a newer Mac migrates data from an older OS , the system has upgrade scripts to make sure that the data lands properly on the new system . These scripts handle all Apple software and perhaps a few high profile programs in case that Apple has found a need to clean up other data . Migration the other way is n't tested , no scripts or support is provided and in fact , the system normally detects you are moving data backwards and refuses to restore in the first place . You should be fine restoring a Lion backup onto any Mac with Mountain Lion . You do n't need to reinstall anything - just do n't run the Setup Assistant until you have the external drive and can move everything to the new mac . Running an older OS on a newer Mac is also problematic , since often drivers are missing and again , Lion will check and refuse to install on hardware that is too new in general .
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
No - Time Machine will not preserve the encryption of the source disk since it reads the files in an unencrypted manner just like any other process once you log in to the Mac . You would need to ensure that all Time Machine destinations are also encrypted to properly secure your data both on the main computer as well as have it encrypted on the Time Machine volumes . This is as easy as ticking a checkbox on the Time Machine preference pane in system preferences . On macOS 10.12 Time Machine will throw a helpful notification if you do in fact select an unencrypted destination for encrypted OS .
iPods and iPhones are backed up using iTunes to a Mac or PC . " On this iPhone " has options to backup either to iCloud or the device running iTunes .
The answer is this is n't easily done . Apple does n't expose the timing which means it 's likely to change if you apply any updates to the system or the change might even break backups so they do n't run . I 've left a comment asking about the use case . I 've employed scripts to get around this in several cases for customers , but I 'd need to know more about your actual use case before providing an alternate solution that would work even with the default Time Machine scheduling .
In general , I would think that a slow Time Machine disk is not going to really affect the performance of your machine . If you are using the 5400 RPM disk only for Time Machine , then the performance of that disk is only going to affect the speed that backups are made and recovered for the most part . It is true that when TM is running it is scanning your hard disk to determine what has changed , but you indicated that it is a PCIe connected SSD and thus I 'd take a guess that you 're probably not saturating that drive 's performance most of the time . It does seem that TM runs at a lower priority and thus normal activity on the SSD is going to get precedence . In general , the small slices that TM is going to steal from your SSD most likely are n't noticable and the slower performance of the 5400 RPM disk is isolated only to TM since you 're not using it for anything else . For some perspective , I have a 2008 MacPro3 ,1 with 1 SSD , 1 7200 and 2 5400 " green " drives in it and Time Machine goes out to a fairly slow ReadyNAS Duo on the network . When TM kicks off I can hear the drives in the MacPro chattering away , but I do n't notice any slow down with what I 'm doing since TM appears to be lower priority . However , attempting to go into TM to restore anything and it can be fairly abysmal . Fortunately , I rarely restore from backup :-)
It 's not complicated at all . I ca n't point to a current Lion Apple support doc but I just moved my old snow leopard time machine backup to my new Lion install . Simply launch Migration Assistant , select your Time Machine backup and select which settings and users to copy . It does n't care that your backup is a Snow Leopard backup . For more information here is an article about how to use Migration Assistant in Snow Leopard . It is virtually the same in Lion . <URL>
I had this a long time ago , so I am not 100 % sure that I remember the solution correctly , but I think it was rather simple : Rename the existing backup image or tuck it away in a folder .
<URL> is a quick-and-dirty application that displays the contents of your Time Machine backups , and shows what 's changed since the previous backup .
You can use the tool to delete backups one by one . If you are sure you have selected the correct name , you can delete all backups from that one Mac by not passing in the time and letting it delete the entire folder : The sudo command needs your password ( and it wo n't echo to the screen , so just type it and pause to be sure you 're dating the correct files before pressing enter ) .
Time Machine would be the most reliable of the two . CCC is brilliant for cloning to the same hardware , but it 's not really meant to cross to newer hardware , as it has no ' installer ' process to prepare for the new hardware/OS drivers . However , a better option may be ... You can migrate directly from the old Mac to the new , as part of the " welcome to your new Mac " introduction , if both can be on the network at the same time .
As you said that <URL> did n't work fine for you then I search in web and find : <URL> it disables the automatic backup function of Time Machine and installs its own launchd daemon . <URL> ( free software ) allows you to specify a schedule for Time Machine to run . it changes the one-hour interval of Time Machine backups . You can change the interval or decide to make daily , weekly and monthly backups .
The file will be saved if the containing folder has not yet been backed up , otherwise it will be backed up next time Time Machine makes a backup . The backup will not be corrupted .
You can not directly restore to another account from Time Machine , but you can rename the user after the restore . After the fresh installation of OS X , restore the data and then do the user rename . Follow the process outlined in <URL> to rename your user " a " to user " b " .
Yes pretty much anything that can do a boot-able backup of Mac OS X , should be able to do a back up of Mac OS X server . There are very few differences between Mac OS X , and Mac OS X Server , as demonstrated by how apple does Lion Server . Download and install Lion Download and install Lion Server Apps So in this case and as always with OS X server Apple just adds some more Applications that the client version lacks . Additionally , <URL> confirms it works with Server .
Yes , doing a restore , similar to how one does this on an iOS device , will reset it to the factory default settings and install . You do this by going to Settings - > General - > Reset , and selecting restore . If that doesnt work , you can also plug it into a computer with Micro USB , and use iTunes to restore . More information is available in this <URL> .
You can not do this on an active partition . You need to boot into Recovery Mode which will let you delete the unwanted partition and resize the main partition . Select the whole drive then the Partition tab . <URL> PS Make sure you have a Time Machine backup before doing anything .
The application you point out is a Mac only application . That 's why it does n't work on Windows Vista . However , here 's two alternatives : <URL> which is a paid multiplatform app <URL> which is less polished and windows only , but free . You may as well be interested by <URL> which allow to browse any connected iOS device without jailbreaking them . It does the job and works on Mac OS &amp; Windows . It 's a shareware , but the demo is fully usable .
Finally , I decided to give a try by myself . I had no particular problem , I just followed the well known procedure of backup to Time Capsule , interrupt , and restore the USB drive to the Time Capsule sparsebundle related to the machine . All my previous backup , have ben recognized . However , for 500GB of data I had to wait for two days to be completed . Apparently , by matching the two . sparsebundle size , the data seemed to be transferred in a reasonable time from 4 to 7 hours . For the rest , it just seems that disk utility stopped doing nothing for the rest of the time . Even the USB drive went in stand by mode for almost two days . Then , after two days , it just stop informing that the restore went fine .
end question
start question
Do I have to use the Apple USB Ethernet Adapter for a MacBook Air ?
You do n't have to but your mileage will vary between the adaptors if they work or not . The Apple ones have drivers built into OS X , most of the others should work but there 'll be varying levels of success .
Since the release of Mac OS X Lion ( 10.7 ) , there is no installer media . The OS is <URL> , and reinstalled from a <URL> that is created on the hard drive . Eventually , Apple will allow you to <URL> that contains the OS . For now , you can <URL> ( or burn a DVD ) . It is expected that your computer did n't come with a USB drive for the OS , and the other models no longer come with DVDs .
Plugging in headphones used to be the quick and dirty way to assure silence ( back in the PPC hardware days ) . Now , the self test startup chime still uses the internal speaker whether or not the headphone jack is in use , but the below trick will work on older macs . It is of use with new macs as long as you do n't set your mac to reboot automatically and you do n't forget about the current behavior and reboot it yourself . I have a snipped nub of a headphone jack that I use when I am in a place where noise is prohibited no matter what the software decides . You can get a plug without any cord for less than $ 5 at a store such as Radio Shack if you do n't have headphones you can sacrifice or the cut cord does n't please you . It 's simply not possible to change the NVRAM mute/volume setting after the mac is shut down ( or sleeping ) so even if you prepare properly , sound will be made if things do n't go as planned on the shutdown .
Yes , but only with the iPad in sleep mode . The iPad requires at least 500mA from a USB port : Apple peripheral devices may request more than 500 mA ( Milliamps ) at 5 V ( Volts ) from a port to function or to allow for faster charging . Such Apple peripheral devices include : iPad iPhone Alluminum Wired Keyboard * About wired keyboard we get the information : * When connected to a computer that supports a connection of 1100 mA at 5 V , the first port on the keyboard to have a device or peripheral connected to it that requests standard 500mA power will receive that power . At that point , 100 mA at 5 V is available through the remaining port on this keyboard . This keyboard does not support extra power out of its two ports simultaneously ; it requests extra power from the host computer to provide power out of either one of its two ports , then the second keyboard port receives the standard 500mA . Note : Apple computers and displays that were introduced before 2007 support only 500 mA at 5 V from their ports and do not offer additional power . [ <URL> ] As the wired keyboards can provide the minimum 500mA required by the iPad ( just like older Macs can ) , it should be possible for it to power the iPad . However , it can not provide an additional current which would allow for faster charging . But , the new iPad can only charge in sleep mode when connected to a low powered USB hub : The fastest way to charge your iPad is with the included 10W USB Power Adapter . iPad will also charge , although more slowly , when attached to a computer with a high-power USB port ( many recent Mac computers ) or with an iPhone Power Adapter . When attached to a computer via a standard USB port ( most PCs or older Mac computers ) iPad will charge , but only when it 's in sleep mode . Make sure your computer is on while charging iPad via USB . If iPad is connected to a computer that 's turned off or is in sleep or standby mode , the iPad battery will continue to drain . [ <URL> ]
When an interface self-assigns an IP it generally means the interface is n't getting any response from your router or DHCP server . This is a feature of OS X to let the machines build an adhoc network when they can not determine the actual network they 're on -- you can put a bunch of Macs on a dumb hub and almost get them to self-organize and function with this feature . Your router and DHCP server are going to see the MAC address listed for the device in the Network Preferences pane . Go to and click on your Thunderbolt interface . Click on the button and then on the tab : That 's the MAC address that your interface is broadcasting on the network when it 's trying to acquire an IP on your network from your DHCP server .
If the USB cord is not plugged into anything on the other end it should not be drawing any power that would be worth speaking of . However if you are talking about the USB charger box that converts a normal power outlet to USB power to charge your iPhone then yes , those do draw power as long as they are plugged in . You can tell as they get very warm even when not charging . It is recommended to unplug any electronics when they are not in use to save power , however I do not do this unless I am not using it for a few days .
There 's no official way to achieve this . You have to jailbreak your iPad and use a software like <URL> ( works on all iDevices ) to do this .
To turn off the power to your " self made USB cooling fan " ( nice one ) you need to put the mac mini to hibernate mode not to sleep mode . In Terminal ( found in ) type
From the <URL> , here is a picture that shows you where the IR port is located .
There are a couple of ways of acheiving this : Adhoc , peer to peer , computer to computer You can create a peer to peer wireless network between devices that does not require an Access point or other routing device . This is usually known as creating an ad-hoc wireless network , or a computer to computer one , rather than an infrastructure one . I currently only have access to a machine with Mountain Lion on , and things appear different ( this method is unavailable ) , but in Lion or earlier you should be able to : Go to the menu bar , go to your network indicator and choose " Create Network ... " Enter a network name , and security settings if required On your iPad , go to Settings , go to WIFI and choose the network you just created . Enter the password if you set one and you should get connected . Any devices connected this network should only be able to communicate with other devices on the network , no routing or other traffic is available . Internet Sharing Another option is to use Internet Sharing . On the off chance that you have free or cheap hotel internet : Open System Preferences and go to the Sharing pane under the Internet &amp; Network heading . On the list of services to the left , select Internet Sharing . Do n't check it quite yet -- there 's a few options that need to be set first . Depending on what your current internet source is , select it from the menu next to " Share your connection from . " . Built-in Ethernet is a good choice , but if you have a mobile broadband dongle you could select that also . In the " To computers using " box , select and check AirPort/Wifi from the list . Click on the AirPort/wifi Options button to configure security settings if you want any . In the window that pops up , type a basic Network Name , Click OK . Setting up Mac OS X Internet Sharing The configuration portion is finished , so the only thing left to do is check the box next to Internet Sharing and enable it . A confirmation message will appear -- click Start to complete the process . Now that your Mac 's internet is being transmitted from your AirPort WiFi card to other devices , you should see an different icon in your menu bar . If you do , you 're in business ! On your iPad , go to Settings , go to WIFI and choose the network you just created . Enter the password if you set one and you should get connected . Now any machine connected to the same wifi network can route through the ethernet or dongle connection on the air . If you have no connection available through those connection , then the same peer to peer communications should be available still .
If you look at the page for the <URL> ( click " Tech Specs " ) It 's rated for 7 Watts . I do n't where you got the " ~ 7 amps @ < 22V DC on a regular day . " So the sort answer is - That panel wo n't even keep the MacBook Air running at idle , let alone charge the battery . Your post got me curious , so I broke out a Kill-A-Watt power meter . 11 " MacBook Air Power Draw , battery already fully charged , measured at the wall : Idle , screen backlight completely off : ~ 4.7 W Idle , Minimum Screen Brightness : ~ 4.9 W Idle , Half Screen Brightness : ~ 5.4 W Idle , Maximum Screen Brightness : ~ 8.0 W For the active tests , I have the screen set to half-brightness , where I usually use it : Moving the mouse in circles with the trackpad : ~ 6.5 W Scrubbing the Dock ( with magnification ) : ~ 11.2 W HD Video Decoding , GPU accelerated : ~ 15.6 W SD Video Decoding , GPU Accelerated : ~ 11.2 W Flash SD Decoding ( not sure if it 's accelerated ) : ~ 12.7 W Ok , these figures are VERY approximate ( the Kill-A-Watt is not a high precision instrument ) , but they do put things in the ballpark . The theoretical approach - <URL> is the term for the amount of energy that falls on a set area per set time . Basically , we can calculate the amount of solar energy which falls on a specific area . The <URL> wikipedia page gives us a ballpark figure of ~ 1Kw/M ² . Then , you have to take the efficiency of the Photovoltaic Panel into account . <URL> a best-case mono crystalline panel efficiency of ~ 25 % , shich means that only 25 % of the light which falls on the panel is converted to electrical energy , while the rest is dissipated as heat , reflected away , etc. . . Therefore , a 1m ² panel will , at the equator and with a mechanism that points it directly at the sun , manage ~ 250 W. From this , we can tell that a 154W panel would have to be ~ 0.616 m ² ( 154/250 = 0.616 ) , far larger than what you have . Examining the 7W panel you have - How big does a panel have to be to produce 7W ? 7/250 = 0.028 m ² , or 280 cm ² or about 14 * 20 cm , which seems pretty accurate , judging from the pictures on the product page . Anyways , I went of on a bit of a tangent here , because you mentioned you 're an EE , which is one of my main interests .
This works exactly as one would expect it to : When you share from an iOS 8 device , purchases made with the Apple ID used on that device for purchases ( iTunes , iBooks , AppStore ) -- even if that ID is different from the one used for iCloud ( Photos , Mail , Contacts , Calendars ) on that device -- will be shared .
The primary cons for the MacBook Pro are : heavier and more bulky compared to the Air noticeably slower HDD versus SSD at the same price point only has a 1280x800 screen resolution Note : but is <URL> than the one in the Air , with a more accurate color gamut . Things that sold me on the MacBook Pro over the 13 " MacBook Air : the MacBook Pro is more future-proof and upgradeable and offers more value for the money in my opinion . Primarily Upgradeable RAM , the Pro Comes with 4 GB and so does the MacBook Air , but the key point is that I can just order it with the 4 GB for the Pro , knowing that I will be able to upgrade to 8 GB or even 16 GB at market rate for RAM whenever I want to . I can not do that with an Air , you either order the 4 GB and shorten the usable life of your computer or pay upfront to upgrade to at most 8 GB at a premium price ( thats shoddy and I would like to avoid that ) . Secondly the MacBook Pro as of Mid-2012 version still has a standard form factor drive bay where you can purchase and install 3rd party 2.5 " SATA Laptop Drives of your choice in SSD or standard hard disk drives . And then the bonus features in order of importance to me , all of which without the need for external dongles and adapters : Gigabit Ethernet Firewire 800 port SuperDrive ( optical drive ) Standard Audio headphone jack that can do both output or input over analog or digital cables Has n't moved to the new MagSafe 2 adapter format So the flexibility and value of the MacBook Pro sold me on it , its really sad to note that all MacBooks will probably be Airs ( like the MacBook Pro Retina ) soon enough and this value option will be nothing but a thing of the past , so enjoy it while it lasts .
There are many types of DVI adapter , I could type a load of stuff or just point you at <URL> . The key point is that there is no such thing as a DVI adapter . It 's just a generic term that covers the overall outline of the cable end , but what you really have is either a DVI-I or DVI-D adapter , in either Single or Dual link capability . Or it may be a DVI-A . Or there are others ... ! It 's possible that your splitter cable must be of the dual link types , characterised by the longer horizontal bar pin , and your Thunderbolt adapter may or may not be . Should n't matter which type , either I ( Integrated with analogue signal in the pins above/below the horizontal bar in addition to digital ) or D ( Digital only ) as I imagine you are not subsequently adapting them down to DSUB further down the line , the only thing that matters is if they are both dual link . So it looks like you need a Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort to DVI Dual link - the official apple one is the digital only one without the analogue pins ( DVI-D Dual Link ) , and thus should work , if you are worrying that you do not have the same pinout ( i.e. you have DVI-I Dual Link on your splitter , and it looks as though the analogue ones have nothing to connect to ) then do n't worry , it wo n't need them . EDIT - Additional Info After the comments , I have decided that you have a <URL> connector that looks like this : So what you really need is a MiniDisplay > DMS-59 adapter , and my google-fu suggests that this is not looking like a possibility , I think you would be better served abandoning this cable , and looking for a total replacement , Mini Display Port > 2 x DVI ( Single is fine , I or D if you have 2 ports ) . This may also be a pain to find , and you may end up needing a MDP/Thunderbolt to Dual Link DVI , followed by a Dual Link DVI > 2 X Single Link DVI splitter cable !
Bootcamp is a tool for installing Windows on the same drive with your OS X . If you want to have Windows on a USB , then boot from your Windows installation cd and install Windows on the USB . Then whenever you want to boot into Windows , plug your USB , hit alt/option and select Windows as your boot disc . It may be better though , if you find a ready/made Windows USB Edition . Either way , it will work :) Edit : After your first boot into Windows , do not forget to insert the Mac OS X Installation disc , in order to install the Windows/Bootcamp drivers !
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
Only if it does n't have a built in optical drive . I think the limitation is built into the drive not the OS and as far as my searches have discovered can only be subverted by hardware hacks of the drive . It 's a bummer as it is is a neat little drive and Apple built-in slot loading drives are not that reliable ( 4 out of 5 of mine have failed over nearly a decade . ) On the other hand there are a lot of cheap and ugly 3rd party alternatives which work fine .
I believe that you 'll need to download Darwiin Remote form here : <URL> . This software will allow communication between the Wii Remote and your computer . I have n't played with this for a long time , but I believe that when I did this app allows the Wii Remote to act as your mouse and provide direct interaction with the system ( I used a candle to provide the required infrared source for tracking ) .
You can rotate your MacBook Air screen using the OS X system preferences . What you need to do is : Launch System Preferences ( first quit it if it 's already open ) Hold down Command Option and click on " Display " Look for ' Rotation ' on the right side of the Display window and take your pick If System Preferences is already open then holding down Command + Option does n't seem to make the Rotatation menu appear . If you run into that , just quit out of System Prefs and relaunch it . ( found on <URL> and found here on <URL> ) EDIT : Cave ! I had serous troubles on my MacBook Pro retina . Do NOT try this method described above in Yosemite ( and properbly newer systems as well ) Read this : I recently tried this trick again to rotate my screen and got stuck in a nasty situation . My screen is inverted and my ' Display ' menu in System Preferences will not open , when trying to open the ' Display ' preference pane it gives me the following error : " Preferences Error Could not load Displays preference pane . " I have tried the following things to fix it , non of these work : Removed and , and rebooted . Logged in as another user or as guest user . repair permissions , gives the following warning : User differs on on " private/var/db / displaypolicyd " ; should be 0 ; user is 244 Group differs on on " private/var/db / displaypolicyd " ; should be 0 ; user is 244 Installed the ' OSXUpdCombo10 .10.3 . pkg ' Re-installed ' OS X - Mavericks over my current system ' Manually removed the Display preference pane from and installed the ' OSXUpdCombo10 .10.3 . pkg ' after that . Luckely I have an external display that does not go ' Australian ' on me , but this is quite nasty . I am now preparing for a clean install of my system as I am out of further ideas . EDIT 2 : - Temp fix/hack . This will not fix the broken ' Displays ' preference pane , but it will help you to leave ' Down Under ' and zero out gravity . Rotate your screen using a third party app : ' <URL> ' <URL> EDIT 3 : Complete clean reinstall of the system ' fixed ' the issue . I have only restored the non-admin users via TimeMachine . Error message :
The MacBook Air should have come with a bootable USB flash drive for OS reinstalls . Use that and follow the same steps as 10.5.x .
end question
start question
How long would it take for FileVault to encrypt my Retina Macbook Pro ?
The process to enable FileVault will read the entire 500 GB of data - whether the block is empty or full and encrypt it with the keys you set up as part of the process . So , the background IO will run the fastest if you do n't have other user level disk IO running . The encryption itself will take less than 10 % of one CPU on that powerful ( fast ) Mac - so you are really just going to see a sustained 60 to 80 MB/s re-write of the entire drive if you let the Mac sit idle . A Mac with a spinning hard drive would see between 20 to 30 MB/s so an Air or any Mac with solid state drives will be two to three times faster in this operation . So - from the time you start , I would estimate 2-3 hours if you are getting at least 70 MB/s for writing the encrypted data back to the disk . This process does run in the background and is n't really reversible once it starts , so you can kick it off and then track the progress with .
Yes , as @Buscar 웃SD said , you can use an external Bluetooth adapter . On my Macbook Pro 13 " I had to use Apple 's Bluetooth Explorer to set my USB adapter as the active controller . <URL> describes how to download and use Bluetooth Explorer .
According to Apple , no . The iMac Retina 5K does not support Target Display Mode . Note that the iMac ( Retina 5K , 27-inch , Late 2014 ) does not support Target Display Mode . You can see it <URL> .
Allow me to recommend you the <URL> ones . You have an " extreme RE " ( which I believe you wo n't need ) and the Pro , which is arguably one of the fastest and most secure drives so far . I 'm sure you can google for comparisons with other drives but I 've installed a various numbers of SSDs ( albeit not only in Macbooks ) and the OWC ones are what I 've chosen for me . Jeff Atwood himself made a comparison ( but he didnt include the OWC at the time ) , which you can find <URL> . Do n't forget to read through the comments , as there 's value in there too . I 'd say that excluding the OWC ( which I prefer ) , the Crucial C300 should be the next in line .
On my MacBook , if I opt-click on the battery in my menu bar , it gives me current the condition of my battery . You can also use <URL> to show the current state of your battery .
False , Dual DVI means that it has more bandwidth , not that you can attach two monitors . Quote from <URL> article : To support display devices requiring higher video bandwidth , there is provision for a dual DVI link . A dual link doubles the number of TMDS pairs , effectively doubling video bandwidth at a given pixel clock frequency . Dual link should not be confused with dual display ( also called dual head ) , which describes those situations where a computer is hooked up to two monitors at once . Neither , either , or both of the dual displays could be dual link . Depending on the video card ( s ) , the displays could be both analog ( VGA ) , an analog and a digital , or both digital . In order to attach two monitors , you could use a third party device like - you can connect two or three monitors from your Display Port , however , there are some limitations ( like the OS does not know natively that there are two or three monitors connected and treats it like one ) . The price is about $ 350 for the Tripplehead and around $ 220 for the Dualhead one . Here is the <URL> .
The hardware is capable of 30fps , I have this model ( MacBookPro9 ,1 , i7 2.3 GHz ) on my desk in front of me and just shot a movie that lists as 29.81 fps at 720p . However , Apple will , in software , reduce the frame rate if your HDD/SSD/other storage and/or processor and memory are not capable of handling the maximum frame rate at the time of capture . The do this to ensure you can still use the camera even in non-optimal conditions . How much free space ( percentage ) do you have on your storage ? Are you running any processor intensive applications . How much RAM do you have ? These factors can have a serious impact on capture rates . It is also entirely possible that the frame rate is being affected by other factors if you are using a 3rd party application such as Skype . Hope this helps ?
There are a great many games that support 2880x1800 and most of them support 2560x1600 ( Cinema , Dell , and HP 30 " resolutions ) Windows 7 &amp; 8 do n't support the quad-pixel and dual-pixel modes of OSX , they do things a bit differently . You always have the 2880x1800 resolution , and simply select larger font size ( 150 % in my case ) . Most games will work out fine , but some will need some tweaking ( mostly selecting the option Disable display scaling on high DPI output on the compatibility tab . If you regularily use an external monitor i would reconsider the retina display . Having upgraded to it from a 17 " i5 I found out the hard way that neither OSX nor Windows can display different DPI to 2 monitors , hence my 30 " Dell is pretty much useless .
See <URL> for pricing information in various countries . In your case ( Italy ) it 's 130 or 180 $ depending on screen size .
The important thing to know is that once an OS is no longer supported , it does n't immediately become full of security problems . It 's also not beyond Apple to give updates to non-current ( for want of a better description ) versions of iOS for major security problems . Therefore , it 's not possible at this stage to say when iOS 7 will be insecure .
The process to enable FileVault will read the entire 500 GB of data - whether the block is empty or full and encrypt it with the keys you set up as part of the process . So , the background IO will run the fastest if you do n't have other user level disk IO running . The encryption itself will take less than 10 % of one CPU on that powerful ( fast ) Mac - so you are really just going to see a sustained 60 to 80 MB/s re-write of the entire drive if you let the Mac sit idle . A Mac with a spinning hard drive would see between 20 to 30 MB/s so an Air or any Mac with solid state drives will be two to three times faster in this operation . So - from the time you start , I would estimate 2-3 hours if you are getting at least 70 MB/s for writing the encrypted data back to the disk . This process does run in the background and is n't really reversible once it starts , so you can kick it off and then track the progress with .
Hold the Option key and click on the Volume/Sound icon on your Menu Bar . When you 're connected via HDMI , you should have an option show in the local menu to select that connection to feed the audio through rather than the standard audio output .
I will not recommend you do this since it will degrade your wireless performance . The WiFi and bluetooth antennas are located just off the DVD slot to allow more signal to come out . Remember the MBP is a metal cage and wireless signals need a way to come out .
Usually 4 to 5 hours for me to recharge the 2 AA batteries . Basically I recharge the batteries when its power is lower than 10 % .
From a software standpoint , it 's perfectly fine to leave your Mac on continuously . It can even be considered recommended , since Mac OS X has a number of optimization scripts that run on a daily , weekly , monthly basis , but can only do so if the computer is on . From a hardware standpoint , it depends on your model . If you have an older ( pre-2008 ) MacBook with a removable battery , leaving it on and plugged in continuously will kill the battery quick . In that case , you should remove the battery from the machine , only putting it back in occasionally , charging it to around 60 % , to keep it in good working order . The new MacBooks with non-removable batteries are designed to be able to be left plugged in constantly . The battery has circuitry to optimize the charge cycles so that the life of the battery is not adversely degraded over time ( more than just normal use causes ) .
I would run <URL> on it and then you 'll have some actual statistics to make comparisons with and go from there . I would guess your HDD is the problem .
This is not normal . I had a very similar problem with a <URL> ( they only sold them for a short time in 2008 . This is nearly the exact same case as the MBP that you have , except your Pro did actually have minor updates to help alleviate the problems we had in our MacBook . The problem would only appear after the machine had warmed up for a little bit . The hinge would make a creaking noise when closing , and as it got worse , when opening . It also would stay hinged just slightly open ( not waking from sleep ) when being carried in a laptop bag . This was due to an issue in the hinge on the keyboard part . Apple replaced two screens for us . The problem would fix it self for a month or two , but them come back . They finally redid the entire top half of the machine , and it worked great for 9 months . 2 months out of warranty , it happened again . Due to having over 3 repair attempts ( there were actually 4 ) , Apple instead offered us a replacement machine . We were told at that time that there were quite a few reports of this problem , and they had been addressed in the latest rev of the MBP . Since the unibody MB was no longer available , they upgraded us to the base 13 " MacBook Pro . Im assuming that while it mostly had been fixed through minor updates , there may be one with a similar problem now and then . The problem is related to the hinge design , and I have only seen it affect 13 " models . I would highly recommend taking it to the Apple store and having it replaced . They will not replace the whole top part on the first try , only the display .
If there is something FaceBook is good at , it 's in bothering it 's users :) So make sure you 've unchecked those items : Make sure you 've switched the Notification Center-slider to off and the Alert Style to none in such a way FaceBook is listed in the Not In Notification Center . And if you go to Settings < FaceBook , make sure you 're Push Notifications are all switched off .
If you can see your MacBook Pro with Retina Display in iCloud , it has been enabled . The reason it is showing as offline is because it is either ( 1 ) shut down and not connected to internet , or ( 2 ) the device has , somehow , already been wiped , with the first option being much more likely in this situation . Computers are particularly vulnerable to this type of situation because they do n't have a constant data connection like an iPhone , or data-enabled iPad , often would . The user must boot the laptop and connect to a wifi before Find My Mac will know anything about it 's where-abouts or be able to perform any actions . The first , and main thing to do is to select the the " Lock " , or " Erase " option . If it is a neighborhood kid and you think some noise might provide truth , you could always do the play sound feature . This plays an alert at maximum volume . You should probably use this sparingly , and only activate it , for example , if you are within earshot of it . Chances are the user could take quick actions to dampen the sound . As for the " Lock " , or " Erase " option , it will do this as soon as the computer is connected to the internet . Obviously , if they never connect the computer to the internet before wiping it , then the Lock feature wo n't do any good , but at least if they do , it will help you . Good news for you is you <URL> it with Find my Mac . <URL> And yes , you will get an email when any action occurs on your Mac - such as it being locked or found .
No , the 2012 and early-2013 Retina MBP SSD 's are not PCIe-based , so you could not install an SSD from a late-2013 Retina MBP .
end question
start question
Export pdf annotations only using preview ?
As a workaround , I 've found this : Annotate with Preview or GoodReader . On the iPad , GoodReader can extract the text of annotations , when you select ' view summary ' . This summary can be saved as a txt file . [ Update : GoodReader seems to have removed ' view summary ' in . txt format for some unfathomable reason . A workaround ( at least for me ) is to use the free service , <URL> . You simply select 'em ail summary ' , and the annotations appear in a email message . Send this to your Send to DropBox mail address , and you have a . txt file with your annotations . In may ways , if you use DropBox , this is easier because it cuts out the step of uploading the . txt ] On OS X , I 've downloaded <URL> . I can open an copy of a pdf annotated in Preview or GoodReader , then convert the annotations to . skim format by selecting file > convert notes . Having done this , I can select file > export and there 's an option to export notes as a txt file . If anyone can come up with a more elegant solution , I 'd be very interested to hear it .
My solution is to just use a different QuickLook generator . My generator of choice is <URL> . Antialiasing works perfectly well with it and it 'll even highlight source code files -- which is its main purpose . There is one bug , however , that if you are dealing with any directories or files containing a ' ( single quote ) , there will be no QuickLook available for it due to the way the generator sends the path to the highlighter program . Another downside is that the filename will not show in the QuickLook window . Instead , it will just say " Source file " . It also will not work on textClipping files .
Yes you can use logmein <URL> After installing and setting things up you will just need your browser wherever you are .
Books are managed by the OS X application iBooks . You have to use iBooks in order to add books to your library . There is no Books section in your iTunes library where you can drag files to . So just launch iBooks and drag files into the application window , and the books section in the synchronize tab will update immediately . Then , synchronize your device . Also , if you try to add PDF files using File - > Add to Library , iTunes seems add those files as sound files , and they end up in the Music section of your Library , but wo n't be copied to your iOS device as PDF files . Here is thread on <URL> , and the answer that pointed me to the right direction : StumbleSally Midwest - US Re : how to upload pdf to ipad Mar 7 , 2014 6:56 PM ( in response to dawnrber ) With the recent update to iTunes ( I 'm now on iTunes 11.1.5 ) , the previous directions for uploading an PDF and syncing it with iBooks did n't work for me because iBooks is now a separate program at least on Macs . Maybe iBooks has been separate for a while , but anyway , here 's what I had to do : Start iBooks . Drag the PDF from my desktop to iBooks . Start iTunes . Plug in my iPad . Stop the auto-sync/back up process in the center window by pressing on the small " X " ( yours may not be set to auto sync when plugged in ) . Select my iPad name in the left column . Select Books from the menu bar just under the iTunes center window ( you can skip this step if you want to sync all of your books ) . Select the checkbox for the PDF ( s ) you want to sync ( skip if you 're syncing all books ) . Select the Sync button in the lower right . Once synced , go to iBooks on your iPad and in the Library , select Collections . Select PDFs . You should now see all of the PDFs you synced .
According to <URL> the iPad2 is about 20 % faster than the original iPad both overall and for PDF rendering : From the article : Across the board , we 're seeing approximately a 20 % average speedup in rendering PDF content . Complex vector content such as maps and blueprints -- which places a heavier load on the graphics subsystem -- is getting the biggest boost , with improvements in the 22 % - 32 % range . High-resolution scans , which places more of an emphasis on disk I/O and memory , is seeing a more modest 8 % - 19 % improvement . Perhaps the most interesting improvement is in the multi-threading , where we 're seeing speedup increases of up to 10 % when doing drawing while other tasks ( PDF processing in this case ) are running at the same time .
GoodReader ca n't do this and GoodReader suppport is unaware of a product that can , since they operate in this space I assume there is n't an iOS app for this . GoodReader can display PDF files , add annotations to them , and save those annotations to that specific file . Unfortunately it 's not able to edit the content of a PDF file , merge files or create new PDF files . On a computer , the software that does this is Adobe Acrobat Pro . Unfortunately I ca n't recommend an iOS app that can perform these functions .
As part of <URL> , Mark Pilgrim gives two options : <URL> <URL> One or both of those should work for you .
How is the PDF compressed ? If it is black and white only , it may be using a compression method that leads to choppy behaviour . I was recently dealing with a product manual that was a black and white only scan . It was compressed using <URL> , and it stuttered enormously when scrolling , even on a top-of-the-line MacBook . I opened the document in Adobe Acrobat , and recompressed it using ZIP , and the scrolling problem went away entirely . If you have Acrobat Pro , the steps I took were : Open the file - > Save As - > " Optimised PDF " - > Change the " Monochrome Images " compression dropdown to " ZIP " - > Ok . It does increase the size of the file ( from 1.2 MB to 3 MB ) , but I can actually skim the document now . I think it mostly boils down to the fact that JBIG2 is compute-intensive , and Most PDF applications do n't render the document much ahead of the current page . If you do n't have Acrobat , and you can post the PDF , I can take a look at it for you .
Preview under Snow Leopard ( 10.6 ) has a " Print Selected Page . . " under its File menu ( or option-command-P ) . This works regardless of showing the Sidebar or not .
Oops , just tried it again . The problem was that I was dropping the files below the page rather than on the page thumbnail .
In System Preferences , click Universal Access then Keyboard : You 'll find the options for sticky keys in there .
Tools/Show Inspector gives you this information and more . The shortcut is ⌘ commandI .
<URL> is my best bet . You can also try <URL> .
For that kind of things I use <URL> . I have a very easy way to filter PDF contents based on rules . The below image contains a rule that I use to organise my invoices . Hazel keeps watching a folder , and acts on every new file there based on your defined rules .
Use <URL> . It 's free now as it 's not as effective in Mountain Lion as it used to be .
Yes , as long as you have the iCloud backup enabled your documents will be backed up . I have first hand experience . After exchanging a defective iPad the new one , after entering my iCloud account information , had all my books ( both epub and pdfs , I do n't buy books from the iTunes store because of DRM ) , links , gamecenter data , and application data . What did n't synchronise was music and videos .
Apparently , Lion 's Automator actions are a bit more finicky about implicit data conversion between actions than Snow Leopard 's . In your case , the issue is the " Get Contact Information " action does not perform a conversion from groups into their contained contacts . This can be solved quite easily by inserting a " Get Selected Address Book Items " action set to " people " after the first one ( which retrieves the selected groups ) before the " New Text File " action . This will allow you to select groups in Address Book instead of having to select all their constituent members . As to the encoding issue , that does not seem to have anything to do with the Automator workflow : testing with my iCloud address book ( German , with lots of Czech and French contacts ) neither your nor my variant produce any issues writing UTF-8 text as long as the " New Text File " action 's file format is set to " text ( . txt , convert if necessary ) " . If the issue persists on your system when using these settings , possible causes I can think of are TextEdit ( or your editor of choice ) is set to display the file as another encoding than UTF-8 ; in that case , it would mangle them on display . your address book might contain differently encoded characters , possibly from importing from older systems : Address Book is very good at hiding these , but they can cause a number of odd issues . There are a number of utilities out there claiming to fix broken Address Book records , but I have never tested them -- YMMV .
Right-click it , go to the Open With menu , and choose Safari ( or your other favorite Web browser ) . It should open quickly , and will play the animation . No internet connection is required if you have a local copy of the image .
Yes . It usually " just works , " but if you 're having trouble , Apple has detailed instructions : <URL>
You can do this with Markdown.pl and htmldoc ( 1 ) , both of which can be installed with <URL> . The basic flow for making a PDF is : As for your filename-per-page , you coul incorporate echo to add it as an HTML element : And for printing , the lpr ( 1 ) command will send a file to your default printer . Tying this altogether :
end question
start question
Is it possible to launch a program in a specific language ?
There is a freeware , <URL> , to launch a single application with a different languages . it 's really simple and work amazingly .
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
I would try a local Apple Store or Mac repair shop . There 's a good chance they have a few dead keyboards laying around that they 'd be willing to give you a replacement key from .
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
This sure takes me back to my university days ... <URL> has still got to be one of the best terminal-based mail clients out there . It 's been around longer than I 'd like to admit . It 's available as a <URL> package : Overall you 'll get a much better experience using something like Mutt than you will with something like because it supports IMAP , POP3 and SMTP -- you do n't have to learn sendmail or anything like that to get it to work with your accounts . You can even use Mutt with Gmail if that 's your bag . See <URL> . Pretty colours ...
Assuming your running Snow Leopard & #x 2318 ; + space will open Spotlight which can be used to run terminal . Spotlight can be bound to another key combination but the default is similar to Windows + R.
The easier way to do this is with <URL> . For example : supports options to supply a user name ( -- user = user ) and password ( -- password = password ) if anonymous FTP access is n't available . And a -- quiet mode so it 's - friendly and does n't fill up your local inbox without messages for successful downloads .
UPDATE It looks like this has been broken in Mac OS X 10.9 ( and was n't fixed in 10.9.1 ) This works again in the latest Mac Os X 10.10.1 , and presumably also in 10.10 . Trackpad Three-finger swipe left goes back and forth in Finder , just like in Safari . You do n't need 3rd party software to do this , simply make sure your settings are correct . Go to via Spotlight or Launchpad , navigate to and click the tab . The first option is " Swipe between pages " , which enables swiping in Finder , Chrome etc. . Make sure to choose one of the two options . I 've attached an image showing the screen for you here : Make sure that you 've chosen in the so the two options do n't overrule each other . You also want to make sure there is no checkmark in the . They are mutually exclusive . You can check this in the tab . Magic Mouse If you use a Magic Mouse and want to be able to swipe back and forth in Finder , you have to turn off the and change to either or ( both options enables you to swipe back and forth in Finder when using both fingers .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
The answer to the general question is yes - Macs have never required paired RAM although many machines get a 5 to 15 % speed boost if you pair the RAM . In some integrated graphics applications on the 2007/2008 era designs , this could be larger a speedup for some graphics operations . As long as your Mac does n't exceed the total RAM the CPU/logic board wants to handle , you can split up the banks in any way you choose . For your specific models , I would look at a reputable RAM seller like <URL> to see if people have been reliably making more RAM work in your specific models . Often Apple will say the maximum RAM is 4 GB but 8 will work well if you have top of the line chips with the correct timing . Also - be aware that mixing speeds of RAM ( 1066 vs 1333 ) can be problematic or cause the system to fail to start up . Normally , permanent damage is not done to the memory or the computers when you place the wrong RAM in , but it can lead to aggravating crashes , video glitches and slowness .
If you 're using an iCloud mail account then you can go to <URL> In the top right of the screen there 's a preferences icon -- looks like a cog . If you click on that the preferences pop-over opens , click on Rules and from there you can configure some basic rules to put messages into specified folders .
No you ca n't initiate a backup remotely , but you could log into iCloud on another device or a computer and look to see when the last iCloud backup of that device was completed to know what might be lost if you erase it . Also look in iTunes under the preferences for devices to see if you have a local backup of the device as well . On the iCloud preference pane for Mac , you can press the manage button next to the storage graph at the bottom of the window and inspect the date/time of the last backup for each device you have established .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
You can do that with Network locations . You can defined for example two profiles : work ( fixed IP ) and home ( DHCP ) . As you said chancing the location from is tedious . However you can do the same from the menu : > .
The <URL> extension can help you define new search engines to be used by Safari . It can also change the default search engine Safari is using . You could then use it to put the Google search URL as the default search . See the instructions on the extension website .
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
Based on how Time Machine consolidates it backups , unless there is an unpublished method to modify how Time Machine is coded to do this ( and I do n't think there is ) , I 'd say no , you can not prevent specific backups from getting deleted . That said , why are you trying to preserve specific backups , to what end and do you only need files from your Home Folder or the entire Macintosh HD ? Additionally , Time Machine backups are not bootable and if what you 're looking for is a full bootable backup of the systems at a given point in time , you need to make a bootable clone of the drive at that time . You can use <URL> , <URL> or from the Recovery HD , use Disk Utility or in Terminal from the Recovery HD use , etc. .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
Since the CPU and GPU are welded onto the logic board ( Apple 's term for motherboard ) such a task would require you to replace the whole logic board ! I can not name specific prices , but this is really expensive . After all , this is the most expensive part of a Macbook . Usually , it is recommended to buy a newer ( second hand ) computer instead . An upgrade to the logicboard of a non-unibody Macbook with a Core 2 Duo might be possible with e.g. the generation of the Macbook 4,1 since both are build quite similar . You should verify this with the Apple support . An upgrade to the logicboard of a unibody Macbook with i3/i7 is ruled out since the internal structure is totally different . The size and location of logic board , and battery have changed ' vastly ' amongst other things .
end question
start question
Numbers : How to change cell text conditionally ?
You can do this with the IF function . The syntax is ... This results in the following calculation : Result : An example for comparing a calculation in the : Result : However , this will return even if the number is , so instead ...
You can achieve this by making an automator workflow and saving it as a service . Open Automator.app , choose to make a Service . In the top menu set " Service receives selected " to " text " in " any application " . From the Actions , Library menu search for " Get Value of Variable " and drag to the right in the workflow area . Again in the Actions , Library search for " Run AppleScript " and drag to the workflow area . In the " Run AppleScript " action enter the flowing code : Add a variable by clicking on the little double bar icon at the bottom of the window and then right-clicking in the variables frame to create a new variable . Name your variable anything you like . When your done your workflow should look like below . Save it and name it something like " Run in Terminal " . Now when your in a web browser you can right click and navigate to Services and you will see your " Run in Terminal " command , which will open up terminal and run the highlighted text .
Using the Botany sample , the text boxes seem to work as expected with the caveat that you have to intentionally click on one of the four corner handles of the text box to make the blue linking triangles appear . I took a <URL> showing the controls reacting to mouse events . From there , linking works as expected from the perspective of Pages .
You did n't mention which version of Numbers you were using . Here are general directions to create a custom cell format in both <URL> and <URL> . In Numbers ' 09 , once in the Custom Number Format dialog , drag a few integer elements into the format box . Pull the menu down for each , and choose Hide separator . On the appropriate groups , change the number of digits to two . If you 're not mixing with USD and prefer India 's conventions , a much simpler approach is in the <URL> . Choose India from the Region menu , and any cells set to Currency format will not only have the correct symbol , but the correct groupings . Of course , then if you want USD formatted correctly , you 'd need a custom format for that - so use whichever region is most appropriate to the bulk of your content .
This <URL> recommends a bookmarklet that you can install that allows you to tap an image to display its alt text . Try that - works great for me on my iPhone .
First of all - random errors creep into any system . Modern hard drives have billions of bits stored and when you ask for a file to be written as 0101011 sometimes the machine writes 0101001 and if it 's writing the permissions bits , there 's your answer . If you do the math , assuming 99.99 % accuracy would mean more than one error is on everyone 's hard drive most of the time . Things get cut off in the middle of finishing . Electrical noise crops up and messes up the signal , cosmic rays hit your memory chip and flip a bit , some program code is n't perfect so the math gets done wrong . Then you have all the times another program wants to change the permissions and there is disagreement . Permission errors are usually logged to the system log so when you have a problem , have a look , maybe run permission repair to fix up the programs installed by apple . When in doubt - go to the source : <URL> <URL> and <URL>
The option you 're looking for is located at . Turning this off will send all messages individually to their recipients . Note : Disabling MMS Messaging will remove the Group Messaging toggle from the list . Note : Some cellular service providers do not support Group Messaging , so if you have MMS enabled , and you still do n't see Group Messaging , then it 's likely that your provider does not support it . From Apple : <URL>
Set the wallpaper for Desktop 1 , delete all other desktops , then recreate them . New desktops created always share Desktop 1 's wallpaper .
There 's a JailBreak Tweak called Mail Enhancer that does exactly what you want . It 's $ 4.99 in the BigBoss repository , and there 's another one called SIGnify for $ 1.50 in the ModMyi repo . They both allow you to have signatures with HTML formatting , but the more expensive one has many more features that make the Mail.app much more usable .
The only thing you can do is to copy a cell without borders over the one that has . If you type the info in first at least you do n't have to remember it .
The link is broken - please look at some upvoted answers below as well Assuming you are talking about the reference dictionary for looking up the meanings of words ( NOT spellchecking/autocorrection ) , you can not modify that on an iOS device . But in OS X you can add other modules . This page provides some info : <URL>
Not right now , but the feature is coming back in a future release within the next six months . Apple has documented the missing features in iWork '13 in a new KB titled <URL> , where auto-complete for Numbers is listed as one of the features that will be re-introduced . The new iWork applications -- Pages , Numbers , and Keynote -- were released for Mac on October 22nd . These applications were rewritten from the ground up to be fully 64-bit and to support a unified file format between OS X and iOS 7 versions , as well as iWork for iCloud beta . These apps feature an all-new design with an intelligent format panel and many new features such as easy ways to share documents , Apple-designed styles for objects , interactive charts , new templates , and new animations in Keynote . In rewriting these applications , some features from iWork ’09 were not available for the initial release . We plan to reintroduce some of these features in the next few releases and will continue to add brand new features on an ongoing basis . Some features in upcoming releases in the next 6 months Numbers Customize toolbar Improvements to zoom and window placement Multi-column and range sort Auto-complete text in cells Page headers and footers Improvements to AppleScript support Last Modified : Nov 6 , 2013
One way is to create a service that runs a shell command . For this , open Automator , create a new Service , check " Output replaces selected text " , then add the action " Run Shell Script " . In the box where you enter the Shell script write : This takes the text you entered as input , and adds a quotation mark at the beginning and end . Now , once you save your service , you can , for example , go to TextEdit , select the text you want to quote , then go to Services - > " name of your service " , and your text should now be quoted ! <URL> Edit : I included the removal of trailing double quotation marks
I would recommend using TextEdit since it is free and the default text editor on OS X . You only need to learn a key shortcut ( Shift-Command-T ) to convert the current file to plain text . Of course other GUI text editors exist on Mac platform but they need to be installed from the App Store or from Internet ( see other answers for a selection of the most popular ones ) . There is even a setting in TextEdit to let all new documents start as plain text going forward : Again , this setting is for new documents , so if a document is already open , ⇧ ⌘ T ( Format > Make Plain Text ) instantly converts a rich text document to plain text .
Although it 's not exactly what you might be looking for , if under Settings / Sounds / Sounds you set Text Tone to None , no sound will me made , neither when receiving nor when sending a Message .
Office for Windows : F2 Office for Mac : Ctrl + U
⌥ ↩ . Or just return if you 've unchecked Return key moves to next cell in the inspector :
Text is copied in rich form in iOS 3 + . You can try it by copying some text in Safari and pasting it to Mail . But pasted text format will depend of the app . For example , the SimpleNote app only paste in plain text format , since the service does n't not support image and text styling . There is no native way to see the copied text in HTML form . You 'll have to find an app to do that .
Indeed a severe annoyance . I spent a lot of time on the phone to Apple and no solution was achieved , only " wait " . I ended up doing a simultaneous reinstallation of OS X 10.10.3 and my iOS 8 devices and this has apparently made them go away . I have since upgraded to OS X 10.11 and iOS 9 and they disappeared for several months . However , they have just come back this AM for no apparent reason on startup .
Whilst copying from Safari as plain text is not possible as far as I know , the OS X system shortcut for pasting as plain text is ⇧ ⌥ ⌘ V. For Microsoft Word , go to Edit → Paste Special → Unformatted Text or Edit → Paste and Match Formatting .
end question
start question
Syncing without creating a mess ?
Try to rearrange the apps the way you want them directly on iTunes before you sync , and then click Apply instead of Sync ... Plus ... is your iPhone jailbroken ? In this case , if you hid some apps on the iPhone , when you sync with iTunes it could rearrange them oddly ...
On your iPhone , force close all the Apps in the multitask window . Depending on your version of iOS , you do the following : On iOS 7 and before : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Tap and hold on the app . When it starts to jiggle , tap the X to close it . Repeat until all the apps have been closed . On iOS 8 : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Swipe the application preview window upwards to close the app . ( you can close multiple apps at once ) Repeat until all the apps have been closed . Now do a Soft reset of your iPhone : Hold both Home and Sleep button for around 10secs until you see the Apple logo then release . After it returns to Home screen , connect to sync and see if this resolves the issue . Source : <URL>
Apple 's iPhoto application will allow you to get the image size , location , fstop , iso and timestamp of images taken with the phone . The only downside to the app is that it costs $ 4.99 .
You can do that by turning the page into a Template , and then spawn it with the XObject parameter . You will need Acrobat Pro for that , and you will use Acrobat JavaScript , which means you should have a good look at the Acrobat JavaScript documentation .
Finder 's File menu has the fastest method to take selected files and make a new nolder with that selection . Select the files Press Control + Command + N Type the name of the folder If you require more sophisticated processing , you could script it as described here : <URL>
I 'm not sure what fixed it ( restarting the phone ? waiting a few days ? ) , but now the sync is back to normal and I see the spinner icon whenever the notes are updated .
Suggestion 1 : I think you would be a new user to the iPod/iPhone/osx / iTunes family . If your afraid or do n't understand what is happening during synchronization using iTunes , I suggest you to use a utility called <URL> Just Explorer the iPhone/iPod/iPad like a file system . You would get your images under directory . images are grouped in directories like , and so on . Just explore and copy it . Suggestion 2 : Synchronization - means A single machine and an iPod synchronization . Not multiple machines and an iPod . If you synchronizes from other machine it will erase all of your old data . According to me , you had the problem just because you might have synchronized from other machines iTunes .
The closest thing I have found is Cubby . It 's a Dropbox competitor , but it has a feature known as DirectSync that allows you to sync one or more folders across computers ( Mac or PC ) without uploading them to Cubby 's cloud . The downside ? From Cubby 's FAQ : " Cubby always sets up direct UDP connections between clients unless your firewall or NAT configuration prevents it from doing so , in which case data is relayed through our data centers using a TCP based , E2E secure SSL tunnel . " IOW , it might run through their servers , which means it 's not a perfect solution for my situation . Still , it 's close .
Sometimes changing the sound output from your system preferences > sound panel will reinitialize the connection to your hardware . If you only have one output device available , try installing <URL> , just to have a second output in your list that you can cycle through . <URL> Also : setting things back up after a reboot is a snap with snow leopard . It can remember which apps you had open and reopen them for you .
This is quoted directly from the Speech Recognition Settings preferences : Listen only while key is pressed : With Speakable Items turned on , you can also select this method by speaking the command " Turn on push-to-talk . " Listen continuously with keyword : Use the " Keyword is " pop-up menu to change when you need to speak the keyword . Use the Keyword field to specify what the keyword is .
There is an app called AutoAnswer , but it only works on jailbroken phones . If you 're into that sort of thing , you can find an article on it here : <URL>
It proved trivial : power down iPhone change SIM card turn iPhone on launch Whatsapp Whatsapp asks something like " Mobile network changed . Switch to new phone number ? " . Tap " No " That 's it . All groups , chat history and contacts preserved . My friends see me ( and chat history with me ) as I never changed SIM card or number . Later switch back to the original number works exactly the same . Mind the <URL> from Whatsapp FAQ : " Please do not swap SIM cards ... frequently , or you will create problems in the verification process . " But with two changes " to new and back to the old " in half an hour , I of course did n't experience any problems .
OS updates will now happen over the air . The only reasons would be to sync a new iPhoto event/album or to sync content that you added manually ( ripped CD ) . But outside of that , iOS does n't require syncing .
You need to tell iTunes not to sync those songs . Uncheck the songs you do not want to sync in the iTunes " Music " list . Check " Sync only checked songs and Videos " in the options for the device .
Try to rearrange the apps the way you want them directly on iTunes before you sync , and then click Apply instead of Sync ... Plus ... is your iPhone jailbroken ? In this case , if you hid some apps on the iPhone , when you sync with iTunes it could rearrange them oddly ...
Yes you can , using the following code . Note that the UniqueID , if less than 501 , may not list the user in the Accounts pane of system preferences , depending upon the OS version . Be careful that it is not already assigned to another user account . You can assign a home folder outside of the normal / Users / hierarchy with : If you want a clearer name to show up in the accounts preference : If you su to the new user without having set a NFSHomeDirectory , the $ HOME defaults to .
This is the important site <URL> . Below some misc instructions but you need the site if you use Google calendar with some iOS devices such as iPhone or iPad . Basic Default-calendar - setup You can decide the default calendar in Settings more <URL> , useful if you need to change it with different works , schools or universities for instance . Setting up many Google Calendars to iPad under your account Please , preview this thread <URL> . You need nothing like CalenMob , use the default iOS - calendar and then decide which calendars to share with Apple products such as iPhone and iPad <URL> . For some reason , Google calls it iPhone sync but in reality it handles also the iPad - calendar , perhaps also other Apple products ? Why is it enough to set up just Google - calendars ? Because you can import other calendars such as Facebook-event-calendar , more <URL> , to Google Calendars which you can later show with your Apple products such as iPad by the above instructions . Have Fun !
Go to the podcast page in your iTunes Library by selecting it in the menu bar , then click the gear next to the title , then , under " This Computer " , select Download Episodes > Off
You have a couple of options that I can see : You can create a second Apple ID for the " purchase " ( and any other free apps you want ) . All you need is another email address to link the second account to . Apple generally recommends using a single Apple ID for both iCloud and App Store , but it 's not required , and since all you 're " buying " is a free upgrade , it does n't matter much which ID you use for the purchase . In order to get the " none " option for payment , you need to create the Apple ID while " buying " a free app ( such as Yosemite ) . The full process is given in <URL> , but here 's the short summary : Open the App Store , and make sure you 're not already signed into an Apple ID ( if the Store menu has a " Sign Out " choice , use it ) . Find a free app ( e.g. Yosemite ) , and click Get . In the Sign In dialog , click Create Apple ID . Follow the prompts to create the Apple ID ; as long as you 're creating it at this point , you should get the " none " option for payment . A verification email will be sent to the address you used for this ID . You need to click the " Verify Now " link in the email and sign in again before you can use the ID for the App Store . After all that , you have to go back to the App Store application , sign in with the new ID , and " Get " Yosemite . The other option , which might or might not be workable for you , is to borrow a friend 's credit card for the setup process , then go into iTunes and change the payment type to " none " ( see <URL> ) . Note that while the card wo n't be charged ( unless you buy something on it ) , a temporary authorization hold will be placed against it to verify its info .
You can add the Lock Screen to your Menubar . In Spotlight ( ⌘ + Space ) search for Open Preferences ( ⌘ + , ) Check This will show a lock in your Menu Bar with an option ( Optional ) > > or Tab In the or section , add a new item for with the Menu Title of and a Keyboard shortcut that you like . This way you do n't have to change your Screensaver timeout and you can lock your machine much like you do in windows . Note that You may also need to Logout and back in for any changes to the shortcut to take effect .
end question
start question
How can I use my iPad with a Bluetooth headset or hands-free ?
See <URL> in Apple 's Knowledge Base : Bluetooth car kit functionality is limited to audio output . Additional car kit features are not supported on iPad . The <URL> . As you can see , the first-generation iPad does n't support the Hands-Free Profile ( HFP 1.5 ) , but the iPad 2 and the third-generation iPad do , although the Phone Book Access Profile ( PBAP ) still is n't supported . There 's also <URL> where a lot of people ca n't seem to get a bluetooth headset working with their iPad . As user Dave Lucente says : The iPad is not a phone , so it should not be a surprise that cell phone head sets will not work with it .
Yes . Purchases are tied to your iTunes Account , not to the device .
You will find an up to date list of carriers and frequencies on <URL> . For other countries see <URL> . You can use your iPhones as follows ( <URL> ) : iPhone Quad band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) iPhone 3G In addition to previous : Tri-band 3.6 Mbit/s UMTS/HSDPA ( 850 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) iPhone 3GS In addition to previous : 7.2 Mbit/s HSDPA iPhone 4 quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 800 850 900 1800 1900 MHz ) . Quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 800 850 900 1900 2100 MHz ) ( 800 MHz not yet officially supported by Apple ) iPhone 4S quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE ( 800 850 900 1800 1900 MHz ) Quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 800 850 900 1900 2100 MHz ) ( 800 MHz unannounced ) This means you can use your iPhones on any carrier on the 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz frequencies as a GSM phone , and access to data at the slow GPRS/EDGE speed . For higher speed access you will have to look for carriers who provide the right technologies at the right frequencies . This mean the iPhone will not work on networks operating in the 1700 MHz frequencies and it will not work on 1800MHz 3G ( UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ) networks as it only can use this band for GSM .
<URL> is a brilliant opensource text to speech project . It 's the default TTS software on many Linux distributations , but there 's a Mac version available and it works great . There is also a project based on eSpeak called <URL> which adds " singing " functionality . Fwiw , I really do n't see Apple suing you if you use the built-in TTS they provide .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
Open the " Photos " view and press the Sharing button : You can then select one or more photos and delete them :
Yes ! Orbit - Cmd + Ctrl and click/drag Pan - Cmd + Ctrl + Shift and click/drag Zoom - Two-finger scroll up/down ( no click necessary )
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
As mentioned in the Apple Discussion Forums , like <URL> for example , the iPhone does not have ( and never has had ) support for file transfers over Bluetooth . Here are the <URL> listing the types of operations possible .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
Look at the iOS app <URL> . GoodReader is a $ 5 app that allows you to transfer files from Windows , Mac OS X &amp; Linux via WiFi to your iPad , iPhone , or iPod Touch . You can then open the files in other apps based on the filetype .
According to <URL> : Use Your iPad Regularly For proper reporting of the battery 's state of charge , be sure to go through at least one charge cycle per month ( charging the battery to 100 % and then completely running it down ) .
<URL> may do the trick . Designed to extend the port in bulky cases , it features a MicroUSB port on the side to charge with older accessories that do n't support charging . MicroUSB should also support an iPad charge , though it may be very slow . See <URL> for someone saying they can charge their iPad with a MicroUSB adapter ( admittedly officially supplied by Apple , but the point is the protocol and cable can handle it ) . Worst case it will say " not charging " and will charge in sleep , and when not charging the drain will at least be significantly slowed . You will probably need to plug the microUSB adapter into a high power USB port -- ideally the iPad 10W charger itself . I ca n't guarantee this would work but , were I in your situation , I 'd give it a shot and let us know . You could always return the adapter if it did n't suit your needs . Good luck !
iOS devices can not relay WiFi signals to other devices ( at least not without a jailbreak ) . To share a single WiFi login with several devices you need to set up a WiFi repeater . Airport Express is one device which can do that , <URL> is another one which I have successfully used for this purpose .
I have spent the better part of 6 hours researching this exact question , it appears that the answer is NO . I miss the mobileMe gallery more and more .
Super highly unlikely you 'll find something like Time Machine , as that relies on file-system event logging that was custom made by Apple for Mac OS X . You can , however , mount the Time Capsule 's disk drive as a file share using either AFP or SMB and use any program that will back up files to a file share , which is almost any program that backs up to disk , although beware of possible issues relating to ownership and permissions and unflushed buffers . Note that the following setup assumes you are using Airport Utility 5.6 or later but NOT Airport Utility 6.0 . If you are running Lion , 6.0 is installed by default but you can have both installed on your Mac and use both . You can download Airport Utility 5.6 <URL> . If your are on Snow Leopard or earlier , you probably already have 5.6 . Airport Utility 6.0 is greatly simplified and <URL> that were available in 5.6 . You need to explicitly enable File Sharing on the Time Capsule using the AirPort Utility . From the AirPort Utility , select the Time Capsule , select Manual Setup , click on the Disks tab . That should present you with the " Disks " pane , which should list the disks in and attached to the Time Capsule . Note that like Disk Utility , the list is hierarchical , with drive partitions listed under drive devices . My Time Capsule just has the internal drive with one partition . ( Click on the triangle next to " Time Capsule Disk " if you do n't see a partition name under it . ) Click on the partition name an the right panel changes to show you information about it , including giving you the ability to change its name . This partition name is the root directory name for the SMB share , so make it short and without spaces . You should avoid hyphens , too , as sometimes hyphens are converted to spaces and sometimes spaces are converted to hyphens and it just gets unnecessarily confusing . Underscores are OK . Now select the File Sharing panel to get to the rest of the configurations you need to set . With Time Capsule firmware version 7.6 and later you have 3 choices for password protection : you can use the same password for file sharing that you use fo Time Capsule , you can use a different password , or you can go all out and set up multiple users , each with their own password ( and corresponding ownership and permissions features ) . You also want to assign it to a Workgroup if you 're using SMB and you want your Linux and Windows machine and the Time Capsule to all be in the same workgroup . The default workgroup name of " WORKGROUP " is the easiest way to go . To authenticate the SMB client for access to the Time Capsule when you have not set up individual users on the Time Capsule , you can use any ( non-blank ) username ( it is ignored ) as long as the password is correct .
Possibly a suggestion moving forward , if you change those . docx files to . doc , there are many more programs out there that can edit the files , e.g. , Pages . If you prefer to stay with . docx , previously mentioned QuickOffice Pro HD is a great solution , <URL> is another solution and <URL> also tries to emulate the Office interface . CloudOn is still pretty new and a bit buggy , but it 's free and may help in a pinch . I found myself in the same situation with school and found that batch editing my . docx files to . doc was well worth it in the end . Hope this helps !
AirDrop uses Bluetooth to create a peer-to-peer Wi-Fi network between the devices . Each device creates a firewall around the connection and files are sent encrypted , which actually makes it safer than transferring via email . AirDrop will automatically detect nearby supported devices , and the devices only need to be close enough to establish a good Wi-Fi connection , making it possible to share files across several rooms .
Not exactly but you can use the computer 's ethernet internet connection via Wifi to the iPhone . In that case just go to System Preferences > Sharing , then Select Internet Sharing Select Ethernet in the field Share your connection from Flag Wi-Fi in the field To computers using Go to Wi-Fi Options ... and select a network SSID and a security password Click OK Flag Internet sharing If you are using a pc with windows you can follow the instructions reported <URL> . Basically : Go to Network Connections in your Control Panel by going to Start > Control Panel > Network and Internet > Network and Sharing Center and then click Change adapter settings on the menu on the left . Right-click your Internet connection that you want to share ( e.g. , Local Area Connection ) and click Properties . Click the Sharing tab . Check the " Allow other network users to connect through this computer 's Internet connection " option .
You are quite correct , you do n't want to sync your iPhone to this new Mac . At the least , you 'd lose any songs or movies you have loaded . You can do what you want using the iPhone Configuration Utility ( free at <URL> ) . Install , connect the iPhone , click on the iPhone 's icon , and go to the Applications tab . It will let you install or uninstall individual apps . Or connect your iPhone to WiFi ( you could use Network Sharing from the new Mac , if no other WiFi is available ) to download directly , after buying from either the iPhone or the Mac .
end question
start question
How do I import an MP4 video created using the GoPro Hero Camera into the iPad ?
From Apple iPad 4 tech spec : MPEG‑4 video up to 2.5 Mbps , 640 by 480 pixels , 30 frames per second So based on that info , FPS and resolution for mp4 are too high . Use <URL> and convert to H. 264 that supports HD on iPad . Otherwise you can try <URL> media player for iPad that can play almost all formats .
<URL> that provides a really good run down on what HDR is and how it performs on the iPhone . Basically it takes three photos at various exposure levels and combines them . So you get a " normal " photo at regular exposure levels and the HDR version ( 1 photo composed of the three ) . Results vary depending on light conditions etc. . I 've had some really great results and some shockers .
Not really , you 've utilised the quickest , easiest and cheapest route available with doing it with Handbrake . Do n't bother trying to find another piece of software that will do the job better , Handbrake is really the best when it comes to ripping and encoding Apple friendly formats . Thanks , hope this helps .
I use three avenues to prevent hurt feelings all around . First the policy for employee use of equipment spells out that it 's their responsibility to turn in their company equipment and assets . For iOS devices , that means that they remove iCloud activation lock and return the hardware in working order . The financial consequence of failing to do both is explained when the hardware is issued . HR can then choose to deduct that amount from any final pay check as appropriate should the employee choose not to return company property . Apple is very helpful in unlocking equipment that was bought through their channel or that you have a purchase receipt with serial numbers included proving original ownership . Any genius bar or web/phone Apple epmployee can get you started with unlocking one or several devices should you have them but not control of them . MDM solutions such as JAMF casper suite or Configuration profiles to enable remote wipe and/or iOS policies that prevent iCloud usage in the first place if desired and/or allow wiping them to a known original configuration .
Yes , it is possible . This method works with at least iOS 9 . Make sure your iPhone is locked Press the lock key on the top of your iPhone to brighten it , without unlocking it completely Slide the bottom right camera icon half way up , and do n't let go . Keep your finger in this way Slide the camera modes to video , again keeping your finger on the camera slider mode still half way up Tap the big red record button in the bottom middle of the screen ; again , keeping your finger still on the camera slider mode still half way up . Do n't worry if it does n't show the recording happening . Double press the home button three times , Keep your finger still half way on the slider , until the iPhone automatically turns off its screen . This will take about 10 seconds regardless of what settings you 've kept in the auto lock feature That 's it . With the screen off , your iPhone is recording a video . To end the recording and save the video , simply unlock the iPhone Source : <URL>
Third party developers can provide import functionality to health app via the normal Health Kit API on iOS . Some apps scrape or use web API such as <URL> exist to get FitBit data from the cloud to the local health app on iOS . Some such as <URL> are more general . ( proper disclosure : I work on this app ) We have an app on the store that is designed specifically for importing arbitrary CSV data into HealthKit / Health.App . Here are a few screenshots from the development version to show how the app works : CSV 's can be sent via email and then opened in the app : You can then configure each of the columns within your CSV to a supported data type from HealthKit / Health.App : After that , just tap the import button and it 'll bring the data in :
Now Xcode 4.4.1 amongst <URL> 4.4 was made available 2012-07-26 . 4.4.1 was made available 2012-08-07 : Freely available to members of the Safari Developer Program , and to others . Do n't rush to also download the disk image for command line tools . You may find these tools amongst the installation and update options that are integral to Xcode . Looking ahead Apple 's software update catalogue sometimes refers to downloads that are not advertised at <URL> . Nothing for Xcode in the <URL> dated 2012-08-09T03 :35:35 Z ... maybe later . <URL> Nothing there yet for 4.4 or greater but we might find something in due course .
I know relatively easy and free way that I will share Subtitles have to be converted to SRT format . You may do that with <URL> . Then I 'm using <URL> to convert to h. 264 with soft subtitles . <URL> . Alternatively you may use <URL> to convert video without reencoding ( in case it 's already in h. 264 ) to save time and after that add subtitles with <URL> . You may try to import SSA subtitles ( I do n't have such on hand now to check if SSA will work with Subler so please report back if it will )
This was covered by MG Siegler over at <URL> last week , the explanation of how it does it is <URL> . Basically , iOS provides it 's own Keychain functionality and if you know the Keychain key , then you can save and read data between apps that you write . In this case , the Facebook Camera app is reading data saved by the Facebook app .
Yes you can , but there are some aspects of the environment of the beach life that need to be controlled . Salt water corrodes electronics fiercely . Waves crashing means that the atmosphere at a beach is saturated with water droplets with a high concentration of salt in many cases . Direct sun on the front black face of any iOS device can over heat it rapidly . You will probably feel it uncomfortably hot before the point where the device shuts itself off to prevent battery damage . Even if the device is powered down , you can permanently damage any Lithium Polymer battery in a few hours if the temperature is hot enough . Sand can get in the home button mechanism and may never come out . The 30 pin connector , the headphone jack , a SIM slot are easier to clean and less likely to be functionally impaired than the close tolerances of the glass on glass home button gap . Bright light makes it harder to see the backlit screen and if you are wearing polarized sunglasses , you will see that the display is highly polarized . It 's fun from a science experiment aspect , but bad for reading or color accuracy of the display . I would probably have a <URL> or two with me and bring an umbrella or shade to control the light and direct heat . A ziplock bag also works if you do n't think the closer fitting sleeve is worth spending money on . Depending on your beach some or all of these concerns may be disregarded , but I tried to cover the common beach scenarios . Other than that - keep it cool , heat yourself up and enjoy your iPad on the beach .
You can find the option under Settings > Phone > SIM PIN .
Yes you can !!! Open the MPlayerX Preferences window by pressing & #x 2318 ; + , or via the menu MPlayerX & #x 2192 ; Preferences ... Go to the Advanced tab in the Preferences window . In the textfield with the label Extra Options enter , where is the number of times you want to loop .
There are a lot of applications doing this job : <URL> ( 1 $ ) , <URL> ( 4 $ ) , and a free <URL> , but it requires your iPad to be <URL> . Sorry , did n't found anything that would be free and , ehm , completely legal .
On my iPhone , I can find my MAC address by going into Settings , then General , then About . The wifi MAC address is listed under " Wi-Fi Address " . It 's likely that the MAC address for the iPad is in the same location .
You could do that with <URL> : This will just change containers , but obviously will only work with a codec that ffmpeg supports . Edit : if you absolutely need a GUI , you could use Automator to create a Drag &amp; Drop target , like this :
No , not directly . You can buy any number of HDMI capture hardware that connect via thunderbolt or FireWire and use a thunderbolt FireWire adapter .
When adding an . m4v file , or other acceptable A/V type file extensions , to iTunes either by drag and drop or using File > Add to Library ... the file is added to Home Videos under Movies . In a fresh install of OS X , in the image below , it shows the available tabs when selecting Movies in iTunes . Note there is no Home Videos tab . <URL> In the image below , after adding a video to iTunes the Home Videos tab appears under Movies and shows the added video . <URL>
Your MacBook Pro HDMI port is output only . So no , you can not use it as input for your recording . Your alternatives are USB 3 or Thunderbolt .
No , you are n't doing anything wrong . Apple does n't allow you to paste into certain secure dialog boxes . It 's a feature , not a bug . ( It makes a brute force hack of the dialog box more difficult . ) You can paste the password into the command line if you mount the secure image using <URL> . Open Terminal and type : When prompted for the password , copy it from a text file or ( preferably ) a password vault and paste it into terminal . If the path/to/imagefile is complex , you can type the command , a space , then drag the imagefile icon from the finder into the terminal window to automatically enter the path/filname .
Try the following steps : 1 : Start the video from YouTube whilst in Safari . 2 : Hit Home key once . You 'll exit Safari and playback will stop . 3 : Double-tap Home key to bring up the app-switcher . Slide to the right to bring up background audio controls . The icon on the right side will show whichever program you last used with background audio : Safari . 4 : Press Play . Youtube audio will resume playback .
end question
start question
Can I suggest features to Apple ?
Apple maintains a <URL> for reporting feature requests and bugs from the general public . Here is the <URL> .
AFAIK these display are not HDCP compliant therefore you 'll have some troubles watching movies that have these protections .
I am sorry to say that I am unaware of any apps ( jailbroken or otherwise ) that add keyboard navigation to the iPad . According to <URL> , the following shortcuts do work : ⌘ C Copy selected text ⌘ X Cut selected text ⌘ V Paste ⌘ Z Undo ⌘ shiftZ Redo ⌘ ↑ Go to top of document ⌘ ↓ Go to bottom of document ⌘ ← Go to start of line ⌘ → Go to end of line ⌘ ⌫ Delete to end of line ⌥ ⌫ Delete previous word F1 Make screen dimmer F2 Make screen brighter F7 Skip back one song F8 Play or Pause Music F9 Skip forward one song F10 Mute Volume F11 Decrease Volume F12 Increase Volume ⏏ Show or hide onscreen keyboard
It works pretty much as you describe Windows . If you want a better key combo to access the menu bar , you can customize it under . Then type to select which menu you want , hit enter , then type to select the menu item . Note that most menu items have keyboard shortcuts . These are written next to the menu item , often a single character preceded by the CMD key .
No , you ca n't connect an Xbox controller to an Apple TV at this point .
Go to sent messages . <URL> Right click the message and click " Send again " <URL> This will open the message as you wanted .
You can enable SSH from the Terminal with : ( note that you need to run this as an admin , and it 'll ask for your admin password , which wo n't echo as you type . )
If it is your app , you should probably notify Apple . If you are testing for someone else , notify the developer and Apple . It really is n't your fault . To your second question ( " Can Apple see the the app got installed on more than the usual 100 devices ) , I 'd say no . Because jailbroken users use methods such as iFunBox or vShare/AppCake , Apple has no way of keeping track of how many times the app was downloaded unless they used the Apple way . Finally , I 'd try to find out how your/the app was leaked .
From a pragmatic standpoint , yes you can probably trust the average genius team ( since the machine will be under the watch of many people while it is out of your possession ) . From a legal standpoint , you have <URL> by signing your property and data over to Apple . For the rest of this discussion on the contract between you and Apple relating to your data , I 'll focus on the English north american contract . It lays responsibility on the person bringing in the equipment to remove all confidential or proprietary information from the system . It also lays responsibility on Apple for having " security measures , which should protect your data against unauthorized access or disclosure as well as unlawful destruction . " which a lawyer will focus on should which is more binding than may but less binding than shall/must . It continues with You will be responsible for the instructions you give to Apple regarding the processing of data , and Apple will seek to comply with those instructions as reasonably necessary for the performance of the service and support obligations under the Plan . If you do not agree with the above or if you have questions regarding how your data may be impacted by being processed in this way , contact Apple at the telephone numbers provided . But why not be a bit skeptical and ask why you might trust them . Sure they are probably trained to protect personal data of customers and respect privacy and there is social pressure to not be a jerk ( or worse words that come to mind ) with your personal data . From a pragmatic standpoint , some devices ( iPhones , iPads , Air and retina MacBook ) require advanced skills and potentially damage to the equipment to remove the storage module , so this is something worth exploring a bit as not everyone can simply pop out the hard drive during service like older MacBooks allowed . I would say do n't ever give your password until you understand why it is being used and you are fully informed and willing to take that risk by disclosing your secret . I would also say , when I choose to not entrust a specific password , that I 've done one of four things when I have something in for service that was in the category of data requiring more protection than none . Wipe the drive - if things are truly sensitive - I have no business saving time by not securely wiping all data that 's sensitive before it leaves my control . ( or paying for a higher level of service to ensure confidentiality ) Change the password to either my account or my keychain . Make a new temporary account for the testing and give that . Sometimes I give them admin rights - other times I do not . Give them a cell phone number and permission to call me 24/7 if they need the password and can explain why it 's needed at that point of the repair . Basically , If you hand your computer to Apple - you are handing it to someone with the tools and support to bypass all passwords ( including firmware and normal physical security of the case ) and read the data from the hard drive or just take the storage and keep it . Unless you have file vault or other encryption ( like <URL> ) and withhold that pass phrase . A technician could if they wanted , make a full copy of your data and perhaps even go snooping . I would ask the genius ( or technician ) to help educate you to how security works before you proceed with this repair . There are many repairs where a password is needed to complete the service if your service involves software changes . Normally , this password is asked for to speed up the repair for you and let them replace any and all parts needed to complete the repair . If they are in and find you need a new motherboard , they could just do that if you give them the extra permission and password they need to do all possible work without stopping to contact you and explain what/why . In your case , I would simply say you 'd like to know a bit more about how they secure your password and your data during service . I would bet that the person asking for your password was lulled by the 100th time they 've checked in a machine and forgot to ask you if you had any questions or perhaps missed your uneasiness about what was being asked . Once you 've made your concern concrete by asking why they need it - you can then say you 'd feel better not giving it and ask if that will either delay or prevent the repair . Any shop I trust will spend time to address these concerns to your satisfaction before they would accept your password . They would also lay out for you how to secure things again after the repair - change these three passwords , etc. . . As a class , my opinion and experience is that Apple service technicians are highly professional , trained on privacy of your equipment and information and have thought out very well what , how and why they ask for someone 's password . But even if bad things have never happened despite good training and policy , mistakes can and will happen in returning the wrong laptop or theft and your data is at risk when in th
No , being enrolled within the Apple Developer 's Program does not provide you with any kind of special downgrade possibilities . In the other hand , being a Developer grants you the ability to upgrade to the newest yet-to-be-released version of iOS . So , being the iPad 2 <URL> for iOS 6 , you wo n't be able to upgrade it to iOS 5.1.1 instead , enrolled as a Developer or not .
EDIT : Legally it 's extremely unlikely that you are allowed to do that as @fbara explained in his/her answer , but you can definitely give it a try and worst case I 'd expect the app to be kicked off the store . Seeing as other apps have already done this successfully its not impossible to get done , just not as reliable as using your own assets . Since icons are nothing more than just an image , yea its definitely possible . Now about whether or not apple will allow you to use the emojis , I did n't find anything saying that you can or can not use them . However there are countless apps which already do so , so I assume it should be fine . <URL> Removed line 1 as it probably doesnt answer what the question really was asking
I 've got a multi-AirPort network set up , and only the AirPort that handles DHCP will allow me to see names . Under the DHCP Clients tab , there is a column for " Client Name " : I 'd suspect that you 're correct in thinking that by running in bridge mode , it wo n't show this information .
You can do it , but do it with caution . I 've run network home directories before , which is essentially what you 're describing , and iPhoto supports it fine . On your standard Desktop OS , simply create alias to the iPhoto library on your network share in your User home directory photos folder . You can also set iPhoto to use a new library in a new location by opening iPhoto with Option ( Alt ) held down , where it will then prompt you to locate the new library ( which would be on your network share ) . The biggest issue you 'll have to address is ensuring it 's not open and being edited by two iPhoto instances at the same time . I 'm not 100 % sure how it will behave , but you can bet not well . You could get situations where photos become orphaned , etc. .
The Mac OS does n't directly have a feature like this , mainly due to how the OS and supporting Applications are separated differently than Windows . Looking a while back , Microsoft was having some issues with anti-trust lawsuits , and the inability to really separate IE from Windows . From how I understood it , part of this feature ( at least the user facing side , not the server side ) was enabled to help users ' Turn off IE ' . This grew on Windows two ways - one to let users ' remove ' features that they did n't want to use , and two - to enable and disable server or other components . Following the first of the above - this is much easier on the Mac - just drag the Application to the trash . Do n't want to have iPhoto on your machine , just delete it . You can always reinstall it later from the media or Mac App Store . While certain API 's do tie into different Applications ( think media browsers in Pages , etc ) , the OS does n't have to always have these applications to run . And to my understanding ( although I have never tried it ) , you could theoretically remove iTunes or Safari if you wanted ( although , WebKit is still being used , and may require Safari ) . As for the second item above - server or other features - this is also much different on the Mac . For the actual server functions ( outside of the Unix tools ) , you now just buy an app from the Mac App Store ( you used to buy a different version of the Mac OS that was much more expensive ) . On Mac OS client , there is no direct way to fully remove a feature , say apache , without deleting the binaries , etc. from the actual UNIX paths . So , in this case , there really is not a direct correlation on the Mac OS . When it does come to certain ' server-like ' features in the Mac OS ( for example setting up file shares , ssh , etc ) , these are under System Preferences - > Sharing . Finally , the Mac OS tries to be a bit smarter about this too . Take for example your ' tablet features ' for Windows . If the Mac actually supported a tablet in that case , they would show you an item in System Preferences . A great example like this is mice/trackpads . Depending on what is actually connected to your machine , you see ( if you have a Mac without a trackpad , you do n't see the trackpad option - or at least it used to - my air is showing the options for a mouse right now ) . To turn off specific features ( say Time Machine , etc ) , you still have to go to each items ' control panel ' if you will under System Preferences , versus one place to turn them all off . There may be tools like Onyx that let you have a bit more control over things ( <URL> ) , but this is n't really built into the OS in one place .
I stream music to my stereo via my AppleTV all the time without needing to turn on the TV , and control it via iOS devices . My current setup is AppleTV - > stereo via HDMI , and stereo - > tv via HDMI . The stereo turning on wakes up the AppleTV , but if the stereo is left on , starting to stream something via AirPlay also wakes up the AppleTV .
No , previous versions of the AppleTV do not support the new Apple Music service . In order to use the service with AppleTV , you 'll need to either 1 ) stream from a compatible device , such as an iPhone / iPad / Mac , or 2 ) upgrade to the latest 4th generation AppleTV .
Once the Mail program has launched , open the Mail application Preferences . This can be done by selecting it from the Mail menu bar option or by using the " Command - , " keyboard shortcut , which simply consists of pressing ⌘ + , at the same time . Choose the " Signatures " option of the Mail Preferences window . Add a new signature profile by clicking on the " Create a Signature " button located under the second pane within the Signatures Preferences window . This button is represented by a square containing a plus ( + ) sign . See accompanying image . In the third pane located within the Mail Signatures Preferences Window , type the text of your email signature . You can also paste your text from another application , like Microsoft Word , Apple Pages or Apple TextEdit . Pasting from another application will maintain the text 's font , size and style , if that is something you need or desire . Keep in mind that some fonts may not display properly on the email recipient 's computer , depending upon the fonts you use and the fonts they have . Assuming that you have an image that you wish to add to your new signature , just drag the image from its location on your Mac ( using the Finder ) and drop it in the same pane where you just typed or pasted your new signature text . The image should appear next to or below your text . Make sure to use only web compatible images - JPG , PNG or GIF .
It 's not using VLC ( although it uses some of its components and should be able to open anything VLC can open ) , but it looks like there 's a way to do this . It requires on-the-fly transcoding for formats the AppleTV does n't support ( essentially anything not . mp4 or . m4v ) , which means it may take a fair bit of CPU power on your Mac , especially for HD stuff . It also means that aside from files the AppleTV natively supports , you 're not getting bit-perfect renditions of the files , it 's a lossy translation , but if you have a decently fast Mac , it should be pretty good . The main tool you 'll want is <URL> . It 's a pretty basic program that sends a URL to the AppleTV that tells it to open a stream from your computer . It also handles transcoding the non-native files . It 's not very well documented ; it looks like the latest versions use a built-in copy of ffmpeg for transcoding , but some of the resources around the web suggest that it may need <URL> installed as well . Usage is pretty straight forward . Open up AirFlick Select your AppleTV from the drop-down in the upper-left Drag the file you want to play onto the droplet , and hit play . It should take around 30 seconds to buffer the transcoding , then start playing . It 's definitely beta software , so YMMV . From what I can tell , the transcoding support is pretty simplistic . If you want to configure the transcoding process , you need to use custom VLC or ffmpeg command-line options and pass the output to AirFlick . <URL> should give you a starting point for how to do that , but you 'll want to consult other VLC or ffmpeg resources for specific configurations - it 's beyond my expertise . The basic idea seems to be : Use VLC or ffmpeg to transcode the source ( in the example , that 's , replace that with the path to your file of choice ) on-the-fly to an AppleTV compatible format Pipe that output to <URL> which breaks the video into a streaming playlist the AppleTV can read Host the streaming playlist on a webserver on your Mac Use AirFlick to pass the URL of the playlist to your AppleTV
The official answer ( which clearly is n't the one you want based on how the question is phrased ) is no for OS X 10.8 and earlier . For the initial implementation , dictation on OS X was limited to 30 seconds of audio per transcription event . <URL> Hopefully this helps others that are looking for an official answer or explanation . On OS X 10.9 ( Mavericks ) , offline dictation and longer dictation are allowed and you can enable it by answering yes when asked if you want enhanced dictation . You can also control it by going to the Dictation tab of the Speech &amp; Dictation system preference pane :
Another way to address your question : If this is the Mac you 're using to make your living , then DEFINITELY run do n't walk and get a touch input now . Recommend Magic Trackpad if it 's a desktop , but not a strong opinion there . If you 're in college , just in your first job , or in a financial situation where someone bought your Mac for you and the $ 60-70 for a touch input is pricey - I definitely think you can get by without one without feeling like a 2nd class citizen . Same answer if you 're planning to upgrade soon to another Mac that 'll come with one and do n't want to pay for one twice . Otherwise , if you 're using this Mac several times ( or several hours ) a day , I 'd say get a touch-based input sooner than later . If you 're only using it occasionally and you 're asking because spending another $ 70 ( on a computer you thought important enough to invest $ 1000 + in , mind you ) , then I 'd wait until you can try it out on someone else 's computer . Finally , if you are considering getting one and $ 20-30 will make a substantial difference in your decision calculus ... keep an eye on discount sites , including Apple clearance online . Every few months they typically offer discounted refurb devices that are easily as good as buying new .
end question
start question
How to know when phone was last rebooted ?
There appears to be an app called " System Status Lite " that is capable of displaying the system uptime ( which should be the time since the last reboot ) . I have n't used it myself , so I ca n't speak to its accuracy , but here 's a <URL>
On your Mac : Open System Preferences > iCloud Check the box next to " Keychain " On an iPad : Settings > iCloud > Turn Keychain On If you do n't have any phone that can receive SMS it looks like you will need to call Apple Support to activate iCloud Keychain .
The second form is useful for doing things like and is often aliased to . If you do n't want to rely on functionality and prefer an external command , serves a similar purpose : The whereis utility checks the standard binary directories for the specified programs , printing out the paths of any it finds . Because does n't use but rather the result of it may lead to different results .
No , I have suffered some Game Center outages in the past , but could not find a source directly from Apple which stated so , not even the iCloud status page . The <URL> now lists the status for all Apple internet services , including Game Center .
From Apple website : You can begin using Swift code immediately to implement new features in your app , or enhance existing ones . New Swift code co-exists along side your existing Objective-C files in the same project , making it easy to adopt . And when iOS 8 and OS X Yosemite are released this fall , you can submit your apps to the App Store and Mac App Store . ref : <URL>
I do n't know of anything automatic - but you can browse the iTunes store here : <URL> This is the US store - if you browse to your app , and then replace the ' us ' part of the URL with the country code for the store you want to check ( e.g. ' fr ' for france , ' ie ' for Ireland , etc ) - you 'll either get brought to the entry for the App in that country , or get an error message that the app is not available . I do n't think you 'll find a huge number of apps that are n't available . If you use Apple TV , do consider that the films/TV choices in other stores may be much more limited . You might want to consider keeping two accounts rather than changing . It can make management a little more inconvenient , but you 'll have a bigger choice of things to buy/rent .
Since Mail does not have a predefined filter ( in Smart Mailboxes ) to get the 50 last received messages , I can imagine you could achieve something like this in an AppleScript . The AppleScript should : get every message in Inbox sort the list by date select all but the most recent 50 ones delete selected Then , create a Mail rule that will be triggered whenever a new email arrives ( e.g. you could trigger it on the condition that Recipient contains an " @ " or that Sender is not empty ) , and have the rule execute your AppleScript . To get you started on how to write an AppleScript that processes Mail messages , see the script you can find in :
<URL> It works pretty well . I had similar issues on my Mac , did n't like being glued with the headphones forever so I got this just yesterday . And I loved it . It 's not free , but for $ 5 it works like a horse .
In the Terminal ( located at ) type : You know that you have a Recovery Partition installed if you see this entry :
The shortcut CmdOptQ is for " Quit and Discard Windows " which will quit the app ' the old way ' , and not reopen the windows the next time it 's launched . So if you only need to suppress this functionality some of the time , this is a good shortcut to know .
This seems to work for me and is much quicker if you 're like me and prefer keyboard shortcuts : Open iTunes and ... Press ► ► ( F9 ) . Press ► II ( F8 ) .
You are correct . This is because it is switching from the Camera app to the Photos app . People have been a little annoyed with this for a long time , but I suppose the separation is logical . To get back to the camera you can either : Double tap the home button and swipe from right to left and then tap the camera app , or Swipe up from the bottom of the screen and tap the camera icon in the Control Center .
I can provide half an answer . I 'm not sure how to get the SMS out of the Nokia backup , but you wo n't be able to copy them to the new iPhone directly . You 'll need to write a script to translate them to the iPhone format . I provide instructions below how to reverse engineer the iPhone SMS DB . The iPhone SMS DB is sqlite3 . If your iPhone is jailbroken , you can get and view the DB on the phone itself ( install terminal ) or on your desktop : If your phone is not jailbroken , you can operate on the backup up SMS DB , replace the backup locally and then restore the iPhone . The backup is located in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , is named : Although comments below indicate that may not always be the name of the file . Run the sqlite3 command above to dump this to ASCII to understand the format , then replicate this format with whatever tools you want from your Nokia DB . Here are some instructions on how to migrate your SMS in the reverse direction for Android : <URL> An iPhone database extractor : <URL>
<URL> appears to connect to the Bluetooth in your phone in order to be able to control it 's audio output . You could also purchase a dock with a remote for your iPhone . A remote of this nature would have a hardware Play/Pause button on it which you could press to quickly stop the music . For the sake of example : <URL> of what I 'm talking about . One other thing : double tapping the home button when the iPhone is locked comes up with Play/Pause controls which you could tap with your knuckle or something . This is also a fast and easy way to change tracks in general .
When it comes to alternatives of Finder , there are two major alternatives . First , you have <URL> . It looks a lot like the normal Finder , but it can do so much more . You can copy/paste across windows , you can work with tabs or dual screen , ... It 's my personal favorite . I 've been using it for many months now . The second alternative is <URL> . I do n't have any personal experience with this software , but when I take a look at their website , it has some cool features too . So , my advice is to check those two options and I can suggest you TotalFinder !
Hold down the Command or Ctrl key and click on the icon or file name in the center of the title bar of text edit 's document window . Be sure to click on the title itself . The containing directory structure will be shown in reverse-hierarchical order .
You might be interested in exporting all of the KeyChain in to Text file that you can save for later uses . Be aware anyone with access to your computer can now plainly see that information . Run this in Terminal You will have to click " Allow " till done , or use script that does that , but since it is usually one time action just do it manually .
This might not be exactly what your looking for but <URL> has several articles on the current state ( or lack there of ) video cards for the Mac Pro . Take a look at <URL> and <URL> I recently had to replace a second dying NVidia 8800 GT in my Mac Pro ( early 2008 ) but decided to stick with an Apple card . Most of the non-Apple branded cards will not work until the machine is past the boot volume selection screen ( if you need it ) and I seem to find myself switching boot volumes frequently .
You have to trust the developer of the app . Period . Besides code analysis there is no way to eliminate the possibility that an app does send your password somewhere . And even tools like Little Snitch wo n't help you if the app is allowed to send emails from your account . If you send an email to somebody it would just use the established connection to afterwards send another email with your password . Since the connection is encrypted you ca n't see what the app is doing . And because the whole purpose of the app is sending emails the connection is not suspicious at all . Same thing is true for all apps that need access to the internet , if you enter the password to an facebook app it could just use facebook to send a private message with your password and so on . To make it even more difficult to detect , the developer could implement it in a way that the malicious routine waits 30 days before it sends your password . And if the developer is a smart criminal ( he wrote a great app so he probably is ) he can detect testers who just fast forward their device date setting too . If the developer is smart it is nearly impossible to figure such things out without looking at the code . Entering your password somewhere is all about trust . And with all those apps from unknown developers it 's hard to figure out which app you can trust enough to give it your password . That 's the reason Twitter , among others , uses an authentication process where the app never knows your password . Having a different password for different services helps in case you have accidentally trusted an untrustworthy developer . But your email password is a little bit special because usually it can be used to gain access to almost all services you use .
On my MacBook , if I opt-click on the battery in my menu bar , it gives me current the condition of my battery . You can also use <URL> to show the current state of your battery .
end question
start question
What determines the label displayed in the " Kind " column of an OS X finder window and in search box labeled " Kind " ?
CFBundleDocumentTypes To answer your first and second question : OS X applications are able to register document types with the system . They do so by declaring those document types within the section in the file which resides inside the application bundle . For example , you can find the entry for the LaTeX kind by opening Terminal.app and invoking this command : The resulting XML chunk defines the three-way relationship between the application , the name of the bundle type ( aka Kind ) , and the respective file extensions : For more details about document types , see the section <URL> in the document Registering the File Types Your App Supports from Apple 's Developer Library . Spotlight searches To answer your third question : Can I change that option box to show " LaTeX " Open the drop down box and choose Other . A text box appears ; type the name of the file kind you wish to search for , or any substring of it . If the Other option wo n't appear in the drop-down list , you might need to enable the option first by going to System Preferences " Spotlight and ticking the checkbox next to Other .
I use Adobe InDesign for this kind of thing ... more flexible than AcrobatPro . Allows total control over what you import into the pdf ( text , images , other pdfs , etc. ) and the ability to create clickable TOCs . If you are going to do a lot of this , or a lot of print , it is worth the investment .
Finder uses Spotlight to index and search for files and folders . There are several resources that can help you with understanding the way Spotlight indexes files on your Mac . Since you are looking for an exact phrase type of text search , use quotation marks . ( See below ) In Finder select the Help menu and type in Spotlight for further information . <URL> From Apple 's Support site regarding unexpected search results : OS X El Capitan : If searching your Mac does n't return expected results There are several things you can try if a search does n't return the items you expect . Check the text you entered in the search field Make sure the word or phrase is spelled correctly . To search for an exact phrase , enclose it in quotation marks . For example , enter " trip to Paris " to find items that contain that exact phrase . If you do n't use quotation marks , the search results include items that contain those words in any order . Check the location you 're searching If you began your search in Spotlight , the search results can include email , Calendar events , Spotlight Suggestions , information from other apps , and more . If you began your search in a Finder window , the search results include only files and folders on your internal disk . Check your Spotlight preferences You may have removed items from Spotlight search results . Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , click Spotlight , then click Search Results . You may have excluded certain folders or disks from searches . Choose Apple menu > System Preferences , click Spotlight , then click Privacy . You may have turned off Location Services for Spotlight Suggestions . For more information , see About Spotlight Suggestions . For more information about Spotlight preferences , see Spotlight preferences .
As in all the Unix system , there are two type of folder . One specific for the user and the other for the entire system and so all the users of the machine . In particular for OS X : the Macintosh HD version is the actual computer Library , while , the home folder version is specific to your user account . Here an example to help you understand how to use it : is a place to store fonts , screen savers , Dashboard widgets , and all other things that all local users need access to . is for your own user account only ( cache and preference files , widgets for your use only , etc ) . EDIT : taken from <URL> , a complete overview of all the possible library folders in a Mac OS X system : The user library , ~ / Library , stores per-user settings etc. . The local library , / Library , stores computer-wide settings etc. . I call this the " local " library , because in NextStep it was / Local/Library , but you 'll see all sorts of other names for it , such as the root library , computer library , ... The network library , / Network/Library would store settings shared by all computers in a network domain -- if a network domain admin set one up , which nobody does anymore ... The system library , / System/Library , stores the base settings , resources , etc that come with OS X . In theory , you should n't change anything in here .
Being a programmer myself , I think screen size and amount of memory are the most important factors to consider . The processors and graphic chips of all current MacBooks will be sufficient for this kind of work , although the MacBook Airs come standard with an Intel i5 processor , which can be upgraded to an i7 for a small price . Memory : MacBook Airs come standard with 4 GB , which I think is not enough . They all have the option to upgrade to 8 GB though . The 13 " MacBook Pros come with 8 GB standard , with 16 GB as an option . The 15 " MacBook Pros have 16 GB standard . For screen size , I like to have lots of it to do development work . Unfortunately , Apple stopped selling 17 " laptops some years ago . On the other hand , almost all MacBook Pros now come with a Retina display , which means they have a much higher resolution for the same screen size . If you are comfortable working with smaller font sizes , you can switch to a " more space " option in the display settings , which gives you lots of screen real estate . You can choose between 13 " and 15 " MacBook Pros , but the 15 " models are Apple 's top of the line , so they might be costlier than what you 're looking for . The MacBook Airs do n't have Retina displays , and they come in 11 " and 13 " models . A last point to look out for is disk size . All MacBooks , except for the 13 " MacBook Pro without Retina display , come with an SSD . But with the cheaper models it 's just 128 GB . On all MacBook Air models you have the option to pick up to 512 GB , and up to 1 TB on the MacBook Pros . I suggest you go to the <URL> for your country , and customize a MacBook Air or MacBook Pro to your liking and within your budget . Welcome to the Apple development world !
The black piece of cloth is not an envelope , but a nicely folded display polishing cloth . Apple mentions it in the manual : Cleaning the MacBook Pro screen To clean the MacBook Pro screen , first shut down your MacBook Pro and unplug the power adapter . Then dampen the included cleaning cloth with just water and wipe the screen . Do not spray liquid directly on the screen . You can confirm the looks on <URL> . And the long cable is just an extender which you can plug into your charger .
Exactly say this : Set alarm for [ time ] labeled [ insert name here ] This works for me every time , thus it should work for your appointments or alarms too . Make sure you say labeled right : click here for the <URL> and just make sure the names are n't too long . Names I 've tried : Hello Triangle Square
I am unsure if you are asking how to exclude folders from showing up in your finder spotlight search , or if what you are after is to hide specific folders from being shown in a finder window . If you are after excluding folders from a spotlight search , you can do this in the privacy tab from system preferences / spotlight : If you are after having the ability to show or hide files and folders from being viewed while you are in a finder window , then you can create an automator service to do just that : <URL> NOTE : the tip above only toggles all files that have the hidden flag set , so if you need to quickly mark a folder or a file as " hidden " , then you need to set this bit attribute for that file or folder . An easy way to do this is via a free utility software download that does just this here ( used to be shareware , but now free ) : <URL> NOTE 2 : If you are happy using the terminal command line , you can just type the following on the terminal : or Hope this helps .
Open System Preferences > Mouse to speed up or slow down the mouse . Go to System Preferences > Trackpad to change trackpad speed . I do n't believe acceleration is native to OSX . I have Kensington Trackball Works installed ( for my kensington trackball ) which has acceleration , and your Logitech Mouse center may have the same . If Logitech Mouse center is System Preferences chances are it will be under " Other " .
Briefly ; no there is no easy way to update them . ( Assuming that compiling from source is not considered easy ) I would strongly caution against modifying the system installed versions as you 're likely to have your updated versions broken when Apple issues an update that updates them . ( Usually Security Updates and has bitten some users/sysadmins when Perl has been updated ) If you wanted to update them it 's a matter of downloading the source files and installing it over top of the provided versions . As a reasonable alternative I recommend installing your own managed version of PHP and MySQL into or using your packaging software of choice ( MacPorts , Fink or Homebrew ) or prepared installer ( eg . MySQL 's . pkg installer that installs into ) .
It seems the theoretical limit is <URL> hard links on an HFS + volume . Indirect node files have a special identifying number called a link reference . The link reference is unique among indirect node files on a given volume . The link reference is not related to catalog node IDs . When a new indirect node file is created , it is assigned a new link reference randomly chosen from the range 100 to 1073741923 . The limit for links to a single file is <URL> , the maximum number of a UInt32 , which is about four times larger than the volume limit , which you 'll exhaust first . linkCount For indirect node files , this field contains the number of hard links that point at this indirect node file . As a practical matter , this design is quite strange , and suffers from performance issues . The more hard links you have on a volume , the slower it will be to create a new one , as the system must first find an unused link reference number , then insert it into the metadata directory . Then that metadata directory must be searched to dereference a hard link . You may begin seeing performance problems with only a few thousand links ; your great-grandchildren wo n't live long enough to create a billion if you start today . In practice you 'll notice this most often when <URL> , which use hard links extensively .
Your allocated video memory depends on what you are going to be doing with your VM . For instance , I use 8MB for my headless FreeBSD machines and 256MB for my Windows 10 VMs . Windows Servers 2008 or 2012 get anywhere from 16 to 128MB of RAM depending on what they are used for . However , if you set it to 256MB ( max for one monitor ) you should have ample memory to run El Capitan . I do recommend maxing out the memory in your iMac , however ( 32GB RAM ) . That has made all the difference for me .
The preference for this used to be located in Finder > Preferences . It 's no longer available and after some research online , it looks like no one has discovered a way to turn this on using a plist edit . You might consider telling Apple about how much you miss this : <URL>
Simplest answer to ' how ' rather than ' why ' is Opt [ alt ] drag a column sizer . That becomes the new default . Only works for column view , not coverflow . Other options , though each is temporary Double click a column sizer to set that column to show full content width . Right-click a column sizer for more options .
There 's an OS X feature called <URL> that stores the FileVault key in the SMC for the duration of the reboot . Apple acknowledges <URL> that it does reduce FileVault security for the duration of the restart : On supported hardware , allows restart of a FileVault-enabled system without requiring unlock during the subsequent boot using the command . WARNING : FileVault protections are reduced during authenticated restarts . In particular , deliberately stores at least one additional copy of a permanent FDE ( full disk encryption ) unlock key in both system memory and ( on supported systems ) the System Management Controller ( SMC ) . must be run as root and itself prompts for a password to unlock the FileVault root volume . Use to prevent saving the key across standby modes . Once is authenticated , it launches and , upon successful unlock , the unlock key will be removed .
For the reference : Length : 21.3 CM Width : 14.7 CM Height : 3.3 CM Gross Weight : 0.5 KG
The <URL> extension allows you to set any search engine you want . It achieves it by listening to the event , canceling the default behaviour and checking your settings for your chosen search engine . Then it puts your query into the specified search engine and displays the results . You could , too , edit the file , redirecting form any of the default search engines to the one you want , but that wont be so neat .
This is a very wide reaching question , but to answer the central theme , the rough equivalent of explorer.exe on Windows is the application . Finder is the only application you can not remove from your dock , mainly because it is the finder that runs the dock etc , much like explorer.exe runs the taskbars etc in Windows ( I think I got that right for windows ) You can kill the finder , and it will automatically re-spawn . The equivalent of Task Manager would be as a graphical app , and of course you have a fully featured Unix command line environment in , which allows you to interact with processes using all sorts of commands , for example : ( lists active processes ) ( send interupt request 9 , or terminate with extreme prejudice to the process number 243 ) There is no Registry in OS X , which is nice because that was a horrible idea ( in my opinion ) , but settings and preferences etc are commonly stored in files that reside in either the system or an individual users folder , which I suppose could be analogous to the windows \ system or user \ application data folders in Windows .
If you 're just looking for the Unicode versions of Mac OS X keys , you can use <URL> to copy and paste them from the text box . More generally , Mac OS X provides a pane to insert special characters . You 'll typically find it under Edit - > Special Characters in any program that takes text input . The Command key symbol can be found under Symbols - > Technical Symbols . To insert the character , select it and click " Insert " . If you 're really hardcore and are looking for a way to type the character by entering the Unicode hex code , this is possible : Go into System Preferences - > Language &amp; Text - > Input Sources and check " Unicode Hex Input " 2 . From the input source selector in the menu bar , select " Unicode Hex Input " 3 . To enter a Unicode character , hold down option and type the 4-digit hex code for the character and it will be inserted . In this case , it would be option +2318 .
→ → : Modifying files inside application bundles invalidates the code signature and changes are n't necessarily respected by updates .
end question
start question
Does the iCloud retain data for a period after the user specifies to delete it ?
I believe there would be a time frame to which the data would be able to be retained given some simple knowledge of server configurations . You could think of the iCloud server as a series of hard drives all connected together and connected to the Internet . Some of the hard drive are used for saving your information and your iCloud account allows you to choose how big you want your iCloud storage capacity to be . Other hard drives are used to backup those hard drives . These would be used in the case a large number of the hard drives were not working properly . In this case your information is still saved , which is a very smart and good business practice . Some other hard drives are used when only one of the hard drives with customer information is failing , then this drive will pickup where it left off so there are no service issues . Also , very smart practice . So as far as that information which has been deleted , it is probably still able to be retained for a period of time , after which it would be overwritten on the drives which backup the drives with the original data . Your privacy would still be respected due to the high encryption level of iCloud . Lastly , retaining the information through an interface such as the Settings > iCloud pane in iOS would not be available . However , the information may still be able to be retained in the case it were done on accident .
I have been running Mavericks for about two weeks and I have n't noticed any apps that were deleted during the install . Some of Apple 's apps may be updated during the upgrade , but I 'm not aware of anything that gets deleted .
FileVault 1 used to do just this but the current FileVault 2 is whole disk encryption . It is technically possible to use the Logical Volume Manager underpinning FV2 to accomplish this , but it 's rather complicated and not supported by Apple or any GUI System Preferences . You could consider using an encrypted disk image created with DiskUtility . This would give you an optionally mountable disk that is encrypted . It appears on the HDD as a large file ( like most installer . dmg files ) and mounts with a double-click and password . This is similar to what FV1 used to do with a user 's home directory .
It sounds like you 're using Gmail , in which case , have you checked the All Mail folder ? Gmail treats things a little differently , and I believe the default action for " delete " when using Mail.app with Gmail is actually what Google calls " archive " . It does n't delete it from the server , it just removes it from all folders ( labels in Gmail-speak ) , but the message still lives in the All Mail folder.Check there for your messages , and you may find this previous answer helpful : <URL> If you 're not using Gmail , or that did n't work , try this : In Mail , open the Preferences ( ⌘ command - , ) In the Preferences window , click the Accounts panel and select the applicable account in the sidebar as shown here : Select the Mailbox Behaviours tab Make sure the Move deleted messages to the Trash Mailbox setting is checked : If it 's already checked , make sure your Trash is set up properly , by selecting the mailbox you want in the main sidebar , then goto the Mailbox Menu , and choose Use This Mailbox For ‣ Trash . That should fix it . If not , your problem may be on the mail server , or something more obscure locally .
According to <URL> I can safely ( re ) move the installer application and still download it again from the App Store without paying again . It is unclear whether I will get update notifications . <URL> on a story about an attempt to upgrade Xcode with low disk space indicates that the move to an external disk may be tracked by the OS , and an upgrade via the Mac App Store can result in the moved application ( even if it 's on an external disk ) being upgraded . I did not get an upgrade notification for Xcode 4.0.1 , even though my original installer application was still in the folder . I moved the installer application to an external disk ( via , because dragging it in Finder gave me the message " You may need to enter the name and password for an administrator on this computer to change the item named " Install Xcode " . " ) , I 'll report back what happens when I try to upgrade it via the Mac App Store .
This question was answered by updating to iOS 7.1 . I 've since turned all the features of the phone back on ( e.g. , background app refresh , notifications , use my location , all the processes that I tuned off trying to troubleshoot ) and my phone just lasted three days with normal use .
If you have a verified phone number and have set up the ability to verify devices using SMS verification code , you can use this method . Otherwise , you will not be able to recover your keychain yourself . You may find help by contacting Apple : <URL>
No . Only iMessages sent from the time you set up Messages on your Mac can be received . Note that you are not actually syncing between Messages on iPhone and Messages on Mac - you are adding a new device to receive a copy of each message sent . When you register a device for iMessage , a set of keys ( a public key and a private key ) are created . The public key is sent to Apple , while the private key remains private and known only to your device . When someone wants to send you a message , their app contacts Apple and requests your public key ( s ) . If you have four devices registered , they will receive four public keys . At that point , their device encrypts the message once for each public key . Only your private key for a particular device can open the encrypted messages intended for that device . So if ( by some technical problem ) the copy of the message intended for your iPhone was sent to your Mac by mistake , it wo n't be able to be opened , even though it 's for you and was encrypted with your public key . Hopefully this makes it clear why messages sent prior to registering your MacBook with iMessage can not be retrieved - simply put , they do n't exist in a form that can be read by your MacBook . Even if Apple kept a copy of the messages at the time they were sent ( which they for up to seven days , or until the message is received by the intended device , whichever comes first ) , only your iPhone can decrypt them . <URL> has a good overview of iMessage encryption ( which goes into more detail on what I 've outlined above ) .
Gmail may be set to synchronise with your Address Book . Go to your address book , and select the " me " card that you will previously have chosen as your own identify within Address Book . Whatever picture is being used by your " me " card ( or potentially by whatever card has a matching email address as the one your messages app is linked to ) should be the one Messages uses .
The iBooks app on iOS as well as OS X Mavericks uses the account you use to sign into the iBooks Store for syncing bookmarks , notes , collections , highlights and purchased books . So if you share an Apple ID/iTunes Store Account for purchases from the iBooks Store , then the sync will affect all the users who share the account . The iBooks sync is not based on one 's individual iCloud account , which is used for iMessage , FaceTime , Mail , Calendar , etc. . See <URL> for more information .
If this is not your system disk , you should kick off a disk repair which will trim unused blocks . Otherwise , boot in single user mode ( hold ⌘ + S during startup ) and issue the command : . Be aware this will not work from rescue systems , as they do not have trimforce enabled , while booting to the single user mode acknowledges trimforce .
Select " Preferences ... " from the Menu " Terminal " go into " Settings " and select your default window configuration , go into the tab " Keyboard " Have a look at all keybindings , ( eg . forward delete is bound to \ 033 [ 3 ~ ) and note you can change them by double clicking ( thats easier to use than bind in your ) . If you choose to use & #x 2325 ; as meta-key , & #x 2325 ; + backspace will work immediately , though this setup might break special characters you can only input by pressing & #x 2325 ; together with them ( depending on your keyboard layout ) . If you don ´ t use that , you can delete by pressing esc and than backspace . For forward-deleting a whole word , use either & #x 2325 ; + D or esc and than D.
All users share acces to / Applications . Move apps you want restricted to your user 's home folder ~ / Applications and then creat a new user from system preferences .
Addressing your query head on - several US carriers have very nice planning tools : <URL> <URL> Both are quite close to what I 'm seeing for my usage patterns ( one calculates 2.5 GB and the other 3.15 GB ) in practice . I would say to take these with a grain of salt since with iOS 7 - you now have exceptionally good information on exactly which app used exactly how much data . That coupled with automatic data alerts that you can configure from the carrier to alert you at whatever levels you want , you can easily shut off parts of cellular data ( or all cellular data ) to shape your usage without having to downgrade your cellular service . In effect , iOS 7 makes it easy to steer your usage to fit your budget if and when you find yourself using more data than planned . Also , in the US - you are not locked into any level of data as the service is month to month . I often have months where I tether 2 or 4 GB extra data for business reasons . I have a shared data plan between my phone and iPad so a quick online session upgrades that month to the next higher tier of data . I set an alarm to undo that change at the end of my bill cycle and there are no fees to increase and decrease - just fees for the data ( and overage should you go there for a month ) . For me , the extra $ 10 for a month is far less than the overage of $ 15 per GB and simpler for me to manage when bursts or overages happen ( I 'm looking at you iTunes match streaming all night on an iPad while in my bag with the smart cover closed : /
Yes ; The Geo tags are written into the images via the native Location Services within the phone , primarily via the GPS chip the phone contains . Since the information written is merely latitude/longitude , you do not need to have a data connection in order for that information to be determined and added . The need for a data connection in tandem with photos is the ability to place them on a map , when using iPhoto for example .
No , once and App has been deleted , either by you or because of the expiration process , you can not reuse your SKU or app name in the same account again . It can be used , though , by another developer . Under the <URL> section of the iTunes Connect Developer Guide you 'll learn more about the ramifications of an App Deletion .
Start Safari Access bookmarks ( the Book icon on the toolbar ) Pick ' Reading List ' ( Top entry in the table with the glasses icon ) Unlike InstaPaper , the Reading List just collects links ( not content ) so you need to be online to access the articles .
If you want set-it-forget-it like BackBlaze , then iCloud is not for you . Your data is safe from a rogue Apple employee , but not safe from a government agency or someone with a legal ability to extract it . When Apple can help you regain access to your iCloud files if you forget your password then they can help a government agency to do that too . But if you create your own password-encrypted disk image ( . sparsebundle file using Disk Utility and encryption in the Finder ) then the password is known only to you , and is only stored in RAM on your machine while your disk image is open and mounted ; it is destroyed when you unmount and close the encrypted disk image . You can keep copies of that encrypted disk image on your machine or in a cloud service . If you never store that password in the Keychain iCloud or localitems keychain files , then it will never be uploaded to iCloud . If you store that password in a local-only Keychain file then it is secure but would not necessarily be proof against seizure of your hardware or a malicious remote control . Regardless of how well you protect the password to your encrypted disk image , you might be forced to decrypt it whilst under arrest . If you ' forget ' it , then that may be used against you in court . If you truly forget it , then your data is completely deleted and unrecoverable .
Battery technology used by Apple is no different than other laptops . They 're all Li-ion cells . Apparently , the recommended practice for extended storage is to get the battery down to 40 % and store it in a cool place , possibly the refrigerator . Some relevant sources : <URL> <URL>
Did you try the activity monitor thats built in to OS X ? Use spot light to find/open activity monitor and click on the network button near the bottom and it will display the data sent and received since the last restart .
end question
start question
How to type ` on Mac keyboard ?
On the US keyboard it is in the top left corner to the left of the 1 . You 'll see it just under the tilde sign ( ~ ) in the top left of the keyboard .
To convert multiple plain text URLs to hyperlinks in a rich text file in TextEdit , you must apply an action . After pasting the text , go to Edit > Substitutions > Show Substitutions , making sure ' Smart Links ' is ticked , and either select the text and use ' Replace in Selection ' or use ' Replace All ' to apply to whole document itself : EXAMPLE : I pasted same text twice for demonstration . After pasting I selected the second paragraph ( only for demonstration ) and used the Smart Links - Replace in Selection :
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
I use ctrl + & #x 2325 ; + space . It 's typeable via left hand , does n't collide with the search window shortcut ( as & #x 2325 ; + & #x 2318 ; + space does ) and I have n't found any other overlap yet .
Mac OS X Server is designed for remote " headless " administration and even initial setup . Server Admin included with the <URL> provides a GUI interface for server administration tasks as well as the ability to screen share the server desktop remotely . Apple provides a guide : <URL> .
I realise that this thread is probably quite old by now , but for all the options that has been given here , the simplest way has not been discussed . Apple allows you to lock your screen with a keyboard shortcut . You do n't have to create one , there is one built right in to OSX -- via the " Require password after sleep or screensaver " feature . Here is how to use it : Make sure that you have " Require password after sleep or screensaver begins " set to " immediately " . To do this , follow these steps : Open System Preferences Click on Security ( on Lion , " Security &amp; Privacy " ) Go to the General tab If you do n't already have one , put a tick in the box next to " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " Set the time interval to " immediately " Exit System Preferences When now when you want to lock your Mac , simply use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏
No need to worry - at present , the only MacBook with a physically different keyboard size ( in the US ) than the rest is the 11 inch Air . The small Air has a full sized " main keyboard " but the top row of function keys are slightly smaller than the top row of function keys on the rest of the lineup . I would presume that the same holds for international key layouts when they have different enter keys or additional physical keys , but do n't know that fact for sure . The cover you mentioned will fit the new retina MacBooks - both 13 " and 15 " - as long as the hardware is a US model .
I ended-up installing macports and using it to install rpm ( ) It took about an hour to compile all the dependencies , even if I do have 4 cores and a SSD .
On keyboard , press the " 123 " button to bring up numbers . From here press " # + = " to bring up more characters . ~ is the 4th from the left , second row . Answered on an iPhone :D
There is a wine port for OS X : <URL> From the project page : Current Status ( x86 ) Wine works well on OSX for Intel based Macs minus a proper distribution package ( Mac Application Bundle ) to fully integrate with " drag and drop " and " open " or " open with " functionality . Wine also has shortcomings with desktop icon integration and execution of certain types of DOS or blended Windows/DOS programs . ( Notice that Darwine , the original effort to port Wine to OS X , was primarily written for PowerPC Macs . Some work was done to support Intel Macs , but it is <URL> , so you are better off avoiding it . ) There are no official Wine packages available for Intel Macs as of this writing , so you 'll have to use a third-party application like WineBottler ( <URL> ) , PlayOnMac ( <URL> , for Snow Leopard and Lion ) . or Wineskin ( <URL> , for Lion and Mountain Lion ) . daviewales has mentioned in a comment below a package manager I did n't know of called Homebrew ( <URL> ) . You may want to give it a try . Otherwise you can try the commercial product CrossOver , which is basically Wine with , as Wikipedia puts it , various compatibility patches added , more user-friendly configuration tools , and commercial support . You can download a free trial here : <URL>
<URL> is a tool which ' locks ' the keyboard . It can be enabled or disabled with the mouse .
I solved this using Mac Os X Lion install DVD . Boot your Mac from Mac Os X Lion install DVD by holding Option key at startup When a window appears go to menu and find Terminal and run it From inside terminal you can copy any files ( I used commands : df , ls , cd , mv ) This works for Macbook Pro late 2011 but will not work for 2012 and later models because Apple prevented them from being able to boot from install DVD or USB . Thus all recovery tools like DiskWarrior Boot DVD , Drive Genius and similar will not work on 2012 and later macs . The other option is to ask a friend with Mac to make a Recovery USB using <URL> and make a DMG file from it using Disk Utility and send you over internet . Then use the <URL> application under Windows and burn DMG on your USB stick . You will be able to boot from this USB stick into Recovery Mode and from there you can run Terminal to copy \ move files or do whatever you need . Apple should distribute some bootable ISO or DMG image which can be downloaded from their website and burned on disk or USB and used to recover Mac offline .
Keep US Extended and use it to type your å . It 's alt + k and then a.
Remapping a Windows keyboard so that the key positions match a standard Mac keyboard is pretty easy . Just open Keyboard Preferences , and click the Modifier Keys ... button in the Keyboard tab . This lets you change the behaviour of the keys on each attached keyboard ( make sure you select your external one from the top drop-down menu ) . To turn the Windows standard Ctrl ⊞ WinAlt configuration to the Mac standard controloptioncommand ⌘ , just change the Option and Command drop downs so they have the opposite entries ( i.e. Option performs Command and Command performs Option ) . If you want to change the physical keys , most of the premium mechanical keyboards use Cherry switches that have interchangeable key caps . You can get Mac specific modifier key sets from places like <URL> and <URL> . If you want to go nuts , you can even get a fully customized key cap set in a style similar to Apple 's keyboards , as <URL> ( looks pretty nice IMO , but I 'm sure it 's costly ) .
On the US keyboard it is in the top left corner to the left of the 1 . You 'll see it just under the tilde sign ( ~ ) in the top left of the keyboard .
The problem was actually a bug in Remote Desktop for OS X , and has been fixed in 8.0.15 , which was released a few days ago . Now the keyboard works completely as expected with both my Mac and the Windows computer configured with Norwegian keyboard layout .
Open a terminal ( e.g. Terminal.app ) and write then press Enter . Any open applications will still use the " Press and Hold " , but if you quit them and then open them again they should work as expected ( use key repeat instead of " Press and Hold " ) . Reference : <URL>
Tap the Settings app . and click on the General * menu * > the Keyboard . Then turn " Enable Caps Lock " on . Now just double-tap the shift key to enable caps lock once using the keyboard . you can see with image tutorial <URL> .
I think not , only by using a hardware keyboard or via copy/paste from another doc or an app like Unicode Maps . You might be able to make a custom layout as well with Unicode Maps . Also have a look at Keyman .
After you open the Show Fonts window , you can press Ctrl + F6 to bring focus to the floating Fonts window . To return focus to the window you were in , you can press Ctrl + F4 . On a laptop , you 'll also need to hold Fn when you press the above keyboard shortcuts unless you go to System Preferences > Keyboard and check " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " . After you move focus to the Fonts window , you can press Tab and Shift + Tab to cycle focus through the different columns and the search field .
end question
start question
Do I have to run a disk integrity check after a kernel panic ?
Mac OS X 's default file system is HFS + Journaled . This means that before files are written , the data is first written to a special log called the <URL> . In the event of application or system crashes , when the machine re-starts it will re-run all the remaining entries in the journal to bring the file system back into pristine order . In theory anyway . That said , it is still probably a good idea to use one of the included utilities to verify your filesystem . You can run <URL> in the Terminal or use Disk Utility to check your hard drive if you want . After a Kernel Panic or power outage , this is probably a good idea . Disk Utility is the simpler option , just log in as normal and go to and select your boot drive and choose " Verify " . You can also run Disk Utility from your Mac OS X DVD that came with your computer ( you will need to do this if you want to repair , it ca n't repair the boot volume if you are running the computer on it ) . If you want to run , you will have to do it from the startup terminal . I 'm a little fuzzy on the details , since it has been years since I last used it , but on startup hold down ⌘ S during startup to boot in single user mode . Then run to run the diagnostic . You should also look at to look at the manual . TL ; DR No , you do n't generally need to . But it 's not a bad idea to run a utility .
According to the man page , hibernatemode = 3 ( binary 0011 ) by default on supported portables . The system will store a copy of memory to persistent storage ( the disk ) , and will power memory during sleep . The system will wake from memory , unless a power loss forces it to restore from disk image . But then also standby causes kernel power management to automatically hibernate a machine after it has slept for a specified time period . This saves power while asleep . This setting defaults to ON for supported hardware . The setting standby will be visible in pmset - g if the feature is supported on this machine . standby only works if hibernation is turned on to hibernatemode 3 or 25 . ( which it is by default on supported portables ) standbydelay specifies the delay , in seconds , before writing the hibernation image to disk and powering off memory for Standby . On my machine , with settings that I believe are default , when I type I get the result of 4200 , meaning that after 70 minutes of sleep , the machine cuts power to the memory and restores from the memory image saved to the hard drive . If your settings do not look like this , the command just might be your new friend .
According to <URL> the 85W power adapter is the right one . However , there seem to be issue with " T " style ( the old ) vs. " L " style ( the new ) : see <URL> . It seems that for some people , a workaround does the trick : Turn off your computer , flip over the laptop and remove the battery , hold down the circlular button on the battery for 10 seconds , the green light should go out . Re-install the battery and turn your computer on . Your new charger should work fine . If that does n't work , you need to call Apple support to arrange for your power adapter to be replaced with a " T " style adapter : Apple is aware of the issue with the pins being at a different depth in the new chargers with the " L " shaped connection . After having two new ones not work , I contacted tech support . They sent a new version of the old charger with the square mag safe connector . It works fine . Edit : Apparently the <URL> should fix the " L " style power adapter issue on older MacBooks .
One commercial app which provides the effective permissions for a user and a selected file or folder is <URL> : In the example below the effective permissions of the file / private/var/log / clamav.log for the user Spotlight are shown . The user Spotlight can neither read nor write data . <URL> Triggering the tab Show or Set Permissions the POSIX permissions/ownership are shown explicitly . <URL>
If you need to logout so that another user can use the computer , you can enable Fast User Switching . The other user will be able to use the Mac , while your program still runs .
Yes , Greasemonkey or " User scripts " were the ones that popularized this . For one option on Mac/Safari , please see <URL>
On one hand , Linux had a considerable head start on XNU , having been first released in 1991 . While I ca n't seem to find information on a release date for XNU , I 'm quite sure it happened after Apple acquired NeXT , in 1997 . Also , the kernel design used in XNU may not be easy for some developers to get their head around . Linux is a monolithic kernel , while XNU is a hybrid ( a cross between monolithic and micro kernel models ) It 's possible that developers are more comfortable developing for the former model than the latter . Ken Thompson , one of the fathers of UNIX , also argued this point . More information can be found on Wikipedia ( starting at <URL> )
The only way I know of is to get into Exposé mode ( e.g. press ( fn + ) F3 on newer keyboards ) and then pressing the down arrow key . You will see the currently selected minimised window ( in the lower third of the screen ) surrounded by a blue shadow and you can select other windows by moving around with the arrow keys . You can then bring any window to the foreground by hitting return .
The Knowledgebase article <URL> contains some general guidelines and illustrates using System Profiler ( System Information in Lion ) to provide information about the output ( according to specifications ) of a Macs USB ports . If you want to test the real world voltage output of a given USB port on an individual Macintosh at a given load you will have to use a test device . ( <URL> )
The same thing happens to me in 10.8 . If you hold option before releasing command in the application switcher , the Finder window ( and not the window of the desktop ) gets focus . Holding option makes the application switcher " reopen " the application , so that if for example the application has no default windows ( like a file browser window in Finder ) , a default window is reopened . You could also consider using other methods than command-tab to focus Finder , like <URL> or use Alfred .
I think your friend is confusing sea shanties with reality . What old mariners call " salt air " is really just the smell of decaying seaweed and dead fish . Salt , being a solid crystal , ca n't evaporate , so if there 's any " salt in the air " it would be in the form of salt rocks flying around . I imagine that 's probably a lot less likely than " sand in the air " , since there 's typically not a lot of unsequestered salt at the beach . Also , I put salt crystals in glass all the time ( e.g. , measuring cups ) , and have yet to see the salt scratch the glass at all , so I think the chances of this hypothetical " salt in the air " causing damage to an iPhone are practically nonexistent . I would worry more about a seagull pooping on it .
Go to system preferences/keyboard/text / spelling and click on the window and go to the Setup item . Then check the boxes for only the two languages you want and set it to Automatic . Also set the dictionary to Automatic in Edit > Spelling and Grammar > Show Spelling and Grammar . I suspect this works better for separate sentences or paragraphs in different languages than for different languages in one sentence .
There are few places that information is available , but since kernel is multitasking beast one has to look in multiple places : The simple one is the Console log " type kernel in the filter box " , but not all activity is reported there since Kernel issues millions of instructions in a Milli-second . Also the Activity Monitor is a good source of information . You could use the to see all running processes . You could use the to see all disk activity . You could use to see all loaded drivers . In other words , it is to busy for you to follow and a continuous output file would not make senses .
This might help <URL> " The Lion Recovery Disk Assistant lets you create Lion Recovery on an external drive that has all of the same capabilities as the built-in Lion Recovery : reinstall Lion , repair the disk using Disk Utility , restore from a Time Machine backup , or browse the web with Safari . "
Yes , it has two physical buttons on the edge lacking the battery tray . The two rubber feet on the bottom-front of the trackpad press against internal switches . For these to activate , you have to use it on a hard surface . The software tap-to-click that senses your finger pad deforming as it taps the immovable glass surface also will trigger a tap independently from the physical buttons .
Games Internet Explorer : If you are a web developer and want to test your website in IE ( which you have to ) . Also some corporate intranet applications work only on IE ( 6/7/8 compatibility mode ) . Microsoft Office : Yes , there is a version for the Mac , but some prefer the Windows version ( I remember reading sometime before somewhere , ( unable to find the link ) that the Windows version is better ) . Also , people like me who have a Windows PC ( my wife 's ) and a Macbook Pro at home , I can buy one Office Home and Student edition ( it comes with licence for 3 installs ) and use it on both . Learning Windows specific technology . For instance I want to learn C# . C# is best learnt in Microsoft Visual Studio ( IMHO ) . Games Games Games There was something else too ... oh yeah , games .
Yes , It will be possible to update to the iOS 8 public when Apple releases to the public . The update could be done via iTunes or OTA .
Disk Utility in many respect is powered by <URL> , a command line utility that deals with file systems ( not just the one found on OS X ) . The option to verify ( and repair ) your disk deals with the health of the file system ( HFS + ) and the integrity of the data that resides on it , rather than the physical disk . It looks at how the data is stored and not if the drive is reporting mechanical errors ( to some extent this is reported by the S.M.A.R.T status ) . However it should stand to reason that a hardware fault will likely permeate through the file system structure ( though not always ) . Is Disk Utility good at finding hardware issues ? No , not really . It 's meant more to isolate problems with your data set than it is your hardware . There of course is some continuity there but they are not monogamous . DiskWarrior and Drive Genius will undoubtedly do a much better job diagnosing the physical health of your drive . But none are as powerful as the utilities released by your respective hard drive manufacturer . If you can use those , then all the better . Using multiple tools may also prove to be an affective strategy . Another avenue which can help in discovery is to comb your Console 's logs for anomalies . I 've had a WD disk exhibit strange behaviors and first became cognizant of the problem by way of a single error during the initial boot up sequence . Google and WD 's native Windows diagnostic tools helped me isolate the issue ( to some degree ) .
Got a reply from the support . What I asked is not possible -- but you could use two <URL> ( in my case I could n't do that though ) . Our licensing agreement with Apple does n't permit transmitting the operating system via the internet . As there are other methods to run the application ( as outlined previously [ <URL> ] ) most folks can run the software using the downloaded application . Also , DiskWarrior is the type of utility to prevent these problems - regular maintenance can help prevent the emergency situation .
If you go to the Utility folder on your Mac , open the Activity Moniitor . Then go to the Memory tab . There you will see who is using how much . There is also a Disk Tab , where you can also see who is using how much on active basis ( when programs are running ) . You wont see the passive usage ( how much information is stored ) in that window . In this example the application Firefox Using Memory : Using Disk space : How much space is a Application occupying on the disk , is answered by looking in your Finder - Applications then under the - Size coulomb . Again in my example , the Firefox occupies 147 MB of permanent disk space , which is not the same as the information above which was for the active situation . Back to your original problem - slow computer : In the Activity Monitor look now in the CPU tab to see who is most active there .
end question
start question
Why would my iPhone 6 be stuck in a dead battery boot loop ?
In such cases I , myself , do a boot into DFU mode which actually uses way less energy mainly because the display stays off . Then I wait for about a half an hour and then I reboot the iDevice in order to have it properly booted . P.S. Follow this procedure in order to enter an iDevice into DFU mode : Make sure your iDevice is plugged into a power source via it 's USB cable ; Hold down both Home and Power buttons on the iDevice for about 10 seconds until the screen goes off ; Keep holding the Home button and release the Power button ; Open iTunes to check if the iDevice is connected . A message saying that an iDevice in a Recovery mode is connected should show up .
It appears Parallels is the cause of the issue . Found some instructions on <URL> and executed step 1 . DVDs now working great !
Booting Ubuntu on a dual boot partition has a similar battery life to OS X , perhaps slightly shorter , due to less efficient optimization for the MacBook Pro 's hardware . In a virtual machine , despite lots of " clever " optimizations and CPU hardware virtualization features , there are two complete operating systems , with two kernels , and two display managers * running . There is no way around the fact that these require significantly more processing power , thus , sucking up more battery life . If you want longer battery life in Ubuntu , try disabling the eye candy . ( This , of course , is assuming the virtual machine is not running headless . )
From <URL> site : Night Shift is available on iPhone 5s or later , iPad Pro , iPad Air or later , iPad mini 2 or later , and iPod touch ( 6th generation ) . So I think It 's related to 64bit processor architecture .
It depends on the cause of the yellowing . I personally have seen the following situations : Psycological yellow where any time you have a black border and a white area , the brain will color the white yellow . If you hide the black with a piece of white paper , the yellowness magically disappears . Permanent manufacturing problem where the LCD is pinched internally , damaged , or otherwise really emitting a permanent yellow cast as measured by a <URL> such as the <URL> . Temporary yellowness ( very rare - I 've just seen this a few times ) . I do n't know why or when it went away , but several people sure agreed that one phone was off until it was restored . I do n't know if it was some odd warmup temporary hardware issue , but after it was restored , it looked and tested fine with the Spyder . Do keep in mind , not all displays are made in the same batch , same factory and that combined with the backlight settings can make a pretty large difference between models . If it 's convenient to have it checked out , or you can take a picture of the colors and it 's totally obvious yours has some severe color tint , then take it in and ask for a repair . If not , you 'll likely need hours of time and expensive tools to even tell your phone is unique to another after using it to play games for a day or two . It will just be right and your brain will compensate for whatever calibration your phone has . A restore of the device is also a good thing to try so you do n't needlessly waste time going in for service since that is the most obvious cause of the LCD passing all inspections along manufacture but you having colors that seem off to your eye at the point of receiving a new phone out of the box .
Although Nathan has a valid point for wall charging , from personal experience it is possible to discharge the battery while it is plugged into a powered USB port . Even though my iPod Touch 2nd Gen was plugged into my MacBook , playing Need for Speed Undercover was sufficient to cause the device to power down due to low battery . It seems that a powered USB does n't provide sufficient charge to offset the drain caused by a graphically intensive game . To sum up : if you are worried about exhausting the battery while charging , use a wall charger .
Apple limits what can run in the background to ensure battery life is not dramatically reduced . Skype will be constrained to the same restrictions that all other App Store apps must follow . Given this , it is fair to assume Skype uses no more than any other Internet telephony app running in the background on your iPhone . Fraser Speirs 's article may be helpful in better understanding <URL> .
Unfortunately the solution is not a great one . I had a similar problem on my MacBook a while ago , and the problem is actually due to file fragmentation , however no defrag tool could actually solve the problem . There are various solutions on Google indicating that a defrag does work , but I had no success with any of them . The problem is related to how the files are spread on the drive , and BootCamp requires a continues 10GB or more of free space on the drive to be able to create the required partition . The only way I got around the problem eventually was to format and reinstall the drive . My honest advice is to look at using something like <URL> which is free , and create a virtual image for Windows . Depending on what you need to do , you can get away with a relatively small image . Windows 7 can run quite happily with only a 1GB of RAM if you do n't need Aero . You can also look at paid for options like <URL> or <URL> Alternatively , you could look at installing Windows on a secondary drive via USB . The speed wo n't be great , but if again , depending on what you need it for , it might be a sufficient solution .
Deeper discharge/charge cycles shorten an Li-Ion battery 's lifespan faster that shallow ones . ( e.g. . One 100 % cycle is more wearing that four 25 % cycles , etc. ) Therefore , keeping an iPad or iPhone on a charger or always topped off between short uses will tend to lengthen the battery 's total lifespan by reducing the number of deeper cycles per annum , all other thing being equal ( such as total time of use ) . " Calibrating " has almost nothing to do with the battery lifespan . It 's mostly needed to help the battery gauge icon behave more accurately . Once or twice a year is probably good enough for that purpose .
Discharging the battery once in a while ( every few Months ) is not a must but does help calibrating , for the system to be more accurate waring you on low levels . Over time charging and discharging creates a more inaccuracy of the actual level . For example if you plug in at 40 % , unplug at 80 % and so on . The reason is that the system uses the last known battery charge to produce the % , thus assumes the battery charge level . However if the battery was not discharged for long time , the remaining charge could be wrong ( due to batter aging ) . Discharging to not less than 20 % once in a while helps the accuracy . Since there is a opposite effect ( to frequent full discharge ) will shorten the battery life , you should only do this every few months .
I found a <URL> . I tested a few of the solutions , including using a plastic collar stay , but the suggestion that worked was using two thin cardboard strips to release the grip . What worked for me : Find a thin , semi-glossy business card , or similar piece of cardboard and cut it into two strips about the width of the USB port . You can use an un-occupied port to make sure the strip is narrow enough to fit . Insert the strips on the two wide sides of the USB port , between the outside of the cable 's plug and the inside of the USB port . You may need to work the strips back and forth to get them in . I had to insert the strips to about 2/3 the depth of the port . If you have difficulty inserting the cardboard , you may need a thinner material . Grasp the sandwich of the cardboard strips and the USB plug . Pull . The plug should come out as easily as a normal plug would .
Nope . They 're different sizes . Compare <URL> to their <URL> : 15 " : 13 " : Both batteries are roughly proportional to their cases , and the 15 " has a substantially bigger case than the 13 " . Additionally , they 're shaped differently - see the little notch in the top left of the 15 " battery , which is n't there on the 13 " battery . It physically wo n't fit .
The first step is to look at the detailed battery information from the System Information/System Profiler for each battery . Pay attention to the Full Charge Capacity and cycles for each battery . The second step ( assuming my guess that you have a non-unibody Mac where the battery is user-replaceble - swappable without removing the bottom of the Mac ) is to run a <URL> on the new battery ( and followed by the old one perhaps to compare ) . Once your computer gets to know the new battery ( it guesses based on average battery performance until it determines the chemistry particular to each battery that gets used over time ) . The third step if you really want to measure everything on both batteries is to use the <URL> command to document each battery as it powers your Mac from full to the low power shut off point . Here is the relevant section from the man page linked above :
In such cases I , myself , do a boot into DFU mode which actually uses way less energy mainly because the display stays off . Then I wait for about a half an hour and then I reboot the iDevice in order to have it properly booted . P.S. Follow this procedure in order to enter an iDevice into DFU mode : Make sure your iDevice is plugged into a power source via it 's USB cable ; Hold down both Home and Power buttons on the iDevice for about 10 seconds until the screen goes off ; Keep holding the Home button and release the Power button ; Open iTunes to check if the iDevice is connected . A message saying that an iDevice in a Recovery mode is connected should show up .
The Ripoffs <URL> can be ordered with a belt loop ( which is technically a BL-IQ using the RipOffs model number system ) . This is a low-profile , plain black nylon holster with a flap covering/securing the phone . At one time Ripoffs also made a CO-IP model for the iPhone , but it is no longer listed in their catalog . If you 're looking for something more tactical , Maxpedition 's <URL> can be adapted by using their TacTie Attachment straps as a belt loop . ( You could also sew a nylon strap onto existing MOLLE loops to form a full-time belt loop . ) The 5.11 <URL> can be snapped securely to a belt or attached to a MOLLE system . ( The new style 5.11 tactical pants have a flap pocket especially designed for an iPhone that makes a belt case superfluous . ) Although I do n't own any of these particular products , I 've owned pouches , holsters and bags ( and pants ) from these manufacturers and am comfortable vouching for the overall quality of their products . Check your local Police/EMS supply shops if you want a local source . You may find other options there too -- secure carry of smartphones is definitely something of interest to LEOS , EMTs , etc. .
If I recall correctly - perhaps others can help flesh out any missing details - the setup wizard primarily lets you sign in with / sign up for an Apple ID to use for iCloud , it asks you to agree to the iCloud Terms of Service , and it asks about setting up Location Services . All of these can be accessed directly through the Settings app at any time . I do n't believe you will miss any important functionality by missing the wizard , especially if you were previously using your iPhone with iCloud in iOS5 .
Did you try a restart of the phone ? Also go to Contacts and click the " group " button in the top left and make certain that " All iCloud " is checked .
I 've replaced several batteries in older iPhones including the iPhone 3 . . I have not tried in the iPhone 4 models . In the original and the iPhone 3 / 3GS , it 's really quite simple . The batteries were fine ( from Amazon ) . They come with the tool to separate the back panel , look at iFixit.com for instructions , but just take your time and be patient . . HTH
The trouble is in the handling of JPEG2000 image files . Some solutions are offered <URL> . If this was your problem , it was solved with the release of iOS 5 . Those images should be viewable now .
On your iPhone , you have a 6 digit code , replacing the prior 4 digit code . On your iPad , you have an alphanumeric password , which just happens to consist of just 6 digits . Alphanumeric passwords on iOS are just like other passwords in that you have to confirm when you have finished typing .
end question
start question
Can I set the " Exercise " goal for my Apple Watch Activity app ?
No there is no way to accomplish this . From Apple - <URL> You close the Exercise ring when you reach the globally recommended 30 minutes of exercise per day . And you do n't even have to do it all at once , which means you 're more likely to fit it into your day . From all searches I have performed I have not found any possible way to change it and the above quote suggests that 30 minutes is the amount Apple has fixed on ( the call it " recommended " ) .
No , there is no such functionality on Apple Watch as standard as there are no text fields for entering text other than dictation .
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
While I 'm not abosultely sure , how achieved my result , but after a reboot the update for one app-store app is gone now . What I did : the following is tested on old Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app ( free from appstore ) , before my tests the app-store showing an available update for it . Right click on app , select Show package contents go to " Contents " Move the following files and folders to some backup place ( folder ) reboot If that does n't work , remove these additional items from the package contents : - ( folder ) - ( alias ) Maybe it is not enough , ( in my tests i did the following too ) , try : Go to ( alt-click on Finder 's Go menu , select Library ) Caches move to backup location the folder reboot After the above steps , the AppStore do n't showing the available update for the " Blackmagic Disk Speed Test.app " . Warning : all the above is tested only in one app , need more testing , it is absolutely without any warranty and do n't blame me when your computer will burn , get grabbed by extraterrestrial aliens or anything other ...
You are able to use the Apple Watch when running without taking your iPhone with you . The caveat to do doing so is that you wo n't have access to any online services but the included fitness apps will work just fine ! This article at MacWorld has actually summarised exactly what you can and can not do when your watch is n't connected to your phone . The paragraph that might be of most interest to you is : If you want to go for a run without having to tote a bulky phone , the Apple Watch 's exercise capabilities are pretty much self-sufficient . All of the watch 's onboard sensors , such as the accelerometer and the heart rate monitor , keep on trucking even when your phone 's not around . Just fire up the Workout app , pick your exercise type and goal , and leave the iPhone at home . References : <URL>
UPDATE : The stream is officially posted in a replayable state , just like any other online video , located <URL> . It 's also the latest entry in Apple 's " Apple Keynotes " podcast , available for download on iTunes and iDevices <URL> . Since no one seems to have given the answer iProgram was hoping for , I might as well make this a proper answer in case other people have the same question . Under the circumstances , live blogs can be a tolerable substitute for watching the stream . ( Source : Experience when Apple events happened during school hours . ) I personally recommend the ones at <URL> and <URL> , but there are countless others that you can find online if you search for them . Good luck , and enjoy the keynote , however you end up experiencing it !
You basically have three options for Virtualization on Mac OS X : The already mentioned ( and free ) <URL> The first solution for Mac ( and arguably one of the best ones these days ) <URL> The very famous <URL> , from VMWare Inc. . Any of these will allow you to run a variety of OSs under OS X without resorting to bootcamp or repartitioning . The last two are not free , but - depending upon your needs - vastly superior in terms of features to VirtualBox . I have the three . I have used the three extensively . In its current versions , Parallels is ahead of VMware . But this changes very often with new versions . Virtual Box is ok but slower ( to virtualize ) and has way less features . VMware is very stable . It never crashed in more than three years of daily usage . Parallels does perform certain tasks faster than VMware , but will occasionally crash the VM . ( It happened about 5 times in a two year period ) . In the end , either will work if you do n't need anything fancy .
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
No there is no way to accomplish this . From Apple - <URL> You close the Exercise ring when you reach the globally recommended 30 minutes of exercise per day . And you do n't even have to do it all at once , which means you 're more likely to fit it into your day . From all searches I have performed I have not found any possible way to change it and the above quote suggests that 30 minutes is the amount Apple has fixed on ( the call it " recommended " ) .
If you do n't have other accounts in Mail.app , simply delete the entire contents of ~ / Library/Mail / If you do have other accounts and only want to remove your Gmail account , open the V2 folder inside the above path , and delete the folder relevant to the particular account that you want removed .
There are actually multiple levels of download . Even when you view an image , a device-optimized version is retrieved . Only when you Edit or Share a photo is it fully downloaded from iCloud ( possibly when you zoom in all the way , also ) . With that being said , you ca n't bulk-Edit ; however , you can bulk-Share . Here are the steps that worked for me : Go into the album you wish to download locally . Tap Select . Tap Select All . Tap the Share icon in the bottom-left hand corner . Select Email . Wait for the Preparing progress indicator to complete . This may take a while depending on how large your album is and on the speed of your connection . When your email is ready , Cancel out of it . Remember that these photos are eligible for purging if your device becomes low on storage . Note : I tried this on a relatively small album ( 20 photos and videos ) . I do n't know if your iPhone might crash attempting to share 500 photos at once . If you choose to Download and Keep Originals , I believe your iPhone does that while your device is locked , on Wi-Fi , and has sufficient charge . It might help to have Photos as the foreground app when locking the iPhone .
We need a torrent client that can download the movie file parts in order , not randomly . We need a player that supports playing incomplete files . We need a connection that is faster than the movie 's bitrate ( and a torrent with enough peers obviously ) . The torrent client Previously I used <URL> . It is developed by a technology institute in Zurich . It did n't have a polished GUI and took a little bit too much CPU while downloading . There 's new client I found thanks to @diimdeep . It is called <URL> and it is awesome . <URL> You can see that while downloading it downloads as a normal torrent client -- the parts are downloaded randomly : <URL> But there is an option : <URL> After that we can see that the rest of the file is being downloaded sequentially ( blue -- downloaded , green -- requested ) : <URL> The connection speed How can we tell if the speed is good enough ? By the estimated time of arrival ( ETA ) : <URL> If the movie is 1.5 hours and the ETA is 17 minutes , then the speed is sufficient . The player The player is and always has been <URL> ( I do n't know why the domain is Hungarian ) low cpu usage plays almost anything ( although very rarely it crashes and burns ) lots of options ( boosting volume , control of cache on streams , indexing ... ) arrow keys navigation ( I ca n't live without that ) playing incomplete files ( and reindexing them , which allows navigation ) I use <URL> - a nice OSX gui . Download and associate movie files with mplayer ( avi , mkg ) : <URL> The final step is to to play the file after the downloading started : <URL> That 's it . <URL> Happy watching .
I believe the correct setting is found in the following location
So far it seems that there is no way to do this . I ended up changing my Graphics card to solve the problem .
No , the iTunes account are country bounded . So you ca n't buy a Spanish app with your US account . But if you 'll be in Spain for a few months , I assume you have a Spanish address ? So there is no harm in creating a new account for your few months in Spain . All you need is an address or a gift card from Spain .
There is no concept of HomePage in Safari for iPad . Sorry You can go to your favorite website , use the " arrow " icon and press the " On home screen " button , that will create an icon on your homescreen which will launch that webpage in safari when you press it .
Apple resellers are allowed to both perform repairs where the broken part goes back to Apple and just sell you a part . I believe their costs are way higher for the costs of an " one way part " so in practice , this does not happen much on major components that are not commodity parts . In your particular instance , I would look to see when that specific model goes vintage . Presumably , Apple would then sell their stock of parts to the repair centers and for a limited time , there might be a nice supply ( prices low ) and no risk to the people carrying the part that their costs to carry inventory will raise the price of that part . Even from reputable sellers , many parts that exist on the open market are scavenged from machines that are damaged ( sometimes by liquid ) and disassembled for parts and carry only a short warranty if any from the seller . This is a good thing in almost all cases - reusing perfectly fine parts when they are properly tested is inexpensive and proper . The flip side , is what machines get damaged and do n't get fixed ? The worst kind of damage . An iMac is very much not at risk from liquid but other things like power surge , can affect parts in an invisible way . Again , the question is of self-selecting . Which macs do n't get cheap parts to fix the issues they have ? The ones with major problems to either the display or the logic board . For these reasons , I prefer to buy parts from a company I trust to know why a used mac is n't getting fixed so I can get good parts from them . Similarly , I 'll gladly buy the damaged mac from the person that wants to sell it for parts so I can evaluate the damage myself . They are usually forthcoming why and how it got damaged ( and also pricing my offer knowing it may be a total waste . ) As always , finding a good mechanic - someone who knows the business and has experience with hundreds of repairs on your specific model and thousands of repairs under the belt is more important to knowing when parts can be used . The sad fact is specialized and highly reliable parts outside of Apple 's supply chain are too expensive to be widely available . It 's hard for consumers to know if a good price is a lucky break or the seller has more information of the part 's heritage and passing on hidden risk to the buyer .
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
Yes it can . Only exercise uses heart rate currently to gauge effort . The accelerometer for standing ca n't really tell why your hand moves when it is checking for sedentary conditions .
Turns out that the <URL> ( iTunes link ) app can indeed do this ! Workflow supports showing a workflow as a complication , with one tap to trigger that workflow . A workflow can be as simple as " using this text , send a message to this person " . Putting those two together , you can have a two-tap system to send an iMessage or SMS to someone : activate the complication , and push " send " . Here 's the workflow I used to test this : Text : This block holds the text you want to send , and passes it to the next block Send Message : Takes text and sends it to a predetermined recipient <URL> The Workflow widget is the GPS marker icon on the top-left . <URL> <URL> Nota bene : If you have multiple workflows visible on your watch , the complication cycles through them throughout the day . If you only have one , it only shows the one .
end question
start question
Does iCloud use client-side encryption ?
No . Apple securely transmits and stores the data to the cloud by using secure tokens for authentication - as officially stated in the iCloud security and privacy overview1 and the iCloud design guide2 . Apple also states they they will " never provide encryption keys to any third parties " , which of course is not entirely true due to the Patriot Act3 . ArsTechnica states that Apple holds a master encryption key4 and is able to unencrypt any personal data - i.e. also for government requests . " This includes contacts , notes , unencrypted e-mails , application preferences , Safari bookmarks , calendars , and reminders . " The data is only encrypted during transit and again when stored on Apple 's servers . This is a necessity if Apple wants to provide browser access to iCloud data . The Electronic Frontier Foundation notes5 that Apple is not inclined to be transparent about government requests . As far as I understand the concept of client-side encryption , it suggests that all encryption must happen by the client as keys are not stored on the server ( zero-knowledge policy ) . Because Apple encrypts the data itself on the server for browser access it must store a key . Hence this is no client-side encryption . 1 - <URL> 2 - <URL> 3 - <URL> 4 - <URL> 5 - <URL>
Delegate access is <URL> but not in Outlook Web App , nor in Apple 's Mail client . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
The terms are listed deep in <URL> : The applicable storage fee for an upgraded storage plan will take effect immediately ; downgrades to your storage plan will take effect on the next annual billing date . So a literal interpretation would be you would not get any credit for the unused portion of the year you paid for the initial storage if you upsold yourself before that year term expired . In practice , Apple has been generous with giving pro-rated refunds for AppleCare when you cancel it ( but that is listed explicitly in the T&amp;C for AppleCare ) and has extended MobileMe storage for free - so you could either get the lower storage tier added to the end of the higher tier ( which would be a bit of a complicated thing for Apple to track - especially if you did two buys in one year ) . I suppose you could open a <URL> to see if they have a current policy on how they handle up-sales from one paid tier to another , but I would expect the initial purchase to end when you upgrade to a higher tier before the anniversary unless you contact Apple and they offer you a credit or extension as an exception and not something that is programmed into the system .
Yes - and most people I know fit into strongly preferring a rechargeable solution when they use the device regularly to extend power on the go . Those that use the device occasionally or on long trips seem to gravitate to an inexpensive sled for AA batteries and carry a mix of expensive lithium cells and typical non-rechargeable cells .
This behavior wo n't happen in OS X by default , but a whole bunch of 3rd party window-arranging apps ought to be able to help : SizeUp <URL> Divvy <URL> Breeze <URL> ShiftIt <URL> Mercury Mover <URL> Optimal Layout <URL> Cinch <URL>
I use <URL> ( Better Touch Tool ) which includes window snapping , as well as a whole host of other useful features such as extra multitouch gestures , and button management . You can use as much or as little as you want , but window snapping is on by default and just means you drag an application to the top to maximise it , left to align and fill the left half , and to the right for the right . EDIT : This is called BST ( Better Snap Tool ) and it is no longer free . El Capitan has an implemented feature ( press green button until you can drop it to the side ) or check other free tools like <URL> Update : As of Feb 20 , 2016 BST is $ 2.99 USD .
Every time you make the computer do something extra , in this case encrypting/decrypting all file access , it will take longer and the machine will slow down a bit . File Vault 1 did slow things down noticeably , but with File Vault version 2 ( Introduced in OS X 10.7 ( Lion ) ) running on an SSD there is not noticeable decrease in reading or writing files . I have this enabled on a 15 " MacBook Pro Retina and a 2012 11 " MacBook Air . The only time it is noticeable is when you reboot , it requires a password before starting the boot process . You may notice that the system is slow when you first enable File Vault 2 , since it has to encrypt the whole drive . Once that is done you will probably forget that it is on . If you decide that you do n't agree with me , turning File Vault off is easy enough . You will , once again , have the slow initial period as the whole drive is decrypted .
Yes , the App Store exists as that was introduced with iPhone OS 2.0 , however most apps on the store do not support iPhone OS 3.1.3 ( the last version available for the 1st generation iPod touch ) . Emojis can be activated through <URL> on the App Store .
Sure . Just make sure it is in a secure position so it does n't fall over . Apple actually has a support page on this : <URL>
That 's a catch 22 situation . You want to create an Apple ID with an iCloud email address which is created when you create an Apple ID with an iCloud email address which is created ... If you mean a new Apple ID with an old iCloud email , then no , that 's not possible .
To answer your question : Yes . When you install Xcode 4 ( and its dev tools ) your " old " Xcode folder gets renamed as Developer-old ( provided you already had Xcode 3 installed ) To answer Ricket : Xcode 4 does n't support a few things ( yet ) like Plugins and some features ( like assembly code ) are non existent in Xcode4 ( perhaps yet or never ) so if you rely on some things you might want to keep a copy of Xcode 3 around . If you want to take a look at a good Xcode 4 review ( and see some of the key benefits/drawbacks ) have a look at <URL> .
Try <URL> , which has <URL> all free and its still under active development . Also it supports Snow Leopard on the current 1.5.3 version , as long as your up to at least OS X 10.6.8 . Supported services XMPP ( " Jabber " ) , including Google Talk LJ ( LiveJournal ) Talk Facebook Chat Gizmo5 MSN Messenger AOL Instant Messenger ( AIM ) , including MobileMe ( formerly known as . Mac ) Yahoo! Messenger , including Yahoo! Japan Messenger ICQ Bonjour , compatible with iChat Twitter IRC MySpaceIM Gadu-Gadu IBM Lotus Sametime Novell GroupWise
Nobody 's mentioned Apple Mail . I love it , particularly the Lion version .
AirDrop creates a direct connection to another Mac through it 's wireless card and therefor does not transfer across your LANs wired network or wireless network and most certainly does not effect your internet bandwidth . Here are 4 possible reasons for the high bandwidth . You are unaware of software on your Mac because someone else has installed it on your behalf . Perhaps Online Backup Software or you may have installed it yourself and not been aware of the repercussions . i.e. Crashplan/Dropbox etc. . Your network has been compromised by a Neighbour via wireless . Reset your wireless routers password and make sure it is set to use a secure protocol i.e. WPA2 You have another device on your network to do with streaming Movies to your TV like Netflix . You have signed up for iTunes Match and have synced Music and Movies to all your Mac devices .
Currently OS X does not have a DHCPv6 client built in . Note that in OS X the IPv4 configuration gives you a choice of manual , DHCP , DHCP with manual DNS , BOOTP , or off . The IPv6 choices are manual , automatic , link-local , and off . The " Automatic " is not DHCP , it 's autoconfig from a router . With IPv6 , there are multiple ways to get an address . OS X does n't use DHCPv6 , it uses Autoconfiguration ( routers provide the information ) . Windows Vista &amp; Windows 7 both use DHCPv6 . But typically routers doing autoconfiguration and DHCPv6 servers do n't talk to each other , so collisions and confusion are possible . This is one of the ugly parts of IPv6 that is n't widely communicated . See <URL> for more info on this .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
There 's <URL> for a hefty $ 28.95 , though you might find a cheaper one by shopping around .
Tap Settings and then tap the iCloud icon . Tap " Storage &amp; Backup . " Tap Manage Storage . Tap your iOS device in the Backups area . Under Backup Options , turn off any items that you no longer wish to back up . Return to Storage &amp; Backup and tap " Back up now . " This will immediately remove the requested backup data from iCloud . Choose " Delete Backup " if you want to turn off Backup and remove all data for that Backup from iCloud . ( via <URL> )
Yeah , <URL> . It 's also available in your language . As this probably leaves you with nothing seeing as you forgot both email and security questions , your second best shot is <URL> , which is also available for your country . Try to get on the phone with one of their advisors .
There are several choices based on the fact that any UPnP server should also be DLNA compliant : Free ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( easier to install with <URL> ) Paid ones : <URL> <URL> <URL> The bold ones are directly mentioned to be DLNA servers .
end question
start question
How can I copy a playlist from my iPod to iTunes ?
There are several applications for doing this : <URL> Yamipod is a freeware application that works on Windows , OS X , and Linux . It has a simple interface and looks very easy to use . There is a document on how to transfer songs from your iPod to your computer <URL> It is also an iPod manager and an alternative to using iTunes . <URL> Transferpod is avaiable for both Windows and OS X. However , it is not free . It supports the iPod shuffle , the iPod mini , the iPod nano , the iPod classic , the iPod with video , the iPod touch , and the iPhone . Key features : iPod to computer transfer Manage iPod playlists in an easy way Organize entire iPod music/video for your convenience Browse iPod file information in detail Quick search your music and video file on iPod <URL> iPod2iTunes is for Windows . It also is not free . Features include : Connect multiple iPods . Drag and Drop Songs , Playlists or Video back to iTunes . Move entire genres , albums and artists . Keeps your playlists intact . Enhanced searching and grouping of songs . Find duplicate songs within iTunes and remove them quickly . Optimizes iPod storage space . Supports <URL> Support for the latest 6th generation iPods . ( excluding iPod Touch/iPhone )
If you backed your iPhone up and saved it to iCloud , you can do the following : Before you do it , Make sure to backup the iPod ! On your iOS device , go to Settings > General > Software Update . If a newer version of iOS is available , follow the onscreen instructions to download and install it . Make sure you have a recent backup to restore from . On your iOS 8 device : Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage > Manage Storage , then tap a device listed under Backups to see the date and size of its latest backup . On your iOS 7 device : Go to Settings > iCloud > Storage &amp; Backup > Manage Storage , then tap a device listed under Backups to see the date and size of its latest backup . For information about backing up manually now , see Back up your iOS device to iCloud . If you do n't see a backup you expected to be there , see the Apple Support article If you need help restoring from an iCloud backup . Go to Settings > General > Reset , then tap " Erase all content and settings . " In the Setup Assistant , proceed to " Set up your device , " tap Restore from a Backup , then sign in to iCloud . Proceed to " Choose backup , " then choose from a list of available backups in iCloud . For help deciding which backup to restore from , including information about restoring from another device 's backup , see the Apple Support article If you need help restoring from an iCloud backup . Source : <URL> However , this will delete all the data on the iPod and put the iPhone data in . Ignore the iOS 7 and iOS 8 . They are there for distinguishment .
No , there is no such functionality on Apple Watch as standard as there are no text fields for entering text other than dictation .
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
Unfortunately iTunes does n't support selecting multiple applications , apart from manually selecting each one . The best option would be to disable syncing of Applications on iTunes . For iTunes sync to work correctly you either need to use it to manage your applications , or only use the iPad and download all the applications you want directly to the iPad using the App Store on the iPad .
I have n't found any " one click " method , but these steps do the trick : Create a new playlist and give it a title . This playlist should now be open in the right sidebar in iTunes 11 . Open the Up Next list via the blue icon to the right of the current song 's title . Click on the first song you want to add to select it . Shift-click on the last song you want to add . All songs between and including the first and last should now be highlighted in the Up Next pane . Click and drag the list into the open playlist . You 'll need to switch to the History view in the Up Next pane and repeat the process of selecting tracks and adding them to your new playlist . Click " Done " in the playlist sidebar once you 've finished adding tracks and putting them in the desired order .
Pros : All works . Easy to use . Easy to Configure . Does Backups of your data . Allows iTS purchases . Handles everything for you . And every other iTunes feature that you might consider important ( AirTunes for example ) . Cons : iTunes might be a " heavy " application for some machines with limited RAM . Even if all you want is a music player , iTunes is all or nothing .
To ensure that any new Contacts I created went into the " From My Mac " group , I changed the " Default Account " for Contacts [ in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars ] from " Exchange " to " From My Mac " . There is no functionality to manage Contact Group membership on the iPhone in iOS 5.1 . To move the Contacts from Outlook to " From My Mac " , I found those contacts in Outlook ( on my PC ) , and emailed a Vcard / . vcf file ( In Outlook , right-click the Contact , choose " Foward Contact " , then choose " As a Business Card " ) to my personal email address . I then opened those Vcards on the iPhone through Mail , and saved as new Contacts . ( They went to the correct group because I 'd made change in Settings , above . ) Last , I deleted those contacts from Outlook , so that they would n't be dupes . See also <URL> .
At the moment you ca n't . My guess is it will be included in the next iOS update though .
You can tap on an area of the picture you are taking to adjust the image settings ( including the exposure ) to that area of the image .
Your iPhone will return to factory settings as if you had a new iPhone .
There is an extension that runs on Firefox that can easily snag that video . I use Firefox 20.0 with <URL> It does not work with Safari , but I 've tested the Facebook link for you and it will get you the entire 2 GB video file if you have a fast network connection . You will get an unsigned extension warning when installing the add-on , since the video downloader is n't signed by the developer . You also need flash player since it grabs the flash file .
I love the setting where you can only sync songs with the checkbox to one or more iOS devices . Simple deselect the songs by plalist , genre , or as you find them and even if they are in a playlist or genius mix that would normally install the song on your device during a sync , iTunes will suppress those songs that are not check marked .
This can happen with any file type , not just Podcasts , and I 've suffered from this a few times when I move my iTunes library about , especially with TV Shows . The only solution I found was to move the episodes out of the iTunes Media folder , then use the Add to Library in iTunes to add them back in . This forces them to be added to the . itl even if there 's already a malformed entry for that file .
In order to uninstall iTunes , you need to delete ( drag to the Trash ) a lot of items : The application 's icon . ( a lot of files ) and drag them to the Trash . Look in / Library / folder for an iTunes folder and if you find one drag it to the Trash . Look in / Home/Library / folder for an iTunes folder and drag it to the Trash . Last , in / Home/Library/Preferences / ByHost / folder look for two files with names com.apple.nnnnnnn.plist and drag them to the Trash . Open Activity Monitor ( Utilities folder ) and in the process list look for iTunesHelper . Select it , then click on Quit Process icon . Quit or Force Quit the process . Now open the Accounts preference pane , click on Login Items tab , look for the iTunesHelper entry and select it , then click the button and remove it from the list . Empty the Trash . This should fully remove iTunes and its associated files/folders . You can find all the information <URL> . But , there is no harm in deleting iTunes , except other iLife apps ( iMovie , iPhoto , ... ) wo n't be able to get music out of the iTunes library for compiling their things ( movies , slideshows , ... ) So I 'm seriously wondering why you want to delete iTunes at all . My advice is to leave it as it is and just ignore it . You wo n't do any harm by it if you just leave iTunes there .
If you start draging arround tracks or albums there should open at the right a bar within your iPhone/iPad/iPod . Drag the track/album on it .
I 'm not an expert on jail breaking , but AFAIK , that limitation is baked into iTunes - it does n't really care if your phone is jailbroken , at least for the purposes of your question - it just talks with the music app ( or more specifically , the database behind it ) . That said , there is software out there that can restore your iTunes library from an iPod or iPhone . <URL> works on OS X , there 's also <URL> . <URL> seems to be the goto option for Windows . You 'll have to use one of those programs to get your library back on your new computer , then re-sync your iPhone from your new library .
My presumption is that when you burned the DVD using iMovie - it was encoded within a VIDEO_TS folder and you will need some software to move the video and sound files ( which are hidden and obscured on the filesystem ) back into a format that can be played on your Mac and/or burned back to a fresh optical drive . Depending on the version of software that wrote the DVD to disc , you might be able to locate the raw video files ( or find them on a backup ) . Barring that , using Disk Utility to simply clone the volume onto a new drive is n't a good choice , but I 've had great luck with programs like the little app factory 's <URL> .
Seems feasible . The last post on <URL> says someone got it to work . <URL> ( not just sync ) though .
On a general level , I 'd personally secure a jailbroken phone by re-enabling the code signing restrictions of iOS , ensure sandbox requirements are upheld and turn off all remote access . Furthermore , disabling all root accounts and choosing secure passwords for all remaining accounts that your specific jailbreak process creates or modifies would be prudent . Apple has teams of people to police third party apps , set up sandboxes , audit security , etc ... When you jailbreak , you take responsibility for all of those activities which carries a large technical burden to know what to check in the first place and then how to secure things . At some point , this exercise becomes a bit metaphysical - Do you trust Apple to engineer and watch the device ? Do you trust yourself to be up on securing unix systems ( <URL> is a fabulous book ) ? Do you trust the jailbreak to document what changes it has made and allow you the control over security you desire ? There are clearly times when a jailbroken phone ( in the hands of a knowledgable operator ) can be more secure than Apple 's current iOS if it patches a vulnerability that you need to have closed now and not when Apple patches it - but for most , sticking as close to Apple 's configuration as possible is the best plan from a security stance .
end question
start question
How to preserve tray icon position on reboot ?
The issue occurs when using iStat Menus v5 .2 ( or older ? ) on macOS Sierra . This issue is addressed in <URL> .
The application ( or a third-party ) has to provide support for Automator . It 's not automatic .
The easiest way is doing it using <URL> . You just need to type the following couple of commands in a terminal window : If you do n't have homebrew installed , just type the following to install before the previous commands :
Are you sure you 've checked the option to show it in your menu bar ?
PUSH ! The old way was to insert the tool at an angle and kind of push sideways and pull out at the same time , using leverage , and the tray would hang onto and come out with the tool , but with the new iPad ( 2012 ) , simply insert the SIM eject tool straight into the tiny hole ( straight being the way it enters with the least resistance , i.e. perpendicular to the case where the hole is ) , and then push . The tray will eject . I 'd have posted a link to authoritative information , but I just had this exact problem myself ( UPS guy arrived an hour ago ! ) and so I 'm speaking from first-hand experience :-) I tried what I thought was obvious once I realized the hole was no longer part of the SIM card tray assembly ( see photos below ) , so angling and pulling would do nothing like it did on the 2010 model 's tray ( i.e. when the hole was part of the tray ) . SIM card tray outer view from my original iPad ( 2010 ) : Notice the hole was part of the tray . SIM card tray outer view from my new iPad ( 2012 ) : Notice the hole is separate from the tray . Insert SIM tool , and push . I 'm adding a comment . Once you notice the Sim Tray lifting just a fraction you are half way there - now push harder and it pops right out . Good luck .
Select a buddy in messages , go to the Buddies menu , then click on ' Show Info ' . In the " Info for window , go to the tab on the very right called ' Address Card ' . Next to their picture , is a checkbox for " Always use this picture " . I believe this is the option you want .
A workaround is to make an alias of the app , drag the alias to Dock and then change the icon for the alias ie . not for the actual app . Downside is that you get a small alias -- arrow added to the lower -- left corner to the icon . Make an alias Drag the alias to the Dock Change the icon like you would for any Finder item . In the following screenshot we have copied the icon of Chess app and pasted it to the newly -- made alias of Automator . ( NB , make sure you first copy the icon and then paste it ; the screenshot accidentally is showing the opposite way . )
It 's not clear if you are looking to evaluate things or make a permanent move , but there is a free solution to evaluate the software as long as you meet the terms for an evaluation license from Microsoft . <URL> and run it to make a default Windows 8 container Register for or log in to <URL> <URL> to your Mac Set that Windows ISO disk image file as the file in the " Optical disk " of the virtual machine by using the Virtual Media Manager window ( Command-D ) Start up the Windows 8 container ( it will confirm you are using the " Optical disk " to start the machine Progress through the agreements and start buttons until this screen : Do not choose the default Upgrade since you have nothing on this " new PC " . Choose Custom : Install Windows only ( advanced ) Choose the rest of the settings as you please for making your account tied into the Windows Live email and you should be up and running within 10 minutes and a couple reboots of the software " PC " . Other than learning how VirtualBox allocates the keyboard and mouse , you should have 90 days to experiment with the new Windows OS and decide if you want to dive in with BootCamp or a commercial VM solution such as <URL> or <URL> .
The only way I 'm aware of to do this is to use a jailbreak tweak called Springtomize . Apple will not allow you to do this natively since it affects the aesthetic quality of the device . That 's just Apple !
When I finally got around to the install , I used the tool that bmike recommended just in case , but it turned out to be unecessary . Safari did not automatically reopen the windows , but they were still available in the history and popped right open when I selected " Reopen all windows from last closed session " in the " History " menu .
WhatsApp Messenger is currently not optimised for iPad , and therefore you will need to search for iPhone apps in the App Store search using the filter at the top .
I find that 's Apple Safari behaviour.It use iPhone UA to get Mobile Webpage , that have Apple Touch Icon in link rel .
Open the image that you would like to be the folder icon in Preview . Press ⌘ cmd + A to select the entire image and press ⌘ cmd + C to copy it . Get Info ( ⌘ cmd + I ) on the folder . Click the folder icon on the top-left and press ⌘ cmd + V to paste in the icon . To revert back to the default blue folder ... Get Info on the folder . Click your icon in the top-left . Press ⌘ cmd + X . The folder icon is stored in the folder , as a hidden file . You can also remove the folder icon using the following Terminal command inside the folder with the icon that you wish to remove :
The situation is actually <URL> than some references make it seem . As <URL> : If you enabled DHCP ( only ) in Server Admin in Lion Server , your configuration will be preserved when you upgrade or migrate to OS X Server ( Mountain Lion ) . Moreover , the Server app now provides a ( very limited , but sufficient ) user interface for controlling DHCP .
You can edit any icon by right-clicking ( control-clicking ) the application , choosing , and dragging the replacement icon over the original icon at the top of the window that appears . You can also copy and paste the image you 'd like to use as an icon , <URL> . This works for files or folders you 'd like to change the icon for .
To show various drive icons on the desktop use the following commands in Terminal : External hard drives : Hard drives : Removable media : ( To complete all options available in the Finder preferences : mounted servers :) Afterwards restart the Finder : To disable showing the respective desktop icons simply replace true by false
This behaviour happens beacuse the dock just launches an app . Finder is classified as an app , so it will open/show the app window , you will need to open a new window within the app . You can use the keyboard short cut CMD + N , and if you are not in the app press CMD + Tab to open it first . You could possibly try using <URL> , which makes custom keystrokes , so you could assign O to opening a new finder window
As of Mac OS X 10.7 Lion , Terminal has exactly this feature . If you emit a bell ( BEL , Control-G ) in a background tab or window , the Terminal application Dock icon will show a badge with the number of " unread " bells and a bell icon is displayed in the tab of the terminal ( If there is only one tab in the window , choose View > Show Tab Bar to see the tab , which also displays other status information . ) This also applies to minimized windows . When you bring the window to the front or select the background tab , the bell indicator is removed from the tab and the badge count goes down .
The font used in the version of Terminal 's icon included with OS X 10.10.0 ' Yosemite ' has been identified <URL> on <URL> as ' Menlo , ' the same font used by default in Terminal 's own shells .
Assign to Space Go to the space you want the app to open in ( in your case the second space ) Right click your application 's dock icon Move your cursor to " Options " Under " Assign to " select " This Desktop " Window position and size control I Googled and found a solution for the resizing issue . <URL> Make your application launch via an Apple Script ! Make a script similar to this : Save it as " Application " Put the saved application in your Launch Items instead of the program itself Additionally you may undock it with <URL> to make this script run silently .
end question
start question
Can Macbook be serviced by Apple Care with FileVault enabled ?
The response I got from Apple Support : For many repairs , as well as quality checks after a completed repair , it is necessary that our technicians can boot the Mac . If FileVault is enabled , that means that we do need to note the password for the time of the repair . A viable alternative is to wipe the Mac 's hard drive or flash storage prior to the repair and restore from a backup afterwards . So either prepare to hand off your password to them , or empty your hard drive before giving the macbook for repair .
While in the albums view go to the view menu and select viewing options ( command + j ) and choose sort by year . Here is a screenshot ( in german but I hope you get the important points ) .
The first generation Apple TV had a pretty low powered Intel CPU , as you can see in the <URL> . So in theory , you should be able to run just about any Linux distro , just a question of how much hacking you 're willing to do . There are a bunch of resources for doing this , but a good one is at the <URL> . There are tools to create a nice USB stick that should do most of the work for you . As for how useful it is , do n't expect much for general purpose computing - after all it 's a 1 GHz Pentium-M with 256 MB of RAM . But it may do reasonably well for some home theatre tasks , or if you need a home automation server or similar box .
They can be used in any device that accepts a 3.5 mm stereo headphone jack ( and that 's pretty much anything that has a headphone socket these days , alternatives include a smaller 2.5 mm jack , or a much larger 1/4 " one ) , although the inline controls may have limited use or operate differently depending on what you plug them into . As to advanced features , this depends on a couple of things . The socket size is the most important consideration , but the next thing is the amount of " poles " that the headphones have , and that the socket supports . A " 2 pole " device ( 3 separate contact areas separated by 2 solid line/band right around the jack ) will provide for stereo sound ( left/right/ground ) , adding a 3rd band/4th pole will add MIC functions and the ability to send controls from an inline controller for volume , track selection etc. . For the latter , the actual commands sent down the connection may vary per device , giving you volume on one device , or tracks on another , but there are a couple of semi-unofficial standards in that it usually works OK across devices so long as the contact is there inside the socket to support the connection . <URL> may help if you need to read more .
Yes , as @Buscar 웃SD said , you can use an external Bluetooth adapter . On my Macbook Pro 13 " I had to use Apple 's Bluetooth Explorer to set my USB adapter as the active controller . <URL> describes how to download and use Bluetooth Explorer .
I outlined how to do this at <URL> but I will summarize it for you : set your account to autologin create a login item ( using launchd ) which calls : / System/Library/CoreServices / Menu \ Extras/User . menu/Contents/Resources / CGSession - suspend NOTE : that command should be ONE LONG LINE not two lines with a line break/line feed . A more thorough explanation is available at TUAW , so I wo n't repeat it all here , because those are the relevant details . What it does : The idea is very simple , your account is set to auto-login , so all of your login items will run , however , one of those login items ( the CGSession command listed above ) will tell the loginwindow to appear . If you have used Fast User Switching before , you will be familiar with how it works . " But what if someone holds down the shift key to stop autolaunching ? " In my testing , that will also prevent the user from being automatically logged in . Is this 100 % as safe as not using auto-login ? Probably not , but I 'd consider it close to 99.999 % as safe . That said , use at your own risk , etc. .
To disable deep sleep , run the following command in Terminal : This is a description of " standby " ( deep sleep ) from the pmset man page : Battery savings depend on how much time your Mac spends in standby . While in standby mode , your Mac consumes 0 power , it 's as if it is shut down ( note : not taking Power Nap into consideration ) . My personal recommendation would be to set the " standbydelay " value to something bigger . 2 hours , for example . This means that if you open the lid back in less than 2 hours , your Mac would be in regular sleep and wake up instantly . If longer than 2 hours , your Mac would enter standby mode and consume no power , and waking up will take a bit longer . Example for 2 hours :
I recommend <URL> . It has apps for Mac OSX , Windows , iPhone , iPad and yes Android . It can sync all between these different platforms . By the way it 's free .
Agree with Loïc that this question should be rephrased , but if you 're looking for a possible solution without being subject to Apple 's whims , there are many third-party bluetooth keypads available ... <URL> -- meant to attach to an Apple wireless keyboard , but has mixed reviews <URL> -- blasphemy , I know , but it has good reviews <URL> -- non-Bluetooth alternative that uses Logitech 's mini USB receiver
You should boot on the <URL> and use Terminal there to unlock the drive using the recovery key ( you ca n't check the recovery key if you are booted on the crypted disk , since the unlocking process will fail : already unlocked ) . To start with , you will need to identify the Logical Volume UUID of the encrypted drive using the diskutil corestorage list command : Running that command will give you a listing of all Core Storage volumes . Once you have the UUID of the encrypted volume , you can then unlock the encrypted volume using the following commands : When prompted enter the passphrase you would like to test . This article provides more information and screenshots , <URL> .
If you can see your MacBook Pro with Retina Display in iCloud , it has been enabled . The reason it is showing as offline is because it is either ( 1 ) shut down and not connected to internet , or ( 2 ) the device has , somehow , already been wiped , with the first option being much more likely in this situation . Computers are particularly vulnerable to this type of situation because they do n't have a constant data connection like an iPhone , or data-enabled iPad , often would . The user must boot the laptop and connect to a wifi before Find My Mac will know anything about it 's where-abouts or be able to perform any actions . The first , and main thing to do is to select the the " Lock " , or " Erase " option . If it is a neighborhood kid and you think some noise might provide truth , you could always do the play sound feature . This plays an alert at maximum volume . You should probably use this sparingly , and only activate it , for example , if you are within earshot of it . Chances are the user could take quick actions to dampen the sound . As for the " Lock " , or " Erase " option , it will do this as soon as the computer is connected to the internet . Obviously , if they never connect the computer to the internet before wiping it , then the Lock feature wo n't do any good , but at least if they do , it will help you . Good news for you is you <URL> it with Find my Mac . <URL> And yes , you will get an email when any action occurs on your Mac - such as it being locked or found .
By my reading , it does n't . Which rule do you think it violates ? Section 11 covers In-App Purchases , which Amazon 's app does n't use , and which are only required for " content , functionality , or services in an App " . Amazon does n't let you buy anything to extend their app . Amazon 's app also does n't allow purchasing ebooks , which is their only product ( AFAICT ) that might be covered by section 11 . They have a note at the bottom of all ebook pages that says " This mobile application does not currently support Kindle downloads , however you may add the item to your Wish List and purchase it using the browser on your device " . Finally , section 20 explicitly prohibits allowing the user to purchase a lottery ticket , which suggests that there is nothing unacceptable about other real-world purchases . Lots of other apps allow them , too , like eBay .
Once the initial encryption has finished you are very unlikely to notice any difference in day-to-day usage . Your iMac 's CPU also contains specific features that assist with encryption ( AES ) .
The process to enable FileVault will read the entire 500 GB of data - whether the block is empty or full and encrypt it with the keys you set up as part of the process . So , the background IO will run the fastest if you do n't have other user level disk IO running . The encryption itself will take less than 10 % of one CPU on that powerful ( fast ) Mac - so you are really just going to see a sustained 60 to 80 MB/s re-write of the entire drive if you let the Mac sit idle . A Mac with a spinning hard drive would see between 20 to 30 MB/s so an Air or any Mac with solid state drives will be two to three times faster in this operation . So - from the time you start , I would estimate 2-3 hours if you are getting at least 70 MB/s for writing the encrypted data back to the disk . This process does run in the background and is n't really reversible once it starts , so you can kick it off and then track the progress with .
Simple answer is it 'll bring the window to the front . Apple + H hides the window however , so that might be a bit more useful to you .
It a not possible to create a non-email address Apple ID any longer . As a matter of fact , they are becoming more and more inconvenient , as various Apple services begin to assume that your Apple ID is an email . If you have not started to notice it yet , trust me , you will , soon . I recently changed my non-email Apple ID to the linked email address . You can change the username of an Apple ID without starting a new account .
Any application can network directly or use the system settings . As @geekosaur states , Opera has its own setting , as does Firefox ( along with the option to use the system settings ) . Chrome and Safar use the system settings . It 's really up to the application developer how they implement their proxy controls ( if they even have proxying ! ) .
If it is your app , you should probably notify Apple . If you are testing for someone else , notify the developer and Apple . It really is n't your fault . To your second question ( " Can Apple see the the app got installed on more than the usual 100 devices ) , I 'd say no . Because jailbroken users use methods such as iFunBox or vShare/AppCake , Apple has no way of keeping track of how many times the app was downloaded unless they used the Apple way . Finally , I 'd try to find out how your/the app was leaked .
Assuming your computer has a magnetic drive ( and not a SSD ) , when you close the lid , it will take a few seconds for the computer to write some things to the hard-drive ; even if it looks fast , it really takes a few secs of " background activity " . It could be 1 sec , but it 's there . So as a general rule , it 's always good to gently close the lid ( hitting the lid with the keyboard can cause damage to the screen and the hard-drive if it 's too strong ) , and give the computer a couple of seconds to process the sleep state . Once you 're sure that the box is sleeping , you can pack it up and carry it , always remembering that the Hard-Drive is a mechanical device and as such , it 's very fragile ( compared to other pieces ) . This does n't mean that you have to treat your box as if it were <URL> , but mechanical drives and hits are not friends . With that said , I 've seen laptops fall from 1 meter ( tables ) to the floor and work for years without a hard drive failure , and on the other hand , small hits against a table ( by raising the laptop 1 cm and letting it fall onto a table ) rendered hard drives inoperative . So as you can see the drives tend to be more fragile than not , even when you can never be sure . I remember about 10 years ago , we were on vacations and for some reason , one of the guys found a box of <URL> and we started a fight . Note : They hit really hard and I have pictures of a candy tatooed in my back in red . All in all , one of these candies bounced and hit a guy 's laptop while he was creating a playlist in WinAmp ( yeah , we were that old ) . The computer crashed ( Windows XP ) and the hard drive never worked again . The candy story was just a way to illustrate that you can never be sure about hard drives . Regarding a car : unless you 're going to go to the <URL> , there should n't be a problem . Remember , vibrations and hits may hurt your hard drive , keep it as quiet as possible . they guy whose laptop broke still hates us . I have an old macbook that I carry everywhere , on and off and I drop in bed , I move it , I put things on top of it ( books , etc ) . and it still works ...
Yes ... Works with my Iphone 4s and latest Apple TV
end question
start question
How to preserve Time Machine backups and start over with a new one ?
The simplest way is for you to note the date and time of your last backup in Time Machine on OS X Mountain Lion . You can get back to it at any point in time in the future just by restoring to the backup with that date/time ( this will remain on the disk as long as you have adequate space so that Time Machine does not delete these older versions ) . You can easily find this date and time by navigating into the " Backups.backupdb " folder on the Time Machine disk and looking at the timestamp for the " Latest " folder ( it is actually a link - so you can even open it to see the latest backup folder name with the date and time ) . If you do not wish to note down the date and time of your last backup with OS X Mountain Lion , the next simplest way is to change the computer name either on the Mac on OS X Mavericks before you do your first Time Machine backup on it or on the Time Machine backup disk for the older backup . In either case , this will make Time Machine create a new folder with the new machine name on the disk and it will do a full backup the first time ( so you need adequate disk space to hold almost two copies of your Mac ) . This way , you can restore from the old or new backup in the future ( if you rename the computer name on the Time Machine disk , then you would have to revert that to do a full restore of the old system ) . To change your computer name , go to System Preferences > Sharing and edit the Computer Name : text . OR To rename the computer name on the Time Machine disk instead , use the following command in Terminal.app : Substitute the following in the above command before running it : < TMDiskName > is the name of the Time Machine volume name < ComputerName > is the current computer name ( which you will continue using for OS X Mavericks ) < OSXMountainLionBackupComputerName > is the name of the snapshot for you to do a full restore from in the future ( you would have to rename it back using a similar command as above before the full restore )
Not a complete answer , but this document might help : <URL> To be listed as a backup destination , the AFP server must advertise it with specific features and flags turned on . Airport Extreme storage does n't show up because it 's missing something from that list , but the question is what ? I found a reference to the Extreme 's AFP implementation lacking some caching capabilities ( <URL> ) but I have no idea if that 's true . It is plausible that it does n't have the storage required for the replay cache . It 's also plausible that it does have all these features but Apple chose simply not to enable the Time Machine flag . Note that the newest generation ( the big ones with 802.11 ac ) does now officially support Time Machine , so this does n't seem to be an issue anymore . That 's probably because they 're now almost identical to the current Time Capsule inside .
It took me a little while to find the " Encrypt backup disk " checkbox , so I thought an answer explaining that may save you some time . Press the " Select Disk ... " button in the Time Machine System Preferences panel , and the " Encrypt backup disk " checkbox is enabled when you select a disk . I decided not to encrypt my Drobo after reading <URL> 's important note about not being able to use an encrypted disk with older versions of OS X than Lion . But I was curious to see if Apple would warn me : ( See also " <URL> " . )
<URL> is a quick-and-dirty application that displays the contents of your Time Machine backups , and shows what 's changed since the previous backup .
Yes , you can . When you set up the new Mac and connect it to your Time Machine backup either through the network or via cable , you can select restore from Time Machine Backup during setup . If you have already set up your new Mac and want to now restore , use Migration Assistant found in your Applicatons > Utilities folder . The instructions can be found on Apple Support . See the link below or search support for Migration Assistant . From <URL> : Migration Assistant and Setup Assistant Setup Assistant opens the first time you start up a new Mac . It helps you enter your information about your network , and guides you through setting up a user account on your computer . Use it to transfer user accounts , settings , and documents from another computer to your Mac . If you do n't use Setup Assistant to transfer information when you first set up your new Mac , you can do it later using Migration Assistant . Migration Assistant in OS X Mavericks and Yosemite can transfer information from other computers that have OS X Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 or later installed . If you 're migrating from a computer with an earlier version of OS X , update your older computer first , or manually copy your data from one computer to another . If you 're migrating from a Windows-based PC to a Mac , you can use the Windows Migration Assistant as part of this process . Migrate from a Time Machine backup or external drive Use these steps to migrate users , data , or other information from an existing Time Machine backup stored on a Time Capsule or external drive . If your Time Machine backup is on an external drive , connect the drive to your new Mac . On your new Mac , open Migration Assistant . You can find it by choosing Go > Utilities , or using Spotlight or Launchpad . Enter an admin password when prompted , and click OK . Select " From a Mac , Time Machine backup , or startup disk " , then click Continue . Select the Drive , Time Machine backup , or Time Capsule volume you want to migrate from , then click Continue . The Continue button is unavailable ( dimmed ) until you select a source . If you 're migrating from a Time Capsule , enter your Time Capsule password when prompted , then click Connect . Select the specific Time Machine backup you want to migrate from , then click Continue . You can customize the type of information that is migrated on the next screen . If you want to transfer only a portion of an account , deselect anything you do n't want migrated . If there is more than one user on your original Mac , you can click the triangle next to a user 's icon and deselect anything you do n't want to migrate for specific users . After you click Continue , the Migration Assistant begins transferring files to Mac . The amount of time that it takes for migration to complete depends on the amount of data being copied , and the speed of the connection . After migration finishes , the login window reappears . Log into the migrated account on your new Mac to see your old files . <URL>
Technically it would be possible to trick the MacBook Pro to think another device is actually a different device to what it is ( e.g. that a connected MacBook is in fact an iPhone ) . However , this would not achieve the goal of charging one MacBook from another MacBook . According to Apple : MacBook Pro ( 15-inch , Late 2016 ) and MacBook ( 13-inch , Late 2016 , Four Thunderbolt 3 Ports ) can power two devices that use up to 15 watts , and two more devices that use up to 7.5 watts . It does n't matter which side of your MacBook Pro that they 're connected to -- power is delivered on a first-come , first-served basis . Source : <URL> MacBooks typically require in the range of 55 watts to 90 watts of power in order to charge ( depending on the model , e.g. the late-2016 13 " MacBook Pros require 60 watts , while the 15 " models require 85 watts ) . As a result , the amount of power being delivered from the MBP via it 's ThunderBolt ports would not be enough to charge another MacBook .
You can not directly restore to another account from Time Machine , but you can rename the user after the restore . After the fresh installation of OS X , restore the data and then do the user rename . Follow the process outlined in <URL> to rename your user " a " to user " b " .
In general , I would think that a slow Time Machine disk is not going to really affect the performance of your machine . If you are using the 5400 RPM disk only for Time Machine , then the performance of that disk is only going to affect the speed that backups are made and recovered for the most part . It is true that when TM is running it is scanning your hard disk to determine what has changed , but you indicated that it is a PCIe connected SSD and thus I 'd take a guess that you 're probably not saturating that drive 's performance most of the time . It does seem that TM runs at a lower priority and thus normal activity on the SSD is going to get precedence . In general , the small slices that TM is going to steal from your SSD most likely are n't noticable and the slower performance of the 5400 RPM disk is isolated only to TM since you 're not using it for anything else . For some perspective , I have a 2008 MacPro3 ,1 with 1 SSD , 1 7200 and 2 5400 " green " drives in it and Time Machine goes out to a fairly slow ReadyNAS Duo on the network . When TM kicks off I can hear the drives in the MacPro chattering away , but I do n't notice any slow down with what I 'm doing since TM appears to be lower priority . However , attempting to go into TM to restore anything and it can be fairly abysmal . Fortunately , I rarely restore from backup :-)
Have you tried repairing the disk permissions via Disk Utility ? If that does n't work , try enabling the root account , logging in , and attempting to access the files . Use the " System Administrator " account to access the files : navigate to the folder " / System/Library/CoreServices / " and open " Directory Utility.app " Click the padlock in the " Edit " menu , choose " Enable root user " from the Apple menu , choose " Log out " log in as " System Administrator " ( or " root " ) and you will have access to the files in " / Users/Abby "
I feel your pain . I spent the past few years on satellite and it was very unpleasant . Your best bet for monitoring and controling your Internet usage is buy <URL> . It will monitor your Mac and tell you every time that it is trying to make a connection , allowing you to allow or deny the request . For some apps ( such as email , web browser , etc ) , you may want to allow access anytime it wants it so you do n't have to approve each time . The first few days of using LittleSnitch will be frustrating , as you start to set rules and tell it what to do , but after you get past that , it will be a big help in keeping your usage in check . Unfortunately OS X is not very good about telling you everything that it is doing , and it assumes that any available Wi-Fi connection can be used without limits . Until recently iOS was much better about this , but it now allows much more background activity , so if you have an iPad and/or iPhone/iPod touch you need to watch out for those as well . When you are not using MacBook , I recommend closing the lid so that it will sleep .
The <URL> released October 04 , 2012 includes : Resolves an issue that may cause Time Machine backups to take a very long time to complete and , after testing , this seems to have completely resolved the issue . Note that for me , the first backup after installing this update still took unexpectedly long , and included many messages , so maybe Spotlight had n't yet properly re-indexed the drive . Now , a couple hours later , small backups complete at their usual brisk pace and all is well .
The best practice in storing app credentials is the Keychain . If you really need to recover the password check out this guide <URL> In iTunes , go to the " Summary " section , scroll to Backups , and enable the " Encrypt iPhone backup " option . After recovery , feel free to wipe the new iPhone . In case the app did not store in Keychain , you can use this technique to migrate app data individually <URL> Before we start , we should note this works for any iOS device . So if you want to back up and transfer data for iPads , iPhones , or between the two , this works . To manually backup and transfer data , we 're going to use the free Mac and Windows program iExplorer . You do n't need to jailbreak your iPhone to use iExplorer and it 's easy to pull data from your iPhone to transfer it to your new device . Here 's how to do it . Download the app you want to transfer data to on your new iPad . Plug your iPhone into your computer . Start up iExplorer and wait for your device to show up in the file browser . Click the arrow next to your device name . Click the arrow next to Apps . Find the app you want to transfer data from and click the arrow . Inside the app 's main folder is a folder called Documents . That 's where your saved data and game saves are located . Copy it to your desktop . Disconnect your iPhone from your computer and plug in your iPad . In iExplorer , find the app you want to transfer data to on your iPad using the same steps from above . Locate the Documents folder and copy all the data you just copied to your desktop folder onto the iPad . That 's it , you 're done . Different apps use different save files and occasionally the above process will require you to copy several files over . Other times you only have one file . This process works for most apps , but not all of them . Let 's take a look at a few of the instances where data does n't transfer over properly . Do n't forget to look at the caveats because sometimes this technique does not work .
I suggest you download a utility that shows the size and arrangement of your files . Personally , I use DaisyDisk . It is shareware , so for your purposes , it would suffice to trial the software . Mail attachments are stored in It is unlikely that OS X is keeping packages after installation through Software Update . You should first look to your cache and perhaps your sleepimage , which is located under ( note that the sleepimage is recreated every time the system goes to sleep . Read more about disabling it <URL> if you are concerned with HD space ) . DaisyDisk ( or equivalent ) will do a much better job at identifying where the " growth " has occured on your filesystem so that you may excise it than we ever could . I suggest you give it a try .
The simplest way is for you to note the date and time of your last backup in Time Machine on OS X Mountain Lion . You can get back to it at any point in time in the future just by restoring to the backup with that date/time ( this will remain on the disk as long as you have adequate space so that Time Machine does not delete these older versions ) . You can easily find this date and time by navigating into the " Backups.backupdb " folder on the Time Machine disk and looking at the timestamp for the " Latest " folder ( it is actually a link - so you can even open it to see the latest backup folder name with the date and time ) . If you do not wish to note down the date and time of your last backup with OS X Mountain Lion , the next simplest way is to change the computer name either on the Mac on OS X Mavericks before you do your first Time Machine backup on it or on the Time Machine backup disk for the older backup . In either case , this will make Time Machine create a new folder with the new machine name on the disk and it will do a full backup the first time ( so you need adequate disk space to hold almost two copies of your Mac ) . This way , you can restore from the old or new backup in the future ( if you rename the computer name on the Time Machine disk , then you would have to revert that to do a full restore of the old system ) . To change your computer name , go to System Preferences > Sharing and edit the Computer Name : text . OR To rename the computer name on the Time Machine disk instead , use the following command in Terminal.app : Substitute the following in the above command before running it : < TMDiskName > is the name of the Time Machine volume name < ComputerName > is the current computer name ( which you will continue using for OS X Mavericks ) < OSXMountainLionBackupComputerName > is the name of the snapshot for you to do a full restore from in the future ( you would have to rename it back using a similar command as above before the full restore )
You can create your own recovery disk with <URL> and a blank USB drive that is at least 1 GB . Alternatively , your Mac can boot into <URL> mode in which it downloads an image from Apple 's servers , and it can do this with a damaged recovery partition or even a blank hard drive -- it 's built into the firmware of the system . To access it , boot up while holding Command + R . You can do this over a wireless network that is either unprotected or WPA-secured , or you can use an Ethernet connection . In both cases , your system will need to download OS X from Apple ( the recovery partition does not contain a full OS X. )
The only way filesystem errors like those you describe could be copied onto a different disk ( e.g. your Time Machine volume ) is if the whole disk partition or whole drive were copied at the block level using or something like Carbon Copy Cloner . Time Machine does n't work that way , so its stored backups should be free from the filesystem errors and the files it restores should be free from them as well .
Yes . Follow the instructions in <URL> or <URL> . Essentially , the procedure is this : Pairing your remote with your Mac : Log in on your Mac as an Admin user . Get very close to your Mac ( about 3 or 4 inches away ) . Point the remote at the infrared sensor on the front of your Mac . Press and hold the Menu and Next/Fast-forward buttons simultaneously on the remote for 5 seconds . Your Apple Remote is now paired with your computer . You should see a chain-link style lock appear in the center of your screen for a moment . To pair your Apple TV with a remote : Choose Settings > General > Remotes from the main Apple TV menu . Choose Pair Apple Remote .
Time machine does n't care what else is on the destination drive as long as the volume ( partition ) you choose meets the minimum requirements . If the volume you select is n't formatted properly , Time Machine will offer to erase and reformat the part of the drive that will contain your backups . You might want to try resizing partitions using whatever tool you want before you start accumulating a lot of Time Machine data in case you want to be able to adjust the size of the partitions down the road , but that 's more of a problem with partitioning and not something that Time Machine causes .
In order to create a Time Machine backup to an unsupported drive ( pretty much anything that 's not formatted HFS + ) you need to run the following Terminal command : Your share will now show up as a valid Time Machine destination in the Time Machine Preference Pane . Time Machine will then create a disk image on that drive that will act just like a HFS + drive for Time Machines purposes ( hard linking , etc. ) . One advantage of using a disk image over using the entire drive is that you can limit the size it will grow to of the disk image using Disk Utility . Be sure to check Louis Gerbarg 's <URL> as well for why it 's unsupported and you have to jump through a hoop to enable it .
I have had a MacBook Pro since early 2007 , and the display is as bright and crisp as the day I bought it . I 've also had an iBook G4 since early 2005 and there 's no problem with its display , either . I doubt you 'll have any problems for quite awhile if at all , as newer models tend to have better displays then older models .
end question
start question
Can I re-purchase an app with a different apple ID ?
Simply delete the app from your machine . The store prevents two copies of the same app from being installed as a general case You should then be able to re-buy it as it would be a fresh download - signed for the account you prefer rather than a re-download of the app signed for the old Apple ID .
Unfortunately the only way to share apps is to use the same Apple ID for purchases on every device . You can use different IDs for iCloud , but you need to sign into the App Store with the same ID . If you 're signed in to the App Store with the correct ID you can download previously purchased apps for free , each person haven their own computer and iTunes library does n't matter .
Click on the Sales and Trends section , and your vendor ID will be displayed in the upper-left corner next to your developer name . It should start with an 8 . ( Source : <URL> )
<URL> is a good place for parts . They seem to sell complete screw kits for different models . Although one screw missing wo n't hurt the unit . I repaired a machine recently that is literally held together with celo tape and stickers .
The first option should be the most reliable : Open Settings.app , scroll down and tap on " iTunes &amp; App Stores " . The Apple ID that the device is currently signed into will be at the top of the screen next to " Apple ID " . Alternate methods ( only on iOS 5 or newer ) : Settings.app > iCloud ( under " Account " ) Settings.app > Messages > Send &amp; Receive At ( under " Apple ID " ) Settings.app > Facetime ( under " Apple ID " )
This is fine , providing there is no link within the app to your website to purchase access .
I believe the email sent contains a link with a promo code , it 's not bound to the email address . So you can send it to whatever , they 'll still be able to get the app gifted .
From a pragmatic standpoint , yes you can probably trust the average genius team ( since the machine will be under the watch of many people while it is out of your possession ) . From a legal standpoint , you have <URL> by signing your property and data over to Apple . For the rest of this discussion on the contract between you and Apple relating to your data , I 'll focus on the English north american contract . It lays responsibility on the person bringing in the equipment to remove all confidential or proprietary information from the system . It also lays responsibility on Apple for having " security measures , which should protect your data against unauthorized access or disclosure as well as unlawful destruction . " which a lawyer will focus on should which is more binding than may but less binding than shall/must . It continues with You will be responsible for the instructions you give to Apple regarding the processing of data , and Apple will seek to comply with those instructions as reasonably necessary for the performance of the service and support obligations under the Plan . If you do not agree with the above or if you have questions regarding how your data may be impacted by being processed in this way , contact Apple at the telephone numbers provided . But why not be a bit skeptical and ask why you might trust them . Sure they are probably trained to protect personal data of customers and respect privacy and there is social pressure to not be a jerk ( or worse words that come to mind ) with your personal data . From a pragmatic standpoint , some devices ( iPhones , iPads , Air and retina MacBook ) require advanced skills and potentially damage to the equipment to remove the storage module , so this is something worth exploring a bit as not everyone can simply pop out the hard drive during service like older MacBooks allowed . I would say do n't ever give your password until you understand why it is being used and you are fully informed and willing to take that risk by disclosing your secret . I would also say , when I choose to not entrust a specific password , that I 've done one of four things when I have something in for service that was in the category of data requiring more protection than none . Wipe the drive - if things are truly sensitive - I have no business saving time by not securely wiping all data that 's sensitive before it leaves my control . ( or paying for a higher level of service to ensure confidentiality ) Change the password to either my account or my keychain . Make a new temporary account for the testing and give that . Sometimes I give them admin rights - other times I do not . Give them a cell phone number and permission to call me 24/7 if they need the password and can explain why it 's needed at that point of the repair . Basically , If you hand your computer to Apple - you are handing it to someone with the tools and support to bypass all passwords ( including firmware and normal physical security of the case ) and read the data from the hard drive or just take the storage and keep it . Unless you have file vault or other encryption ( like <URL> ) and withhold that pass phrase . A technician could if they wanted , make a full copy of your data and perhaps even go snooping . I would ask the genius ( or technician ) to help educate you to how security works before you proceed with this repair . There are many repairs where a password is needed to complete the service if your service involves software changes . Normally , this password is asked for to speed up the repair for you and let them replace any and all parts needed to complete the repair . If they are in and find you need a new motherboard , they could just do that if you give them the extra permission and password they need to do all possible work without stopping to contact you and explain what/why . In your case , I would simply say you 'd like to know a bit more about how they secure your password and your data during service . I would bet that the person asking for your password was lulled by the 100th time they 've checked in a machine and forgot to ask you if you had any questions or perhaps missed your uneasiness about what was being asked . Once you 've made your concern concrete by asking why they need it - you can then say you 'd feel better not giving it and ask if that will either delay or prevent the repair . Any shop I trust will spend time to address these concerns to your satisfaction before they would accept your password . They would also lay out for you how to secure things again after the repair - change these three passwords , etc. . . As a class , my opinion and experience is that Apple service technicians are highly professional , trained on privacy of your equipment and information and have thought out very well what , how and why they ask for someone 's password . But even if bad things have never happened despite good training and policy , mistakes can and will happen in returning the wrong laptop or theft and your data is at risk when in th
Yes , it 's true <URL> . This is a failsafe in case a nefarious app accidentally makes it past the review process . Not sure about Mac App store , I doubt the ability exists there . It 's a different installation/update process . I do n't think it 's been done before , and I would n't worry about it . It 's a good thing . I would want an app that say sniffs my credit card numbers or is actually a trojan horse of some kind to be removed from my iPhone post haste .
If you dropped your computer and it stopped booting right after that , you may now have a defective hard drive . I do not recommend attempting to re-install the operating system ( Mountain Lion ) , as this may cause data loss . My current recommendation is to confirm that you have a good backup of the data that is on your computer . If you do not have a backup , it may be necessary to attempt data recovery from the drive that is in the machine . If you do have a current/valid backup of your data , I would recommend attempting to boot from another disk ( CD/DVD , USB flash drive , etc. ) , and attempting to open Disk Utility to see if the software is reporting SMART failures with the drive . Alternately , very poor performance or clicking sounds while attempting to view/access the drive may be indicative of a defective drive . Regardless , at this point , a system re-install is not likely to help with your issues ( based on the problem description ) . If you are at all concerned about data loss , or are hesitant to attempt diagnosis/troubleshooting of your machine , I would recommend taking the machine into an <URL> for further assistance .
No . The credit shown in the Mac App Store or iTunes App Stores is not spendable from the retail stores or the online store . There is a physical gift card that can be bought for online store or retail store use , but it 's not the same bucket of funds as the iTunes store gift cards . See <URL> for more details ...
No - when you actually sign up with iTunes connect to sell ( or distribute for free ) a podcast , music track , iBook , iOS app or Mac app - you enter into a much more formal relationship with Apple . The forms are fairly self-explanatory and allow for you to specify the name of the business in a separate form that the name of the person filling out the form on behalf of the business . Of course , you can sell things in your own name and enter the same information in multiple places ( which is n't what you are asking , but it 's possible in general ) . As with any contract , lawyers and accountants are advisable if you wish to know the costs and advantages of doing something personally versus as a business or corporation . That 's far above our scope here , but in your case , iBooks Author will guide you through this sign up process . I have had 4 acquaintances sign up and all of them completed the initial sign up process in less than an hour . One decided to not use their personal account and is in the process of forming an LLC to sell books , but the others are intending to sell under their real names . At worst , you will have signed up and wasted time and can just close your account and open another if you determine you did n't do it correctly or ca n't change some critical piece of information . I 've seen plenty of app developers change their selling names and presume it was without signing up again , but once you sign up , you will have Apple to field questions on how to use their service and modify certain information you submitted if it needs to change .
Can they , yes . Do they any/every time you sign in to the App Store , I think not . Apple would probably be able to collate your device 's anonymous and unique ID with your Apple ID if you opt in or agree explicitly to a question that informs you that the serial number will be checked to verify eligibility for a specific product . You might capture the serial number to iCloud if you are opting into trusted devices , two-factor authentication or find my iPhone / find my Mac . It 's debatable whether Apple actually links that serial number to your account though , since they could stored in the way that let 's you retrieve your serial number from all the possible ones as opposed to just storing it directly in the database . Also , your question is extremely broad due to the fact that Apple ID can be used windows , on web browser sessions , on iOS devices , Mac devices , on airport devices , and on AppleTV space ( currently ) . Furthermore , AppleID can be used with far more services than just the App Store so as you see with iCloud , it can get more complicated than yes/no . On operating systems , Apple provides a security and privacy preference that allows you to opt in to sharing diagnostic information which could under some circumstances include serial number . More recent OS include a randomly generated GUID to help anonymize reports . You also can regenerate that ID on-demand on IOS to further enhance your privacy . Apple has clearly stated many times on the record that they wish to collect as little customer data as possible , and retain that data for short periods only . Apple appears to minimize even further personally identifying information and that the consumer should clearly opt into these collections . From where I sit , Apple has delivered on those promises in the software they design and ship . I also think your question is an extremely valid one , we all should be thinking so clearly as you are about the information we routinely provide to large corporations and how it either allows them or prevents them from invading our privacy and selling us out to the highest bidder .
Yes , if you download the same app off of the same account it will be redownloaded for free without charging your account again . The same goes for apps on the iOS App Store .
I used to get this issue as well and what I did was to prevent iTunes from auto syncing when I connect a device , this option is found in the iTunes Preferences/Devices and tick the checkbox as shown in the screenshot It 's also worth going into the user preferences then login items and remove " iTunes helper " which should stop it from launching iTunes anytime you connect a device .
Yes . Most cases the developer will leave the app on the store , but just remove it from being sellable to new owners . That allows them to submit bug fixes for existing customers , not force them to upgrade , allow them to re-download things - but not have new buyers buying the wrong version ( not the latest ) . Of course , the developer or Apple can also remove the app entirely - but this is far less common . What is common is when the developer keeps the same name as far as the store is concerned . In this case , you 'll want to have a backup that you control to re-install no matter what Apple or the developer chooses .
Sounds like Rogue Ameoba 's <URL> should do what you want : With Fission 's streamlined audio editing , you can quickly copy , paste and trim audio , as well as split files . Fission also works with compressed MP3 and AAC formats to edit without the quality loss caused by other editors . Get perfect quality audio when editing natively in the MP3 , AAC , Apple Lossless , AIFF and WAV formats .
I have an early 2011 MacBook Pro , formerly with 4GB of RAM . A few months ago , I bought an 8GB stick and made the exact setup you 're describing . With the exception of <URL> that lasted a few minutes one day ( and that I have no proof was even caused by the RAM setup ) , it 's been working perfectly ever since I did the upgrade . So yeah , you should be fine . Source : My own experience doing exactly the same thing .
No , you ca n't connect an Xbox controller to an Apple TV at this point .
The answer is yes , Apple is rejecting the apps that let the user input iBeacon UUID . If you fetch an uuid from a server , that would probably result in the same problem . Just a quote from an article about this issue : We 've been receiving reports that Apple has recently taken its " lock down " of UUID scanning a step further . Before , you needed to specify the UUID numbers you were scanning for in your app , but you could also manually input those numbers . But now , Apple is rejecting apps that have this functionality . Awwapps is one of the documented cases of this rejection : " With the upcoming updates of our iBeacon apps Launch Here and Travel Radar we will remove the option to manually add and edit iBeacon credentials ( UUIDs , Major ID , Minor ID ) . This is not our choice . We do this to keep the apps in the App Store . We 'll do our best to come up with other options to add your iBeacons -- better options ... We will improve on this and extend support to more iBeacon vendors ... Please note that a general scanning of all iBeacons around is not possible on iOS . We rely on your input to cover all commonly used iBeacons . " Source : <URL> Why : Apple decided this for security reason . That allows developers to prevent their ibeacons of being used by others companies . Why it 's not a big deal : Most beacons constructors set up their beacons with the same UUID . So the most commons beacons may still be found , unless the UUID was changed for security reasons . For example , by default , the UUID for all the iBeacons built by Estimote is " B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D " . You then rely on the " major " and " minor " id sent by the beacon to develop your application . iBeacons are n't invisible : It 's possible on Android devices to develop an application able to see all the iBeacons in range , and to get it published on the Play Store without any trouble . On iOS , it 's still technically possible that an application may let the user input the UUID value , it just wo n't be approved by the App Store . And of course , the iBeacons still emits Bluetooth data that still physically exists in the air .
end question
