start question
How , if possible , can you chat using talk or write in the app Terminal ?
The command is just talk . It 's disabled in OSX by default . See the comment at the end . eg . It will then open a split screen and ping the other person to chat to you . They have to be logged into your computer at the same time though . Given that most Macs are single-user , this is unlikely , but possible . Have a friend connect in via SSH or screen-sharing and give it a go . write allows you to write straight onto the other users console . By default though users have it disabled . You can turn it on with ' mesg y ' . Then type away to irritate the other user . These are pretty old unix commands . Been around on linux/UNIX for years and years . The man pages will help you too : You can test this on one computer by creating a different ID and opening up Terminal with two windows . In the first window log back into your box with the other ID : Then write to the main users Terminal : write mynormaluser eg : You 'll see the text appear in window 2 of the Terminal To get talk to work on OSX you need to enable it first . As root run this : or , as a super user :
There 's an app available to download called <URL> which will put green markers around your cursor if you press a hotkey . That might help you but I do n't know if it 's still a working program under current OS X releases .
It is possible . You will first need <URL> and then <URL> . The User 's Guide for NTFS-3G can be found <URL> ( PDF ) .
In the iPhone app , at the bottom of the list of episodes you will always find the link you can tap to " Get More Episodes " . That is a hardwired link to that podcast 's page on iTunes . This link will be shown regardless of whether or not there are more episodes actually available . The podcast pages in the iTunes app and in iTunes on the desktop are the same and contain the same episode list . The episode lists themeselves are not controlled or determined by Apple or iTunes , but by the makers of each podcast . Podcast makers use different feed systems ( like adlib or feeedburner ) and they have different bandwith limitations depending on their own usage terms . Podcasts like This American Life , for example , in order to minimize bandwith costs , will only keep the latest episode on their episode list . So when you tap on " Get More Episodes " you will only get a list of one . Podcasts like This Week In Tech , for example , have bandwith sponsors that allow them to host most of their back catalogue . So when you tap on " Get More Epidodes " , you will get a list of fifty or more . It basically all depends on how each podcast maker handles their feed and bandwith costs . Hope this helps .
Enable the " Unicode Hex Input " input method from System Preferences > Language &amp; Text > Input Sources and then type Option 0009 .
The easier way to do this is with <URL> . For example : supports options to supply a user name ( -- user = user ) and password ( -- password = password ) if anonymous FTP access is n't available . And a -- quiet mode so it 's - friendly and does n't fill up your local inbox without messages for successful downloads .
No , you will not be charged . You can re-download them in iTunes or directly on the phone . You 'll have to hit the " buy " button , but after it starts downloading , you should see a message saying you already bought it once . The alert box includes a button to go ahead and re-download the app , which you will then not be charged for .
This help at all ? Take a look at the NetMonitor Sidekick add on . Have not tried it myself but will probably load on virtual machine to see how it works . <URL>
You can enable SSH from the Terminal with : ( note that you need to run this as an admin , and it 'll ask for your admin password , which wo n't echo as you type . )
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
You can try <URL> ( I do n't have an iMac to test it ) . I read that it can not only decrease the screen brightness beyond OS X defaults ( like others do ) but also control the screen backlight . You can bypass the default red tinting mode and just use these brightness controls .
The fullscreen YouTube uses of its website , is not a " real fullscreen " feature . It just maximize the size of the video to the size of the webcontent . So unlike Vimeo ( for example ) you wo n't get a real fullscreen without YouTube updating it 's webplayer ( or you using the YouTube app ) .
You can install it using <URL> . Just type the following : If you do n't have homebrew installed , you can simply do it by typing :
Check out the command . You can get detailed information about its use by reading its man entry An in-depth article on the command is <URL> .
Yes , if you have a paid developer account you can create signed IPAs which can be installed on the device remotely , or you can use TestFlight . If you do n't have a paid developer account but your device is jailbroken you can install unsigned IPAs . Note that this does n't include debugging which ca n't be done remotely .
Look for the section titled " Changing Power Management Settings " in this <URL> . An AppleScript example from the guide :
You can do it via an Applescript and run it as such : Dimmer : Brighter : You can save these as . script files and then run them from the CLI like this : You can also do it <URL> , but that requires more setup .
ISPGeeks.com has a non-flash java based bandwidth tester . It pretty accurately measured the speed of my iPad on my home connection , as compared to similar tests on the usual Flash-based sites .
Select the photos you want , then select the menu command " Image " - > " Adjust Date and Time ... " which pops up the window that you are looking for . It seems as though it also gives control over the time zone for images with location data .
You could try restarting which , amongst many things , draws the wallpaper on the desktop . But be careful ; as also controls a lot of window management apps may ' un-minimise ' or un-hide and windows . As also controls Mission Control , you wo n't be able to change spaces or go into Mission Control until restarts again ( which is mostly instantly ) . From terminal , try :
end question
start question
Is there a way to split the Cmd-Tab app list onto multiple rows ?
How about something like <URL> ? It may not be 100 % what you 're after , but I find it nicer than the built-in application switching .
Sure . On your iPhone , go into Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars , select Add Account ... and add Google as Exchange ( !!! ) account . Using Google as Exchange account allows you to sync calendars and contacts . See <URL> Now , gathering together all info spread around , into a checklist format : Google Sync is only supported on Apple iOS versions 3.0 and above , because that 's when Microsoft Exchange was implemented and that 's the protocol we will use . If your business , school , or organization uses Google Apps , your administrator will first need to enable Google Sync . If you 're not , then there is no such setup - it 's enabled by default . Double check you 're using the correct gmail account - many users have more than one gmail , or google apps , with similar mails due to forwarding and often mistake this . Be sure to <URL> . Every configuration has to be done properly and it must lastly look something like this , from :
Sorry , but Apple does n't allow this , and it does n't even look like there is a jailbreak tweak for this .
Yes . Hold down on the icon that you use to open a new tab in the upper right corner of Safari and you 'll be presented with a list of recently closed tabs . Pick one to re-open . As far as I know this is an iOS 5 + feature , iPad only .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
Not possible.I have non-Apple earphones with a mini remote with three buttons - the central one being the one to be double-pressed . I have turned the Internet upside down and have n't found anything close to this , even on jailbreak ( my ipod touch is jailbroken ) .
If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " checked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar If you have " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " unchecked in System Preferences → Keyboard → Keyboard tab Ctrl + Fn + F8 moves the keyboard focus to the icons in the menubar Although the leftmost user-installed ones on my computer can not be accessed , you can then use the cursor keys to move ← → and ↓ to bring up the menu associated with the icon . In addition , Ctrl + F2 ( or Ctrl + Fn + F2 ) moves keyboard focus to the menubar items .
Since the Messages beta has ended , it is no longer offered for download on the website however the download link direct to the . dmg still works : <URL> I do n't expect this to continue indefinitely . A more permanent option would be to try and copy the Messages.app from a Mountain Lion install on another computer to your OS X Lion applications folder . Let us know if that works for you .
This is now possible since iOS 4.3.3 by going into the iPhone App Store > Updates > Purchased . It provides a list of your iPhone app purchases and allows redownloading from the iCloud . Also you can visit reportaproblem.apple.com and all recent purchases will be shown .
Its an implementation detail that the developer has to implement , in your example case for Office its Microsoft . Here is the Cocoa Objective-C code that allows the developer to implement this feature : What your observing is normal behavior on almost all Applications on OS X and even the classic <URL> . Its one of those thing you should get use to on the Mac . However , these days you are in luck that things are changing in your favor in Lion and probably later as OS X gains more features from iOS . As referenced in <URL> . Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination . Clearly it looks like that version of Microsoft Office does not support Automatic Termination yet , but it may be coming . So for now the most you can do is check the programs preferences for options relating to quitting the application when it has no more windows open . Also I encourage you to give Microsoft and or any developer of Apps feedback that you would like see " quitting on last window closed " as a preference option or suggest they add support for Automatic Termination to their products . Until then just remember to use ⌘ + Q when you are done with those applications that do not automatically quit when you close all its windows .
I upgraded Xquartz and the problem went away . Windows open below the osx title bar now instead of underneath it .
You have to add the following line to your Preferences → User Settings :
You can still access data from " dee 's backup " by selecting " Browse Other Time Machine Disks " from Time Machine 's Dock menu . ( Right click or click-and-hold on TM 's icon in the Dock . ) TM is holding onto both sets of data because even though YOU know you copied all the data from the old machine to the new , all TM knows is that a bunch of data just showed up on the new machine . It does n't know where that data came from , but knows it should be backed up . When TM , running on " dee 's Macbook Pro " , needs to delete files to make room , it can only delete files backed up from " dee 's Macbook Pro " . Even the root user on that machine has no authority ( and can not give TM authority ) do delete some other computer 's backup files . You do n't need any of " dee 's iMac " backup . As you say , everything from that computer got copied over , and none of it has been needed since last year . It 's time to let it go . To do that , open the Backups.backupdb folder on your backup disk , and delete the subfolder named " dee 's iMac " . ( I 'm assuming you 're backing up to an external disk connected to your MBP . Details will be different if you 're backing up to a Time Capsule or a network volume , but the principle is the same . ) Time Machine wo n't let you modify that backup in any way except that it will allow you to delete it in its entirety . You 'll need to authenticate as an admin to do that . And it will take a while . You should be able to delete it using Finder , but if not you can enter the Terminal command :
That is not possible . By design there is a mechanical switch inside the headphone jack that will automatically turn off the speakers .
OK , figured it out , it 's a bit kludgy , but works . In the javascript console ( the single line at the bottom of the web inspector ) - type this : This forces a page reload on the remote device .
I 'm not sure if using a fake address would be legal . Technically , you can create an account in the US Store using an iTunes Gift Card and a fake address/phone number . You can buy iTunes Gift Cards in eBay ( some sellers will expedite things by sending activation codes by email ) . If you 're only interested in free Apps , you can create an account without the Gift card . There is an <URL> describing the process . Regardless of payment , Apple asks for a valid US address to establish an account , so the legality of this depends on where you live .
There is no default mac app store wish list , all though , there are some 3 party applications and websites that allow you do track apps prices and add them to a wishlist . One of them is : <URL> .
Depending on your Mac model and OS X version , you might check out <URL> , a dashboard widget that gives you more control over the sleep/hibernate behavior . This <URL> goes into more detail about what 's going on behind the scenes .
How about something like <URL> ? It may not be 100 % what you 're after , but I find it nicer than the built-in application switching .
This is a known bug and has been filed with Apple . All we can do is wait on a fix . The database gets corrupted when a new entry is added and moved . The only current workaround is to delete the database and start over , but bear in mind that once a new item is added and moved to a different position , the corruption will occur again . The database is located in
end question
start question
Why does Launchpad not remember my icon settings ?
There is an Apple Discussion <URL> that describes the same problem , and refers to <URL> OSX Dialy link on how to correctly refresh LaunchPad , and fix a corrupted LaunchPad . The short version of the answer is : Basically I used terminal to kill the dock with the command " killall Dock " Then I had to delete the dock database file located in " Home Folder/Library/Application Support/Dock " you get to your Library folder by holding down the option key while clicking " Go " in Finder . Then kill the dock again with the terminal command " killall Dock " . Finally After putting all my apps back where I wanted them they are now saving .
The naming convention of the image files in ~ / Library/Safari/Touch Icons is in the form of an unhyphenated UUID . If you bookmark a page that shows an icon for it under the Bookmarks menu , it ( the image ) is stored in the ~ / Library/Safari/WebpageIcons . db file , which is an SQLite version 3 database . Images stored within the database can be in different formats , e.g. . ico , . png , etc. . If you really want to change the icon , that 's in the database , I 've done it with <URL> .
I assume that you 've selected " Start Screen Saver " in the hot-corner in question , correct ? If so , what screen saver do you currently have configured ? The reason that I ask is that some screen savers ( although none of the ones that come with your Mac ) start with the current desktop image and then apply special effects to it over time . So I can imagine if . . you 've configured your screensaver to shuffle through screen savers , and you have installed one of the aforementioned screensavers , ... that this combination could produce the kind of symptoms you are describing . Edit : Interesting . I do n't even have " Lock Screen " as one of the choices on my machine : Edit 2 : I had never tried that option until now . I set up my laptop ( model identifier , 2.93 Ghz ) as you described and put the display to sleep with that hot corner and woke it up over &amp; over again . I went through about 50 iterations , and I was able to reproduce your problem 3 times in that span : the display would appear to blank , but when it woke up I could see my desktop with the login panel overlayed . Because this kind of configuration involves invoking the special power-management circuitry in the machine , there are more moving parts that can go wrong in the process . I believe you have little choice other than to report the problem to Apple , and even if there is a real bug , there will be a chance that the bug is in the power-management circuitry itself and the ' fix ' might only come when you can buy a new machine . Or not . Maybe you could get lucky and there this could be fixed by a firmware update or a point-release of the OS . I like this option , now that you have pointed it out to me . I like that it immediately puts the display to sleep , which makes me feel better about how my battery is being used . Alas , if blanking the screen and keeping it from prying eyes is a higher priority , maybe you should use the " Start Screen Saver " option instead , and set the screensaver to something mostly black like the " Computer Name " screensaver . I wish I could offer more help .
According to some <URL> I 've read on the net , it 's a design flaw by Apple - disabling crossfade will make the playcount start to work again .
iTunes does support the original iPhone , there is no where it is written in the requirements of iTunes 10.5 that says that iTunes requires this version of iOS or this particular iPhone or even iPod in order to sync with it . All Apple music devices should be supported unless other wise noted . The only point where it may matter is if you have updated to the latest version of iOS from a newer version of iTunes ( e.g. greater than 10.5.0.142 ) and then are attempting to use that updated iOS on an older version of iTunes 10.5.0.142 in this case . In that situation there may be issues communicating between the two due to apple changing protocols or who knows what else between versions of iTunes and iOS . I suggesting updating to the latest version of iTunes , and then contact Apple or their discussion forms if the problem persists .
Gmail may be set to synchronise with your Address Book . Go to your address book , and select the " me " card that you will previously have chosen as your own identify within Address Book . Whatever picture is being used by your " me " card ( or potentially by whatever card has a matching email address as the one your messages app is linked to ) should be the one Messages uses .
natd should be runnng ... NAT means <URL> , so it 's basically translating ( communicating ) between the Modem and the Wifi Access Point to share your connection . You can read more about it here , <URL> So in short this needs to run to share your connection , Hope this helps . Karl
Download <URL> and use its rebuild function . ( In Library Manager it 's the FIle - > Rebuild command ) This will create an entirely new library . It will then copy ( or try to ) your photos and all the associated metadata and versions to this new Library , and arrange it as close as it can to what you had in the damaged Library . It does this based on information it finds in the iPhoto sharing mechanism - but that means that things not shared wo n't be there , so no slideshows , books or calendars , for instance - but it should get all your events , albums and keywords , faces and places back . Because this process creates an entirely new library and leaves your old one untouched , it is non-destructive , and if you 're not happy with the results you can simply return to your old one .
Your 10.9.5 and your Router are having problem of identity . Your 10.9.5 can not find the correct name , or your router is not broadcasting it correctly . So try changing the name of your Network , and make sure it is moved to the Top of the Network list and choose different Chanel . Also you could <URL> ones . I would not panic but on they web site they skipped 10.9.5 ( Mavericks ) and call it Yosemite ? Probably just a stupid typo :) Mac OS X 10.7 Lion Mac OS X 10.8 Mountain Lion Mac OS X 10.9 Yosemite
There are cleaning kits targeted for the iPad that might give you a better result than just a damp cloth . I personally bought the Hama Premium Cleaning Kit for iPad and I 'm quite happy about it . The second parameter in the equation are ofcourse your hands , the dryness/greasiness of your fingers will influence the comfort of the moment . Personally , I 've found that just after washing my hands I feel some resistance when swiping the screen , and it works best with a more natural greasiness .
I suggest you use the + / - buttons on the upper left . At the time of posting , there is no mouse-input way to zoom the map in or out . I tested it on Safari on a Mac with Yosemite ( 10.10 ) .
Apple only delivers add to a few countries . Not Many . ( U.S. , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , Japan , France , Germany , Italy , Spain , and the U.K ) Most likely , ad sales as low there or they do not have sales people there . So , if you plan to monetize your app , I 'd suggest using a secondary ad network for the countries where iAd is not delivering ads .
Same problem here . The problem is caused by a third-party widget that uses the internet . For me , dropbox was the problem . If dropbox is updating my files , systemuiserver keeps using a high amount of CPU . . the only solution is to force quit it ( using terminal or activity monitor ) or disabling the third-party widget .
There is an Apple Discussion <URL> that describes the same problem , and refers to <URL> OSX Dialy link on how to correctly refresh LaunchPad , and fix a corrupted LaunchPad . The short version of the answer is : Basically I used terminal to kill the dock with the command " killall Dock " Then I had to delete the dock database file located in " Home Folder/Library/Application Support/Dock " you get to your Library folder by holding down the option key while clicking " Go " in Finder . Then kill the dock again with the terminal command " killall Dock " . Finally After putting all my apps back where I wanted them they are now saving .
Flashlight for Spotlight works by injecting its own code into the Spotlight process . This is how it manages to " intercept " your interaction with Spotlight in order to enhance it . El Capitan comes with " System Integrity Protection " ( SIP ) enabled by default . Amongst other things , SIP protects system processes , such as the Spotlight process , from code injection from other processes . Another example is that you can can not attach a debugger to a system process when SIP is enabled . Therefore Flashlight for Spotlight can not , in a factory default install , inject its code into Spotlight - and thus it does n't work . You can relatively easy disable SIP by booting to Recovery Mode and running and rebooting . It can be enabled again by running in Receovery mode . again . If you disable SIP you can use Flashlight for Spotlight on El Capitan , but will miss out on the protection you get from having SIP enabled .
Manually enter your username and password . Tap " Passwords " right above your keyboard . Tap " Save This Password . " It still wo n't autofill when you first load the page , but now you can tap in the username field and hit " Autofill Password . " There seems to be no way to actually reset the " Never for this site " setting . Sounds like a job for <URL> .
It looks like your hidden file in your Desktop is corrupted , which will cause this issue for sure . You can restore this by using Terminal . Open Terminal.app Type Type Now , if you see a list of all your Desktop items , you 're in the right place . And make sure you check whether or not the file is there Now , type When you 're prompted hit ' y ' Log out and in again Mac OS X should have rebuild this file and your icons should be ok . Let me know if you have any issues with the steps , I 'm glad to help you .
The <URL> is not deleted , when the app is deleted . So if the keychain still contains the necessary credentials the app can just log in .
According to <URL> , you can force a Launchpad reload by removing a file in . This file is the SQLite database for Launchpad . Theoretically , you should be able to recover the file , which has a name something like : and move it to the correct place . Note that you should backup the current file before doing this .
The problem seems to have fixed itself randomly ... All I did was start using a second desktop where wallpapers do not reset . ( desktop 1 seemed to have a glitch ) . After a few days of using Desktop 2 as my main desktop , and then using desktop 3 for other work , Desktop 1 went back to normal . I am not sure why or how this happened . The solution is to work on another desktop with your preferred wallpaper settings until it fixes itself . That is what happened with me .
end question
start question
Should I buy Coda 2 on the app store or directly from Panic ?
As you can read on the <URL> , there is indeed a difference : Should I buy from you directly , or from the Mac App Store ? It 's largely a matter of personal preference . Please refer to the pricing FAQ above to see which way gets you the best price . At the moment , there is only one difference between the two versions : the Mac App Store version will support iCloud syncing of Sites and Clips , and the direct version will not . This is a restriction imposed by Apple . Apple often changes the conditions for Mac App Store eligibility , and it 's possible we may have to modify or remove features from the Mac App Store version in the future . It 's our intent to keep them as close to identical as Apple will let us . So there you have your answer . So , if you like to sync with iCloud , you should buy from the Mac App Store . If you like to have a 50 % discount , buy from Panic directly ! I would go for the 50 % discount . :)
In iTunes , go to the iTunes Store tab , and click on your account in the top right corner , as shown . After typing your password , you will see this page . Click ' Change Country or Region ' , and change it . All done ! Note : if you have any iTunes Store credit , you will have to spend all of it before it lets you switch countries .
If it 's a certified apple reseller you will get exactly the same product as when purchasing at www.apple.com or the apple store . If it 's another shop that is not certified by apple , you should ask them ( how are we here supposed to know ? ) . You will get the same level of support . It 's <URL> with 90 days of telephone support .
As you can read on the <URL> , there is indeed a difference : Should I buy from you directly , or from the Mac App Store ? It 's largely a matter of personal preference . Please refer to the pricing FAQ above to see which way gets you the best price . At the moment , there is only one difference between the two versions : the Mac App Store version will support iCloud syncing of Sites and Clips , and the direct version will not . This is a restriction imposed by Apple . Apple often changes the conditions for Mac App Store eligibility , and it 's possible we may have to modify or remove features from the Mac App Store version in the future . It 's our intent to keep them as close to identical as Apple will let us . So there you have your answer . So , if you like to sync with iCloud , you should buy from the Mac App Store . If you like to have a 50 % discount , buy from Panic directly ! I would go for the 50 % discount . :)
As <URL> you mentioned : For best performance , fill both memory slots , installing an equal memory module in each slot . Get one more 4 GB memory stick and install it . There is no need to throw your existing one and get two of the same kind , since memory chips are rigorously tested for compatibility , especially if you buy from a seller like <URL> or <URL> . The memory sellers would also provide you with the right memory for your system .
It depends . The iPad ( 3rd Generation ) is slightly thicker than the iPad 2 , but there are reports that many cases designed for the 2 will work on the new model . Both of these iPads can use the smart cover technology too . Check with the case manufacturer or online forums to be check the compatibility of specific models . Update : It <URL> . Early smart covers may not work with iPad ( 3gen ) because Apple changed the polarity of the sleep sensor magnets at some point during the production run . The original iPad was the thickest of the lot and had no smart cover capability . Most cases ( if not all ) were not interchangeable between the newer models . Accessories should work unless they 're truly dimension critical or require a technology not present in a previous model . My inCase Origami case and the Apple Bluetooth Keyboard it protects continues to work with all iPad models , as do my car chargers , video adaptors and the Apple Camera Connection Kit . The OtterBox Defender case on my original iPad wo n't does n't work on newer models .
Yes , you do . They are two entirely separate apps for two radically different devices .
No problem with . pkg installer downloaded from official website . Seems to be the same with brew . Do n't forget to update Homebrew .
You might find that the time taken relates to the size of the volume to be converted ( not limited to the amount used ) . Personal estimates of duration may be difficult . Expect the most reliable estimates to be offered by System Preferences . If the system was only recently started , do n't expect an accurate estimate of time ; and do n't be surprised if the estimate rises occasionally . For more detail than is given by the progress bar in System Preferences : in Terminal you can run the following command , which will display a tree view of the CoreStorage world : Within the tree you 'll see sizes ; amounts converted . If a volume is heavily used during conversion , it might slightly extend the time taken to complete but for your 10 GB used I would not expect there to be any difference . Use the volume as you normally would until conversion completes .
Most apps with in-app purchases have the ability to redownload those purchases if , for instance , you delete the app &amp; need to reinstall it , or if you are loading the app on another device with the same AppleID . Below , the Restore Purchase button in GarageBand which allows me to download loops I have purchased :
Reporting a concern is the only way to attempt to remove a review . The process is not instant and requires manual approval . If you 've only just sent the form , wait a bit . If it 's been a while and the review is still there , it probably means that someone has reviewed your complaint and declined it .
App Store is divided by countries it is available in and each country 's App Store is a separate entity . For an end-user ( me , you , anyone who buys apps basically ) there is no cross-over between them . If you 're from Finland you 're most likely using Finnish App Store ( possibly with interface in English ) . Only users of the same store will see the reviews posted in it . Reviews are not shared between individual ( country ) stores so it is perfectly fine for reviews to be in country 's native language .
Currently , it is not possible to gift Mac App Store apps directly . There is a workaround where you could buy an iTunes Gift card ( from the iTunes store home menu ) for exactly the price of the app and the recipient can redeem the code in the Mac App Store
To get an app for free ( if you did n't get the choice to pick None as payment option ) you should open your installed ITunes program . Then from within the program go to ITunes Store and pick any free app and try to buy it ( Google Translate or some other one ) . It will tell you to login/register into ITunes . If you create account from there you will have a choice to pick None as payment option . This worked for me several times for my customers .
This appears to be a recent change to how purchasing functions , added for increased security . <URL> In the past 24 hours , Apple appears to have started prompting iOS devices owners and those with Apple IDs within iTunes to make their accounts more secure , requiring them to pick three security questions and enter their answers when they download a new app . The company is also asking users to enter a backup email address , in order to better protect their device but also their account ( which is tied to Apple 's Retail website and all of its media services ) .
Answering my own question . I enabled the debug menu and then selected Reset Application , restarted the App Store and now the Download button shows up again . To enable the debug menu , open Terminal and run
With the latest update to Mountain Lion I am now able to fix the issue with ease . Now you can double-click a partially downloaded program to throw away all the currently downloaded parts and start over . This only starts working once the computer thinks it has stopped . I 'm guessing there is some hidden timeout value that needs to be exceeded to enable this feature . In one case ( ClamXav ) I had to reboot to get Mountain Lion to recognize that it was n't downloading any longer . Double-click still worked to restart the download .
No , Apple did n't implement the gift feature in the Mac App Store . I imagine it will happen eventually , but it is n't there right now . Your only option would be to buy your friend an iTunes gift card , which can be used to buy apps . <URL>
The Apple discussions thread <URL> is exactly what your are looking for : No . An adult would have to do that for you . To have a developer account you must be 18 or older . ... You can always start a corporation and the individual age restriction is not relevant anymore .
If you want an app-based app store alternative , then try <URL> . It 's a pretty good app that allows user to download/buy apps that existed before the app store did . However , if that 's not enough , you can always use different websites such as www.macupdate.com , www.iusethis.com etc. .
end question
start question
How to disable " Fast Start " in Safari ?
Go to Safari → Preferences ( or hit ⌘ cmd + , ) . Go to Privacy and click on the Do not preload Top Hit in the background option .
In iTunes 10.1 , there 's a setting for that : Additionally you can set a parental control that also disables Ping .
If AutoFill is disabled , Safari wo n't ask to save passwords either .
That is not possible . By design there is a mechanical switch inside the headphone jack that will automatically turn off the speakers .
Go to the " Help " menu in Safari and select " Installed Plug-ins " . This will open a new tab displaying information about all of the currently installed plug-ins . Find the entry for Adobe Acrobat . Below it will be a line that reads something like : Note the name of the file from that line . On your hard drive you will find a Library folder . In that folder will be another folder called Internet Plug-Ins . Inside that folder you should find the file that was shown in the " Installed Plug-ins " tab . The full path should be . That file needs to be deleted . Dragging it to the trash will do the trick . If you are not sure you want to delete the file , you can move it to another location . For instance , you could create a new folder named " Disabled Plug-Ins " in the " Installed Plug-Ins " folder , and move the file to the new folder . Then quit &amp; relaunch Safari . Adobe acknowledges this is a " <URL> " and recommends this procedure .
First , make sure you have the " Enable Apple remote plugin " box checked under settings . Also , make sure under Action settings > settings for predefined actions you have the right remote type selected . Then , simply create a new trigger with the remote 's play button and no action . It should disable the remote . ( You may have to restart both keynote and better touch tool for the effect to take place )
If you remove the Microsoft Database daemon from login and do not open Entourage you should receive no notifications .
In the Privacy tab of Safari preferences , check the box to Prevent search engine from providing suggestions .
A beep indicates that the shortcut that was pressed was not interpreted by apps on the system . This means the shortcut is already unbound , so it seems you 're having some problem with Sublime Text itself rather than the shortcut being bound to something else .
In Safari 9.0 ( El Capitano ) you can right-click on the URL while holding down the option key and you then have the option to open the URL in a new private window . This option is provided from regular or private windows , unlike what appears to be the case in previous versions of Safari . <URL>
Click and hold the Reader button , and a menu of available feeds appears . ( Discovered after much Googling at <URL> . )
Unfortunately , Firefox ( at least the 3.6 version I experimented with ) does not disable the command shortcut for Quit when you change it in System Preferences . I think the quick and easy fix for this is to add ⌘ Q as a global shortcut to something else innocuous . In my experiments , I found this to work : Open System Preferences . Click on the Keyboard pane . Click Keyboard Shortcuts tab . Click Exposé &amp; Spaces shortcuts in the left side list . Under " Exposé " change the shortcut for " Desktop " to ⌘ Q Now when you accidentally hit ⌘ Q , your desktop will magically and amusingly appear reminding you of your folly . Hit ⌘ Q again and you 're back exactly where you were . As a sidenote , after a while you may want to change this back after you " unlearn " your behaviour . ⌘ Q , the Mac equivalent to " ALT-F4 " has been the standard shortcut since the introduction of the Macintosh , and like the other " standard " shortcuts ⌘ W , ⌘ Z , ⌘ C , ⌘ V and so on , it 's best to learn them to ease use of other Mac computers or when you upgrade .
There is no keypress or gesture to do this unfortunately . But here is a quick way to achieve a similar thing . Create a new bookmark in safari ( of any web page ) Edit this bookmark ( press edit in bookmark screen ) Rename the bookmark to End In the address field cut and paste this text Once you save this bookmark , you will be able to hit the bookmark button , select End and it will take you to the bottom of the web page . I know it 's not as simple as the current scroll to top feature ( this solution requires two taps ) , but its really the only option at the moment .
If you want to create an AppleScript application to put in the Dock you can use the following code in OS X Yosemite ( and latter , I believe ) . In Script Editor , save it as Toggle Grayscale changing the File Format : to : Application You can give the App a different icon via copy and paste into the icon of the App 's Get Info sheet and then drag and drop the App bundle onto the Dock . You 'll have to give permission under Accessibility on the Privacy tab of Security &amp; Privacy in System Preferences in order to run it successfully . If you 'd like to use a bash script using the code provided by IconDaemon , the following code will toggle between using color and grayscale based on how it 's currently set . <URL>
I find it easiest to use the settings app on iOS : General About Diagnostics &amp; Usage Diagnostics &amp; Usage Data scroll to the crash you care about and tap it select all , copy the text Now you can paste the report wherever you please . Email , <URL> , notes , <URL> , or wherever else you like to store the text for submitting a <URL> . You can also get at the logs after syncing from iTunes or Xcode - but getting it when the crash happens works best for me in most cases .
You can start Firefox directly in a private window , at least two ways , in a Terminal . The first is using the command . In a Terminal , type and press Enter for a synopsis of the command . Note : When passing command line arguments to the application being opened by the command they go with and after the argument . Another way is to use the fully qualified pathname of the Firefox executable , e.g. : See <URL> for additional arguments when starting Firefox from the command line . It 's better to use the command because while the use of the ampersand at the end of the command line will allow the prompt to return in the Terminal nonetheless closing the Terminal will also close Firefox , where it does n't terminate Firefox started with the command when the Terminal is closed .
Another , possibly quicker way , is to drag it into your dock ( if not already there ) , then right-click it , go to Options > Open at Login . Then drag it out of your dock if you do n't want it to stay in your dock .
I do n't have an iPhone anymore , but my memory tells me this : iPhone Search using the standard search bar . The web search suggestions are at the top . The website search results of the currently viewed website are at the bottom . iPad Search using the standard search bar . The web search suggestions are at the top . To search the website use the entry box which pops up right above the keyboard . All of this may change with iOS 6 and Mountain Lion . The WWDC2012 announced that Safari for OSX will integrate a Chrome like omnisearch bar . Most likely we 'll see something similar for iOS as well - at least i hope so :) .
Indeed , the Twitter notifications will always redirect you to the web application , even if you have a native Twitter client installed . In fact , Twitter notifications also work without Twitter.app as long as you have your Twitter account configured . There currently is no way to change this behaviour .
Login to the Guest Account . Disable Little Snitch Network Filter Open Library > Preferences , copy at.obdev.LittleSnitch ... to a shared folder Logout and Login to Main Account Open Terminal and run sudo su Open Library/username/Library / Preferences and overwrite file with copied file . Logout and Login to Guest Account . LS is Disabled .
end question
start question
What 's a good SSH tunneling client for OS X ?
<URL> is a free , cocoa-based UI for SSH tunnel management . Works on 10.5 and up . It has n't been updated in a while but the code that 's there is reasonably stable . It 's worked well for me in the past .
I have n't found one that interfaces with the website you mentioned , but here 's a good overview of genealogy software for OS X : <URL> <URL> is actively developed ( it was just updated a few days ago ) , is <URL> , and it has an iOS version too ! It does n't export to ancestry.com but it can interface with a custom-built website called MacFamilyTree.com .
Not free but my favorite is <URL> . I went through a few free ones and ending up buying this on a <URL> special and it was worth every cent . It supports resume , password protected sites , and can even FTP if you need it too . It also allows you to share files with other users on the network . I have to admit , though , since moving to the Mac , my failure rates on downloads without a manager has drastically dropped if you 're on a decent internet connection .
Nobody 's mentioned Apple Mail . I love it , particularly the Lion version .
Mac OS X does n't store passwords for the command-line ssh client . It can however remember the password to your private key in the Keychain if you are authenticating via keys .
It 's good for avoiding tangles when you 're not using your earbuds , or when you are using them , from preventing you from tearing your earbuds . ( When you 're jogging or whatever . ) That extra clip is the first thing to give when you pull them apart . If that was n't there , the next thing to pull would be the splitter . Then you 'd have half a pair of earbuds .
You can edit Date and Time in iPhoto , and do it in batches too : Photos Menu - > Adjust Date and Time - and it will also correct the date and time on the original file if you choose to . Another thing to consider : iPhoto catalogues the images on import . If you subsequently change the metadata with a 3rd party App , iPhoto wo n't recognise this . It will not rescan for changed metadata , so while you 're original files may be corrected , it 'll make no difference in iPhoto .
<URL> . But , if you 're dead set on an IDE , the standard for open source , free IDEs is <URL> . For C and C++ development , <URL> which gives you all of its heavyweight IDE-type things for your C and C++ code : introspection , code completion , refactoring tools , syntax highlighting , debugger integration and so on . It 's been around a long time now and is both stable and robust . The CDT Project provides a fully functional C and C++ Integrated Development Environment based on the Eclipse platform . Features include : support for project creation and managed build for various toolchains , standard make build , source navigation , various source knowledge tools , such as type hierarchy , call graph , include browser , macro definition browser , code editor with syntax highlighting , folding and hyperlink navigation , source code refactoring and code generation , visual debugging tools , including memory , registers , and disassembly viewers .
Sit , my children , and let me tell you of the world and its tricks ... Scrolling You can basically always scroll inactive window content . I ca n't even think of a case where this is n't true . ( This also means that scroll-to-navigate works in Lion . ) Dragging In many cases , you can drag content from inactive windows/apps without focusing the app . For example , you can drag a file from Finder or a message from Mail . Clicking When you click a button that 's on a window , it usually " <URL> events " -- meaning your mouse-down will both focus the window and act as a mouse-down event on the button . Then when you let go , the button will carry out its duty . ( Also note : in the case of the close/minimize/zoom widgets , you can actually click them without focusing the window . ) ( Second aside : in toolbars , it 's not uncommon to disable some buttons while they 're inactive , so you do n't accidentally click them -- take Mail 's delete button , for instance . However , this functionality is slightly broken in Lion , because if you start clicking ( so the window focuses ) and then drag , you can actually still activate the button . ) However , this mostly only works for buttons . As you 've noticed , when you try to click a link ( or select text , or another similar action ) , you have to focus the window first by clicking , and only then can you interact with the content . The Great Workaround ( or the rule of thumb , as you say ; hehe ) To get to the point : In most cases , when you hold down ⌘ Command , you can interact with inactive window content . You can hold down ⌘ and select ( and even drag ) text in the background , drag things around ( including scrollbars ! ) , click buttons , and more , without activating the window . " But wait ! " I hear you say . " Holding down ⌘ opens links in a new tab ! " Ay , there 's the rub : When you hold down ⌘ and click a link in Safari or Chrome , it will work without activating the window ... but the link will open in a new tab . And to my knowledge there 's no Great Workaround for that , unless you want to disable ⌘ - clicking in your browser . There you have the facts -- make the workflow you will of them ! An update , quoting some content from Apple 's <URL> ( this is just for reference , not to prove a point ) : Avoid providing click-through for an item or action whose result might be dangerous or undesirable . Specifically , avoid enabling click-through for an item that : Performs a potentially harmful action that users ca n't cancel ( for example , the Delete button in Mail ) Performs an action that is difficult or impossible to cancel ( such as the Send button in Mail ) Dismisses a dialog without telling the user what action was taken ( for example , the Save button in a Save dialog that overwrites an existing file and automatically dismisses the dialog ) Removes the user from the current context ( for example , selecting a new item in a Finder column that changes the target of the Finder window ) Clicking in any one of these situations should cause the window that contains the item to be brought forward , but no other action to be taken . In general , it 's safe to provide click-through for an item that asks the user for confirmation before executing , even if the command ultimately results in destruction of data . For example , you can provide click-through for a delete button if you also make sure to give users the opportunity to cancel or confirm the action before it proceeds . Think twice before supporting click-through for items that do n't provide confirmation feedback . Specifically , consider how dangerous the action might be , and determine how difficult it will be for the user to undo the action after it 's performed . For example , the Mail Delete button does not provide click-through because it deletes a message without asking for confirmation , which is a potentially harmful action that can be difficult to undo . On the other hand , click-through for the New button in Mail is fine because its resulting action is not harmful and is easy to undo . Ensure that items that do not support click-through appear disabled when their window is inactive . The disabled appearance helps users understand that these controls are unavailable . For example , the delete and mark as junk buttons in the inactive Mail window shown below do not support click-through .
This sounds like the app <URL> which is available on Mac OS X and iOS . It allows you to use a mixture of natural language and spreadsheet/calculator functions to perform easily readable equations .
Source : <URL> Putty is a good SSH client for Windows . 1 ) SSH into your remote OS X machine with an administrator 's log in and password . 2 ) Enable Remote Desktop ( a.k.a. Screen Sharing , a.k.a. VNC ) with this command : 3 ) Login using a VNC client . As I mentioned , TightVNC worked for me ; for some reason , RealVNC and UltraVNC did n't . Your password is " mypasswd " ( see the - vncpw flag in the above command ; you can and should change this ) . 4 ) When you are done , turn of screen sharing using your SSH session :
I recently switch from RunKeeper to RunMeter . RunMeter provides a <URL> for RunMeter , Nike + , RunKeeper and iMapMyRun + . Might give you a good idea .
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
Same Answer as given <URL> : Basically you want to use the System Image Utility to create a bootable . dmg you can than put on a USB drive . Have a look at <URL> , it covers this process in detail ( you probably can leave out some steps ) ; this should get you started .
As current hard drive-oriented techniques for file sanitization are <URL> , I recommend to encrypt the whole hard drive using Filevault 2 ( best if you did this before you put your data onto it ) . ( This is only possible in Lion , Filevault 1 in older versions of MacOS will only encrypt your home folder . ) This way you will not erase your data , but make them inaccessible without the password . Your buyer will then have to reformat and reinstall MacOS for his use .
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
<URL> is a free , cocoa-based UI for SSH tunnel management . Works on 10.5 and up . It has n't been updated in a while but the code that 's there is reasonably stable . It 's worked well for me in the past .
No , I do n't believe you can . Apple advertise AirDrop as : " AirDrop , a remarkably simple way to copy files wirelessly from one Mac to another with no setup ; " . Key part of that sentence being " from one Mac to another " - Second bullet point : <URL> . It 's highly unlikely Apple would open this feature up to Windows or Linux because it 's a selling point for them in new Macs running Lion .
I recommend <URL> which lets you set up macros with various actions that can be triggered with keyboard shortcuts or other triggers .
System Version Number follows convention . From <URL> : Given a version number MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH , increment the : MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes , MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards-compatible manner , and PATCH version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes . Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH format . The number in brackets ( 14D136 ) is build number ( more info on <URL> ) . This number is mainly for Apple developers , since normal users do not have access to non public builds . In <URL> , new build can be made daily/weekly - every time build number is incremented . When developers/PMs ( or anyone else in charge ) is " happy " with the build it can be released . Build numbers are constructed arbitrarly ( I do n't know of any standard numbering ) . It looks like Apple increments first number by every MINOR release , then the letter with PATCH release and the last number is the real build number .
end question
start question
Are there any advantages to partitioning a SSD on a Mac ?
Unless you have two radically different sets of data such as different OSs different filesystems OS testing installs multiple users requiring " hard " separation on the same computer a whole bunch of stuff you want to keep segregated for legal reasons I personally see very few reasons to partition your 128GB SSD , and a number of reasons to avoid doing so . One pressing reason to avoid partitioning a " small " drive : partitions " waste " space . I 'm not referring to the actual disk overhead lost to store the partition data , but the loss of usability when a larger contiguous chunk of space is broken into two or more smaller storage areas . If your single partition has 80GB of space available , the largest single file can be 80GB in size . If you partition your 128GB drive to split the empty space , each partition would have 40GB of room , thus cutting the largest file you could save in half . I use this extreme example to make this point : all partitions end us with some storage space that is " too small " to use . Every partition you add multiplies this loss ... And your SSD is not large enough to waste space this way . Speaking of " small " drives , performance tends to degrade as you fill a partition beyond 75 % or 85 % . Multiple small partitions tend to reach this percentage filled much faster than a single , larger one . In the early days of hard drives when the OS was effectively still built around floppy drives , there were real upper-end limits to the number of files or size of the logical drive . Partitions not only made sense then , but were mandatory to shoehorn newer and larger technology into existing systems . Today , those reasons are no longer pressing on our minds . Even with a MacBook Air , there is no speed advantage to limiting the number of files or size of a partition . Caching and indexing on OS X allow you to " find " , retrieve and open any file much faster than on platter-based storage . In most cases there is no problem housing multiple users on a single OS X machine . Each user is sequestered from the others and provides decent inter-user security and confidentiality . I suggest you look at your thoughts regarding partitions and utilize folders to replicate the storage functionality . Looking at my Mac Pro with a 64GB boot/application / " user " drive and a separate array with 6TB of storage , I have the following breakdown on the 6TB drive : documents ( not to be confused with ~ / users/me/documents ) company accounting files personal files family files music projects client project 1 client project 2 etc. . storage archived projects program install files movies I treat each top-level folder as if it was a partition unto itself .
Delegate access is <URL> but not in Outlook Web App , nor in Apple 's Mail client . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
Most people I know of that appreciate the invisible shield type skins go for a sleeve as their secondary protection method . I have seen very nice ones made DIY style from all <URL> - the more risky a sport , the more padding you can include . It 's cheap , light and only as bulky as you need . A simple strap will keep your phone in the sleeve and you can waterproof with a bag as needed . The nature of the soft sticky films is that they grip most hard cases and result in the damage you are seeing to the skin when a hard plastic case gets fitted over the phone . If foam is n't your preference , sleeves from felt and leather are also widely available from reputable retail and internet sellers , etsy , ebay . Do n't overlook the potential to have your local craftsmen or craftswomen make a sleeve to your exact specifications for a reasonable cost .
No , there really is not an easy way to run PPC apps on Mac anymore . Your OS X Rosetta disk will definitely fail to install on Mavericks . Apple <URL> support for Rosetta following the release of OS X Lion ( 10.7 ) and have never put it back . However , you still have a few ( harder ) options . Install Snow Leopard in a virtual machine . <URL> a guide . Pull out your old PowerPC Mac , if you still have it . Install Snow Leopard in a external hard drive or internal partition and use Rosetta . When Apple first published Rosetta , they said it was best for low computational apps like Word . In addition , Apple stated that games and high computational apps like CAD software or video editors/compositors would have issues running through Rosetta . COD will probably not run well through Rosetta . If all else fails , people still sell their old PPC 's on eBay .
Sorry , no . There are some PCs and motherboards coming out now that support Thunderbolt , but because of how Thunderbolt works , it 's not something that can be added on later to something that did n't initially support it .
As long as you have n't excluded something manually from the backup it will backup everything , except some cache and log files . I do also have custom programs in , , ... and everything still worked after restoring the system from my Time Machine backup . There is a good collection of <URL> on the web you may like to consult .
Here is an applescript I just put together that is working for me ( 10.9 ) You can place it in the Applescript menu and run it on the selected Emails . The script will : Try and grab the select emails in Mail . Send a Request to google translate Convert the resulting HTML to plain text Display a temporary text file with the translation . You can set the original language to auto or one of the languages in the languages_code list . And also set the result language from the list . There is no reason you should not be able to create a service using this script . But I will leave that to you . Just note that for the device to work you will need to right click/crtl + click in a message 's body for the service menu to show up . Or use the Services menu .
The shares shown are the one you set up in the Stocks app . Open * Stocks Tap the i on the bottom right corner Delete or add new shares Those will be the ones shown in the notifications screen .
For what it 's worth , iTunes is probably exactly the most bloated and slow software that Apple includes on a Mac , as it 's pretty much the only built in app that is n't 64 bit , and until very recently it was n't even using Cocoa but Carbon APIs which Apple have been telling people not to use for years now . Having said that , the largest bottleneck is the speed of the USB transfer along with the ability of the iphone to process the update and write to its flash memory and validate it etc , so really I would n't expect to see a massive difference .
If any I think ProCam might do this by default . There 's no specific settings for where to do the rotation , but if I do n't remember wrong it actually rotates the image . I 'm not sure if the app is free or costs anything since I got it thru appoftheday for free . Have a try . If you want I can check it out further so you do n't need to purchase the app ? Edit : Sorry to dissapoint you . Neither of the apps : ProCam , Awesomemize or Awesome Camera does this . I tested all of them by taking a photo upside down and mailing it to myself . The image arriving on my computer was also upside down . If youre into code you should have a look at whats going wrong and how to fix it : <URL>
If you 're comfortable in the Terminal , you can use rsync to copy some files from one place to another and it 'll give you summary stats on the speed : E.g. rsync -- stats -- human-readable ~ / Desktop/Large-File / Volumes/OtherDisk/Dir You can also type into the terminal just the command : ( note there needs to be one or more spaces after to end that command and break before the source and destination file names are provided ) Then drag the file / folder you wish to copy and drop it onto the terminal window , followed by dragging and dropping the destination directory . Dragging and dropping a file / folder onto a terminal window will place that file/folder 's path into the terminal window . Dragging a file is preferred in most cases since it will handle a space in any folder or file name . In this case the space needs an \ to indicate not to end the file name exactly opposite of needing the space earlier . The output of the above command will be similar to :
There are really three , sort of , but they 're not exactly as you described : Display sleep : The screen goes blank after a certain amount of time . You can wake up the screen by touching the trackpad or pressing a key . Sleep : In this state , the computer goes to sleep : the hard drive stops spinning and the CPU uses much less ( almost no ) power . This can be invoked by closing the lid of the laptop , selecting Sleep from the Apple menu , or via a timer . You wake up the computer by opening the lid or pressing a key . Hibernation : If the battery is almost dead , the laptop will hibernate to save power . This is similar to shutting down , except all the contents of RAM are dumped to the hard drive , which makes it much faster to start up ( as well as starting the computer up into the previous state ) . You have to hit the laptop power key to wake the machine from hibernation .
If you want set-it-forget-it like BackBlaze , then iCloud is not for you . Your data is safe from a rogue Apple employee , but not safe from a government agency or someone with a legal ability to extract it . When Apple can help you regain access to your iCloud files if you forget your password then they can help a government agency to do that too . But if you create your own password-encrypted disk image ( . sparsebundle file using Disk Utility and encryption in the Finder ) then the password is known only to you , and is only stored in RAM on your machine while your disk image is open and mounted ; it is destroyed when you unmount and close the encrypted disk image . You can keep copies of that encrypted disk image on your machine or in a cloud service . If you never store that password in the Keychain iCloud or localitems keychain files , then it will never be uploaded to iCloud . If you store that password in a local-only Keychain file then it is secure but would not necessarily be proof against seizure of your hardware or a malicious remote control . Regardless of how well you protect the password to your encrypted disk image , you might be forced to decrypt it whilst under arrest . If you ' forget ' it , then that may be used against you in court . If you truly forget it , then your data is completely deleted and unrecoverable .
You could drag the file into a Safari window and copy the path from the URL bar . Or drag the file into a Plain Text file in Text Edit . ( As you can also do with Terminal . ) EDIT : Safari will only accept certain types . Use a Text Edit file instead .
After many hours finding for something at least useful to my problem , I found a website called <URL> , which provides a lot of common Mac OS " defaults write " commands . Anyway , thank Tony and drfrogsplatless for giving me clarifications and tips that were helpful to me .
Just managed to upgrade my Late 2012 Retina Macbook Pro using a Samsung mSATA 512GB SSD and an 7 +17 pin adapter like this one : <URL> WORKS ! PS . Use " sudo trimforce enable " in the Terminal , to get trim and full speed . PS1 . Newer Retina Macbook Pros use the 18 +8 pin adapter like this one ( do n't know if they fit , late-2012 Retinas have a lot of room unlike the newer models ) : <URL>
Yes , it 's possible to replace your internal SATA drive with an SSD . <URL> guide to make sure you have all the tools/space to do that , it 's not hard , but it requires you to be careful and do it with patience , especially when removing the screen ( which must be done using suction cups ) . You can replace the Optical Drive with a Data Doubler and install any SATA drive in it . For example using the <URL> . Plan all this ahead , since you only want to do the iMac disassembly once . ;) Make sure that the Data Doubler is compatible with your model ( if not available you might have to wait a few weeks before they release a compatible model , it has always been like that ) . That way you 'll have an additional SSD Drive . Regarding the second part of your question , yes , you can either put the original drive ( 1TB ) in the Optical Drive and put the SSD where the original HDD was or you can install the SSD in the Data Doubler and boot from there . You can always install OS X in the SSD , boot from it , migrate some information from your 1TB drive and when you 're ready , format the old 1TB drive and use it as a secondary drive for whatever evil purposes you want , like to store your Home Folder ( search Ask Different for instructions on how to do that ) .
This is fine ! Go ahead ! Symlinks or hard links are followed by the system , so you 're free to create them within any of those folders , or indeed the folder itself .
I 'm afraid this is n't made possible by the S.M.A.R.T ( Self-Monitoring , Analysis and Reporting Technology ) system that is used to provide details of Hard Drive operation , I was hoping to find a <URL> that details the current ' park ' status , but it seems that there simply is n't one , and as this is a low level activity that is fully handled by the drive itself without any OS input I can not see a way of ever retrieving the status as the value is n't available in the first place .
Alternatives for <URL> <URL> Uses OS X binary versions when available Compiles OS X optimized versions Compiling usually faster than with MacPorts Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Tries to separate already installed software from what is installed through ... ... while taking advantage of already installed software and libraries ( e.g. does n't install a working version of Perl twice ) Installing software does n't need root access Actively developed on <URL> <URL> Uses Debian tools like and Easy to use , e.g. to install wget : Can be used to install precompiled packages or to compile everything from the source Has a separate directory tree to avoid interference with the system <URL> Last version 2010-04-10 <URL> Has GUI Nothing new on the website since 2008
end question
start question
Why does n't Microsoft Office/2008 ( & later ) support RTL languages ?
" Why " is a question for Microsoft , but I 'm guessing it boils down to a simple lack of resources on the part of the Mac Business Unit . They have to prioritize certain features , and RTL support is not a priority for them . To address the underlying need , you have several options : OpenOffice and NeoOffice support RTL text in Microsoft Office documents . Mellel has a reputation as the best RTL/multilingual word processor ( it certainly has a nice feature set for it , like a <URL> so you can mix RTL/LTR in a paragraph ) , but I do n't know how good its Microsoft Office document interoperability is . This would also be a use case where it might make sense to run Office 2010 inside a Windows virtual machine .
The rules for the Mac App store are converging towards that of the iOS App store . The iOS App store currently allows the use of almost any programming language ( even Basic or Assembly ) , as long as everything required for that language ( code , interpreter , runtime , libraries , etc. ) is bundled with the app . For instance , many iPhone games have a built-in Lua interpreter or a C# runtime . If a language used by an app requires any separately installed support other than that built into the Lion Mac OS distribution , the review guidelines say that app will be rejected . Cocoa and webkit ( for Javascript ) are currently built into the Mac OS X distribution . So , if you want to use Java , you might be able to get away with including your own complete JVM and all needed runtime support libraries for Java in the app bundle . BTW , XCode supports using C++ and Objective C++ code , as well as Objective C and its plain C subset . But you may have to use some Objective C APIs to make an application compliant with all the UI guidelines , even in a mostly C++ app .
Yes , add another keyboard to you iPhone . I did it with Russian , follow <URL> , pretty easy . Activating the keyboards is straight forward . Tap the " Settings " icon and then select " General " . Then scroll down and select " Keyboard " and then " International Keyboards " . There you will see the long list of languages available -- simply flicking the toggle to " ON " will activate the keyboard . You can activate as many as you like . Now that more than one language keyboard has been activated you will see a small globe key on all keyboards . Simply tap the globe key to toggle between all the installed keyboards . Simple , elegant and clever .
You 've turned it off in Notification Center . Open Settings , then scroll to Notification Center and tap it . Scroll down to the " Include " section ; " Messages " should be there . If not you 've turned off notifications for it altogether ; scroll on down to " Do Not Include " and you should see it there . In either case , tap it . Tap the " Badge App Icon " switch so it 's on . Your messages count should be back .
According to <URL> the 85W power adapter is the right one . However , there seem to be issue with " T " style ( the old ) vs. " L " style ( the new ) : see <URL> . It seems that for some people , a workaround does the trick : Turn off your computer , flip over the laptop and remove the battery , hold down the circlular button on the battery for 10 seconds , the green light should go out . Re-install the battery and turn your computer on . Your new charger should work fine . If that does n't work , you need to call Apple support to arrange for your power adapter to be replaced with a " T " style adapter : Apple is aware of the issue with the pins being at a different depth in the new chargers with the " L " shaped connection . After having two new ones not work , I contacted tech support . They sent a new version of the old charger with the square mag safe connector . It works fine . Edit : Apparently the <URL> should fix the " L " style power adapter issue on older MacBooks .
I already use <URL> which does the trick but it has some annoying bugs and it 's only useful for russian-speaking users because UI is only in russian . That 's why I want to find an alternative . The main purpose of <URL> is to fixe words typed with wrong keyboard layout . For example : руддщ → hello ghbdtn → привет So it may be useful for somebody who uses russian a lot ( outsourcing managers , people who learn russian , etc ) .
As Steve Moser <URL> there is no support for 32 bit drivers and Mountain Lion will refuse to install on the macs which had 32 bits drivers ( someone seems to be too lazy to rewrite them ? ) . If this answer is not the one you want to hear , then you can install Mountain Lion the hard way . Because there is a way ( which worked for <URL> ) . You will need another compatible mac ( support ) and you will have to do some hard drive switching . The idea goes as follow : Get Mountain Lion On the target Mac remove the hard drive ( target drive ) On the support Mac insert the hard drive ( USB or internally ) Install Mountain Lion on the target drive Put the target drive back in the target Mac Boot on the target drive holding Cmd + V And write down the ID given in the error message " Incompatible Mac detected : ... " Put the target drive back to the support Mac and on this drive in edit Add your board ID in the section . Add your model ID in the section . Put the target drive to the target Mac Boot You should be able to get to the desktop but without hardware graphics support . To enable the graphics hardware support you will have to install the right kernel extentions . You could use <URL> .
In the English version of Word and PowerPoint 2011 , Templates are stored inside your Home folder in . In other languages , the part is localized ( e.g. in German ) . The User 's Library folder is hidden in 10.7 and later , but you can go there by holding down option while clicking the Go menu in the Finder , then selecting Library .
Well , we can only speculate as to why Apple does n't include a JavaScript console but we can make some assumptions . Screen real-estate is limited on a mobile device , and it would be cumbersome to use ( imagine trying to code with an iPhone keyboard ) . Mobile devices are , in general , not intended for web development . Apple wants to keep their UI/UX as streamlined as possible . Including a feature which , in Apple 's opinion , is unnecessary , works against this goal .
According to Apple , yes , iOS 5 will support the iPhone 3GS . Apple 's <URL> for iOS 5 claims that iOS 5 is compatible with : iPhone 3GS iPhone 4 iPod touch 3rd generation iPod touch 4th generation iPad iPad2
Option-U does work under Dvorak -- but you have to use the Dvorak key-mappings , so really it becomes Option-F . If you 're still not happy with it , you might try this online tool to create your own custom keyboard layout : <URL> It has n't been updated in six years , so no guarantee it will work on the latest versions of OS X.
If you hold down the Menu button and the down arrow on the remote for 10 sec until the LED on the front of the Apple TV begins to flash . Let go of the buttons and the Apple TV will do a soft reboot . This has been happening to me several times a week and doing this seems to fix the issue .
To date , there are no 3rd party software implementations of AirPlay . The spec itself is fully patented ( though most of these patents relate to the hardware aspects of the system ) and is essentially a proprietary standard unique to Apple ( though several hardware vendors have announced hardware that will use the standard - XtremeMac , Denon ) . The current analysis of the protocol itself seems to indicate that it is a further evolution of the previous AirTunes protocol ( which itself was built on top of Bonjour ) , so you are likely to see software implementations appear after developers have had more time to experiment with the protocol .
Mail.app has no categories , but the Outlook 2011 on Mac has . Also making Mail communicate with Exchange server is tricky , however Outlook 2011 will do that . So she can still use her mac with Outlook for work , and mail for all other emails .
A few searches tell me that there is n't good SSD support for power pc macs . This seems to be mostly a SATA III compatibility issue . TRIM support seems to have been introduced in 10.6.8 but only for Apple-supplied drives . Since Apple was producing Intel-based systems by that point , that is where they focused the support . There are blog posts where people have talked about specific drives working in G5 and G4 macs but this is notably without TRIM . OWC has some posts about TRIM and how it is n't for everyone . The important question is , why do you need TRIM ?
The option key has been in use on Macintosh computers long before there was a control key , since the option key was always used for alternative input of characters with diacritics , like " å " . Apple always tried to force developers into not hiding away functionality into contextual menus and thus did not include more than one mouse button for quite a long time . I think it was once applications gained complexity and needed to offer contextual menus for better usability , that Apple decided to include a control key for the first time . In short : The naming of the control and option keys are meant quite literal : one gives you access to optional input and one gives you access to controlling the interface .
Answers above are old we are at iOS 10 . Google Drive did show and now it has disappeared just after successfully uploading from Photos to my Google Drive . I 'm signed in and can see my drive contents .
Yes , yes you can ( although it may involve a firmware upgrade ) : <URL> ( Taken from : <URL> )
Not at this point , no . WebKit , that which Safari for Mac OS and iOS are both based on , is supposed to support WebGL but I have yet to be able to get it work properly on Mac OS 10.6 , much less iOS . I get the impression the whole thing is too new ( relatively ) for proper support .
Great question . This was one of my first confusions about the Finder when switching to Mac . Here 's what I think : On other operating systems , the program menu is contained in the active application window . As such , each window is in essence a full instance of the program . ( There 's not as much integration with Windows Explorer , as there is with Finder on Mac OS . It ' a tiny difference , but it really alters user experience . ( My proof is the fact that you 're asking this question . ) By contrast , on Mac OS X , the menu bar in the Finder is where all Apps ' menus go . All running programs are tied to the Finder in a different way than on other operating systems . On Mac , a program may have auxiliary windows and such . In other operating systems , you generally have similar " panels " in their own window . Also , remember that the yellow and green buttons only effect the window that they 're in , so it seems odd to group a control that effects the entire app with two that only effect one window . Therefore , the " red dot " only affects the active window . One notable exception is the Mac App Store . In that case , you are one hundred percent correct . Clicking the red dot closes the entire app . Notice how the App Store has no auxiliary menus or panes ? Closing that Window does indeed mean you 're exiting the app .
end question
start question
Will installing / running Bootcamp on my Mac require reinstalling OS X ?
No , you do n't . I 've got bootcamp on my Mac at home and did not have to reinstall my Mac OS .
Your apps by default are downloaded to the location ' C : \ Users \ username \ Music \ iTunes \ iTunes Media \ Mobile Applications ' . Take a copy of the apps from this location and back it up on an external hard drive , flash drive , DVD or a different machine . When you re-install or move to a new machine , simply bring the apps back to the new PC and drag-drop them on to the apps section of iTunes .
Yes , at : ~ / Library/Preferences/com . apple.LaunchServices.QuarantineEvents . OS X uses the data in this file for the warning messages that come up when you open a downloaded app .
You have a few choices . <URL> , site down , claims to do this . <URL> claims to zoom an app and hide the menu bar . Not sure if this will work , for example , with the Finder . <URL> does a so-so job . Hidden menu , but the shadow is there and the space is not usable According to <URL> you can edit the plist of the app and have the menu bar become hidden . Add the following to the Info.plist in the app bundle :
I use RDC all the time and I know a few things about it . I have a similar setup as you , Apple based server but with a windows 8 partition . I RDC into the partition from another Mac and it all works fine . Here are a couple links that should help you with the setup on your Windows . <URL> and <URL> . This should help you get up and running . The setup I have on the Mac is the Domain is the internal IP that you will get from your Windows and obviously the Username and password ... are the username and password to your Windows . Hope I have n't been too blunt , but feel free to ask for help . Nick
Use <URL> . Freeware . You can assign macros to any button with this wonderful tool .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
The free screen capture tools built into QuickTime and the OS will allow you to take full screen video capture as well as partial captures . You can then edit these down using preview and iMovie to crop and adjust them . This takes time , so there is room for some inexpensive apps that help you by pre-defining the capture area so you do n't have to edit down a larger file or worry about being pixel perfect each time you make another capture using the mouse/trackpad . I use <URL> for static images and used <URL> for video images until Mavericks came out . It does n't work now , so <URL> is my tool of choice if QuickTime does n't cut it . I 'm hoping Screeny gets updated since it 's lighter and simpler . Nothing will replace ScreenFlow for big projects due to it 's post production workflow tools , but you might be well served by a less expensive option or even prefer simplicity over complexity if that 's more important than a one time cost . Skitch is currently free , Screeny is $ 15 and ScreenFlow $ 99 - all are available on the Mac App Store .
You have two main options . Depending on what you want exactly and how much of your current user information/settings you want to migrate . Manually This is the method I prefer . i believe that when doing a clean install the point is to get rid of all the extra junk that is just sitting on your computer . To do this you need to manually backup your stuff data . Just go through all your folders and copy the stuff to an external HD . ( Desktop , Documents , Downloads , Movies , Music , Pictures , Public , Sites , Bookmarks , Adress Book , Mail , etc ) . You leave all your settings/preferences behind . This makes for a real clean install . Using backup utility I would suggest using <URL> . It 's free and works on Tiger . With this clone your current hard drive and after doing a clean install Lion will ask you if you want to import your stuff from a previous installation and you can select the clone you just made . Keep in mind that this will also copy back all the preferences/settings and junk you might have accumulated . Thus in my perspective defeating the point of a clean install . Combination This is probably the best option . Make a clone with CCC and then instead of having Lion automatically bring back your data , do it yourself manually . This way you will have everything saved from the clone and you will be able to bring back only the important data you want and not any overhead .
For a small office , you may be able to get away with using <URL> . It works well for sharing calendars with a small workgroup . You can turn your co-workers calendars on or off so you can see them , or not , depending on your need to de-clutter your calendar . It 's worked flawlessly for us with MobileMe calendar sharing , or you can set up your own CalDAV server . Free trial , excellent support . I 'm a big fan . You said : MobileMe : Not really shared calendar because I ca n't easily see a coworker 's schedule . I think I need more info , as I have no problems viewing the shared schedules of the other people on our system .
Yes . At the login screen , login as with an admin password . To get the user name field , open the Login Options in System Preferences and change the default login window display option : <URL>
Both the MacBook Air / Mac Mini ( which can lack a CD/DVD drive as shipped ) and Macs running Lion now simply <URL> from within the Boot Camp Assistant .
Apple 's policy has traditionally been that you can install RAM , drives and PCIe cards ( on a Mac Pro ) , without voiding your warranty . However if there 's evidence that you broke something during the install , they wo n't cover that , nor the 3rd party parts ( naturally ) .
You can install Soundflower . It 's a great utility that creates virtual input and output devices . So you could route QuickTime player , for example , as the input for the dictation . <URL>
You may want to give Mac OS X 10.4.11 a try . Reference : <URL>
Look for Java Preferences in Utilities . There you 'll find order of Java binaries browser will use .
Here is <URL> article : You 'll need Mac OS 10.5 and Mac OS 10.6 ( recommended ) . 10.7 I believe is also supported . If you have the following graphics cards , WebGL is unsupported and is disabled by default : NVIDIA GeForce FX Go5200 ATI Radeon HD2400 ATI Radeon 2600 series ATI Radeon X1900 GeForce 7300 GT So , yes , <URL> for WebGL to work .
Its perfectly safe . You might run into problems with the trackpad driver ( i did ) but a quick search here was all i needed to fix it .
There is a method to change the internal name of a font - so you can see it differently from within an app - but you 'll need to use Terminal , but it is not very hard : Make sure you are on an admin account Install <URL> ( You 'll need to login with your Apple ID for free , I 'm not sure if this is actually necessary , so do it last if the next few steps do n't work . I have Xcode installed so I ca n't tell whether having it makes a difference ) Download <URL> Open Terminal ( from Applications > Utilities ) Type with a space at the end , find the place at which you downloaded the folder at ( in step 3 ) and drag it onto the Terminal Window . Press enter Copy and paste this : Enter your admin password when asked . You wo n't see it being typed it . You 've now installed TTX . Now I will tell you how to change the font name : Type with a space after it , find your font file and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . OS X stores fonts at many places . Check <URL> for more info . Now , in the font directory you just dragged the file from , you will find a new file . Open it in Textedit . Press Cmd + F. Type in in the Find box . You will find something like : Copy the name in the quotes . Press Cmd + F again and paste this in the Find box . In the Replace box , type in your desired Font Name . Click Replace All . Note : If your font has a name that would commonly be used in a font file such as " Glyph " or " Asterisk " you may get some unwanted text replacement and possibly produce an unusable . ttx file . In these cases you should manually scroll through the font file and replace the instances where the name listed . ' Save As ' the file . Leave the name as it is - or you can change it to anything because this is the file name not internal name . Make sure the filename is . Save it in the desired location for the new font . Go back to Terminal . Type with a space after it , find your font file that you just saved and drag it onto the Terminal window . Press enter . You will now find the new file in the same directory . Note . If you want to repeat this with a new file , start with step 8 . More info <URL> ( this is a little bit confusing , but it may help . )
According to <URL> , the Power Mac G4 ( Mirrored Drive Doors 2003 ) is the newest and most powerful computer that can run Mac OS 9 . 1.25 GHz PowerPC G4 ( 7455/7455B ) ; can hold up to 2 GB memory ( although OS 9 might not recognize all 2 GB ) .
end question
start question
How can I access my scanner directly without going through System Preferences ?
The Image Capture application can do this for you . Just connect your printer and launch the application . It comes with OS X. Image borrowed from : <URL> . You can also find instructions there under the heading How to scan .
HP does n't make any iOS apps with this functionality , no - have you tried opening the printer 's webpage in Safari on the iPad however ? None of my OfficeJet 6500 or 4500 printers can run the scan functions from their status pages , but perhaps your model is slightly different .
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
You can use <URL> . This solution has an iPhone and Mac ( or Windows ) client and sends a push notification from the Mac app to the iPhone with the information for a call , text , URL , text or an image . The iPhone app then opens the data sent to it by the Mac app . The iPhone app <URL> and the Mac app is free . myPhoneDesktop requires an account to be set up , but it is free .
Typing works for me on Lion . You can substitute for any of the preference panes in the folder . This also switches to the correct pane even if System Preferences is already open .
This is quoted directly from the Speech Recognition Settings preferences : Listen only while key is pressed : With Speakable Items turned on , you can also select this method by speaking the command " Turn on push-to-talk . " Listen continuously with keyword : Use the " Keyword is " pop-up menu to change when you need to speak the keyword . Use the Keyword field to specify what the keyword is .
The erase is very secure - I 've not heard of a single success in recovering any data from a one pass zero with modern hard drives . As to what really happened , it depends on what setup your computer has . In the case of FileVault 2 , the erase process is very rapid . Everything on the drive is scrambled - even blank space looks no different than a file like a spreadsheet or a picture . The erase command simply destroys the cryptographic keys and effectively destroys everything in a short amount of time . In the case where you do n't have Filevauly , I believe a normal one pass zero is performed based on how long it takes . I do n't see any official documentation from Apple and also have n't seen someone forensically analyze an erase ( or trap the filesystem using a remote debugger or a SATA drive that logs commands ) to be sure . Either way , at the end of the erase process , you get an email , so when you send an erase , you 'll know when it started and when it finished and can conclude which erase actually happened . In your case , your Mac probably received the erase command nearly instantly , so you can now perform a single pass zero ( assuming you are n't going to send in the drive for data recovery ) and time that to compare with Apple 's erase . A seven pass erase is basically seven times as long as a one pass erase so the timings should be easily observable to deduce the type and number of passes .
Go to http://localhost:631/printers Select your printer from the list . Choose Set Default Options from the Administration drop-down . Set the options you would like as default .
You have to press cmd + v upon startup to see the boot output . Press this right after the chime . If you want to make that permanent , you should probably do something along the lines of : To undo the above : in the Terminal . ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app ) note : I have n't tested the above commands , but I 'm sure a google query will help you there if you want to make it permanent .
Unfortunately you ca n't easily do Mac-to-Mac syncing of iTunes libraries in that manner . Your best options for networked iTunes access are : iTunes Library Sharing : put your library on the server , and you can get streaming access from your MBP . Downsides : no remote/offline access , you need to be on the same network as the server ; all media/playlist management has to be done on the server . iTunes Home Sharing : same streaming access as above , but you can also copy files from the server to your MBP . Downsides : it 's not syncing , you need to manually select and transfer the songs you want . Store iTunes Library on a Network Share : change the iTunes folder location ( Advanced section in the iTunes Preferences ) to a shared network drive on the server ( or any shared drive , does n't have to be a Mac ) . This gets you local control of the library , just like any standard functions . Downsides : have to be on the local network to get access . With this option you could make a second library ( option-click iTunes when you open it ) on the local drive with a smaller collection of songs you want for off-network access , but again , you do n't have any syncing abilities , you have to manually add what you want . I do n't know that much about iPhoto sharing , I think it 's more limited , but you can always put the iPhoto Library on a network share , as in the third option above , with the same limitations . There 's also iCloud 's Photo Stream , which is fairly limited , but may work if you just want to get recent photos from point A to B.
You can try to run a proxy server locally , and change your Network preferences to point to that proxy , and check in the proxy logs to see if the app sends its request through it . I would suggest using <URL> . It 's quite easy to use : just change our proxy settings in Network preferences to either HTTP proxy or SOCKS proxy , and you should start seeing outgoing requests if you use your browser . Once you do , try using your custom app to see if it sends its request through the proxy or not . Best of luck .
You would need to forward TCP port 548 , which is AFP ( Apple Filing Protocol ) . This is the storage protocol used by Time Machine to access content on a Time Capsule . Note : This will not necessarily make it possible for your remote systems to auto detect the Time Capsule - as any DNS information ( Bonjour ) you forward would probably be incorrect as it needs to be translated ( i.e. a different IP-address ) . Connect to the Time Capsule directly using the IP instead . From Finder select Go = > Connect to Server and then enter : afp : / / 123.123.123.123 / Substitute your own IP ofcourse !
Just type this command into Terminal . With zero arguments it 'll print the names and values of variables in the environment . Alternative with a bit more typing :
It 's a safe bet that most people are out of business for less than an hour . Of course , you 'll probably be spending hours exploring all the new features , so you might want to count that against your system being unusable for " real work " due to " exploration and play " . Since you ca n't easily interrupt things and wo n't have use of the mac once the installer logs you out to start the upgrade , do give yourself a little window in case things run long . Here are some ballpark numbers people are reporting for upgrades with real life amounts of data on their macs : iMac / Mac Pro + SSD : 8 to 15 minutes iMac / Mac Pro + HD : 12 to 20 minutes Portables : 15 to 30 minutes full drives / Air with HD : 30 to 45 minutes Furthermore , you wo n't really know how long it will take if problems crop up moving thousands of tiny files or the process hangs . Then you will need to research what to do if trying again does n't sort things out for you . Even if your install should take 15 minutes , why risk it until the pressure is off ? The problem with any prediction is that there are four parts to the install : common prep tasks ( pre-download any updates - lion wo n't have many to pre download now since it 's new ) a file system check of all your data ( to avoid problems with bad files or bad file system structure ) the standard install ( move the old , write the new - most macs capable of Lion will be within 50 % of each other for this part ) upgrade script to crawl through all the your files and programs , upgrade things , and then delete the now un-needed files . Parts 2 and 4 are where " slow installs " take the majority of your time . Most people will be done in less than an hour - but you ca n't really know if your install will go long until you let it start . It matters little that other people had a good experience if your is going to be especially slow . You can run a full file system check before starting to be sure your directories wo n't trap the installer in an infinite loop , but other than deleting things like un-needed apps and files that might need " migration " , you ca n't speed up the parts of the process that depend on your pre-existing data .
For iOS 8 or later , in iMessage once you have your conversation with the contact ( s ) you wish to send your location with , tap " Details " and then tap " Send Location " .
The historical data ( other than the last summary data for each activity ) is available in two places by default : On the paired iPhone - you can use the activity app to review your workouts as well as going into health app to review data . On the watch itself - you can look at today 's workout ( s ) in the Activity app , but not go back in time as of Watch OS 2.0
Just to note , you can ( at least in the UK ) use the App Store with a debit card . However , if you do n't have one of those either , and you 're not having any issues with OSX 10.6 , why not continue using it for now ? In August , Apple will start selling 10.7 on a USB drive , which you can purchase with cash in an Apple Store .
There are more than a few options out there , but I would recommend <URL> . It 's a pretty powerful program that allows you do do all sorts of different scripting and macro tasks , as well as configure hot keys . I use it to make more advanced hot keys configurations than System Preferences can do , as well as run scripts , handle my extra mouse buttons ( I can configure them on a per-app basis without extra drivers ) . I suggest you download the trial and test it out . It will certainly do what you need , but you may find it useful for many other things . One thing I do suggest when you try it out is to disable all the default macros , as they can be a bit confusing and override default system behaviour . Then take some time to figure out what it can do and what will be useful .
In a sense the basis of your question is in error . While iMovie is saving videos to your camera roll , this is n't using any extra space on your iPhone . That 's why you get the error you 're getting after deleting the files - because that 's where iMovie is trying to access the video from . Basically , what happens is the video is saved to your camera roll , but project specific info is saved within iMovie . Once you have totally finished a project , you can export/share/save the final version and after that you can delete the video you took from your camera roll ( if you want ) . If you like , you can actually prove this to yourself by doing a simple test : Go to Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud usage In the Storage section , tap on Manage Storage Wait for the list of apps to appear ( this may take a while if you have lots of apps ) . Tap on iMovie ( likely to be in your top 10 ) Take a note of how much space is used up by Documents &amp; Data Now go to your actual iMovie app and take a 30s video Go to your Camera roll and try to email this video to yourself You should get a warning saying that this attachment may be too large to email . This message will give you the size of the video . Take a note of this . Cancel the attempt to email the video . Repeat the first 5 steps . You should note that while your iMovie Documents &amp; Data have grown a little , it will not have grown by anywhere near the size of the actual video itself . The reason this has grown is because it 's storing project info , not because it 's storing the video again . Hopefully this little test will put your mind at ease . Do n't forget to delete your test video .
Question 1 Yes , all Time Machine backups are full directory structures of your entire disk ( minus backup exclusions ) . Each backup is made up of hardlinks to unchanged files so each backup appears to be a " full " backup from Finder . Open your Time Machine volume in Finder ( may be within a sparsebundle if you backup over the network ) and you should see a folder called and under that the machine 's hostname . Each backup has a folder in the format . System files are under and . All of your user preferences will be under / / . Question 2 For user data you can just back up the folder . For system stuff you can copy ( note that this is separate to the folder in your home directory ) , but it might be better to use a product such as <URL> or <URL> . However by default Time Machine will be backing up the entire disk so you should be fine . When you reinstall your OS , you 'll get a chance to restore the entire system from a Time Machine backup . If you choose not to do this , when you first boot the new OS you get another chance to restore applications and user data . On a personal note , I use a combination of SuperDuper ! ( weekly full system backups to a bootable firewire drive ) and Time Machine ( incremental backups ) .
end question
start question
Snow Leopard Clean Install - Zero Out SSD ?
Zeroing out the drive is typically done for security purposes , but there is also another benefit to zeroing out an SSD - performance . The firmware of an SSD does a lot of complicated tricks to increase disk performance and reliability , but they become less effective the more data the drive has to retain . Since deleting a file or reformatting a disk does not actually turn the bits on the disk back to zero , the drive firmware must still manage that data . If you zero out the drive , you allow the firmware to stop managing all that data and in turn it 's able to offer better performance on the data that you have .
If you have an old AppleTV it may be <URL> , but to me it seems a bit like a hack . And I would n't be at all surprised if the license does n't allow it . Your Snow Leopard license is probably an upgrade license for Leopard ( Apple does n't sell hardware without OS , so they only sell upgrade licenses I think ) , and I doubt the Apple TV runs the default version of Leopard . If you can install Snow Leopard then do n't use updates , as the kernel needs to be replaced :)
Yes . Hold the & #x 2325 ; key while booting up to select your install USB . Also note that if you upgrade to the most recent version of Lion you should get the recovery partition to boot up without having to use the USB ( internet connection required ) .
I love <URL> - it 's something that I feel OSX needs and that would allow you to set a shortcut for it . Otherwise the green orb on the top left will take you to full height , and then you can drag out horizontally to your chosen width . Alternatively , should you upgrade to Lion , Chrome has a full-screen mode which hides all the other apps .
It might be easier to connect the machines on a network and use rsync , nfs or ftp to copy data , no extra software would be needed . If you want to do this you will need <URL> which allows OSX to read other file systems . A tutorial for ext3 is on this <URL> .
Yes . As long as you 're running the most up-to-date Snow Leopard version ( 10.6.8 ) , you can directly upgrade to Mountain Lion , as detailed on <URL> . Just download from the App Store and you should be good to go .
I have it on good authority that all Lion installs are a standard install followed by a migration of data ( local , remote or Time Machine based ) so as long as you are following the official steps , having less to migrate will only be more buggy if you add that " bad data " once the install has finished . If the software installed poorly , the same software should have the same bugs boot after boot after boot . Can you reproduce any of these issues ? It sure sounds like a hardware ( RAM or HDD ) issue instead of some bug in the installer . The only way to know is to clean install Snow Leopard or dig into the specifics . I do n't think enough people have run the installer in the DVD manner you mentioned for any " word on the street reports " to be useful . Sorry I do n't have a better idea other than going through the usual issue isolation steps . <URL> <URL>
You 'll need to make your own bootable DVD/USB of the Lion installer to do so . This can be made from the AppStore download and is documented well by OSXDaily . <URL> <URL> Then hold ALT at system boot ( before chime &amp; Apple logo ) and select your install volume .
You can enable SSH from the Terminal with : ( note that you need to run this as an admin , and it 'll ask for your admin password , which wo n't echo as you type . )
If you are using something like the <URL> drive from MCE Tech , you an put either drive in the caddy . I prefer to make a single change at a time , so when I did this I put the new drive in the caddy and left the old working boot drive alone . As for installing from a USB thumb drive ( I assume this is what you meant since you were n't clear ) , you should n't have to . You can download the Mountain Lion installer and run the app . During the install process you can choose what drive to install the OS on , simple choose the newly installed and formatted SSD . Once you have both OS installed , the system will remember the last drive that was selected in the Startup Disk preferences and store that choice in NVRAM so that it will continue to start from the preferred drive . You can hold the option key at boot to prevent this choice and pick from all bootable drives when you want to switch things on a specific boot . Most people find that having two OS internally is confusing . Spotlight will try to find the correct version of Safari if you do n't keep them both updated , but sometimes you end up running the wrong version of an app . This is confusing at best , and troublesome most of the time and can cause data issues when the wrong version of an app opens data it did n't expect from a newer version of iPhoto for instance .
Check to make sure you have enough RAM , Snow Leopard requires 1GB of RAM . Snow Leopard does not require a 64-bit processor .
Do n't know of a way to specifically do that , but you can set up browser bookmarks and/or desktop icons that will connect to specific hosts , if that 's any help . For the former , create a bookmark that points to vnc : / / hostname.blah.com rather than the more usual <URL> . For the latter , create a text file with the . command suffix ( e.g. ' myvnc.command ' ) that contains the single line : which will start the screen sharing session when you double-click it in Finder . You can also drag it to your dock if you wish .
Yes it is . <URL> . As long as it is an Intel Mac Mini ( with a minumum of 1gb ram ) you 'll be fine . If its a Power PC Mac Mini then you 'll only be able to install Leopard ( not Snow Leopard )
No , you can install Lion directly if you want . This will save you a lot of time , as you would otherwise have to upgrade from Leopard to Snow Leopard first , only to upgrade to Lion afterwards . Buy a bootable OS X Lion USB stick You can buy a bootable OS X Lion USB Thumb Drive from the Apple Store : <URL> Create a bootable OS X Lion USB stick or DVD based on the Mac App Store download Buy and download Lion from the Mac App Store . The installer should show up in your folder . Right-click on the installer and hit " Show Package Contents " . Navigate to and look for a file called . Open up Disk Utility and drag the DMG file into the left-hand sidebar . If you 're burning it to a DVD , insert your DVD , select the disk image in the sidebar , and hit the " Burn " button . Skip down to the last step to use it . If you want to burn Lion to a USB flash drive , plug it in and click on it in the left-hand sidebar in Disk Utility . Go to the Partition tab and select " 1 Partition " from the dropdown menu . Choose " Mac OS Extended ( Journaled ) " on the left . Hit the " Options " button under the partition table and choose " GUID Partition Table " . You 'll need this to make the drive bootable on a Mac . Hit the " Apply " button when you 're done to format your drive ( note : it will erase everything on the drive ) . Click on the " Restore " tab , choose the file as the source and your flash drive as the destination . Hit the " Apply " button and it will create your bootable USB drive . Reboot into OS X and hold the option key when you hear the startup chime . You can boot into your DVD or flash drive from there .
Apparently both Keychain 's files are in the same place in Both OS versions <URL> <URL> . . Copying all the folder 's content from one to another should do the trick .
A simplified answer to SSD lifetime would be : SSD is a Semiconductor devices build to last minimum 10 Years . Some of us still have computers from year 2000 or even before , thus older than 14 years . With that said , looking closer at the SSD , it is a flash memory type semiconductor device and could develop leaking currents ( means the cells loose they charge ( memory ) . There is difference in life ( quality ) of SSD 's depending on manufacturer ( Intel , Samsung ect . ) . To my knowledge , Intel is still the front runner on quality = life time , but Samsung is chasing them . It is really difficult to say who is the best , but one can use the warranty as a guide . For example Samsung gives 5 Years on the 840 model . That means it will last minimum 7-10 years , otherwise they would be out of business replacing all dead SSD 's . Just to clarify , I am talking about the most common type of SSD ( using the Single layer memory cells ) , the dual layer lasts even longer but it is much more expensive . Apple , Crucial , OWC ect . do NOT make the actual memory chips . The buy them from Semiconductor manufacturer like Samsung or Intel ect . and make the SSD boards with they name on it . However , do not panic , the drives have a self repair capability ! They do that by simply replacing the dead cells . The problem is there is limited supply ( reserve ) of new cells . One of the biggest life limiting factor is the amount of data stored . Let 's say when the SSD is 90 % full , it will become a problem soon , since the drive tries to rotate the cells to preserve/avoid memory leakage . Second life factor is the daily usage ( read/write ) . Again , do not panic , a " normal " user will never see that problem . All in all the SSD should last you longer than your computer screen or keyboard ! SSD are sensitive to heat ( as any Semiconductor device ) and will loose life if operated at elevate environment temperatures , means they love cold environment . Does not mean you have to move to Alaska :) . Just to give you an idea . Why do you think Intel invented the so called " I " processors they call it Intelligent CPU . Great Marketing by the way . The actual reason is the CPU becomes too hot if it operates at 100 % all the time . Same applies to the SSD chips , so keep them cool and do not overload your drive and it will last and last . And ! , try not to use to much of the SSD health test softwares . That just stresses you SSD unnecessary . It would be the same if you would constantly go to a doctor to verify if you healthy and he would give you a xray scan each time , just to tell you you are fine ( but to much xray exposure will kill you ) .
If you computer not booting is the reason you need your Snow Leopard disc , there are several things to try and troubleshoot your issue . Boot into single user mode ( Cmd + S @ POST ( chime ) ) . Once the command prompt comes up , type . This will attempt to repair your disk . If this is okay , hold down Shift at POST and see if it boots . This disables kexts , fonts , etc. . If this does not work try verbose mode ( Cmd + V @ POST ) and see where your computer stops loading at and troubleshoot from there . Good luck .
If you 've successfully installed Fedora on a free partition , the rest is easy . Just download an ISO copy of <URL> and burn it with Disk Utility to a blank DVD . Then , while booting , hold down C after the chime to boot to rEFIt . It will give you the option to boot to Linux ( this is indicated by a Tux icon ) . Additionally , rEFIt is able to install itself to your system without a DVD boot every time , but I could n't recommend it as I had some issues with this personally .
You should be able to download Yosemite from the App store if you login with an account that had previously acquired it . If the USB stick was made with an App store copy of " Install OS X Yosemite.app " , it will work on any hardware that existed prior to the release of the copy you downloaded .
The answer appears to be no . The Snow Leopard installer refuses to install over a newer version of Mac OS . Solution was to use Snow Leopard DVD to revert to pre-Lion state . The good news is that there are no issues with Boot Camp as such , only with finding the Mac OS partition from the Windows Boot Camp control panel . It 's very difficult to find the Boot Camp software for Windows on Apple 's site ( legendary ease of use ) so it helps to keep that software around for a re-install . After the Boot Camp re-install on Windows everything worked fine . Snow Leopard 's System Preferences just finds the Windows partition .
end question
start question
Is there a shortcut to get to the bottom of a long email on iPad or iPhone ?
iOS does not provide a shortcut for skipping directly to the bottom of documents , but there is a reasonable alternative , if you 're not already aware of it : scrolling views in iOS respond to swipe frequency , scrolling more quickly the more quickly and frequently you swipe the screen . While swiping a long document , email , or webpage , try several long , quick swipes in rapid succession : you should notice the scrolling speed accelerate accordingly . This is n't nearly as elegant as a tap shortcut , but does let you quickly skip to the bottom of a long view .
The Apple-sanctioned method to accomplish this is the use of the <URL> feature in iOS6 . Settings > General > Accessibility > Learning > Guided Access .
I ended up getting <URL> power pack and setup a hotkey there . It 's much much faster than the automator service .
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
The default shortcut was changed to ⌘ ⌫ on Lion . You can change it back to ⌘ D with . It wo n't affect some applications like TextEdit though .
Not out of the box , but there might be an app for that . What I would recommend is simply installing a VNC app on both devices - something like TeamViewer or LogMeIn . Then , you can use your iPhone to navigate the system menu like you normally would .
You can change terminal only with this one command to write a new preference for that specific app . This is general , so of course , substitute safari or quicktimeplayerX or whatever in the portion of the command as needed . This setting switches the default save behavior upon quitting that one app . You 'll find many of the other apps that work well with this setting by <URL> . Of course , you should issue this command after closing all windows and then quitting the application to ensure the settings are read the next time Terminal starts .
Sure . On your iPhone , go into Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars , select Add Account ... and add Google as Exchange ( !!! ) account . Using Google as Exchange account allows you to sync calendars and contacts . See <URL> Now , gathering together all info spread around , into a checklist format : Google Sync is only supported on Apple iOS versions 3.0 and above , because that 's when Microsoft Exchange was implemented and that 's the protocol we will use . If your business , school , or organization uses Google Apps , your administrator will first need to enable Google Sync . If you 're not , then there is no such setup - it 's enabled by default . Double check you 're using the correct gmail account - many users have more than one gmail , or google apps , with similar mails due to forwarding and often mistake this . Be sure to <URL> . Every configuration has to be done properly and it must lastly look something like this , from :
The menu for this is hidden under Edit > Find > Google Search ... . The shortcut is Option + Command + F.
You could do it with a script ... or you could hit CMD+T ab and while holding CMD hit " q " over and over . It will cycle through your apps and quit them one by one pretty quickly .
You can do peer-to-peer networking on bluetooth with some games and other applications . I have n't checked out the details but my understanding is that the Bluetooth profile is much better in the iPhone 4 and iPad than in the early iPhones . I expect you could also hook up to BT headphones and speakers to stream music .
You can try using <URL> ( ) feature on the iPhone . It allows scheduling as well .
That would be the Ctrl-Left or Right Arrow to slide between full screen applications .
As far as I know there is no way to email a link to something you have got to inside a native iOS app , in your case , a set of instructions . I believe however that you can email a set of instructions as a link from the google maps website , which you can access in safari . Hope this helps in some form .
There is no firewall on iOS and it does not block any ports that I am aware of . I 'd guess your issue has more to do with the fact that Bookman has n't been updated in over three years and some change in iOS 10 finally broke it . I 'm actually shocked it works at all . It sounds like you can use iTunes file sharing as an alternative , presuming that a recent iTunes update has n't caused that to stop working with this particular app .
You can set up a custom shortcut , for example a key , for that purpose . Open System Prefrences , go to Keyboard - > Screen Shots ( or navigate to the Screen Shot-options ) , and double click on the shortcuts you want to change to change them to the keys you use less frequently . If you have a huge keyboard like me , you can for example set the F5 and F6 to be the shortcuts . Here is a screen shot of the settings window where you set the shortcut ( captured with those as well ! ) The " Copy " - screenshots are the ones with Control + Shift .
It 's possible to do that with AppleScript . If you 're familiar with this technology , you should just browse iCal and Mail respective dictionary . If not , that 's the occasion to become familiar ! <URL> Here 's a very basic script you could use ( tested on Snow Leopard only , but should work fine on Lion as well ) : In order to use it easily in Mail , you should save it in ( create folders if they do n't exist ) and activates the Scripts menubar item in preferences of AppleScript Editor . Here 's the result when you 're in Mail : You can also use a productivity tool to launch your script . There are plenty of them out there but I personally use Keyboard Maestro &amp; Alfred . There 's a lot of room for improvement . By example , you could set a default alarm , insert it in a given calendar ... In order to improve it yourself , use the AppleScript dictionary : it 's the best reference you could find . However , those links may be useful as well , as they provide many examples ( some are maybe too old ) : <URL> &amp; <URL> .
There is no scale bar in Maps for iPad . I think it is not official ( yet ) because even on Android it can only be enabled from the " Labs " settings . So , it is not part of the official Google Maps images .
ESC and then B moves back one word ESC and then F moves forward one word You can change the terminal settings to more sane shortcuts like ALT + B and such : here 's a link on how to do that <URL>
OS 3.0 and above allows you to email out up to 5 photos . Go to your Camera roll . Select the roll you want . Tap Share icon ( bottom left ) Tap each photo you want to send via e-mail ( you should get a red check mark in each photo > Share count will increase to the number of photos selected ) . Tap " Share Icon " again A pop up " e-mail " message will appear All the photos you selected will appear in your e-mail message to send .
end question
start question
What is the difference between the iPad Mini model numbers A1454 and A1455 ?
The comparable page you 're looking for is : <URL> . A1454 is used for AT&amp;T and similar Canadian networks only , while Sprint , Verizon and overseas carriers use A1455 . All bands are also listed on <URL> : Model A1454 GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 4 and 17 ) Model A1455 CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) LTE ( Bands 1 , 3 , 5 , 13 , 25 )
I would really go with <URL> , I can say from experience that It will allow you to use check boxes , radio buttons etc. . You would be able to export a Google doc to an excel file and then open in numbers . If you do choose to export a Google Doc file into an excel file you could also use dropbox to open and edit it in another office based app , with that you may be able to use checks and radio buttons , as long as they already exist in the doc . A very good solution is <URL> You can also try a lot of other free office tools such as <URL>
There 's no difference besides the storage capacity . As the iPhone does not have an option to extend the memory after purchase , you have to choose the right amount of storage right from the beginning . You can always manage how much space you use by manually choosing which data to sync ( music , photos , movies , apps ) . Generally more available space gives you the freedom of not having to manage your sync settings too much . 16GB should be fine for most people , especially if they are willing to make compromises regarding sync settings . 32GB is good if your like to take lots of photos or have a large music library . 64GB is good if you record HD movies which increase in size very quickly the longer you record .
I do not have a direct link or citation on/about Apple to prove my conclusion . But the most logical answer I could gather by reading several sites is that MM would stand for " Multi-mode " , signifying that the iPad supports not just CDMA and GSM , but also multiple LTE implementations . The term " multimode " or " multi-mode " is used to designate chips/devices that support multiple , disparate communication technologies ( a device with WiFi and Bluetooth can be called multimode too , but we 're talking only about cellular here . Plus , all of Apple 's iDevices have had WiFi and Bluetooth in all models ) . Only the GSM + CDMA + LTE models that support multiple carriers have the " MM " tag . Example : The 4th generation iPad and the iPad mini have models that support CDMA/GSM/LTE on Verizon and Sprint . So they 're marked as " Cellular ( MM ) " to give them a more substantial ( and carrier neutral ) name . The GSM + CDMA + LTE models in older generations that support only Verizon have a " VZ " tag instead of the " MM " tag . Example : The 3rd generation iPad , the first iPad to come with support for both CDMA and GSM on a single device , has a CDMA/GSM/LTE Verizon model , but it does not support Sprint . So it 's marked as " Cellular ( VZ ) " to signify that it 's tied to Verizon ( and can not work with another CDMA carrier like Sprint ) . In Apple 's current terminology : " Cellular " implies GSM+LTE " Cellular ( MM ) " implies GSM+CDMA+LTE ( across CDMA carriers ) Note that there is no " CDMA only " version of the iPad after the iPad 2 , unlike " GSM only " versions that have been and continue to be available . You can come to similar conclusions by comparing the cellular support across iPad models/generations and how they relate to the chipsets used , the carriers supported , and their technology implementations . Here are some links related to the iPad specs across generations and multi-mode ( as it applies to cellular technology ) that would help understand my conclusion better . Technical specifications for iPads of different generations ( pay attention to the technologies/carriers supported ) : 1 . <URL> 2 . <URL> 2 . <URL> 3 . <URL> Links related to multi-mode ( read them completely or search for " mode " to go to multimode related snippets on these pages ) : 1 . <URL> , <URL> 2 . <URL> 3 . <URL> 4 . <URL> 5 . <URL> 6 . <URL>
Fink is a binary distribution using tools that originated from Debian ( e.g. , apt-get , etc. ) Macports is built around the philosophy used by the FreeBSD ports collection . In this you download tarballs directly from the upstream source , apply patches and compile . It 's entirely automated . I have n't used Fink in quite a while ( since Panther ) because it did n't seem very well done to me .
The only difference between those two categories is how iTunes groups things by default . In the Movies view , there 's not grouping . All movies are displayed alphabetically by default . In the TV Show view things are grouped by show -- so you get a single icon for each show and you drill down to access the episodes within the show .
System Information ( formerly known as System Profiler ) will show you some information about the built-in camera ( which Apple calls the iSight ) , but I do n't see frame rate , exposure time , or shutter speed mentioned here . In my specific case , the manufacturer is listed as Apple , and they likely do n't want to publish this information . Apple treats the built-in iSight as a simple checkbox feature ( a computer has it or it does n't ) , not as a detailed specs feature ( like memory size , hard drive size , screen size , network speed , etc ) . To view the information available about your Mac 's built-in iSight , go to the Apple menu , choose About This Mac , then choose System Report ... . From there , go into the Hardware section , choose USB , and look in the USB Device Tree for Built-in iSight . <URL> is a company that often disassembles Apple products to try to determine things like the cost of the bill of materials , specific parts used , and unadvertised specs or capabilities of the hardware . You could visit their site and see if your machine is covered there , or if there 's another way to get information about your machine .
Perhaps this is too excessive but you could create an AppleScript which would toggle the size of the cursor . To do so just : Go to System Preferences / Universal Access and check Enable access for assistive devices , this will let you use AppleScript to query and control the user interface of most Applications . Go to / Applications / Utilities / AppleScript Editor and paste this code and save it as Application :
In the left corner of the top menu , pick the apple menu and select . In the panel , click the button . if you hover your mouse on you can see the general info about your macbook pro such 15 " or 17 " . As <URL> said in comment above solution for before 2007 now choose Graphics/Displays from the left column , it does display the screen resolution .
I use the Wikipanion free version on my iPad and there 's a Wikipanion Plus available that supports offline viewing . I 'm happy with Wikipanion on my iPad and iPhone . Hope that helps !
According to <URL> : For the quickest charge , connect the device to a power outlet using the USB cable that came with the device and an Apple USB power adapter . The USB spec limits the amount of current that a device may draw from a USB port ( 500 mA ) ; the included Apple standalone power adapter can supply double that ( 1 A ) . The difference is even more dramatic for devices that have higher current draw to recharge ( newer model iPads , for example ) . Generally speaking , charging from your computer wo n't affect the performance of your computer at all as long as you are n't syncing or otherwise interacting with the device . USB can supply power without requiring data transmission ( such is the case for wall adapters ) .
Usually when Apple says " SSD " they refer to a removable/upgradeable solid-state ( flash ) storage device . The MBP with Retina Display ( and the MacBook Airs ) are also using solid-state storage , but they are non-removable . See also : <URL>
I recommend you just delete Numbers and Keynote using Finder . The Mac App Store will detect the missing apps and allow you to reinstall them in the future if you ever need them . Alternatively , you can use AppCleaner to delete them . This will remove all associated preference/cache files . This is usually superfluous unless you have an actual need to delete the preferences . They 're not doing any harm leaving them there .
For the reference : Length : 21.3 CM Width : 14.7 CM Height : 3.3 CM Gross Weight : 0.5 KG
Actually , the Apple Music membership page says that service brings your iTunes library to iCloud , too It does say Apple Music and iTunes Match are " independent but complementary , " but I think I 'm like you -- I ca n't figure out why I 'd want iTunes Match if I 'm paying for Apple Music . The only benefit of Match is the $ 2 a month price point over the $ 10 a month price point . Music appears to do everything Match did but better and more and is priced accordingly .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
There are several features listed on their <URL> . Some of the features I like are : Split pane view Hotkey window for instant terminal anywhere Search will highlight all found words ( like in Chrome and Safari ) Mouseless copy Instant replay ( can " rewind " your session in case you forgot to note/copy something ) Paste history Growl support for notification when a process completes
The Mac will boot with or without a mouse and keyboard , and you should see something on the monitor either way . You do not need to use Apple mice and keyboards . So , the problem has to be either the monitor or the Mac Mini . You can look at the <URL> to see if the Mini is running . If it is steady white , the computer is on . If it is pulsing , the computer is sleeping . If it is off , the computer is off . If the computer is on but nothing is coming up on the monitor : Check all connections . Try with a different monitor , if possible . Make sure the correct input is selected on the monitor . If the computer wo n't turn on : Check all connections . Make sure it 's plugged in . Make sure you 've pressed the power button all the way , without holding it down too long . If you ca n't get it to turn on at all , take it back to the people who sold it to you and get your money back ; they sold you a broken machine .
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
Backup means copying your personal data from your phone to your computer . That includes application settings , text messages , voicemails , etc. . Sync means copying new apps , music , video , or books from iTunes to your phone , or from your phone to iTunes . You can think of it this way : backup saves a copy of stuff you 've created , and sync copies media you have downloaded via the iTunes Store . Backup copies everything , but Sync only copies what you choose through iTunes . By default , it copies everything , but you can fine tune it all you want . You might want to stop movies from syncing to your phone if you never use it to watch movies , for example . Unless you 've changed the settings , when you connect your iPhone to your computer , iTunes always performs a backup first , then a sync . When you connect a new iPhone to your computer , iTunes will offer to reconfigure it using the latest backup it has . So if you connect your old iPhone , let it backup/sync , then connect your new iPhone , it should transfer everything so that your new phone is just like your old one , but faster !
end question
start question
Can I schedule a periodic file permissions repair ?
Go to the terminal and execute " crontab - e " to add a new crontab entry . Now there are numberous syntaxical ways you can accomplish what you want ( read about it on <URL> ) . The easiest one , however , will be to put in it . Note : You 'll be using vi for editing . Press " i " to type , then after you 've finished press ESC and type in " : wq " to save and quit .
Yes you can -- iCloud can be used to sync anything that you wish . Open ~ / Library/Mobile Documents and create a folder ( call it anything you wish ) . Inside , put whatever documents you would like to sync over iCloud . That folder will sync with other Macs ( and jailbroken iOS devices , and on the web too if you have a Apple Developer licence ) . Alternatively , you can symlink a folder on your Mac in to the Mobile Documents folder so that the files remain in their original location .
You ca n't upload ' plugins / extentions ' to the Mac App Store . Only full ' apps ' will be approved for the mac app store . To create a mac app , you need a developer license to be able to publish your app through the Mac App Store .
No , the Finder does what it does and that is do its best not to leave anything unfinished . If it ca n't finish a copy it deletes the partials . You could probably hack together a scriptlet that would let you drag and drop files onto it that would then rsync the file somewhere . You could even make it a folder action . But it would be limited in where the files end up .
Since <URL> you could use a cronjob to just clear the file every now and then . For that you will need the Terminal . If you are not familiar , <URL> . Use the following command to open the crontab file ( just call if you want to use vim instead ) : Insert the following and save the file ( with Ctrl-X - > y - > enter ) . You must change the file to the log file Let me explain : means that on every full hour the command will be executed ( unless it 's turned off of course ) . See <URL> for more info . The command being executed is basically saying " redirect nothing to the file " effectively truncating it to 0 bytes . You may recognize it from . FYI : The cron daemon will automatically be started by launchd if a cronfile exists .
The Tags feature in Finder1 already has a keyboard shortcut which can be activated whilst in Quick Look . Press ⌘ ⇧ T to set a tag on the currently selected file . To set a custom shortcut ... Open System Preferences → Keyboard → Shortcuts → App Shortcuts . Click the + button to add a new shortcut . Set the Application to Finder.app , and the Menu Title to Tags ... . Set your keyboard shortcut and press Add . 1 As this is a feature of Finder , not Quick Look , the modal popup may be behind the Quick Look window .
You do n't need 3rd party software . The OS X utility pmset allows you to schedule sleep/wake taking day of week into effect . I have n't tested it , but it appears you can not schedule multiple repeating events on different times . You 'll need to use cron to complete this task . from man pmset
That looks like a shell script that is missing the shebang at the top of the file . It could be that it is intended to be copied into an existing script to provide OS X-specific functionality so the main script can be portable ( I 'd expect there to be dotfiles for other operating systems , as well . ) On the other hand , it could be intended as a file of ideas and you pick the ones you want and paste them into your or .
No - the IPA format does not make source code inclusion mandatory , so there 's no general way to do what you ask . As alluring as the idea is , just because something is possible on Android ( What you 're talking about is not in the sense you want it ) , does n't mean it will be possible on iOS . Now , if the developer decides to embed the source code into the IPA - you will be able to read it depending on the method of packaging it since the IPA contents are well documented by Apple on the developer site and many utilities exist to decode the application bundles .
You can do this in the terminal ( shell ) . Open the terminal and type to change you current working directory to the Desktop . Then for the different cases you listed : is the command to move files . You can move multiple files at once : . The asterisk * is the so-called wild card character . So * stands for every character or character sequence . would mean that it would affect all files that end with . You could also do it other way around , e.g. , to affect all files that start with . If you want , you can copy the following lines into an empty text file and save it as and add to the first line . Make it executable by typing . Then , you can use it every time you want to move your files from your desktop by typing in the shell from your desktop . So the suggested script contents would could look like this : As mentioned in the comments , you can save it as and use to make it clickable and executable
Yup , just use <URL> and burn the . toast file to a CD . That will create a bootable CD that will be usable on your G3 . <URL> is a free application for burning CDs/DVDs . I do n't know if it supports . toast files , but give it a try if you do n't have Toast , since it may save you from buying it . I could n't find online documentation for it , so let me know how it works .
In Applescript editor File - > Save As and choose File Format as Application . Open Bundle Contents drawer and see the applet.icns file , copy your icon to that . See " Saving a script as an application " in Applescript Editor help .
I think you can just right-click the file and select " Put Back "
You can use the <URL> utility1 which adds an option to " print " , from Preview or any other app , to generate a second pdf file with the pages arranged appropriately to print and bind as a booklet . When printing the resulting pdf booklet , remember to select " Two-Sided : Short-Edge binding " in the " Layout " options of the print dialog . 1 . No longer free , $ 9.99 on the App Store as of 09/2015 .
MailRaider Pro for Mac OS X does just what I need in terms of being able to open . eml files WITHOUT the need to setup a dummy account or whatever . It just works - I can just open it . I have bought it , it works on El Capitan . official site : <URL> on iTunes : <URL> It also says it handles attachments , but I have n't tried that yet .
You can also enter the following in Terminal : then This will display the full path in the titlebar . to turn it back off change the - bool to Or if you want to copy the text of the path you can drag the file into Terminal .
Print Job scheduling was removed in OS X 10.7 Lion . As a workaround , you can pause the printer , print what you want then continue the printer . You can provide feedback to Apple regarding this on the following page : <URL>
It 's not possible to achieve multiple desktop locations . Spaces are not a replacement for desktops . On Stock Mac OS there is only one desktop per user and multiple spaces " above " the desktop . Additionally it seems there are no tools to achieve this either with Spaces or independently .
A . dmg file is kind of like an USB stick in a file and can be handled more or less the same way . To install from a . dmg file you usually do the following : double click the . dmg to make its content available ( name will show up in the Finder sidebar ) , usually a window opens showing the content as well drag the application from the . dmg window into / Applications to install ( may need an administrator password ) wait for the copy process to finish eject the . dmg ( by clicking the eject button in the Sidebar ) delete the . dmg from Downloads
Possibly a suggestion moving forward , if you change those . docx files to . doc , there are many more programs out there that can edit the files , e.g. , Pages . If you prefer to stay with . docx , previously mentioned QuickOffice Pro HD is a great solution , <URL> is another solution and <URL> also tries to emulate the Office interface . CloudOn is still pretty new and a bit buggy , but it 's free and may help in a pinch . I found myself in the same situation with school and found that batch editing my . docx files to . doc was well worth it in the end . Hope this helps !
end question
start question
Is it possible to center align text in the Speech Bubble annotation in Preview.app ?
I look at the speech ( and thought ) bubble feature in Preview as a nice little extra that provides basic functionality . Unfortunately , at least as of 10.7.3 Lion , text justification is n't an option . If your needs ( or wants ) go beyond the basics you may be interested in comic creation software like Plasq 's <URL> .
Instead of your specific recent documents search , you might also like this alternative : This adds a recent items stacks to your Dock that has customizabile viewing options ( grid/fan/list / automatic ) like one is used to . The right-click menu gives you the option to choose between recent applications/documents/servers and favorite volumes/items .
Look for the section titled " Changing Power Management Settings " in this <URL> . An AppleScript example from the guide :
Text is copied in rich form in iOS 3 + . You can try it by copying some text in Safari and pasting it to Mail . But pasted text format will depend of the app . For example , the SimpleNote app only paste in plain text format , since the service does n't not support image and text styling . There is no native way to see the copied text in HTML form . You 'll have to find an app to do that .
If what you need is to connect to the same Mac machine with two different users in two different sessions , as Terminal Services for Windows can do , this is the answer : currently , with the default system , this is not possible . However , alongside the future Mac OS X 10.7 Lion -- that will be released <URL> -- <URL> with the updated Screen Sharing . If what you need is to connect to the same Mac machine with the same user in the same session , you already can connect to that machine with any VNC client , if Screen Sharing is enabled .
First , you 'll need to install the Terminal Plugin . Run any command from Quicksilver ? Just enter text mode ( by pressing . ) , enter your command and choose either the " Run Text Command in Terminal " action ( opens a new terminal window and runs the command ) or the " Run Command in Shell " action ( runs the command in the background and returns the results to Quicksilver ) Run a script ? Just browse to the script and choose the " Run " or " Run in Terminal [ ... ] " actions .
OS X 10.7.2 Update Since OS X 10.7.2 Desktops ( or Spaces ) and full screen apps can be reordered , i.e. spaces can be mixed with full screen apps in any order a user may fancy , but with one exception - Dashboard and Desktop 1 ( 1st Space ) can not be moved . Pre OS X 1.7.2 answer : Based on <URL> <URL> and <URL> you can not . Seems like an oversight to me as I consider it as a must-have feature . Be aware there 's also something called automatic-ordering ( System Preferences > Mission Control > Automatically rearrange Spaces ) , which apparently orders them based on usage .
As you can see from this screenshot , iOS will automatically join any available known network based on signal strength . As of right now , it is not possible to do what you are asking with iOS .
It is possible to downgrade to iOS5 . You will just have to " trick " iTunes into thinking you are restoring from one of you backups . Just make sure to first make a backup of your current settings . Then it 's just a matter of restoring from the " fake " backup ( IPSW-file ) . You can download an IPSW ( backup file ) from <URL>
No , you can not install fonts on any iOS device without jail breaking or by creating an app . But Safari can itself display fonts placed on a server with appropriate html code in the page .
<URL> , promo codes can only be redeemed for apps themselves and not In App Purchases : Promo codes do n't work for In-App Purchase products , including issues for apps in the Magazines &amp; Newspapers category . Update : It 's <URL> since October 28 , 2016 , see <URL> . <URL>
There is a freeware , <URL> , to launch a single application with a different languages . it 's really simple and work amazingly .
As you need to do a shift + enter ( also called ' soft return ' ) to do it ( because ' enter ' acts like ' tab ' ) , you ca n't on iOS . According to this <URL> Zoagli points it in <URL> you ca n't do it on iOS . Alternatively you can try to add the soft return on a computer via Contact.app ( on a mac ) , or via the web interface of your contact manager ( Google contacts ... ) PS iCloud on the web does n't support soft return .
Briefly ; no there is no easy way to update them . ( Assuming that compiling from source is not considered easy ) I would strongly caution against modifying the system installed versions as you 're likely to have your updated versions broken when Apple issues an update that updates them . ( Usually Security Updates and has bitten some users/sysadmins when Perl has been updated ) If you wanted to update them it 's a matter of downloading the source files and installing it over top of the provided versions . As a reasonable alternative I recommend installing your own managed version of PHP and MySQL into or using your packaging software of choice ( MacPorts , Fink or Homebrew ) or prepared installer ( eg . MySQL 's . pkg installer that installs into ) .
For rather raw data , try saving this as , e.g. . Then make it runnable : Save the output as a file * : Open in an editor : For example : you can search for in your editor to loop through the text content of different layers , or search for to loop through the fonts ( the first font listed is the one the layer uses , others are fallbacks ) I know the output is ugly , but hey , it contains all the info . * ) I would n't do just as it visually messes up the Terminal -- try e.g. instead .
This answer has been moved to a more generic question : <URL>
It depends what you mean by : use them both at the same time So , Apple 's usage of two GPUs is based on <URL> . Meaning as a user , you can not " use them both at the same time . " Now , if you 're talking about using them both as a programmer , well then anything is possible , and you <URL> . Most applications written for OSX though will target GPUs using OpenCL , which is Apple 's abstraction of the GPU . This means apps will call on the GPU when needed , and because Apple 's implementation is one GPU at a time ( not both ) , then most apps will only use one , not both . NOTE : This is in regards to using multiple GPU chipsets , not multiple core within a chipset . Obviously OSX and OpenCL can use multiple cores .
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
Yes you can . Just changes the shortcut setting in the System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcut . You will find Mission Control section for shortcut , and there is entry called Switch to Desktop . You could define your own shortcut here .
You can double-tap to zoom in to a section . I find this feature very useful . As you use it you 'll soon learn where to double-tap to get the zoomed-in view you want . Safari does not have support for changing just the font size without zooming the page , but Opera Mini does have that feature . You can go to settings and choose from small , medium or large font sizes . But note that this only works on some websites , not all . This is because changing font size can very likely break the website design/layout . Website creators like to control the user experience so they explicitly set the font size so the browsers ca n't change it .
end question
start question
What are the wireless display options for MacBook Air ?
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
It could help if you see kernel_task soaking CPU cycles . From <URL> Activity Monitor may show that a process named kernel_task is using a large percentage of your CPU , and during this time you may notice a lot of fan activity . This process helps manage temperature by making the CPU less available to processes that are using the CPU intensely . In other words , kernel_task responds to conditions that cause your CPU to become too hot . When the temperature decreases , kernel_task automatically reduces its activity . So if your case is more than 10 ° F / 5 ° C warmer than the ambient temperature and you are seeing high CPU/kernel task usage , cooling the bottom case or increasing airflow significantly might actually speed up your Air .
Since my speaker system is hooked up to my desktop computer I use <URL> to airplay music and podcasts from my iphone to my desktop .
According to <URL> , this should work . <URL> confirms it . These are the troubleshooting steps I would try : Run all software updates on both the iMac and MacBook Air . A lot of times there are firmware updates that address issues like this . Open System Preferences > Displays and click Detect Displays . Reset the <URL> on both the iMac and the MacBook Air by restarting the computer and holding & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + P+R on boot but until you hear the POST chime twice . Then you can let go and boot normally . Be sure to do this on both machines . Try going through these steps and let me know if you 're able to resolve the issue .
Most of these settings are stored in . The " Show fast user switching menu " setting is stored at ( for each user account on the system ) . The Network Account Server settings are stored in your Directory Services database . You can utilize the command to look at various settings dealing with your Network Account Server . I recommend using to look at the details of this function , but as an example I can use the following command to see the Active Directory domain I 'm bound to at work : For Open Directory you would use : Additional Note from OP : files are coded in binary . To read them in Terminal you will want to make a copy of the file that you can tinker with , and convert that copy into XML format . Use the command to create your copy and to convert to readable XML .
After replacing the macbook air for the key " 9 " broken after one day , they replaced the keyboard for free last week for the second issue ( the key " t " not working well ) . Great
I 'm going to start off backwards . 4k Display will require some sort of cable , wether DVI , Display port , or Thunderbolt that is from manufacturer to manufacturer and model to model different . According to the tech specs of 4K it is compatible with Display port 1.2 . According to : <URL> " Dual display and video mirroring : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , both at millions of colors " This could however simply be that Apple has only tested it on displays with that resolution and once 4k displays are out in the real world people can test it . So your MBP Retina can support 2 external displays and the use of the the clamshell display at the same time . Those external display can be attached via HDMI and Thunderbolt ( adapters ) or both via Thunderbolt adapters . But so far the tech specs limit the resolution to 2560x1600 . It could also be that the resolution output could be enhanced with a software update ( firmware update ) at a later time . Archived Specifications page : <URL> <URL> .
The <URL> in iTerm2 works well for this , but with one catch - it only works if iterm2 is open ( it does n't have to be focused or in the foreground , but it must be running ) .
iHome should be releasing their iW1 soon , which they debuted at CES <URL>
\ = Option ⌥ + Shift ⇧ + : { = Option ⌥ + ( } = Option ⌥ + ) You can display the layout in the Preferences ( Language &amp; Text - Input Sources - Show Input Sources in Menu bar ) .
The closest thing I have found is Cubby . It 's a Dropbox competitor , but it has a feature known as DirectSync that allows you to sync one or more folders across computers ( Mac or PC ) without uploading them to Cubby 's cloud . The downside ? From Cubby 's FAQ : " Cubby always sets up direct UDP connections between clients unless your firewall or NAT configuration prevents it from doing so , in which case data is relayed through our data centers using a TCP based , E2E secure SSL tunnel . " IOW , it might run through their servers , which means it 's not a perfect solution for my situation . Still , it 's close .
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
The takeapart guide on iFixit sells replacement parts , but expect them to be pricey . The Air is a very , very delicate machine so be warned that getting it put back together takes more grace than getting it apart . Worst case , you could buy an entire display assembly if you feel you are doing more damage than good by proceeding with this repair . Three cables go into the Air 's display assemblyL Wi-Fi antenna Backlight power LVDS cable I presume you nicked the last one - it has the widest connector to the logic board . The real problem is getting inside the Air 's display assembly as I have n't seen that documented anywhere publicly available . That cable might be part of the LCD panel and might be something you could try to buy used from a liquid damaged or physically damaged Air . Here 's where the question lacks details to know why you were in there to begin . What part was being replaced that caused you to need a razor blade on this repair ? Are you going inside the display assembly in the first place ? Do n't rule out taking it in to the store in a static safe back with your tail between your legs . You will then know if they can fix it by quoting you an out of warranty part cost plus labor to fix things - both what was originally wrong and the things that have now gone not right .
I think you would be hard pressed to find a router that wo n't work correctly with the products listed . However , if you are concerned get any N router ( non-draft ) and you will be flying . As for features , I 'd go for the cheapest router that supports a USB port ( for connecting printers or scanners ) and a few wired connections .
The Bluetooth profile necessary for stereo audio , <URL> , is <URL> ( aka " Leopard " ) . As you use 10.4 ( aka " Tiger " ) , the answer to the first part of your question is : Bluetooth audio only works in 64 kbit/s mono quality via the <URL> in 10.4 . Probably not what you want for music listening , even if the headphones support it . As to the second part of your question : You are stuck with wireless solutions working via the audio jack , USB or FireWire . In the case of USB / FW solutions ( if such wireless solutions exist ) , check these for 10.4 compatibility before you invest .
It 's a good idea to keep the machine shaded , if only because it 's very hard to read any screen in bright sunlight . Also , on my deck in Carmel Valley California I 've had a thermometer placed in direct sunlight read well over 100 deg F ( 37 + deg C ) when the air temp has been around 80 deg F ( 26 deg C ) . Your Mac exposed in direct sunlight could well burst through Apple 's upper limit even when the ambient temperature is below .
I use a commercial can of compressed air ( versus air from your shop compressor , for example ) and gently blow any and all dust from the exposed interior . I would do this before proceeding to replace the drive , especially if there is visible dust in the interior . I pay particular attention to any cooling fans ( not knowing your exact model ) to blow all of the dust off the fan blades and from the ductwork . A pair of tweezers or a toothpick can be helpful to remove major dust bunnies , if any . Try not to blow dust up into the fan spindle/seat directly , nor into your hard drive or Superdrive ( which is simply saying , be careful to blow dust OUT of things , not into them ) . There may be an exposed pressure port on your hard drive case ( non SSD ) , and the mechanism and optics in the optical drive , which are not friendly to dust or too much air pressure .
Probably not , but you can use the ExpressCard slot instead The model you mentioned ( 17 " MacBookPro8 ,3 late 2011 ) does seem to have a separate Wifi/bluetooth assembly , but you 'll probably have a very hard time finding a matching replacement in both size and connection . I did n't find a disassembled 17 " model , but the card in the 15 " of the same generation <URL> ( 4 antenna connectors and what is probably some sort of PCI Express cable ) . However , since yours is a 17 " , it does have an ExpressCard slot , where you can stick in a Wifi card of your choosing ( <URL> ) without even having to take the whole machine apart . Or patch around your Linux kernel with one of the BCM4331 drivers that are out there , but I assume you 've already tried that .
The trackpad surface is the same on both the MacBook Air and MacBook Pro . It 's the iconic glass on metal design ( patent <URL> ) . The trackpad design and hardware has been the same since it 's introduction in 2008 with the new MacBooks .
I 've used both . Air Display is better at updating the iPad display quickly and smoothly . Air Display also has some additional features , like being able to use the touchscreen as a mouse , and it can be used with both Windows and Mac , so I 'd say it is a better deal . Maxivista is a little easier to get set up on Windows . It just worked . I had to futz around a bit to get Air Display to work , but it was n't too hard ( just have to remember to Run as Administrator ) . For more details on what I found when I compared them , see <URL> .
end question
start question
How can I unstick my trackpad button ?
The trackpad getting stuck is also a well known symptom of a bulging battery in the MacBook Pros of this generation . I 'm dealing with this issue myself and am very annoyed about it too , because this 2007 Santa Rosa MBP I paid for is essentially the most lemon computer I 've ever owned ( at least four other hardware failures besides this one ) .
You can disable it in System - > Hardware as far as I remember .
Normally , this means you just do n't put both fingers at the same time . Try sticking your index and the other finger together and moving your arm or your wrist instead of trying to move the individual fingers . You 'll get used to it . The animated videos in the System Preferences - > Trackpad are a good example of the safest way to do the gesture . Once you get the hang of them , do them like you want , but it 's a good starting point .
Click and hold the Reader button , and a menu of available feeds appears . ( Discovered after much Googling at <URL> . )
If you take a full backup of your iPhone ( right click on it in iTunes and choose Back Up ) and then restore it to a new phone , all data will be preserved , including apps ' data : iTunes will back up the following information Contacts * and Contact Favorites ( regularly sync contacts to a computer or cloud service such as iCloud to back them up ) . App Store Application data including in-app purchases ( except the Application itself , its tmp and Caches folder ) . Application settings , preferences , and data , including documents . From iTunes : <URL> .
You can use a tool like <URL> to map various functions to the buttons on your generic 6-button mouse .
Not sure it 's possible with the stock software . <URL> and <URL> let you define trackpad gestures to do pretty much anything , including mapping them to the key sequences for switching between spaces ( by default + arrow keys ) .
<URL> will allow you do to this ( plus a whole lot more if you wish ) . You can customise a range of actions for each application and assign these to the Apple remote buttons ( this includes both press and press-and-hold ) . You can also define your own custom actions if the built-in ones do n't suit . Nothing came close for me in terms of flexibility and ease of use - I tried both <URL> and <URL> before settling on RB . Personally , I use this to control my XBMC media centre with a range of custom button-presses and use the launch menu to start it up . It works with the white plastic remote too , I 've just got the aluminium one thats shown in the screenshot .
No , wrong . The home button is no sensor in the meaning of a pressure sensor . For reference see <URL> .
Open Audio MIDI Setup from Applications > Utilities . Click the + button in the bottom left corner and select " Create Multi-Output Device " . Check " Built-In Output " ( this may already be checked ) and the Soundflower output of your choice . Right-click ( or control-click ) the device you just created and select " Use this device for sound output " .
The tolerances in the unibody macs are very , very tight and the area is located behind the battery , so Apple does not recommend users without training on servicing the delicate back sides of the battery clean it other than spraying air lightly from the outside . I 've found setting it up vertically and open helps with gravity bringing the grit towards the most open side of the trackpad . ( The part closest to you that swings free and presses on the physical spring . ) It 's not hard to find the tools or the steps - <URL> , but I prefer to take it in to the genius bar for cleaning as long as it 's a convenient trip . If you 're careful , you should be able to get inside the mac and see how much debris is inside and whether it 's worth a trip to the shop or to learn how to clean it better yourself . Getting the back off is all you need following the memory replacement instructions to have a peek .
I do n't believe there 's a way to do it without jailbreaking . Because of the security restrictions on what apps can access , and particularly the limited functionality when running in the background , I 'm pretty sure it 's impossible without jailbreaking ( and maybe even if you do jailbreak ) . If you 're looking to make a screen-cast or something similar , the technique I 've heard is popular ( at least with <URL> , who does a lot of iOS app videos ) is using the iPhone simulator included with Xcode .
From <URL> : For years , Mac OS X has had a great shortcut for getting a quick definition of a word : Simply hover the cursor over the word , and press the keyboard shortcut Command-Control-D to bring up a little Dictionary popup . This still works in Lion , but it 's now much more fully featured and also has a great new way to access it . Your looking for Cmd + Ctrl + D PS : Thanks for asking , it actually made me look and learn something new
Yes - capillary action is strongest in small gaps like the one surrounding the glass trackpad and the unibody frame . That liquid would likely seep and pool on top of the battery .
For ordinary earbuds like the Apple stock product I repeatedly fold the cable in half until I have just enough length to tie the bundle into a loose overhand knot . ( Sounds like heresy , but I learned this technique for storing cables from a " big time " touring concert sound company . ) Been practicing it with all sorts of cables for better than twenty years without any negative fallout . I added this photo of my cord knot after this answer was accepted by Torben , who I believe was most interested in the Devil Horn Technique mentioned below . After tying the initial knot in this particular cord bundle the loose ends were a little too long for pocket carry so I tucked them back into the center of the knot and pulled gently to tighten them into place , converting the initial overhand knot into a <URL> However , I do coil my good earbuds neatly and keep them in a little pouch . Same for the Jlab phone headset I use for every day carry . If none of these techniques suit , there are many practitioners of what , for lack of a better description , is referred to as <URL> Pretend you 're at a Def Leppard concert and make the devil horns with your left hand . ( Do n't pretend you do n't know what I mean -- middle and ring fingers bent and held down by the thumb , index and pinky extended . ) Tuck the buds underneath the middle and ring fingers to secure them and use your devil horns as posts around which to loop the cord . ( Some people advocate a figure-eight wrap , but I find a simple loop works fine . ) Leave a couple inches of cord at the end . Slide the loop off the devil horns , and wrap the remaining cord around the middle of the loops , creating a little bundle . Thread the plug end through the loop opposite the buds and give it a gentle pull to tighten the bundle . This little package now fits neatly in your pocket , is almost entirely tangle proof , and unravels with ease .
Mac OS does n't have a terminal services centric design , so the loginwindow ties the remote screen resolution tightly to the actual physical screen dimensions . Some easy solutions are to connect the Mac to a display ( or a display dongle that simulates a plug and play monitor of a resolution of your choosing to the OS ) so that the OS allocates a larger pixel boundary when the user logs in . Alternatively , you could get software like <URL> to force the display to a size of your choosing .
To clarify , for PowerPC based Macs , this memory was called PRAM , but for Intel based Macs , <URL> . To show the contents of the NVRAM or even manipulate them , you can use the shell commando in Terminal . For info on usage , execute . If you just want to display the entire contents of the NVRAM , you can execute it with th parameter :
I 've always used <URL> on a bootable disk to do memory testing . Not sure what you mean by " burn in " though . Other than testing for stability , bad block and general good-functioning of your RAM there is n't anything else you need to do . Using the RAM does n't actually make it perform any better or worse than when it was initially installed in your machine . Burn Memtest86 to a CD . Boot from the CD . Let it cycle through all your blocks and it will produce a report . There 's an OS X build of Memtest that 's <URL> but I 've never used it . Ca n't speak to how well it works . There 's also <URL> and it 's available as a <URL> package : To install it : Again , have n't used it so I ca n't speak about how well it works , but it 's a userspace program so it means you do n't have to reboot your machine to get it to work . I 'd probably start with that and if it does n't give you a suitable report , move on to Memtest86 on a CD .
Apple does n't provide a way for you to withdraw an erase command from iCloud . Theoretically , if it has n't been withdrawn , an engineer for Apple could go in and remove it from the queue assuming : They could verify you were really you You figured out how to convince them to do this As for whether you can still track the device after an erase is sent , that depends on the version of iOS on the device . If you have iOS 7 or later - the erase action does not stop tracking or remove the activation lock preventing a thief or someone who finds / buys it from being able to use the device . It will still show your lock message and you can still track the device . Problem solved ! If you are on iOS 6 or earlier , you are correct that you will have lost the chance to track the device once it connects and receives the wipe command . If it ever connects to Apple 's servers , the wipe will happen and the device will be erased and you should get an email if/when that happens .
It appears that if you go into Settings > General > Accessibility and enable Assistive Touch , a new transparent button appears on your iPhone . This button can be accessed all the time . It is overlayed over anything appearing on your phone . If you tap it , and then tap Device , one of the options is Lock Screen . Instead of having the icon always be visible , you can go to the Triple-click Home setting under the Accessibility page and choose AssistiveTouch . This way you can easily show or hide the button with a triple-click of the home button !
end question
start question
Can I set a password on an existing dmg ?
You can change it by first selecting the DMG in Disk Utilty . Then go to Images > Change Password . It will prompt you for the password . Then , it 'll ask you for a new password for the DMG .
Beware of legal issues . You can but you 'll need to jailbreak , use extra hardware ( plug a mic into the headphone jack ) , or use 3rd party SIP software . For example , Google Voice has an iPhone app , and Google Voice supports call recording . Google Voice does announce to both parties that it is recording the call .
Apple Photos appears to support GIF but not animated GIF . <URL> I suggest you try a different cloud solution for your animated GIFs like Dropbox or Google Drive .
You ca n't use an existing Apple ID and then enroll it into the store . The " none " option only exists for new accounts as a one-time ( or limited count ) event for that device thanks to scammers and people that manipulate app store ratings with factory reviews and paid downloads . You can usually make a brand new Apple ID following these steps : <URL> It 's generally a bigger pain to have two Apple ID , so I would encourage you to not set up a new ID just to avoid the temporary delay of getting a legitimate address and card for temporary use . Once you have your account verified , you can use store credit for just about everything on the store .
You basically have three options for Virtualization on Mac OS X : The already mentioned ( and free ) <URL> The first solution for Mac ( and arguably one of the best ones these days ) <URL> The very famous <URL> , from VMWare Inc. . Any of these will allow you to run a variety of OSs under OS X without resorting to bootcamp or repartitioning . The last two are not free , but - depending upon your needs - vastly superior in terms of features to VirtualBox . I have the three . I have used the three extensively . In its current versions , Parallels is ahead of VMware . But this changes very often with new versions . Virtual Box is ok but slower ( to virtualize ) and has way less features . VMware is very stable . It never crashed in more than three years of daily usage . Parallels does perform certain tasks faster than VMware , but will occasionally crash the VM . ( It happened about 5 times in a two year period ) . In the end , either will work if you do n't need anything fancy .
You can option-click the shuffle button at the top of an album to queue it in a random order . Oddly , if I do that for the artist it only adds the first song in the list . Weird . And you ca n't intermingle different albums like this , you have to do that manually in the Up Next panel . Correction : if you go to Artists view , select All Artists and then option-click the shuffle button next to one of the artist names , it will queue all the songs by that artist in a random order . If you select an individual artist and do it , it will only queue the first song .
In Lion , the trackpad double-click speed slider and a few other trackpad options have been moved to : .
There is no way to do it through the VPN connector . This setting is determined by the administrator of Cisco/IPSEC VPN endpoint . This not to say that you could not write a script that monitors network traffic and disconnects the client after a prescribed idle time - just that it is not available as a setting or attribute of the VPN connection on the client side .
This can happen with any file type , not just Podcasts , and I 've suffered from this a few times when I move my iTunes library about , especially with TV Shows . The only solution I found was to move the episodes out of the iTunes Media folder , then use the Add to Library in iTunes to add them back in . This forces them to be added to the . itl even if there 's already a malformed entry for that file .
It 's actually pretty simple , in that , if it is not in the app store it ca n't be installed , unless you want to go the jailbreak route because you found an " R " app for jailbroken IOS devices .
No . To my knowledge , the native VPN client on Mac OS X does not have functionality for changing your password . There is some code in directory authentication that can do this , but in order to change a password used for VPN , you 'll likely have to log into a web-based password utility that 's bound to the directory the VPN is authenticating to . Additionally , those ehow instructions are quite vague . It looks a little like the system is authenticating to a VPN at login , much like how OS X can authenticate to a directory service at login . Perhaps it is possible to connect to a VPN prior to login on Windows ? On Mac , on the native client , this is not possible : VPN sessions happen AFTER a user has logged in . Now , if your VPN is authenticating to a Directory Service used for login , it may be possible to change this password inside loginwindow ( as changing your account password ) .
I just figured out one way to do this : Pause the download on the iPhone by tapping the icon . Connect the iPhone to iTunes . This will cause iTunes to start downloading the app . Go to the Downloads tab in iTunes and delete the download .
Run the following command in Terminal , then restart your Mac . The iCloud password will appear again . And do NOT forget to change ID@APPLE.COM yo your real Apple ID .
I 've had to do this on an iMac with a failed optical drive before . From <URL> : ... then reboot , and hopefully the option will then show up in Finder > Preferences > Sidebar .
You can <URL> and enter your product key in the Setup Assistant . If you also lost your product key , you 'll probably need to <URL> . You can find info about replacing your DVD at this <URL> .
<URL> I use and recommend DropDMG since it has many <URL> that make it useful for sharing software such as scripting the building of a DMG file directly from my CI server when I promote a build using the included <URL> . Above : Many options for <URL> , including <URL> and showing a <URL> when opening the DMG .
Select the List tab : Click on the disclosure arrow to expand the subscription ( if it 's not already expanded ) : Click on the download button at the top of the list : Click OK to start downloading all episodes :
Go to <URL> and register . Then <URL> and <URL> . This will then connect to <URL> and update your DNS information whenever your Mac is connected to the internet . You could then use SSH or other means to log onto your Mac from an iPhone or other computer/Mac by connecting to the URL ( e.g. - mymacbook.dyndns.com ) you select upon registering on dyndns.com . There are another couple of steps . You need to get your broadband router to forward traffic coming in on specific ports to your Mac . You should be able to find a how-to on <URL> for your router model . You also need to setup a static IP for your Mac which is best done on your router . Your routers documentation should tell you how to do this .
I do n't think there 's a way to -- the Spotlight indexes are generated by metadata importers that scan files and figure out their properties . If the relevant importer does n't detect some property , then as far as Spotlight is concerned it does n't exist . Now , it might be possible to change the actual file in such a way as to add properties to its index entry . <URL> claims you can add extended attributes starting with " com.apple.metadata : " and they 'll be added to the spotlight entry for the file , but I could n't get it to work . <URL> extends the import system to add extended attributes to the spotlight database , but only works on OS X v10 .4 . Not an actual solution , but that 's as close as I could find ...
A lot of applications ( bundles ) for OS X do n't need an installer in contrary to almost all Windows apps . They are distributed inside an . dmg . To properly " install " them just open the . dmg and copy the app file to / Applications or / Applications/Utilities . A lot of images already contain a soft link to the Applications folder to be more convenient for the user . <URL> If the . dmg contains such a soft link just drop the app on it ( like indicated by the grey arrow in the screenshot above ) . You have to enter an admin password to start the task if you are n't logged in with a user with admin permissions . You always have to enter an admin password if you copy the file into / Applications/Utilities / . All subsequent installations ( like LaunchDaemons or application support files ) are done by the app itself after starting it for the first time . After copying the app to one of the folders mentioned above , you can unmount the " installer " volume and delete the . dmg file .
end question
start question
How can I make Safari show the URL when I hover over a link ?
There are two options . One is a setting , and the other is a workaround . Here are instructions on how to toggle the setting using the Menu Bar : Go into the View menu . Select " Show status bar " . Now , there will be a URL that pops up when you hover over a link , and also tells you if it 's going to be in a new tab : <URL> You can also press ⌘ + / to toggle this setting at ease . The second option is a workaround for when you drag links . Here 's how to get this feature to appear : Click and drag the link out of where it will originally appear . At your mouse will be a small box telling you the title of the new window and its URL , although it may be shortened . You can also drag the link to the plus sign in your tab list , out of the window , or in a folder/the desktop to open that URL in a new tab , new window or save it to your computer , respectively .
Download " password pilot " in Cydia ( the jailbreak app store ) it will save your password so you wont have to keep entering it .
You can right-click ( control-click ) on the folder name in the Titlebar of the Finder window and select a parent folder and or you can expose the Path Bar in Finder ( View > Show Path Bar ) and select a parent folder from there . Also from the Sidebar you can right-click ( control-click ) on the Favorites name and select Open Enclosing Folder , although this opens another Finder window whereas the previous suggestions stay within the same Finder window . Additionally one should become familiar with the keyboard shortcuts of Finder which one can see shown on each menu in Finder , particularly the Go menu . Like , Command -- Up Arrow as mentioned by Ivan Chau in the OP comments . Note : See Finder shortcuts in : <URL>
An alias contains two pieces of information : a unique identifier of the file it links to , and the path and file name of the file it links to . If you rename or move a file , and then create a new file with the path and file name that the file originally had , then any alias that linked to the original file now links to the new file . However , if you rename or move a file without replacing it , and then invoke an alias , the alias is updated to point to the new path and file name , making use of the unique identifier to do so . A symbolic link , on the other hand , does not contain a unique identifier to a file , and would appear as broken if the file is renamed or moved and not replaced with a file of the same path and file name . Your choice should depend on which scenario suits you best .
To remove an item , just swipe your finger to left over that particular entry . A red " delete " button will pop up .
<URL> ... allows to " easily set one zoom level for all websites and have it remembered . " I 'm using it in Safari 5.1.7 . You can download it from <URL> or <URL> .
Take a look at this SuperUser question <URL> . It recommends installing and using the command : You can then use a tool like <URL> to trigger the command <URL> the power failure . <URL> I work on Power Manager , so feel free to ask technical questions .
The <URL> extension allows you to set any search engine you want . It achieves it by listening to the event , canceling the default behaviour and checking your settings for your chosen search engine . Then it puts your query into the specified search engine and displays the results . You could , too , edit the file , redirecting form any of the default search engines to the one you want , but that wont be so neat .
Go to Settings > General > Restrictions and untick the Youtube button . After that Youtube links will open in Safari and the app icon will disappear from the home screen .
Like suggested <URL> , you can drag the search text from the URL bar into some plain text view . However , one can also directly drag it into a ( rich text ) email or chat message . Or into Google 's search field which is conveniently close to Safari 's location bar : ( In previous versions , you could <URL> ; in 2016 versions just drag the search text like shown above . ) After dragging into Google 's search field , the additional search text is already selected and focussed , ready for Command + C : ( In earlier versions , Safari 's location bar <URL> , and the URL in Google 's search input will be gray , not blue . In those versions one could first hit Tab after searching to go into Google 's search field , hit Delete to clear it , and then drag the icon . After that , the search field is ready for Command + C as well . ) The Share button to the right of the location bar can also share the URL , but probably only when messaging has been configured : As an aside : the Google URLs include a lot of irrelevant things , specific to your browser , language , etc. . Often , it 's enough to use <URL> , or for image search <URL> , but then one needs to change the spaces into plus-characters to ensure it 's clickable . ( And one also needs to <URL> other special characters . ) It would be nice if Google would provide some bare sharing link on its own site .
No , this is not possible unless Apple allows this in a future iOS update .
Web clips added by a profile can be set to not be able to be deleted with the X , therefore hiding the X when in edit mode . To remove a web clip added in this way , you need to remove the profile from Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Profiles . You can also try disabling restrictions if they are on . Go to Settings & rarr ; General & rarr ; Restrictions and switch it off , then try removing the web clips .
In Terminal , relaunch Finder . After that you 'll see all your hidden files in Finder . Now type into Terminal and just drag &amp; drop file that you want to unhide on the line . Enter . will reverse Finder back to normal .
Not strictly a duplicate of <URL> however the answer is the same , so I 'll save future Googlers some effort by copying it , with slight modification , to here . Spring-Loaded Folders The slider is located in System Preferences → Accessibility → Mouse &amp; Trackpad You can change the spring-loaded delay by writing the setting manually : Replace with the delay in seconds before springing . Credit to <URL>
I found it . Apple uses <URL> More information can be found at <URL> The advantage of using a no redirect URL is that you can determine which state you are in : Connected Connected to Wi-Fi but Internet is inaccessible due to Wi-Fi router requiring user intervention . Not connected These are called <URL> , or , as Apple calls them , <URL> : Captive networks ( often used in hotels , coffee shops , and other public places ) may intercept your software 's HTTP requests and provide a login page instead of the expected data .
The mechanism to force a full backup is n't well documented , but it does get logged to the console logs as Forcing deep traversal on source : " Macintosh HD " ... but even if this happens , the system will base the storage of new copies of files on what exists on the backup volume previously . I would add a new drive and back up to it once if you are concerned that your backup is no longer reliable . From the command line , you can then check on things with or by using a tool such as <URL> to convince yourself that specific ( or ongoing ) backups are correctly being made .
If you are backing up to an external disk , the fastest way is to disable Time Machine erase the backup drive/partition with DiskUtil re-enable Time Machine OTOH you wo n't loose anything if you keep the old backups for now . As every time slice within TM is a full backup you can still recover up to " now " .
Just hover the cursor over the link for a few seconds . The full URL will spring up underneath . The down arrow that will also appear next to the link will open it in a Quick Look window rather than a browser - but if you want to check the link is safe first , do n't use that until you 're sure . <URL>
I am not sure , but does Airfoil have a Helper application running in the background ? Maybe you have to quit that one as well instead of just restarting AirFoil ? Also , do you have the latest version ? I have just checked and the Release Notes on the Rogue Amoeba website have a bugfix in the latest release 4.6.2 from a few weeks ago that seems to match your problem : <URL> Airfoil now disconnects from remote speakers upon sleeping , to prevent error messages on waking . Maybe that update can solve your problem ?
1 . Tap on an individual subscription or " Unplayed Episodes " : 2 . Tap on the blue disclosure indicator : 3 . This will display the show notes for that episode :
end question
start question
Is there a practical ePub book reader program for Mac OS X ?
I have n't used it - so I ca n't say if it 's any good - but I noticed that you did n't include the <URL> in your list . Have you tried using that to view your ePub books ?
A few searches tell me that there is n't good SSD support for power pc macs . This seems to be mostly a SATA III compatibility issue . TRIM support seems to have been introduced in 10.6.8 but only for Apple-supplied drives . Since Apple was producing Intel-based systems by that point , that is where they focused the support . There are blog posts where people have talked about specific drives working in G5 and G4 macs but this is notably without TRIM . OWC has some posts about TRIM and how it is n't for everyone . The important question is , why do you need TRIM ?
None that I know of ( as advertised by Apple , I mean ) . I found this on my bookmarks : <URL> , which might give you a better idea of what to do before and after installing applications . There are a few apps that take care of this too like : <URL> which tries to find the documents and settings the application uses ( though it 's debatable how efficient/reliable this apps or any app of this nature really are )
Apple does not offer any insurance like that with Applecare . I think Dell only offers it because replacing a piece of equipment is ultimately really cheap for them , but Apple does n't play Dell 's game ( and that is probably part of the reason why you purchased an Apple product ) . Going by the fact that you are in the USA , I think this would depend on the type of damages for which you are seeking insurance , which you do n't specify in your question . Renter 's or home insurance would protect against theft from your home ( rent or own , respectively ) . Damage incurred while being on the road would probably fall under some kind of business insurance , though I 'd imagine you would pay a pretty hefty penny for that level of care no matter who you call . I think your best course action would be to call your insurance company and see what they have to offer that best suits your particular needs .
You 're probably looking for Skype 2.8.0.866 ( PPC ) , which you can find searching the <URL> website . It was released on 29 November , 2010 . Supported Systems : Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard ( PowerPC )
<URL> is widely recognised as a quality free alternative to Photoshop in many regards . ... but it 's not considered to be particularly successful in it 's approach to embracing Mac OS X application design ;) If you want something that is n't necessarily free but is at least inexpensive , then there are a number of other programs including <URL> and <URL> available in the Mac App Store . You could always try the cut down <URL> . For a good roundup , see this wonderful blog post from the Ask Different Community Blog for more info : <URL>
While KeithB 's answer is correct , actually , <URL> in favor of the <URL> . Commands to be run via are described in Apple " plists " , or property lists , which are really just XML files : Having said that , it 's not a very user friendly ( nor Mac-like ) way of scheduling commands to be run . <URL> lists a few GUI alternatives , including : <URL> ( http://sourceforge.net/projects/lingon/ ) ( Free , may not work on 10.6 ) <URL> ( http://www.peterborgapps.com/lingon/ ) ( Not free , works on 10.6 ) <URL> ( $ 5 Shareware )
If you 're looking for something that shows more than GeekTool with iCalBuddy , then the following apps may help : <URL> ( currently a free app ) <URL> ( paid app ) <URL> ( paid app ) <URL> ( paid app ) See more at <URL>
I ended up going with Snow Leopard because Leopard itself was slow ( SL offers countless improvements in how it is built , for Intel Macs only ) , and Tiger , as reminiscent at it would have been to use it , did n't have Time Machine ( which admittedly was n't a requirement in the original question ) . The reason why I did n't go for Lion is because I would n't be able to have it in it 's best iteration : Mountain Lion is reported as superior in speed ( but not compatible with this MacBook ) . Snow Leopard is running fast and smooth , and personally , I think it 's the best fit for this machine .
Lion 10.7 was the first consumer Mac OS to be licensed for virtualisation [ OS X Server 10.5 was actually the very first ] No Mac can boot natively on an OS from before it was manufactured , as the drivers to support that hardware were n't yet invented . There is a distant chance you may be able to get <URL> [ list is for current version , not compatible with Snow Leo anyway ] to virtualise Tiger [ even though it is against the EULA ] , but I would be doubtful . <URL> supports Leo &amp; Snow Leo Server , not Tiger . It might be simpler , if not cheaper , to get an old Mac that would run Tiger natively .
I do n't think <URL> or their <URL> are there yet with general multivariate linear regression but their email support is great and you might ask them which product of theirs might get that first . These do not run offline - so you may have to wait for the whole enchilada to arrive . In the mean time , you will need to use something like <URL> to connect back to a computer that can actually run the numbers for you . This is a step better than just running screens as it lets you do input natively on iOS and shuttles forth and back the data to the main engine running remotely . As you commented , you could get a matrix manipulation tool - both the <URL> and a few other apps like matrix calculator plus will invert matrices for you .
If you email the epub file to yourself , opening the attachment in iBooks will be an option in iOS Mail .
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
Yup , it 's called Mac DVD Ripper Pro , it works great on my Snow Leopard MacBook Pro , and it 's Lion-compatible according to the RoaringApps website . It costs $ 19.95 at the moment , and the free demo works on 5 DVDs , website is here : <URL> FYI , the RoaringApps Lion app compatibility table is here : <URL>
It is not really an app , but there is a Widget for on your Dashboard that can display diagnostics information like the temperature . One of them I personally prefer is iStat Pro , you can find it <URL> ( the official site is offline ) . Hit the large green " Descargar Gratis " ( Free Download ) button and right-click > open the file from your downloads folder . It will be installed in your Dashboard , where it will show temperatures by default . Confirmed by me to work on the latest ( late 2013 ) 15 " rMBP .
I have been thinking the same since I learned about Nvelo Dataplex and recently I stumbled upon <URL> It looks like they are working on versions for Mac , Linux and Windows .
I 'm using <URL> on my Mac and iPhone for pretty much all my note-taking . It automatically syncs notes between computers/devices , so might not be for you if you only want local notes . I find it 's really convenient for accessing my notes everywhere , though . It does n't look like big sticky notes , instead you get a list view of your notes with a preview , from which you can open the entire note . I find it really pretty , but it might not be the aestethic you 're after . Edit : Forgot to mention that I use the <URL> widget on my Macs . There are other options as well , but they mainly come as stand-alone programs .
Here are some references . I do n't have any personal experience with them . <URL> , April 22 , 2010 <URL> . A note there indicates that it is not yet compiled for Lion . <URL>
Apple has just announced OSX Mountain Lion which incorporates iMessage into the OS in the form of the Messages app . This will work in the same was as iMessage for iOS . <URL> You can currently <URL>
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
end question
start question
Are there any tools available ( web tools , PC tools , iPhone tools ) to send an MMS to the iPhone which contains images and text ?
Have you tried sending via email ? I think all carriers have an email formatted address for their phone numbers . Here 's a random Google result with quite a bit of info : <URL> Based on the comments , it appears to work with MMS , not just SMS . There 's also a few services suggested , there .
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
Sadly , no . Your money or your time surely will soon be spent .
As of October 2011 when this was first asked , there has been no official answer stated . With the 3GS , Apple officially stated " the S is for speed . " There has been no comparable explanation given for the 4S . HOWEVER , in an interview at the All Things D conference , Apple CEO Tim Cook <URL> , " some people might say it stands for Siri or speed . We were thinking of Siri when we did it . " So the official answer is that the S in iPhone 4S stands for ... Siri
In the Instruments panel ( the icon of the stopwatch ) , click Network Requests on the left . You should then see the timeline on the left , and a list of requests underneath . Click the Type column heading to sort the requests by type and then all the XHR requests will be grouped together . Alternatively , in Safari 's Develop menu , you can select " Use WebKit Web Inspector " to switch back to the old inspector .
I have n't tried either , but there 's <URL> that says you can View and manage files on your Windows , Mac , Linux , or other network services like Dropbox , MobileMe iDisk , Google Docs , or Box.net directly from the iPad [ via SMB , AFP , FTP , SFTP or WEBDAV ] and <URL> to [ a ] ccess your NAS [ via CIFS/SMB ] without needing to turn your computer on . CCP is clearly more feature-rich ( with e.g. integrated VNC/RDP client , printing and SMB server ) but also comes with a hefty price tag ( $ 24.99 ) compared to somewhat more simple FB ( $ 3.99 ) . There 's also an <URL> that discusses them both .
This does n't appear possible . In order to utilize email functionalities from within apps , you will have to enable the Apple Mail app . I recommend turning off all notifications for Mail if you want to use the Gmail app as your primary iPhone mail client .
You could try <URL> it allows you to save apps to your computer without using iTunes .
The <URL> says that it has the same front panel ( i.e. same positions for the Home button , LCD , sensors and earpiece ) . Other sites have also confirmed that it 's the same layout as the CDMA iPhone 4 . It should work with any case made for the CDMA iPhone 4 , and some of the less precise GSM iPhone 4 cases ( i.e. ones with large cutouts around the buttons ) . It should also work with any Apple bumper purchased from January on , as those were designed to work with the GSM &amp; CDMA iPhone 4 . The 4S also has 4 symmetrically positioned black strips ( gaps between the antenna segments ) , 2 on each side , just like the CDMA 4 . It also has a GSM slot , which is pretty much the only distinguishing feature between the CDMA 4 and the 4S .
It 's more that Safari was being boosted in 4.3 and that that boost was not available to Web Apps on the homescreen According to <URL> this is fixed in iOS 5 .
If you get a refurb from Apple then it will come with the same warranty as a new phone . It is not a scratch n dent type phone , but will look and feel new . Not 100 % about getting one from a provider like AT&amp;T or Verizon , but I think they will also provide a full warranty .
The default key bindings are stored in . You can use to convert the file to an XML format , like so : Or , if you have Xcode or Property List Editor , you can open it there . In addition , you can add your own bindings system-wide to , or per-user to . <URL> has a nice overview of bindings . I 've grown particularly fond of Transpose ( ⌃ - T ) , which swaps the two letters to the left and right of your cursor , fixing my most common kind of typo quickly . In addition , there are various additional tricks using the ⌥ and ⌘ keys : ⌘ - ← and → move to the beginning or end of the line . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌘ - ↑ and ↓ move to the beginning or end of the document . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌥ - ← and → move to the beginning or end of the word , or between multiple words . Add ⇧ to select everything in between . ⌥ - ↑ and ↓ move to the beginning or end of the paragraph . Add ⇧ to select everything in between .
I use Adobe InDesign for this kind of thing ... more flexible than AcrobatPro . Allows total control over what you import into the pdf ( text , images , other pdfs , etc. ) and the ability to create clickable TOCs . If you are going to do a lot of this , or a lot of print , it is worth the investment .
As long as you have n't excluded something manually from the backup it will backup everything , except some cache and log files . I do also have custom programs in , , ... and everything still worked after restoring the system from my Time Machine backup . There is a good collection of <URL> on the web you may like to consult .
The iPad does not support using external cameras with it , as it does not have the drivers required . Thus , the iPad can not use an external camera . However , the new iPad 2 has cameras .
This can be easily calculated with the available information . Since screen dimensions are always specified as the diagonal measurement , the rectangle can be divided into two equal right-angled triangles , with the hypotenuse being the diagonal measurement and the aspect ratio of the display providing inputs for the calculation of the height and width . iPhone 4S Display size ( always specified as the diagonal size ) : <URL> Aspect ratio : <URL> ( which is specified as 3:2 and can be calculated from the resolution - 960 x 640 pixels ; 960/640 = 1.5 ) Calculating the height and width when the ratio of the sides and the length of the hypotenuse are known can be done manually or even quicker , by using <URL> . Check this <URL> . The result is 74.05 mm by 49.37 mm . iPhone 5s Display size ( always specified as the diagonal size ) : <URL> Aspect ratio : <URL> ( which is specified as 16:9 and can be calculated from the resolution - 1136 x 640 pixels ; 1136/640 = 1.775 ) Calculating the height and width when the ratio of the sides and the length of the hypotenuse are known can be done manually or even quicker , by using <URL> . Check this <URL> . The result is 87.12 mm by 49.08 mm .
Create a gmail or hotmail account as these have a web interface , and send the text as email to said account .
Little Snitch uses a network kernel extension to intercept network traffic . NKEs allow you to create modules that can be loaded and unloaded dynamically at specific positions in the network hierarchy . These modules can monitor and modify network traffic , and can receive notification of asynchronous events from the driver layer , such as interface status changes . Each of the networking KPI mechanisms performs a specific task . The basic networking KPI mechanisms are : Socket filter KPI , which permits a KEXT to filter inbound or outbound traffic on a given socket , depending on how they are attached . Socket filters can also filter out-of-band communication such as calls to setsockopt or bind . The resulting filters lie between the socket layer and the protocol . ... Interface filter KPI , which allows a KEXT to add a filter to a specific network interface . These interface filters ( previously known as data link NKEs ) can passively observe traffic ( regardless of packet type ) as it flows into and out of the system . They can also modify the traffic ( for example , encrypting or performing address translation ) . They essentially act as filters between a protocol stack and a device . ... Alternatives to network kernel extensions exist as you mentioned , but only for certain use cases . Because even minor bugs in kernel-level code can cause serious consequences , including application instability , data corruption , and even kernel panics , the techniques described in this document should be used only if no other mechanism already exists . For example , where possible , IP filtering should generally be done using . Similarly , packet logging should generally be done using . Network kernel extensions are far more powerful and allow for more detailed control . <URL> <URL> Emphasis in quoted content mine . I am unfamiliar with the other software but I assume it follows the same principal .
In Notes.app when you are in the " On this iPhone " section , any notes you create will exist only on the phone ( not synced with google or iCloud ) . The option disappears when all your notes are synced , presumably to encourage you to save to iCloud by default , but the solution is simply to leave one in the " on this iPhone " folder .
The iPhone 4S has a much more powerful processor and better graphics performance . It 's a dual core A5 processor , whereas the latest iPod Touch 4G still uses the A4 processor . You will see a better throughout system performance and have the ability to play more resource demanding games . If you 're looking for my opinion about what to buy , I recommend you buy the iPhone 4S . After all : You can always use an iPhone as an iPod , but not vice versa .
end question
start question
If I sell my iPhone , how will the warranty be affected ?
The original warranty usually the standard 1 year + any AppleCare stays with the iPhone . And any remaining warranty transfers to the new owners . <URL> Is the AppleCare Protection Plan transferable ? Yes . If you choose to sell or give away your Apple product , you can also transfer the ownership of the AppleCare Protection Plan . Please see the AppleCare Protection Plan <URL> for complete details .
Apple 's warranty ( AppleCare ) is specific about what components are user replaceable/serviceable . The hard drive on an older MacBook for instance is user replaceable , AppleCare used to have the option to send you a replacement hard drive along with a disposable ESD wriststrap for you to install it yourself . The difference though is the hard drive in the MacBook was almost as easy to access as the RAM in the Mac mini . The Mac mini 's hard drive is a different story . In order to access it you have to expose the logic board which increases the chance of damage from ESD if proper precautions are n't taken . Because of this the only user replaceable part in the new minis is the RAM , since the logic board is still pretty well protected when only removing the RAM . The Magnusson Moss act essentially says they ca n't deny warranty unless they can prove damage . It would n't be hard for Apple to say " The upgrade situation you described to us implies that there was a high risk for ESD damage , which has likely caused such and such issue " . The flip side though is that if an Apple Authorized Service Provider ( AASP ) installs a third party hard drive your AppleCare will remain intact because the AASP has proved to Apple that its technicians follow all safety rules and procedures when working on Macs , essentially the same reason Apple allows them to perform warranty work . Apple would then not be involved in the hard drive 's warranty ( though most HDDs have 3-5 year warranties of their own ) but the remaining components would still be recognized as " in warranty " by Apple . The most you would need to do is provide a receipt for the service you had done at an AASP . source : I was " that guy " at the Genius Bar for several years who had to turn people away from warranty coverage for unauthorized upgrades &amp; repairs . As soon as your Mac goes out of warranty I definitely encourage a DIY attitude , however I would try to heed the above advice while it 's under AppleCare .
Yes and no . The newer iOS devices have internal temperature sensors and will let you know when the internal temperatures are so high that damage is of concern . You basically get locked out of the device until it 's cool enough to run again . As long as the sensor is working , it is safe to use the device up until it shuts itself off . This protection should cover you from charging or operating the device and causing harm to the components in the short term as well as drastic long term damage to the battery . If you are concerned about the <URL> - then yes , do worry about temperature . At 0 ° C - you can expect to lose between 2 and 6 % of the capacity per year depending on the average charge in the battery ( the lower is at 40 % average charge - the higher is 100 % average charge ) . If the temperature is 25 ° C - these losses jump to 4 % to 20 % capacity loss . If you store/use the phone for one year at 40 ° C which most people would consider very hot to hold - the losses in capacity are 15 % to 40 % annually . Charging the battery this hot or hotter is even worse for the health of the battery . So , a few times of limited use under 40 ° C should n't be of concern , but leaving it in a very hot car ( > 50 ° C ) can be very damaging if it 's charging or there for hours or days . Whenever you can keep it cooler , and not fully charged for long periods of time , your battery will degrade less over time . You can weigh the need to use the battery when warm with the eventual replacement cost of $ 79 if you should ever just need a battery swapped out by Apple .
They will . I believe , but do n't quote me , replacement cost will be $ 99 . Apple will only deny service if there is catastrophic damage ( imagine a phone in 3 pieces ) , is a counterfeit device or if it is missing parts . If it is only liquid damage then they will likely offer replacement at that discounted cost .
Your iPhone will not spoil if placed on your laptop . Unless it is so hot that your iPhone warns you about its temperature . Concerning the electronic/magnetic stuff , your laptop will not give out that much amount of stuff to spoil the iPhone , unless your laptop is a microwave .
Sorry for the self-answer , but I found a way to do it quickly using just the iPhone and no third-party software . In iOS 4.3 , do the following : Open Camera.app Click the photo thumbnail to view the photo library Click Camera Roll to view all photos There 's a capsule button at the top that says ' All | Photos | Videos ' . Select videos Press the Export icon - you can now tap on videos to select them before hitting Delete . Not sure why this functionality is not available from Photos.app , but there you go . Thanks for all the other answers .
It appears that everyone that owns an older copy of iWork for iOS gets a free upgrade whether or not your version came from a retail CD or the Mac App Store . If you do n't already own iWork - you will have to pay for either a new Mac or the apps piecemeal on the App Store . The above summary is my understanding of this MacWorld article that includes calls with Apple Press relations and an " on-the-record " confirmation that all owners of iWork should get free upgrades despite some glitches in the initial roll out today . <URL>
Not very good solutions , but it works for me . I deleted all profiles , certificates . Then I generated new profiles , certificates and install it .
' Safe ' is a broad term . If you keep a backup though , there 's not much that can go wrong as you can always restore that backup . In addition , as there are no updates available for the 3Gs , you can safely restore to a jailbreakable version of iOS if anything goes wrong . As the last version of iOS that can be installed on the iPhone 3Gs is iOS 6.1.6 , this can be jailbroken using <URL> . Download it , then follow the instructions .
If you just saw that you exceeded your data , it could 've been many hours ago while you were not at home . AT&amp;T says it could be delayed by 24 to 48 hours . In my experience , the iPhone will only use data from one connection at a time , not both ; Its choice is indicated by which adapter symbol is showing in the menu bar . When you see the Wi-Fi symbol , your iPhone is only using Wi-Fi for the internet . Example : When I 'm connected to a really bad Wi-Fi network ( if I am almost out of range or it lost its internet connection ) , and trying to load a page in Safari , my iPhone will struggle with loading the page for about 10 to 20 seconds . Then , the Wi-Fi symbol switches to the 3G symbol and the page loads using cellular data . The only exceptions I know of are multimedia messages ( MMS ) that are n't iMessages and Visual Voicemail -- both of these things will not come over Wi-Fi and ca n't be received with cellular data off . They are not using both , but they could use cellular while you 're on Wi-Fi . Last bit of evidence and future-proofing : In iOS 6 Beta 4 , Apple added an option for " Wi-Fi Plus Cellular " . ( <URL> ) It will help people who may be on a Wi-Fi network with little or no internet connection be able to get cellular data through to some apps . ( Maybe I 'm just on the Wi-Fi network for Airplay for example . ) It allows you to choose ( from their pre-set list ) which apps can access cellular data while you 're on Wi-Fi . Before iOS 6 , this option was unavailable .
It will be available over-the-air , like all releases after iOS 5.0 . That version allowed iOS devices to be independent of any Mac or PC you may sync them to . More information is available from <URL> : iOS updates are free . And they 're available to download wirelessly on your iPhone , iPad , or iPod touch the moment they 're released . Your device even alerts you when it 's time to get the latest version . So you wo n't miss out on all the amazing features in new updates . A device should retain all your apps , content and settings after you update , but it 's a good idea to ensure you have a recent backup , either on your computer or iCloud , just in case .
I have been following Swype for some time , and the only thing they have officially said was one little peep in Reuters back in June about looking towards iPhone development . In the article they alluded towards a developer running Swype on his iPhone , however no releases or leaks are anywhere to be found . <URL> My guess ... just a guess ... is that they are trying to work around the need to jailbreak your iPhone in order to run it . If you follow the Engadget blog , you 'll be among the first to know . <URL>
In iTunes Connect , under Agreements , Tax , and Banking , you can add your bank account . Apple will then pay the money into the account when it reaches a certain amount .
Yes - all your apps will be removed from their respective App Stores if your developer program membership expires . If your Apple Developer Program membership expires , you will still have access to iTunes Connect . However , your apps will no longer be available for download on the App Store and you will not be able to submit new apps or updates . Source : <URL> Attempting to log in to iTunes Connect will show the following message , but all of the services are still accessible .
You want to make sure that your Mac 's ethernet device is before the wifi device in the system 's network service order . In System Preferences , Go to Network ; under the device listing , click the ' gear ' icon and select ' Set Service Order . ' Drag ' Ethernet ' to the top . Per my understanding , all traffic will attempt to be routed through the top-most device , and will only be routed through devices lower in the chain should the above route ( s ) be unavailable .
About the graphics of the MBP The Macbook Pro 13 '' uses integrated Intel HD 3000 graphics . But Intel HD 3000 graphics are used in different processors . The performance varies depending on whether it 's a mobile or desktop CPU . You need to read benchmarks with caution : ULV processors core ix-2xx7 ( base freq . 350MHz , turbo 900-1000MHz ) ( Macbook Air ) LV processors core ix-2xx5 ( base freq . 500MHz , turbo 1000MHz ) standard dual and quad-core ix-2xx0 ( base freq . 650MHz , turbo 1100-1200MHz ) ( Macbook Pros ) desktop K processors ( base freq . 850 , turbo 1100-1350MHz ) Gaming Performance On <URL> I 've looked up some statistics . They keep benchmarks on how different games perform . I find these real world tests quite useful . If you follow the link , you can click on the single fps results to see each system configuration . Conclusion You should have a minimum of 24-30 fps to enjoy playing . Considering this , I 'll say that playing those games on a MBP 13 '' of 2011 will possibly work , but not result in the maximum fun :) .
A few solutions , not all of them good : If possible , update to iOS 5 ( probably at the Apple Store ) and do n't use iTunes . Find a friend with a Mac or a PC and get them to activate it . Go to the Apple Store ( as Randolph said ) and ask them . Run Windows in VirtualBox ( or another VM solution ) , and use iTunes from there . ( thanks , Fake Name ) Get sixty million of your best friends to switch to Linux and all complain at Apple for a Linux port of iTunes . Run iTunes in Wine , if that 's possible .
Yes , the device can communicate with Find my iPhone over Wi-Fi . Find my iPhone uses the currently available network connection , regardless of whether that be Wi-Fi or cellular . The GPS is still used to obtain location information along with Wi-Fi data and the location is sent over Wi-Fi to Find my iPhone .
Yes - Macs have internet sharing where you can use one device to get internet and share it from another . Most people in a cabin situation set up an AirPort to let all the devices talk and then you would share from the USB to the physical ethernet port . The router would get to the internet from the ethernet and everyone can join the WiFi and share whether or not the USB modem is dialed . You would set the service order to have the USB modem be the highest connection in the network pane . What you ask is also possible - just share from USB to WiFi and the Mac will create a wireless network the other devices can join .
It depends . Other then testing each individual part , no one could really say . What I 'd do is take the whole thing apart , rinse everything off with water ( distilled would be best , but at this point it probably does n't make a difference ) and clean everything with isopropyl alcohol . Dry everything off and reassemble the iPhone . Try to power it on . If it powers on , take note of what still does n't work and email the Apple ID associated with it ( maybe you could get it back to them and charge a repair fee , they may also just let you keep it and , if they 're VERY trusting , let you use their Apple ID password to take the iCloud lock off of it ) . If not , sell it as-is on eBay , where , depending on the model , you still might get $ 100 + , $ 200 + for it .
end question
start question
How accurate is System Report on RAM speed ?
I have the same machine ( MacBookPro8 ,2 ) . A quick web search seems to indicate that my 2.2 GHz model has an <URL> . According to <URL> , the supported memory types are actually DDR3-1066 / 1333/1600 . ( Incidentally , the memory limit is also 32 GB , but this may require more than two slots ; I 'm not sure . ) Technically , this CPU does n't have a traditional " front side bus " , which is a connection between the CPU and an external memory controller . Its memory controller is integrated with the CPU , meaning that the supported RAM configuration is n't further subject to the specifications of an external memory controller . So , it does seem like this system plausibly supports 1600 MHz RAM , after all ! I 'll be sure to keep that in mind when I upgrade to 16 GB . :) Interestingly , when I open the same dialog in " About This Mac " , my system reports that it supports 1333 MHz memory . It seems like it might just report the current memory speed .
Does The ARD Administrator client use a ping ( ICMP_ECHO ) to determine client status ? A lot of firewalls silently swallow echo requests , even of the host is up . Therefore , you may be getting false reports about host status .
<URL> , the 4th gen iPod Touch has 256MB , not 512MB like the iPhone 4. : Breaking news : the iPod Touch has only 256 MB RAM , same Samsung part markings as iPad .
Since Mac-tel with 4 slots support dual channel there is no reason this should not work . You only have to be careful to have 2 pairs where in each pair the memory modules are the same .
<URL> is a relational database engine . You might have heard of MySQL ? It does a similar sort of job . Apple , for reasons unscrutable and strange , decided that they wanted to bundle PostgreSQL in some Mac OS X versions as a pre-installed application . Consequently it comes with some versions of Mac OS X. Additionally , some 3rd party software will bundle PostgreSQL because it uses it to store and manage its data . It wo n't always be obvious what the program is . PostgreSQL generally uses little CPU , RAM or disk I/O unless it 's actually being used for serious work , so it 's fairly safe to ignore it . If you 're really determined to get rid of it ( say , you think it might be stopping your non-SSD-based mac from spinning down its hard drive ) then stop it and leave it installed but not running . If nothing breaks , disable it in launchd , but do not uninstall it . That way it has no effect but is easily restored if you discover there was a problem after all . ( Note that PostgreSQL databases are n't compatible across versions . If you delete an installed copy of 8.2 then decide you wanted that data after all , you would have to install a compatible build of 8.2 to read the data ; installing the latest 9.3 release , or even 8.4 , would not work ) .
Other is a catch-all by taking the drive 's max capacity and subtracting the sum of all other counted file sizes . So , if your drive has corruption where many blocks are unavailable or lost , you will see large other " allocations " . If the other space remains the same after running disk utility to verify and/or repair the volume then you can assume it 's really files taking that space . The categorization comes from spotlight indexing , so you could search here how to rebuild that index if you suspect bad metadata leading to an incorrect storage report . The simplest way to rebuild the metadata ( spotlight ) index is to simply add your hard drive to the spotlight privacy list in system preferences and subsequently remove it . The built-in help should have a guide if you 're not sure how to refresh all spotlight data .
You can do this with QuickTime 7 . Grab a copy off the Mac OS X Install DVD . Go Window - > AV Controls and change the playback speed . ( Or something with a similar name ) Then View - > Loop for repeating .
<URL> it and confirms that . . ... the MacBook Pro 15 " ( 2012 ) has two drive bays , each capable of running an OWC 6G SSD at full 6Gb/s speeds . which is the SATA Revision 3.0 speed . They 've also setup a striped RAID which benchmarked at " over 1000MB/s read speeds and write speeds that nearly hit 900MB/s " . Regarding the Macbook Pro 13 " ( 2012 ) , <URL> using a 6Gb/s SSD only in the main bay , as the 6Gb/s performance of the optical bay is very poor . 3Gb/s models however work without problems in the optical bay .
Have you considered cloning your current hard drive ? With a utility like Carbon Copy Cloner ( which you can use for free for 30 days , I think ) , and an external interface for your new hard drive ( USB , Firewire , etc. ) , you can clone -- i.e. make a bit-for-bit copy of your operating system and installed programs -- the drive that 's currently in your computer . Then , when you install the new hard drive , the computer should see it as the boot disk and everything should pick up exactly where you left off -- just with a lot more storage .
I ca n't find any playback app on the iPad with the exact 1.7 ratio ... However , <URL> has 1.5 and 1.75 playback ratios . They even say in their site blurb that it 's good for fast reviewing of lectures . Reviews are excellent and integration with Mail and Dropbox is there , as well as a very comprehensive codec list
There is a free utility called <URL> that helps you clean out the unnecessary apps associated with certain file types : Open-With Manager lets you edit the list of file types a given application thinks it can open . This is most useful with regard to the Finder 's " Open with " context menu ; and it also affects the way applications behave when you drag files to their Dock symbols . Behind the scenes , Open-With Manager works in a way that 's quite similar to <URL> . And to be perfectly honest , Open-With Manager is in fact Service Scrubber 's well-hidden , slightly older twin brother . That 's why the restrictions detailed for Service Scrubber in <URL> apply to Open-With Manager as well . When running on Mac OS X 10.5 or later , Open-With Manager will not edit signed applications . I use this on Snow Leopard , but I have n't tested it on Lion . Also , it may take a while for the Open-With menus to reflect the changes made in Open-With Manager , so try waiting or just reboot .
If you mean the Recovery HD , then it means that you do n't have a Recovery HD that 's able to be booted into . Try booting with ⌘ R . If that fails , use ⌘ ⌥ R for Internet Recovery .
Since Apple is using the same CPU and mostly intel logic boards , as long as you get the CAS latency and other details exactly perfect , it 's hard to imagine you would buy the wrong memory . Perhaps it boils down to support and testing . If the vendor literally spends more money testing and supporting the Mac memory , it 's their privilege to sell it for more . If they do n't and are just looking to maximize profit , that happens too . Look at Amazon charging different price based on who they think you are , what you have bought , etc. . . Same with airlines that charge different prices based on cookies set from previous flight searches . In the end - all that matters is you understand the return policy and how to test things once you get the RAM . Then it 's just a calculation , you estimate how much is your time is worth and you minimize your transaction cost - pay more for an easy buy that saves you time or spend more time looking for and researching a bargain . Perhaps the seller has decided Mac users value their time more highly and you can score a deal by saying you are buying PC RAM . Happy RAM hunting .
You have to press cmd + v upon startup to see the boot output . Press this right after the chime . If you want to make that permanent , you should probably do something along the lines of : To undo the above : in the Terminal . ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app ) note : I have n't tested the above commands , but I 'm sure a google query will help you there if you want to make it permanent .
This is a limitation of the iPad screen . No stylus will feel like a real pen . Future versions will likely have more sensitive screens . The best you can do is think of it as a giant index card and a fat marker . The Wacom software improves the situation a tiny bit by having the zoom mode when writing . You can find other software that allows more zoom , which would make the final product look like a normal page of text , but the act of writing will not be improved .
I used to own an Apple ] [ . It had floating-point BASIC installed in the upper 16kb of memory . " Booting " took maybe 1 second - flip the switch - > Beep - > it 's ready . If you bought a disk drive , the boot loader was in a 256 byte ( bytes , singles , no M or k ) ROM on the interface card . Apple DOS was written onto every floppy disk and took up about 10kb of RAM . Some trivia for your project : The Apple ] [ 's documentation included a fold-out circuit diagram of the computer 's electronics . Just in case you needed to repair it . The documentation also included the complete source code ( 6502 Assembler ) of the operating system . Maybe 30 pages . Assembler at the time was a 1:1 representation of the machine code . I wrote Apple ( on paper - no internet back then ) asking for the Integer BASIC source code for comparison . They wrote back and said they would be happy to send it , but they do n't have a copy . Wozniak apparently wrote Integer BASIC himself , compiled it with a pencil and the Motorola 6502 data sheet , and typed in the resulting hexadecimal opcodes by hand . All bow to the Greatness of The Woz .
Try <URL> as noted in the question for your MacBook Air and see if the problem persists . If the problem does persist it may be a failing temperature sensor , resulting in the fans running faster than normal to worst case fail-safe full-speed state , your only option at that point would be to take it to <URL> for repair / replacement .
Prerequisites : -- admin account &amp; password -- AFP-share &amp; server IP-address Boot the Computer to Recovery Mode . Open Terminal in the Utilities menu At the prompt enter : Create a sub-directory in Volumes as a mount point for your time machine share : Enter Enter . pwd should show / Volumes/TimeMachine Mount the network share with your admin loginname &amp; password : If your password contains wonky characters like :@ \ / use <URL> to <URL> them Enter : . Note the exact name of your sparsebundle . Enter : . You may enter the first letters of the sparsebundle name and then hit TAB . Hitting tab should auto-complete the Time Machine sparsebundle name . It may not look the same as above as it escapes spaces and special characters . After auto-completing the name , hit return . If you return to the prompt the sparsebundle has been opened . Enter and ⏎ and quit Terminal . Example steps 3-11 : Select and click Continue . After a search it should show you the Time Machine Backups directory as a volume that contains your backup . Select that ( in my example ' Time Machine Backup ' ) and click Continue . In the next screen you will see all the backups that you can restore from listed by time and date . Select the backup you want to restore and continue and finally choose your destination disk :
Indeed it 's possible to extract dictionaries : Someone else already investigated the issue and published the result in his <URL> . The quintessence : Copy the code below and paste it in a * . c document named dedict.c : and this code and paste it in a * . c document named strip.c : Then open Terminal and cd to the folder containing the two * . c files and execute ( in the example one of the dicts in / Library/Dictionaries / is used , you may use any other in the same folder and then have to replace the name " Oxford Dictionary of English " in line 3 below ) : First four results visible in words ( it 's getting better later ) : This should work at least in OS X 10.7 - 10.10 .
you can always use <URL> page to submit any kind of request . if you have this problem in our own iTunes Library , it is easy to assign a new cover to the song or album by just dragging the cover to it or using the option , you know how to do this right ? if you install Last.fm app you can simple play a song and then drag the last.fm cover into the artwork of the iTunes song .
end question
start question
Is it possible to disable a lost iPad ?
Did you have Find My iPad activated via the iCloud settings on your iPad ? If so , then you will be able to do any of the following on your iPad : locate it on a map send a message to it play a sound on it remotely lock it remotely wipe it Just for the record , when you enable iCloud , options 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 above are automatically enabled . If you have Location Services turned on , Find My iPad can also help you locate your iPad on a map as long as it 's connected to the Internet . If you had this activated , or are n't sure if you did , then follow these steps : use the Find My iPhone app on an iPhone or another iPad or visit <URL> from a computer with a web browser . Log in to your iCloud account ( this may or may not be the same as your usual Apple ID ) . Once you 're logged in , see if your missing iPad is listed under My Devices . If it 's listed , then that means it 's been set up for Find My iPad ( a good sign ) . Now , if it 's currently connected to the internet , you have two possibilities : if you had location services activated on the iPad , you should see its location come up . Clicking/tapping on the icon will display the Actions option and tapping on this will give you the following three choices : Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . if you did n't have location services activated on the iPad , it will display a message like " Online , no location available " . In this case , clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will give you the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . If it 's not connected , it will display as being " Offline " . Clicking/tapping on the iPad icon will also display the following four choices : Notify When Found ; Play Sound ; Lost Mode ; and Erase iPad . Select the option you want . For the benefit of others , there are other services to achieve what you want . However , all of these involve installing third party software on the device ( and since you 're asking the question it 's safe to assume you have n't done this ) . Regardless of whether you have Find My iPad activated , this would be a good time to reset your passwords for any online services , email addresses , etc. . However , in doing so , you would be best to change your email passwords first to minimise the risk of any password reset info being intercepted on the iPad .
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
No , you can not do this ( <URL> ) . You should strongly consider not using WPS anyway , as it has a number of <URL> . Apple has a page which <URL> for connecting an iOS device , which might help .
FileMerge 2.8 , which ships with Xcode 5.0.1 links to frameworks that are located inside of the Xcode.app bundle . Shared libraries that are used by FileMerge can be displayed by performing the command : The output of this command indicates that FileMerge needs to use the DevToolsInterface , DevToolsCore , and DevToolsFoundation frameworks . : The prefix indicates that <URL> to search for frameworks that are being referenced . Specifically , FileMerge contains in its run path list . When located inside of the Xcode.app bundle , those frameworks are right where FileMerge expects them to be . However , if you copy FileMerge out of the Xcode.app bundle , FileMerge will crash upon launch . This occurs because the referenced frameworks ( referenced above ) are not in the run path list , which causes to exit with an error of . The reason it can not find those referenced frameworks is that a folder at the relative path does not exist , and the frameworks do not exist in any other folders listed in the run path . To use FileMerge without the Xcode app installed , you have a couple of options : Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to one of the folders referenced in the run path list ( or are probably a couple of the best choices ) . Copy FileMerge to the location of your choosing , and copy the contents of to be at relative to the FileMerge app ( e.g. , if FileMerge is at , copy the folder to Edit The above answer allows FileMerge to launch , but the application will terminate when you actually attempt to compare files . Apparently the application is looking for platform information at the path . This means that it is necessary to copy from to ( relative to FileMerge.app ) . Here are some steps that could be used to copy FileMerge to a folder at :
The <URL> is an awesome solution . The app is a simple wrapper of the messenger.com website . I really enjoy using it an this is what I was looking for . The source code is available here on GitHub : <URL> .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
Yes it is for iPhone 3G and 3GS , but not for iPhone 4 as it uses a different bootrom . Just google " Android on iPhone 3GS " and click on the first entry , where you 'll find instructions on how to do it .
I found a solution to what I wanted so I 'll post it just in case anyone is looking for something similar : At boot time I launch a daemon that executes the following script : In the login screen the script selects the first user account with the up arrow ( key code 126 ) , then an enter ( keystroke return ) brings the textfield to input the password and finally another enter to login . IF there 's an error during the execution of the script , then you still have the login screen to authenticate the user .
You most definitely can do a screen capture from Recovery . Boot into Recovery Open the Terminal from the Utilities menu In Terminal type : You will get crosshairs so you can select what you want a screenshot of ( like CMD-Shift-4 ) name_of_HD = whatever the name of the HD is name_of_user = any user on the system name_for_file . png = whatever you want to name the file When you login as that user , the screen capture will be waiting on your Desktop .
All users share acces to / Applications . Move apps you want restricted to your user 's home folder ~ / Applications and then creat a new user from system preferences .
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
Yes you can , using the following code . Note that the UniqueID , if less than 501 , may not list the user in the Accounts pane of system preferences , depending upon the OS version . Be careful that it is not already assigned to another user account . You can assign a home folder outside of the normal / Users / hierarchy with : If you want a clearer name to show up in the accounts preference : If you su to the new user without having set a NFSHomeDirectory , the $ HOME defaults to .
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
Yes , you can update a Mac Mini to Mac OS Lion . What you heard was incorrect , Mac Mini 's are upgradable , just like any other Mac . Lion requires a Core 2 duo processor and 2 GB memory to run , so any Mac produced after circa 2007 will be fine .
Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard and , in the Keyboard tab , turn off ( uncheck ) " Automatically illuminate keyboard in low light " . Then , if you turn the brightness down all the way , it should never turn on . If you then want it on ( say , a friend who is not a touch-typist ) , just use the brightness keys on the top row .
No , this is not possible since iBooks does not support bulk importing of content from other applications on an iOS device . The three ways to add books to iBooks are : Purchase from the iBooks store and download Sync books through iTunes Send a single book ( not several ) from another application on the iOS device with the Open In ... iBooks option Also , iBooks does not have the concept of folders and folder hierarchies . It does have Collections , but there is no way to map folders to Collections from iTunes or any other source .
Using remote desktop tools , yes . For example , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> come to mind immediately .
You can disable it in System - > Hardware as far as I remember .
end question
start question
Is it possible to copy Firefox bookmarks with iOS Safari ?
<URL> On the menu bar , click Bookmarks and select Show All Bookmarks to open the Library window . From the toolbar on the Library window , click Import and Backup and choose Export Bookmarks to HTML ... In the Export Bookmarks File window that opens , choose a location to save the file , which is named bookmarks.html by default . The desktop is usually a good spot , but any place that is easy to remember will work . Click the Save button . The Export Bookmarks File window will close . Close the Library window . Import the bookmarks.html file into Safari on the Mac by navigating to the File menu within Safari , choosing Import Bookmarks ... , then selecting the file you saved.You may want to delete or archive the existing Safari bookmarks first . You can now sync Safari on the Mac with Safari on your iOS devices . iCloud syncing will make this two-way and happen over the network , but you can also sync using USB and connecting to iTunes if the bookmarks will change rarely .
It does n't matter when you plug it in . You can even remove ( not advised though ) the battery and still use it when the adapter is plugged in . I can imagine the battery does not work properly ( or even work at all ) when it hits the 0 %
The steps seem strange , but first you must create your appleid using a non Apple address ( note that if you already have an @icloud , @mac , or @me email address that email address is already an Apple ID ) Once your Apple ID has been created , on the device go to Settings > iCloud and flip the mail switch on , you will be prompted there to create your @icloud . com email address . <URL>
No , you can not install fonts on any iOS device without jail breaking or by creating an app . But Safari can itself display fonts placed on a server with appropriate html code in the page .
You should be able to use <URL> to do most of what you want . Certainly requirement 1 is met and you should be able to achieve most of 2 with it too .
The native Contacts and Phone apps do not support this in iOS . As a workaround , you could use a third party contacts manager which supports smart groups , creating " Has a phone number " and " Has an email address " groups and working from these . Note that the contact lookup sheets shown by other apps ( like , say , Mail ) are provided by the native app and thus will not show your new groups . A free example of such an app for the iPhone would be <URL> -- searching for " smart groups " on the App Store should get you more .
Yes , restarts are possible . Hold the home button and the lock button until the Apple logo is displayed.Switching it off &amp; on is the same as restarting .
In a word , no , it 's currently available for any App to read , and then subsequently use as it sees fit . However , Apple recently made clear that they would not approve future Apps that request it , and so it 's use will be negated over time , but of course this wo n't necessarily apply to the millions of apps already approved .
Whilst copying from Safari as plain text is not possible as far as I know , the OS X system shortcut for pasting as plain text is ⇧ ⌥ ⌘ V. For Microsoft Word , go to Edit → Paste Special → Unformatted Text or Edit → Paste and Match Formatting .
I know you said however I could not find it anywhere so assuming it 's a typo and you actually meant you can install it with : Or
Text is copied in rich form in iOS 3 + . You can try it by copying some text in Safari and pasting it to Mail . But pasted text format will depend of the app . For example , the SimpleNote app only paste in plain text format , since the service does n't not support image and text styling . There is no native way to see the copied text in HTML form . You 'll have to find an app to do that .
OS X 10.9 Mavericks includes an iBooks app that allows you to read any documents - including purchased books or your own pdfs - that you had in iBooks for iOS . Mavericks is a free upgrade available for the following systems , and was released on 22 October , 2013 through the Mac App Store . From <URL> To install Mavericks , you need one of these Macs : iMac ( Mid-2007 or later ) MacBook ( 13-inch Aluminum , Late 2008 ) , ( 13-inch , Early 2009 or later ) MacBook Pro ( 13-inch , Mid-2009 or later ) , MacBook Pro ( 15-inch or 17-inch , Mid/Late 2007 or later ) MacBook Air ( Late 2008 or later ) Mac Mini ( Early 2009 or later ) Mac Pro ( Early 2008 or later ) Xserve ( Early 2009 ) Your Mac also needs : OS X Mountain Lion , Lion , or Snow Leopard v10 .6.8 already installed 2 GB or more of memory 8 GB or more of available space
Devs still have to upgrade through iTunes , Xcode only lets you put other apps on your phone . So no , there really is n't another way .
<URL> On the menu bar , click Bookmarks and select Show All Bookmarks to open the Library window . From the toolbar on the Library window , click Import and Backup and choose Export Bookmarks to HTML ... In the Export Bookmarks File window that opens , choose a location to save the file , which is named bookmarks.html by default . The desktop is usually a good spot , but any place that is easy to remember will work . Click the Save button . The Export Bookmarks File window will close . Close the Library window . Import the bookmarks.html file into Safari on the Mac by navigating to the File menu within Safari , choosing Import Bookmarks ... , then selecting the file you saved.You may want to delete or archive the existing Safari bookmarks first . You can now sync Safari on the Mac with Safari on your iOS devices . iCloud syncing will make this two-way and happen over the network , but you can also sync using USB and connecting to iTunes if the bookmarks will change rarely .
Terminal is limited in its configurability but <URL> is a Terminal replacement that does what you ask and more . Including bookmarks for ssh sessions not unlike puTTY .
Yes , it does involve authentication by certificate . From <URL> from Apple : iOS supports VPN On Demand for networks that use certificated-based authentication . You specify which domains require a VPN connection by using a configuration profile . The VPN connection is made whenever the device tries to connect to certain domains . Specific apps do n't need to do anything ; as soon as they try to access such a server the VPN connection is initiated . Visit <URL> for information about how to use the Configuration Utility to create a configuration profile that sets up VPN On Demand .
With the native Finder app that comes with OS X is not possible to have tabs . If you really need them you can use some Finder replacement app , like <URL> or <URL> ( both not free ) .
Yes , It will be possible to update to the iOS 8 public when Apple releases to the public . The update could be done via iTunes or OTA .
Yes , as long as you 're running the latest version . Tap the button a the top of the bookshelf where it likely says " Books " ( though it might say " PDFs " ) -- this is the Collections button . Tap " New " to add a new collections folder with a name of your choice . Tap the " Books " collection and you 'll see all of your books . Tap the " Select " button in the upper-right corner , then tap on all of the books you want to move into a collection . Tap " Move " and select the collection you want to move the books into . Poof , they 're now out of the default " Books " collection and now in the collection you chose .
If I understand correctly , you want to backup your iOS devices to a drive other than your Mac 's ( because they have small SSDs ) . It <URL> to backup multiple Macs to a single Time Capsule . Sadly though , it seems that Time Capsule does n't support backing up iOS devices ( yet . I really do hope this becomes an option soon , and <URL> ) . Here are ways you can make sure those 50GB in your iPhones do n't end up in your Mac 's SSDs though . Photos In terms of pictures , iOS8 should have you backed up with <URL> . If enabled , all your pictures and video will automatically be stored in iCloud , which gives you 5GB of free storage ( or 20GB for $ 1/mo , 200GB for $ 4/mo ) . If that is not your jazz though , you can always sync to iPhoto , but <URL> to an external hard drive . iPhoto stores all your photos a single archive , the iPhoto Library on your folder , which you can move as you please . When iPhoto opens , it will automatically look for the iPhoto Library where it last saw it , but if it ca n't find it it will ask you were it is , and keep working as if nothing had happened . Backups iTunes backups might be a little more tricky , but it seems to be possible to move the folder where iTunes stores its backups to an external hard drive , and then trick iTunes into backing up there . I have n't tried doing this myself , but here 's a <URL> that claims you can do it and outlines the steps to follow , both for Windows and OSX . The instructions for OSX are n't too bad , as long as you are n't too scared of using the application ( ) . In a nutshell : Copy to a new location , say . This directory has a folder called , which is where iTunes stores backups for mobile devices . Note 1 : is an alias computers use for your home folder . Note 2 : Your folder is hidden by default . You can open it in Finder by opening typing in . Remove/rename . We wo n't need it anymore . Create a symbolic link to the new location for in your external hard drive . This is basically like an alias in the old location of to its new location . To do so open and type in If you launch iTunes now it should follow the symbolic link and go on with business as usual , not knowing that in fact it 's now working with a folder that 's on an external hard drive . You 'll need to have the hard drive connected to backup , Hope it helps !
end question
start question
If I buy an iPhone app will I have to re-purchase the app if I get a new iPhone ?
No , you will not be charged . You can re-download them in iTunes or directly on the phone . You 'll have to hit the " buy " button , but after it starts downloading , you should see a message saying you already bought it once . The alert box includes a button to go ahead and re-download the app , which you will then not be charged for .
Gifting only works from iTunes on a computer . Perhaps it could be added if enough people ask to spend money that way . <URL> You can also gift from store apps with iOS 6 .
Yes , you can buy a SIM-lock free iPhone 4 , such as the ones that get sold in the UK or in Belgium and use them anywhere else in the World where iPhones are supported by local providers . Be aware that the UK phone ships with a different electrical plug . Language settings can be set from within the iOS preferences . I have mine running with multiple different keyboard layouts ; and you can also set the main language of the device , just as you can set the language of any MacOS device to any installed language ( usually quite a few ) . The nice thing is , that usually all apps also respect that language choice if they provide translations .
Erasing All Contents and Settings ( what most people call " factory reset " ) does not change/remove your operating system . Whatever OS you had installed prior to the reset will remain after your iPhone reboots .
In the Terminal ( located at ) type : You know that you have a Recovery Partition installed if you see this entry :
375x667pts or 4.7 " ( iPhone 6 screen ) When running and iPhone only app in the iPad Pro simulator in Xcode 7.1 ( publicly available in the App Store ) the screen point resolution is reported as 375x667 or a 4.7 " screen . This also equates to an iPhone 6 or an iPhone 6 + in display zoom mode . See PaintCode 's guide for more details on display zoom mode . <URL>
App applications downloaded from the App Store will automatically resume if your network service is interrupted . The Lion download is a DVD sized . dmg file that contains the OS , not a pre-loader . If your download does get interrupted you can control + click on the Lion icon in your dock then click resume .
It could possibly be harmful if the phone overheats , though I spent several months with an older iPhone between my pillow and the bed , plugged in and charging , and never had any problems . Other than that , no .
Yes . Just go to the " Purchases " tab and click " Install " by the app you wish to reinstall : Well-behaved apps should retain settings , etc upon reinstall , as merely deleting the app from / Applications is not sufficient to remove that information from your system . This may not be the case if an <URL> is used .
No . CDMA will only work of you buy and activate your 4S device onto a CDMA carrier . The <URL> shows that when you activate the phone it will choose one technology for coverage in country . GSM Registered phones will roam on GSM as will CDMA phones . Sprint should work in 35 unnamed countries and Verizon in 40 at launch .
You can set the release date through <URL> . The <URL> in the iOS Developer Documentation has a page titled Managing Your App in iTunes Connect , where the section <URL> states : Use iTunes Connect to set a date when the app is available on the store . For example , you can choose a date that immediately releases the app to the store after it 's approved , or you can set a later date . Using a later availability date allows you to arrange other marketing activities around the launch of your app . Sign in to <URL> . Select Manage Your Apps . Select your app in the Recent Activity section . Click Rights and Pricing . Choose a date from the Availability Date pop-up menus . Optionally , edit the other fields in this form . Click Save . Changes you make to Rights and Pricing go live immediately ( expect 24 hours for a full refresh of the changes on the store ) . Read the <URL> for more information on managing your app on the App Store .
What you are looking for is <URL> . It will allow you to run an app continuously ( auto-start at boot , relaunch when it quits/crash ) To use it add a file in Then load it once with The option will launch the application the first time launchctl runs this . The option will re-launch the application if it crashes . The will run it at a certain time . Presumably this is mutually exclusive with the previous two , but is included to show what can be done with launchd Launchctl will run this after reboots .
The user buys an app for the price it is sold at that point . Future changes to the price have no effect on them . It is on their Apple ID that they own the app and they will be able to download the app for free as long as it 's available ( no matter the price ) .
At the very least , make sure you sync your old one to your Mac before you sell it . When you sync , it should copy purchased items from your iPod to your Mac . If you have time , back up your iPod : Connect it to iTunes , then right-click ( or control-click ) and select Back Up . You can then restore your new iPod from that backup . This will restore your mail accounts , sync settings and app data to the new iPod . It will not restore the correct locations of your apps or home screen folder contents .
To expand on <URL> answer , we do this in South AFrica quite often . Register a US account using a valid US Address ( The US Yellow Pages Helps ) Do not register a credit card Download free apps , books , music etc. . Purchase US iTunes gift cards online and load onto account Buy software , books and music . Please note , South Africa has a severely restricted App Store , and we can not purchase games , music or books any other way , and due to legal issues with classification of items , will most likely never be able too
As a developer , you can control exactly which hardware you want to support and which you will not support by picking the source code you use and properly tagging the files you upload to Apple . The iOS app store then can prevent the devices you have disallowed from downloading the app . So , there 's nothing to prevent a developer from targeting only iPhone 4 with their code or just targeting a specific iOS version . It 's up to you ( and each other developer ) to decide on a build-by-build basis , so the general answer would be : No , there is no guarantee that all apps ( or any one app ) that run ( s ) on iPhone 4 will also run on iPod Touch ( 4th generation ) .
On iOS 7 and a newer version of Find My Phone/iCloud , the battery level is reported so you can know approximately how much longer the tracking might be active without a recharge . When this question was asked , the battery level was not shown so the answer then was no . Either way , once your iPhone runs out of power , it will shut itself off . There is residual power left in the phone to run the screen and respond to buttons for a while , but once that last remaining power drains , eventually the voltage in the battery is not sufficient to run even the button sensing part of the device . Plugging it into power will re-start your phone and once it establishes a network connection , find my phone will resume . In your case - if Find My Phone says your device is not found - you ca n't really tell if it was turned off by intention or automatically or has lost network connectivity ( by having a SIM removed or just being out of range ) .
Currently , it is not possible to gift Mac App Store apps directly . There is a workaround where you could buy an iTunes Gift card ( from the iTunes store home menu ) for exactly the price of the app and the recipient can redeem the code in the Mac App Store
Apple provides an RSS you can subscribe to . You can find it by doing the following : Go to <URL> and log in Go to Manage your Apps and select the App you 're interested in Under Links , in the App Information section , you 'll find the Customer Reviews Opening it will display all of the customer reviews , filtered by country . Alongside the combo box to choose between the different countries you 've already got reviews in , you 'll find the RSS button . Note : The countries combo box and the RSS button will only be displayed if there are reviews already . The RSS URL looks like this :
Yes , It will be possible to update to the iOS 8 public when Apple releases to the public . The update could be done via iTunes or OTA .
end question
start question
Why is my MacBook sending out data , even when idle ?
It could just be bonjour or some other background network process or daemon communicating . You do n't have to be explicitly browsing the web to be using network traffic Bonjour - Is a set of networking protocols to allow different machines to see each other with zero configuration . Daemon - Is just a process that runs unattended in the background . Several hundred bytes is a tiny amount of traffic , it 's nothing significant . If you would like to monitor which ports are open , use " netstat " at the terminal
160 degrees Fahrenheit , if it is CPU temperature , is normal for MBP . MBPs are designed to run pretty hot , with the aluminum case as the main heatsink the casing gets uncomfortably hot sometimes . If you want to remedy the problem : use a laptop stand ( I use Belkin Cushtops , they are really comfortable ) , put your laptop on steady , heat-transducing surface ( human skin , blankets or soft chairs are bad -- wooden/plastic/metallic tables are good ) , open up the casing and clean the dust ( can make it ~ 10 degrees Celcius cooler ) or , use less video - or CPU-intensive application =)
The headphone jack had a red LED glowing inside , which clued me in that it thought there was an optical cable plugged in . Plugging and unplugging a pair of headphones resolved the problem .
Initially Apple used the phone number as the FaceTime " account " and non-user-visible SMS validation as the " password " to avoid forcing end users to enter/remember/forget yet another set of credentials . The SMS validation happens behind the scenes - but SMS does have to be active on the phone at the time of first verifying ( and potentially when re-verifying ? ) your FaceTime account on Apple 's servers . If you switch off FaceTime in the Phone settings , wait a few seconds and turn it back on - you can see this checking process . The status message will change to say " Waiting for activation ... " until Apple 's servers verify your account . Once it says " Your phone number will be shared with people you call with FaceTime . " the account is verified . You can now use AppleID for credentials for devices that do not have SMS and an easily accessed/understood phone number . SMS is needed one time at activation to ensure Apple 's push notification goes to the correct device - there should n't be a problem dropping SMS later once the device is registered . This data lets the address book facilitate dialing and location over WiFi . Apple runs servers that let each device check in and request to initiate a call if the receiver is online anywhere . There is no technical reason why FaceTime can not use cellular data for the call ( bits are bits ) but in practice the carriers would probably have to charge more for supporting everyone video chatting on networks that are currently straining to contain the data already flowing over them . On devices that allow an email address - if someone calls you - all the devices currently on ring but only one picks up . For example , it 's possible to receive incoming FaceTime calls ringing on a Mac , an iPod touch and an iPad - and any one can pick up the " call " .
You do not need to disconnect your MacBook Pro 's battery . Your battery will stop charging once it is full . Apple 's modern batteries are much smarter than previous designs . To get the most out of your MacBook Pro 's battery , follow the <URL> : unplug and use your battery until empty about once a month , then charge back up to full . At the time of answering , Apple 's advice read : For proper maintenance of a lithium-based battery , it 's important to keep the electrons in it moving occasionally . Apple does not recommend leaving your portable plugged in all the time . An ideal use would be a commuter who uses her notebook on the train , then plugs it in at the office to charge . This keeps the battery juices flowing . If you need help following Apple 's advice , use <URL> ; it is free and will remind you when to deplete your battery .
Although it 's not exactly what you might be looking for , if under Settings / Sounds / Sounds you set Text Tone to None , no sound will me made , neither when receiving nor when sending a Message .
This process assumes that iCloud is not enabled . It is possible to update apps on the device without doing so in iTunes . For this to work you will need to have enabled automatic downloads . If you sync your iPad with iTunes without transfering purchases you coukld end up with older apps and losing the updates . With iCloud there is no need for you to sync with iTunes , so if a device is plugged in iTunes would assume that you do not use iCloud and will transfer all the updated apps to the computer . All in all it is more of a safety precaution if you are already using iCloud .
Go to the Security pane of System Preferences . Uncheck the box that says , " Log out after [ ## ] minutes of inactivity . "
Thanks for everyone 's advice on this . When I asked the question I thought this auto-shutdown thing was some feature I must have accidentally enabled somewhere ... But after a lot of searching , update-installing , settings-tweaking , etc , I concluded it was just some rare bug in my system . In the end , I just re-installed OS X . That fixed it :)
It 's in VoiceOver mode ( an accessibility feature ) . I do n't have an iPod nano , but on iOS , under General , there 's an Accessibility menu where you can turn it off .
In your Settings go to Messages > Send &amp; Receive and you should be able to set your preferences from there . Go to the " Start New Conversations From : " section and set your phone number to be the default . If your phone number does not appear , turn FaceTime off and on . Phone number should show up
Software Update checks and updates both your running Lion and your recovery partition , so that in the event of a significant security issue booting to the recovery partition wo n't instantly open you up to attack . ( Compare booting unpatched Windows XP from DVD or a vendor recovery partition for recovery purposes ; it has severe security issues fixed by service packs . I 'm not picking on Windows here ; XP 's quite old at this point , and was the biggest target out there for years , and security is a rapidly moving target . ) Given the recent growth in Mac malware , this is a good thing .
Pasteboard is handled by process on OS X. Things which are copied are stored inside address space . More about that is on Apple <URL> article . Whether the data is transferred between objects in the same application or two different applications , in a Cocoa application the interface is the same -- an NSPasteboard object accesses a shared repository where writers and readers meet to exchange data . The writer , referred to as the pasteboard owner , deposits data on a pasteboard instance and moves on . The reader then accesses the pasteboard asynchronously , at some unspecified point in the future . By that time , the writer object may not even exist anymore . For example , a user may have closed the source document or quit the application . Consequently , when moving data between two different applications , and therefore two different address spaces , a third memory space gets involved so the data persists even in the absence of the source . NSPasteboard provides access to a third address space -- a pasteboard server process ( pbs ) -- that is always running in the background . The pasteboard server maintains an arbitrary number of individual pasteboards to distinguish among several concurrent data transfers .
It may be time to get a new Mac Pro . The processing units in these machines often do n't last forever . Otherwise , I would suggest backing up as many of your valuable files as you can , clearing your machine and reloading your OS from scratch ( i.e. Install DVD ) .
I found a solution to anyone wondering . Get a cydia app called xMessages . . Once enabled , you can tap and hold the " send " button and it will you prompt you to switch between text and imessage . There are other nice options as well to discover , check it out .
It depends on why the application is " Not Responding " . An application in this state is not replying to UI events sent by the system . So nothing you do in the UI is getting through , which limits your options . I know of three scenarios in which a " Not Responding " ( aka " hung " ) application can be resurrected , with the possibility to recover your data . The most common cause of an application hang is heavy disk contention . This usually resolves itself if you wait long enough , but it can take minutes in extreme situations . Quitting all other applications , especially those using a lot of memory , can speed up this recovery . Less common is an application which hangs because of a problem with a disk . This is actually not so rare if you are accessing a network mounted disk , but it can also happen with any external hard-drive . In the case of network disk , you can try to unmount it , or change your network location to disable networking as a way to forcibly unmount it . In the case of a physical disk , try unplugging it ( obviously as a last resort ) . Once the disk device is forcibly removed from the system , the application may be able to resume operation ... or it may crash . Much more rare is an application which spawns a sub-process and then hangs because that process does something unexpected . For example , I have seen Safari hang due to problems QuickTime and WebKit sub-processes . Finding and killing the right sub-process may free up the main application . But you need to be fairly comfortable with the terminal , the " ps " command , and tracking down parent process ids . Figuring out exactly why an application is hung involves a lot of poking around at the unix level to see what the process state is . Tools like " ps " , " top " , and " lsof " can be helpful . But hopefully the tips above can get you pointed in the right direction .
In Find iPhone you should be able to tap on the device you want to remove . That will take you to the screen where you see the option . At the top-right of that screen is the option to that device ( see my iPad screenshot below ) . <URL> If the option does n't appear immediately , give it a few minutes to show up . After tapping you 'll get a confirmation dialog box . Once you tap Agree the device will be removed .
There is no way to do it through the VPN connector . This setting is determined by the administrator of Cisco/IPSEC VPN endpoint . This not to say that you could not write a script that monitors network traffic and disconnects the client after a prescribed idle time - just that it is not available as a setting or attribute of the VPN connection on the client side .
It turns out that there is one app that does not have a " Sounds " setting , but still produces sounds and vibrations : Calendar . It 's easy to overlook the all-important setting " Calendar Alerts . " Tap that , tap vibrate , scroll all the way to the bottom , and set vibration to " None . " That should solve it . Here 's your problem right here : Just turn vibration off : That 's right !
It is not possible for the Macbook to go out of sleep when the lid is closed and no external display and input devices are connected . Your best option therefore is to keep the lid open .
end question
start question
What 's the normal operating temperature for a unibody plastic Macbook ?
It 's the fans . They are clogged with dust and other debris from the years of use . Notebooks are not air-tight and intake quite a bit of air over their lifetime ( they need to push the air to the central components like the CPU/GPU to cool them ) . The units must be opened and cleaned periodically ( depending on environment ) to maintain peak operating performance . High fan speeds and poor thermal dissipation are signs that the fans are n't doing their job ( they are likely clogged with dust and the exhaust is also likely blocked , preventing the output of the hot air blown off from the processing units ) . Computer fans work by pushing air taking from the environment onto the CPU/GPU . The hot air blown off the chips move through air vents in the back of the unit . Over time , dust settles on the fans , dropping their efficacy , and the vents , preventing the hot air from escaping . This bakes the components and results in the spike in over temperature . Visit <URL> and pull up a guide on how to partially dismantle your notebook . If you are not technically proficient , bring it to a credible repair shop . There are no " normal " operating temperatures for Apple notebooks , but there is an acceptable gradient . 82 degree Celsius is pushing the limits . The CPU 's thermal threshold is 105 degrees Celsius ( when that temperature is reached , the system will shutdown to prevent thermal damage ) . And just an aside , regardless of locale , all temperatures should be reported as Celsius , never Fahrenheit when dealing with computer components . Official documentation always refers to Celsius .
. ibooks files are a special Apple-only multi-touch version of the epub standard . They can only be created using the iBooks Author app , and they can only be read by the iBooks app on an iOS device or a Mac running OS 10.9 or higher . The main attraction of the . ibooks format for authors is that it can easily incorporate a large variety of interactive features via widgets . The Apple list is at <URL> and a 3rd party list is at <URL> . epub is an open standard which can be produced by a number of apps ( including Apple 's Pages ) and can be read on any platform using a variety of apps ( including Apple 's iBooks ) . There is no way to convert . epub to . ibooks , other than to put the content into iBooks Author and republish it from that app . Starting with version 2.3 of June 2015 , iBooks Author can also produce . epub format , as long as one of the . epub templates is used .
In OpenOffice and LibreOffice , you go to Format > AutoCorrect > AutoCorrect Options > Localized Options and uncheck the boxes for Replace under Single Quotes and Double Quotes .
Well , in my point of view , if the app works 75 % of the time playing AVI files , I would try to contact the developer directly , there might be something required ( like a plug-in ) or a bug that needs fixing . Like it says in the FAQ , if contacting the developer produces no result , then I guess you could ask for a refund . I have heard that they gave refunds to people who were unhappy before , but it was a last-resort solution if I remember correctly . Also , I presume the App store staff will fight for you more if you paid 100 $ for your app , and a little less if you only paid a buck ... :-)
The ideal solution ( that I 've found after years of cleaning Apple products ) is not to use alcohol directly . Instead , mix it with water . The proportion to mix is simple : Three parts isopropyl alcohol Seven parts water I use a bottle cap , fill it with alcohol three times then the same cap with water seven times ( you can use something bigger if you want more ) . With that solution , you 're safe to clean all your mac and the alcohol presence guarantees a slow but secure grease removal without leaving the typical alcohol stain/residue that occurs when you use pure alcohol . Also the low concentration makes it safer against things that may get damaged by the usage of pure alcohol like rubber compounds or human skin . For occasional cleanup you can use the simple , free and excellent <URL> . All it does is make your screen black ( so you can clean it better ) and lock your keyboard so you do n't trigger accidental keys while cleaning . Of course , you can always shutdown the computer too . Regarding products like iKlear and such , they are ok , in fact I 'd recommend you always get a bottle of iKlear around , it 's good to have and their small wet towels are very handy for quick clean . Remember never to use toilet/kitchen paper , use instead any " approved " cloth ( like iKlear , TomBihn , etc. ) the " micro fibers " are designed to not scratch your surface . I would n't use pure alcohol .
Seems like the new answer is the Google + app for iOS .
This may be the built in " undocumented " to non-developers feature of Lion called Automatic Termination that is causing Xcode to quit when you do n't want it to . As noted in " <URL> " Lion will quit your running applications behind your back if it decides it needs the resources , and if you do n't appear to be using them . The heuristic for determining whether an application is " in use " is very conservative : it must not be the active application , it must have no visible , non-minimized windows -- and , of course , it must explicitly support Automatic Termination .
In the left corner of the top menu , pick the apple menu and select . In the panel , click the button . if you hover your mouse on you can see the general info about your macbook pro such 15 " or 17 " . As <URL> said in comment above solution for before 2007 now choose Graphics/Displays from the left column , it does display the screen resolution .
Over wireless , I 'd assume less than 5gb per hour . More likely 2-3 , putting your backup in the 5-6 day range . Your best bet is to use an ethernet cable to connect to the Airport Extreme while the first backup runs . You should average 10 + gb per hour over a cable and I 'd hop
Macs that shipped with Lion or newer come with a <URL> which is part of the EFI firmware , so that if the hard drive fails , or you install a new hard drive without OS X , the computer can start recovery directly from the internet over a broadband connection . To start Recovery , hold down the Command + R keys while booting . The interface is pretty straightforward after that and you should be able to figure it out . Apple also has as support article on <URL> , and one on <URL> through a firmware update .
iOS device boot times ( timed using a second hand ) : Feel free to edit this answer and add your own times .
Yes . That 's normal . As for " okay " -- it depends . The heat is coming from the extra graphic activity and CPU activity you 're asking your machine to perform when playing the games . The MBPro is vented at the back , along the hinge between the screen and the keyboard , you want to make sure that area is free of obstructions and the hot air can leave escape unimpeded . Long-term exposure to high operating temperatures can certainly be detrimental to the components in your machine . But for the most part , if your machine 's venting is unobstructed , it should be able to cool itself adequately .
After the rMBP or the MacBook Air are left sleeping for one hour , they enter a deep sleep mode in order to conserve battery . Traditional Macs without SSDs do not enter this mode , so they might awake from sleep a bit faster . To answer your question , that is normal behavior .
Command ⌘ + Option + Esc opens the " Force Quit Application " dialog , which lets you select and kill running applications . If that does not work , Command ⌘ + Option + Shift + Esc held down for 5 seconds kills the foremost application .
While not available until this summer , the next version of the Mac OS ( Mountain Lion ) will allow you use <URL> . From the site : Your Mac is on TV . This new feature in Mountain Lion is made for an audience . With AirPlay Mirroring , you can stream what 's on your Mac to your HDTV via Apple TV . Show web pages and videos to friends on the couch . Share lessons with a classroom . Present to a conference room . It 's a big deal for your Mac . And for everyone around it .
If you need to clean your Apple hardware use a clean dry microfiber cloth . It 's what I see Apple employes using on all the equipment in the Apple stores . I 've been using microfiber for years on all my Apple devices and has worked great without any damage . Note : If necessary you can slightly dampen it with distilled water and wring it out well so it is really just ever so slightly dampened and the follow up with a clean dry microfiber cloth .
<URL> is a brilliant opensource text to speech project . It 's the default TTS software on many Linux distributations , but there 's a Mac version available and it works great . There is also a project based on eSpeak called <URL> which adds " singing " functionality . Fwiw , I really do n't see Apple suing you if you use the built-in TTS they provide .
The Basics : <URL> Time Machine is Apple 's backup solution , included in OS X . An external drive is required . It backs up changed files every hour , and stores as many " snapshots " as it can hold . After the initial full backup , it only stores changes to files , which makes things more efficient , and allows for more granular snapshots . In addition to being able to do a full system restore , you can selectively restore older versions of specific files , which is handy in case you delete or make changes you did n't mean to . Using Time Machine on OS X 10.7 and later also enables " <URL> " , which keeps snapshots of changed files on your main drive when you do n't have your backup drive attached , provided there 's sufficient space . Obviously this does n't help if you have a drive failure , but in the case of accidental deletions , etc. it can be helpful . For more information , Apple 's <URL> article is a good starting point . Online Backup If you 're on the go a lot , you may want to consider an online backup service . <URL> is a popular one , but there 's also <URL> , <URL> and several others . The advantages are not needing an external drive , and having an off-site backup to recover from in the event of something nasty happening to your house . The downside is the monthly cost ( I believe BackBlaze is a flat fee , others have differing schemes based on how much data you back up ) , as well as the time required to back up over the internet . These services only back up data that has changed , so after the initial full backup , things will get faster , but depending on your connection , it could be a bit problematic ( particularly if you 're travelling -- most hotel Wi-Fi I 've used is n't exactly speedy ) . <URL> SuperDuper is a longstanding Mac favourite . It will make a complete clone of your drive to an external drive , which is then bootable and usable exactly like your internal drive . It also has a " smart update " feature , where after the initial clone , it only updates the backup with changed data , to minimize how long backups take . SuperDuper is the best way to get up and running again after a hard drive crash -- you can boot off your backup drive right away and you 'll your full system . <URL> I 'm listing this separately from the other online backup systems because it 's not really a full backup , but it 's definitely worth using . It 's simply a folder that syncs to the Dropbox servers and wherever else you install your Dropbox client . Some limited storage of old versions of files is also included . 2GB is provided free , you can pay if you need more . The best use of Dropbox would be for your current working files . It wo n't store everything , but if you use it for the files you most often need , or those that you 're using lately , you 'll have up to date backups from whenever you have an internet connection . Wrap Up You 'll have to do think about what exact setup suits your needs best . Ideally , a robust backup system would include at least two or three of these options in combination , so that you have multiple fallbacks . For example , you could do a daily or weekly SuperDuper backup , and then use Dropbox or Time Machine to restore the files you 've been working on since your most recent backup . Adding in an online backup service for off-site redundancy will give you some added protection in the event your local backups are lost or destroyed .
In general , extended warranty plans are a healthy-sized profit center for the company offering them . This implies that unless a product turns out to be less reliable than predicted , on average ( mean average ) customers will be better off paying for their own repairs without the warranty . However , if one ca n't afford to self-insure for abnormal or even normal deviations from the average , something like AppleCare will lessen the downside financial risks . Thus , I suggest ( and buy ) AppleCare only if an Apple product seems to be getting numbers of reports of below average reliability ( e.g. the Duo 2xx and PowerBook 5x00 product lines ) . For other Apple products , maybe put the money in a savings account instead , and there is a good likelyhood that you 'll end up ahead after a decade or two of Apple products .
The temperature shown does come from the Weather App . Small bits of data on the watch face are known as complications . Tapping the temperature on the watch face will open the Weather app thus revealing the source of the data . The watch gets the data from your iPhone which , in turn , uses location and data from the Internet . You may find more useful information in the <URL> .
end question
start question
How to get Apple Mail badge ( n. of unread messages ) from script ?
This uses Mail 's unified inbox to display the number of unread messages , thus , it 's equal to the number on Mail 's red icon badge .
This has been FINALLY fixed in IOS 7 . Now you can remove contacts from this cache . As soon as the unwanted contact pops up while you 're typing in the " to : " field , you can tap on a little " i " ( probably for " info " ) icon on its right , and have a menu appear where you can remove the contact , or add it back to your address book if you feel so inclined .
Many ports have a + nox11 variant , which you can add as a default variant in the variants.conf file that 's pointed to in your macports.conf file . However , in my experience , there are some X11-dependent ports that do n't have the + nox11 variant . I believe I 've also seen situations in which non-X11-dependet port A depends on port B , and port B is so deeply X11-dependent that it would n't even make sense for it to have a + nox11 variant . Overall , in my experience , it 's practically impossible to keep Xorg from getting installed . :-(
Since the release of iOS 5 , it it possible to flag messages using the " Mark " dropdown menu .
You can bring your Apple Watch back to normal functioning mode by pressing and holding the side button , the same way that you do when you wish to power it on . This command will only work if you plugged the Watch in , or if there is sufficient battery juice available .
I 'm afraid there is n't a solution currently available for this . I 've been using Nike + alongside Spotify for over a year now by starting my Spotify playlist then starting a run in Nike + and selecting " no music " . I used to use iTunes playlists which worked with the power song feature and while that was kinda cool it 's really not something I miss . You might email them through their support page ( could n't find a feedback form ) and mention it as a feature for future revisions . <URL>
I can provide half an answer . I 'm not sure how to get the SMS out of the Nokia backup , but you wo n't be able to copy them to the new iPhone directly . You 'll need to write a script to translate them to the iPhone format . I provide instructions below how to reverse engineer the iPhone SMS DB . The iPhone SMS DB is sqlite3 . If your iPhone is jailbroken , you can get and view the DB on the phone itself ( install terminal ) or on your desktop : If your phone is not jailbroken , you can operate on the backup up SMS DB , replace the backup locally and then restore the iPhone . The backup is located in : And , in my case , and according to various web sources , is named : Although comments below indicate that may not always be the name of the file . Run the sqlite3 command above to dump this to ASCII to understand the format , then replicate this format with whatever tools you want from your Nokia DB . Here are some instructions on how to migrate your SMS in the reverse direction for Android : <URL> An iPhone database extractor : <URL>
This AppleScript should restore all hidden windows . The first action unhides any hidden programs . The second action restarts the Dock , which has the effect of un-minimizing any windows minimized to the Dock . If you particularly want an Automator workflow , give it one action : Run AppleScript , and assign this AppleScript .
Your Mac Mini has optical audio-out , which supports multiple channels . Apple has cleverly put a little optical transmitter inside the headphone jack ( many Macs have this , not just the Mini ) . To turn it into something useful , you have to use a little adapter ( like <URL> to get a Toslink signal . From there , it gets interesting . You say that your speakers have to jacks . I assume you mean two analog 3.5 mm ( headphone ) jacks . Unless your speakers have a digital or optical input , you 'll need to get a receiver that can do the digital - > analog conversion . Something like <URL> should work ( there are tons of options , this is just the first one I found ) . The key is to look for something with digital/optical in , and 4 + channel preamp out . Another option : The Mac Mini has HDMI out . You can find a receiver that has HDMI input ( like the one above ) , and 4 + channel preamp out .
That 's not possible as far as I know . There are n't any real " hooks " into Time Machine . However , you can do something nearly as good : you can disable the automatic backups that Time Machine does and run it manually instead : Note this bit from <URL> The -- auto option provides a supported mechanism with which to trigger " automatic-like " backups , similar to automatic backups that are scheduled by the system . While this is not identical to true system-scheduled backups , it provides custom schedulers the ability to achieve some ( but not all ) behavior normally exhibited when operating in automatic mode . It is not clear to me what the difference is , but it 's worth noting that one exists .
OK , I figured it out but it 's not straightforward . I figured it had to be stored in a . plist file somewhere , so I searched all the . plist files in for ones that contained the Apple ID I used for iMessages . These were the ones : When I searched for on the web I found a link to a <URL> on the Apple forums that also helped out . So basically , this is what I did : Delete the . plist files I mentioned above ( note , the last one with the UUID in the name is likely to be different for each user ) : Then I removed all the chat history and archive : Then I restarted the Mac just in case . Now the account and everything about it that ever existed on this machine is gone :)
The whole iMessage system is entirely proprietary , and there are no 3rd party clients available to use instead of the official ones , on either iOS or OSX . That 's not to say it wo n't be reverse engineered in time , but I suspect that Apple will fix any issues way before anything like that happens . I too get messages that appear out of order and occasionally ones that simply never show on one device or another , but anecdotally I only ever see this when devices are playing " catch up " with messages that I have already read elsewhere .
If you go into Preferences , Accounts , select your account , then select the " Mailbox Behaviors " tab , there 's an option to disable saving drafts on the server . I know you said you did n't want to disable saving of drafts , but this option will still save the draft on your computer , yet it wo n't mess up Mobile Me .
You 've turned it off in Notification Center . Open Settings , then scroll to Notification Center and tap it . Scroll down to the " Include " section ; " Messages " should be there . If not you 've turned off notifications for it altogether ; scroll on down to " Do Not Include " and you should see it there . In either case , tap it . Tap the " Badge App Icon " switch so it 's on . Your messages count should be back .
All third party apps on the Watch currently are going to be slower than grabbing the iPhone , unless you ca n't get at the phone due to social constraints or it being inaccessible in a bag or pocket or some distance from you and the watch . This is because Apple has made every effort to let no code run on the watch at release . Third party apps get to run nothing on the watch . They do n't get access to the digital crown , force touch , regular touch , sensor data or the speaker/microphone directly . They only pre-load some potential answers and pictures ( think flash cards and a small photo album ) and all the work gets done on the iPhone OS . If you want an answer quickly , get your phone out and access the apps there directly . That saves the Watch from constructing a network connection to the phone , waking it up if needed , activating the app in the background and then telling the app what to do so that the phone app can then tell the watch what images / text to display . If those assets are not pre-loaded on the watch , you then have to wait for them to transfer . The watch will be faster than the phone only when the phone can push events to the watch on its own behalf . For Dark Sky - perhaps you have a severe weather alert that the phone detects in the background or due to a push notification from the Dark Sky servers to the phone using APNS . Then the phone knows there is a watch and pushes a notification to it . You 'll get that notification on the watch before you can pull out your phone . Worse , most of the apps that are shipping are programmed only in the Xcode simulator and not by developers that have used the watch . A select few developers had the chance to tweak their app with pre-release watches and in the past few weeks with hardware , but most apps just ca n't be great yet . It 's like reading a book about how to learn to ride a bike and then playing with a bike riding simulator . Developers need to go out and ride their bikes and crash , skin their knees , crash some more before they know how to actually ride that new bike . Here are some developer perspectives explaining this in more detail : <URL> <URL> The two apple watch apps I was involved in were not shipped . After evaluating the risk of shipping a smiling , we decided the benefit of being " First " was n't worth the high chance of wasting our time and our user 's time until we actually know if the app would be useful .
The monitor used dual-link DVI . I was able to get it working using this adapter , and it now displays up to 2560 x 1600 : <URL>
While I did have Sound > Input set to internal or webcam mic and neither worked , it seems the Internal Microphone was not selected on the Dictation &amp; Speech > Diction tab . It got switched to Aggregate Group which I was playing with a few months ago ( trying to generate multiple simultaneous outputs ) . So yeah just needed that Mic selected on LHS of Diction preference . <URL>
Power Nap , a feature of MacBooks that enables them to do more when they are asleep ( like back up to iCloud/Time Capsule , check emails , and check iMessage ) will allow your Mac to stop showing messages you 've already read when you open your computer . Here is <URL>
Some strange answer for your strange question , but i 'll post it . In gmail account settings enable access via POP , and set it for mail that arrives from now . Then set up Mail app and you 'll get only new emails .
In Preferences , select Messages and check " Save history when conversations are closed . " Now when you quit Messages , it will create a collection of chat transcripts . You can easily access these in your Library folder . From Finder , select Go > Go to Folder and type : . If you are on Mavericks or Yosemite , the location is . This will take you directly to the appropriate folder .
end question
start question
How to use new Macbook Air 's power adapter with previous generation MacBook Pro ?
Apple only produces <URL> to connect the original Magsafe to Macs with Magsafe 2 . It does n't provide one to go the other way around . At the moment I 'm unaware of any third party product that does this ( and given the lack of third party Magsafe accessories in general , I would n't expect one any time soon ) .
If a unibody Mac is wobbly , I 'd have it serviced sooner rather than later . The tolerances inside are crazy tight in some cases , so a warp could cause subsequent damage to sensitive and costly parts . A trained technician can tell at a glance if the damage was external or due to manufacturing issues . Now , that being said , I 've seen dozens of Macs where people reported they were off and most were the table it sat upon , and not a bend in the unibody frame of the Mac . You can test by measuring how many sheets of printer paper fit under the leg ( s ) that has ( have ) a gap . Then rotate the Mac 1/3 of a turn and repeat the measurement . Then take it to a second flat surface and do the measurement one last time if you 're not convinced that it 's the frame instead of the surface that is off-level . Any wobble that 's less than three sheets of paper is probably nothing to worry about , but what if you needed a logic board repair 10 months down the road and today , your Mac is bent out of tolerance and you were denied warranty coverage since you did n't report the bend until then ? Only by getting it checked will you know if yours was out of tolerance and have a service record to point to in case of a warranty repair question later .
You might be able to use ioreg to determine the cycle count of the battery . A low cycle count indicates that the battery has not been discharged and charged very much . " Cycle Count " shows how many times the battery has been cycled . You can read more about battery cycle counts <URL> . Another idea is to use pmset to log the state of the system 's power . You could , in theory , have that dump to a file to investigate after some time has passed . Take a look at the <URL> . will log the state of system 's power . As the device is unplugged or plugged you 'll see the log update . This could show how frequently a notebook is unplugged and charged . If it remains plugged in for long spans of time , or is often drawing from ' AC Power ' then you 'd know if it 's mobile or not .
Simple answer -- yes you can ! there should be no any problems .
It 's likely that you are running something in the background ( such as Skype ) which is triggering your dedicated graphics card , despite it not actually doing anything graphically intensive . This is a known issue in Apple 's graphics card switching technology . Download and run <URL> and see if I 'm right . If so , close the problematic program or use gfxCardStatus to manually switch to the much lower-powered integrated chip . You should get longer battery life after that ; I have n't directly measured it but I know I get at least 30 minutes to an hour of extra life . And of course it also depends on what you 're doing with your computer , what background programs are running , the brightness of your screen , etc. .
This is not normal . I had a very similar problem with a <URL> ( they only sold them for a short time in 2008 . This is nearly the exact same case as the MBP that you have , except your Pro did actually have minor updates to help alleviate the problems we had in our MacBook . The problem would only appear after the machine had warmed up for a little bit . The hinge would make a creaking noise when closing , and as it got worse , when opening . It also would stay hinged just slightly open ( not waking from sleep ) when being carried in a laptop bag . This was due to an issue in the hinge on the keyboard part . Apple replaced two screens for us . The problem would fix it self for a month or two , but them come back . They finally redid the entire top half of the machine , and it worked great for 9 months . 2 months out of warranty , it happened again . Due to having over 3 repair attempts ( there were actually 4 ) , Apple instead offered us a replacement machine . We were told at that time that there were quite a few reports of this problem , and they had been addressed in the latest rev of the MBP . Since the unibody MB was no longer available , they upgraded us to the base 13 " MacBook Pro . Im assuming that while it mostly had been fixed through minor updates , there may be one with a similar problem now and then . The problem is related to the hinge design , and I have only seen it affect 13 " models . I would highly recommend taking it to the Apple store and having it replaced . They will not replace the whole top part on the first try , only the display .
As with any computer , using a higher-wattage power adapter is fine , but using a lower-wattage one might not let it run at full efficiency and may be unhealthy for the battery in the long term . ( And of course it wo n't charge as fast . ) There are a number of answers to this same question , but for MagSafe chargers , <URL> . Kuba Ober 's answer goes into quite a bit of detail about it , though I ca n't personally vouch for its accuracy .
Here 's one example of someone running two 27 " displays at 2560x1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort plus an HDMI display at 1920x1200 : <URL> The Thunderbolt ports officially support up to 2560x1600 so that resolution should n't be any problem either : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors <URL> To get up to that resolution , you 're limited to either Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort or Dual-Link DVI via an adapter - single link DVI and VGA adapters wo n't go that high . For the HDMI port , I have n't seen any specific maximum resolution . This person got up to 2048x1280 : <URL> Generally , external monitors work fine in Windows . I see no reason why it would be any different on the Retina model or on Windows 8 specifically .
See <URL> . This link suggests that you should fully discharge and recharge the battery at least once a month . I did not see this on that page , but I read somewhere that it is ok to leave a mac plugged in for an extended time , so just make sure you exercise the battery and let it completely discharge every once in a while .
Your Thunderbolt monitor has a MagSafe Connector - your MBP has a MagSafe 2 Connector . Apple now supplies a <URL> with the display ( check the packaging - the adapter is small ) . If you are missing the converter , check with Apple - they should give you a replacement .
Yes , most external webcams will work fine with a MacBook Pro with a built-in camera . Just check the box for the camera before you purchase to ensure it 's compatible . Some webcams may come with bundled software which only works on Windows which is why you should check before you buy in case the software features are important to you .
Unfortunately , there is no direct way to force OS X to use battery-power mode ( <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ) . OS X uses <URL> which changes the P-state of the processor depending on the computer 's power status ( AC/battery ) . AFAIK , the only thing you can do is set your AC mode power management settings to the same as battery mode . Using , you can see and set the power settings that your Mac uses for AC and battery scenarios . Below is an example : A brief run-through of the command : : pmset : get settings : displays custom settings for all power sources To equalise your AC power settings with your battery consumption settings , you can use the following command : A brief run-through of the command : : see above : converts entire output to one line : removes output following " A " of " AC Power : " : removes output preceding " : " of " Battery Power " ( example output as of this stage ) : passes the above argument line one by one to Now , the output of looks like this : Note that for similar properties that had different properties ( i.e. , which had on battery and on AC ) , they are now the same . It is advisable to keep a backup of the original AC power settings in case you would like to revert . As follows , you can generate a string that you can use to reset your AC power settings with the following command : The difference between this command and the one above is that with this command , we are taking the value after AC power ( aka original AC power settings ) . To reset your settings to your original settings , take the string generated by the above command and pipe it through to : I would also advise following <URL> to decrease power consumption .
No , it does not . You need the discrete GPU to run an external display . Funny though , because the integrated GPU 's of the MacBook Air can power up to a 27 " thunderbolt display . But that 's how Apple rolls .
Yes . It usually " just works , " but if you 're having trouble , Apple has detailed instructions : <URL>
False , Dual DVI means that it has more bandwidth , not that you can attach two monitors . Quote from <URL> article : To support display devices requiring higher video bandwidth , there is provision for a dual DVI link . A dual link doubles the number of TMDS pairs , effectively doubling video bandwidth at a given pixel clock frequency . Dual link should not be confused with dual display ( also called dual head ) , which describes those situations where a computer is hooked up to two monitors at once . Neither , either , or both of the dual displays could be dual link . Depending on the video card ( s ) , the displays could be both analog ( VGA ) , an analog and a digital , or both digital . In order to attach two monitors , you could use a third party device like - you can connect two or three monitors from your Display Port , however , there are some limitations ( like the OS does not know natively that there are two or three monitors connected and treats it like one ) . The price is about $ 350 for the Tripplehead and around $ 220 for the Dualhead one . Here is the <URL> .
The 85W MagSafe adapter should do the trick for you . It 's compatible with the original MagSafe design and provides enough power for all of the Intel Macs up to this point . Picking up a 45W or 60W would n't save any money and though they would both run all of the Intel Mac laptops they be insufficient for powering a larger ( 15 " / 17 " ) Mac back to life since they require 85W . Should Apple move completely away from the MagSafe design to the slimmer MagSafe 2 design you can add the adapter .
Hold the Option key and click on the Volume/Sound icon on your Menu Bar . When you 're connected via HDMI , you should have an option show in the local menu to select that connection to feed the audio through rather than the standard audio output .
There are many types of DVI adapter , I could type a load of stuff or just point you at <URL> . The key point is that there is no such thing as a DVI adapter . It 's just a generic term that covers the overall outline of the cable end , but what you really have is either a DVI-I or DVI-D adapter , in either Single or Dual link capability . Or it may be a DVI-A . Or there are others ... ! It 's possible that your splitter cable must be of the dual link types , characterised by the longer horizontal bar pin , and your Thunderbolt adapter may or may not be . Should n't matter which type , either I ( Integrated with analogue signal in the pins above/below the horizontal bar in addition to digital ) or D ( Digital only ) as I imagine you are not subsequently adapting them down to DSUB further down the line , the only thing that matters is if they are both dual link . So it looks like you need a Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort to DVI Dual link - the official apple one is the digital only one without the analogue pins ( DVI-D Dual Link ) , and thus should work , if you are worrying that you do not have the same pinout ( i.e. you have DVI-I Dual Link on your splitter , and it looks as though the analogue ones have nothing to connect to ) then do n't worry , it wo n't need them . EDIT - Additional Info After the comments , I have decided that you have a <URL> connector that looks like this : So what you really need is a MiniDisplay > DMS-59 adapter , and my google-fu suggests that this is not looking like a possibility , I think you would be better served abandoning this cable , and looking for a total replacement , Mini Display Port > 2 x DVI ( Single is fine , I or D if you have 2 ports ) . This may also be a pain to find , and you may end up needing a MDP/Thunderbolt to Dual Link DVI , followed by a Dual Link DVI > 2 X Single Link DVI splitter cable !
You can use your thumb to click on the lower part of the track and the index finger to move . As long as you keep the trackpad pressed with the thumb you can release the index finger .
I just filed down my new Apple MagSafe power cord on each end and it totally works with my 2012 15 " MacBook Pro . . Just found out the edges and I did a few passes over the top were the pins are and pow ! It totally works
end question
start question
iBooks vs epub : What 's the difference ?
. ibooks files are a special Apple-only multi-touch version of the epub standard . They can only be created using the iBooks Author app , and they can only be read by the iBooks app on an iOS device or a Mac running OS 10.9 or higher . The main attraction of the . ibooks format for authors is that it can easily incorporate a large variety of interactive features via widgets . The Apple list is at <URL> and a 3rd party list is at <URL> . epub is an open standard which can be produced by a number of apps ( including Apple 's Pages ) and can be read on any platform using a variety of apps ( including Apple 's iBooks ) . There is no way to convert . epub to . ibooks , other than to put the content into iBooks Author and republish it from that app . Starting with version 2.3 of June 2015 , iBooks Author can also produce . epub format , as long as one of the . epub templates is used .
. command - ( Terminal shell script ) Specifically associates a shell script with Terminal . Sometimes referred to as a " Terminal File . " . tool - ( Terminal shell script ) Same as the " . command " file extension . . sh - ( Shell Script ) A basic shell script that is associated with Xcode 4.1 . Programmatically , I 'm sure the difference between the first two ( . command vs. . tool ) are subtle , while the third is essentially a simple , default shell script . And does in fact associate with Xcode 4.1 .
In the left corner of the top menu , pick the apple menu and select . In the panel , click the button . if you hover your mouse on you can see the general info about your macbook pro such 15 " or 17 " . As <URL> said in comment above solution for before 2007 now choose Graphics/Displays from the left column , it does display the screen resolution .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
Both use Lightning cable , so we are good there . Regarding power , the 12W charger is compatible with all iPhones . See product <URL> section of 12W charger . iPhone Models So you should be confident of charging iPhone 6 or 6s with up to 12W charger . The higher the wattage the lesser is the charging time .
I have n't used it - so I ca n't say if it 's any good - but I noticed that you did n't include the <URL> in your list . Have you tried using that to view your ePub books ?
I bought a new 15 '' MBP just one week ago and I considered the same choices . Finally I took the 2.0 GHz for the following reasons : from the pure CPU point of view this would be an endless pursuit : there will always be a CPU with a frequency a bit higher than what you have ; for example you would be tempted to go from the 2.2 to the 2.3 GHz the 2.2 ( and 2.3 ) have 8 MB ( instead of 6 MB ) of L3 cache , that 's my only regret I think it is more useful to upgrade from the 5400 RPM drive to the 7200 RPM , I think there 's a noticeable difference if you 're a software developer then you should really consider to upgrade to the HD screen In my opinion , unless your budget is unlimited these two upgrades are much worth their price than the CPU upgrade to 2.2 GHz ( even considering the GPU and the cache ) .
Among other things : Free " Find my iPhone " ( do n't need MobileMe ) -- > this requires an iPhone 4 Safari allows you to search inside the page You can assign different SMS/MMS/ALERTS to different phonebook contacts AirPlay / AirPrint ? A volume slider control in the Multitaskbar New icon for Voice Memos - Anything else ? UPDATE : There 's a trick to use the Find my iPhone in a 3GS or similar . I found out that if you create everything from an iPhone 4 ( and/or presumably an iPod TOuch latest gen ) , you can later go to your 3Gs and enter the same data and it will work . :)
Taken from my answer at <URL> : Mac OS X Memory Jargon : Wired : This refers to kernel code and such . Memory that should not ever be moved out of the RAM . Also know as resident memory . Shared : Memory that is shared between two or more processes . Both processes would show this amount of memory so it can be a bit misleading as to how much memory is actually in use . Real : This is the " real " memory usage for an application as reported by task_info ( ) - a rough count of the number of physical pages that the current process has . ( RSIZE ) Private : This is memory that a process is using solely on it 's own that is used in Resident memory . ( RPRVT ) Virtual : The total amount of address space in the process that 's mapped to anything - whether that 's an arbitrarily large space for variables or anything - it does not equate to actual VM use . ( VSIZE ) Active : Memory currently labelled as active and is used RAM . Inactive : " Inactive memory is no longer being used and has been cached to disk . It will remain in RAM until another application needs the space . Leaving this information in RAM is to your advantage if you ( or a client of your computer ) come back to it later . " - Mac OS X Help Free : The amount of RAM actually available without any data . The best documentation I know of ( and have been able to find in followup research ) is Apple 's own <URL> article on their developer website . Other worthwhile sources : Darwin-dev mailing list : [ <URL> ] , [ <URL> ] and an old article on <URL> . Additionally Mike Ash has posted a good layman 's introduction on his <URL>
The ESP is normally used for the boot loader on ' normal ' EFI systems , however on a Mac the ESP is not -- it is usually empty , but has been used as a staging area for firmware updates . A Mac will initially look in the ESP for anything to boot from , but if it is empty or non-existant , it will look for the root file system to boot from .
Looks like the main difference is that the Pro version is universal . That means it will work on iPhone and iPad whereas the normal version only works on iPhone . From the <URL> : Optimized for iPad , but also runs perfectly on an iPhone or iPod touch . View many files at once in the tabbed viewer . This lets you easily copy between files , compare , etc. . Switch between browsing and full-screen viewing or editing with just a tap . Quick-scrollers let you scroll through files or folders super fast .
The restrictions only apply to the format . From the iBooks Author Publishing and Distribution FAQ of 2/7/12 : Are there any restrictions on the distribution of works produced with iBooks Author ? If a fee is charged for the work and it is in the . ibooks format , the work may only be sold through the iBookstore . If the work is in a different format , such as PDF or ePub , this restriction does not apply . Here 's the relevant part of the updated license agreement regarding the distribution of work : ( i ) if the work is provided for free [ ... ] , you may distribute it by any means ; ( ii ) if the work is provided for a fee [ ... ] and included files in the format [ ... ] , the work may only be distributed through Apple , [ ... ] , however , that this restriction will not apply to the content of the work when distributed in a form that does not include files in the format [ ... ] . You retain all your rights in the content of your works , and you may distribute such content by any means when it does not include files in the format [ ... ] .
If you have three podcasts as follows : A - downloaded , synced and played B - downloaded , synced and not played C - newly downloaded , never synced , and not played When choosing " all unplayed " , podcasts B &amp; C will by synced . A will be removed from the iDevice When choosing " all new " , only C will be synced . A &amp; B will be removed from the iDevice
Your ringer volume adjusts the volume of the sound coming out of the phone when it 's ringing . If the phone is not playing media ( i.e. no sound is coming out of it ) then the volume buttons on the side adjust the ringer volume . If you are playing media ( music , video , etc ) out the internal speakers , then the buttons on the side adjust the volume of that media coming out those speakers . Finally , when you have headphones plugged in , the iPhone knows this and has a separate volume for headphones . Using the volume buttons will adjust the headphones volume when headphones are plugged in . The reason why these are separate is because sometimes you want to mute your ringer , but still want to listen to media ( or vice versa ) , and because the headphone and internal speaker volumes are different and need to be adjusted separately .
You can use <URL> to change individual " special " keys back to their function key value .
Both shell - and AppleScripts can be used just about anywhere either is appropriate . AppleScripts work better when talking to apps and user-level system facilities . ( For instance , you can say and it will , or . ) Shell scripts ( you referred to bash ) work better when talking to low-level system objects and Unixy stuff . They 're both interoperable : you can call a shell command from AppleScript with and you can call AppleScript code from the shell with . Further , there 's quite a bit of overlap between the two ( especially when it comes to file system operations ) . There are certainly more resources for learning shell scripting online than AppleScript and it does n't help that AppleScript has a reputation for being a " read-only " language ( i.e. , harder to write than read ) . In any case , the most modern way to do scripting is with Automator , where you can use either shell - or AppleScripting ( or both ) along with pre-built modules from various apps you have installed .
They both output a similar voltage level ~ 5V . However this is going to change once you start drawing current from the charger . The output will decrease if you start pulling more current . iPad charger provides 2.1 A at 5.2 V means you can pull 2.1 A and the output will stay at 5.2 V. Output voltage might go down if you draw more current ( say by attaching 2 ohm resistor across the leads and trying to draw 2.6 A ) and thereby also reduce the expected output current . Similarly , iPhone charger will be able to provide rated voltage ( 5V ) only up to 1A of current draw . After that , you might see a voltage drop . In terms of hardware , iPad charger will have a higher power circuit - most likely a bigger flyback transformer , mosfets with higher current capacity and bigger filter capacitors . You can benefit from ipad charger while charging an iphone if your iphone is able to draw current higher than 1A . If this is not the case , then there is no point . However you will notice longer charge times when you charge your ipad using iphone charger . Also , it 's false assumption that load remains the same . Here is a sample charging current and voltage curve for a li-po battery which I picked from a google image search : <URL> As you can see , initially the battery voltage is lower since it has discharged . Once it starts charging , the voltage increases and the charging current decreases .
No , it 's not possible yet , only English and Japanese as provided by Apple . Extra dictionaries are available from 3rd parties for the OS X version of Dictionary.app , but Apple does not provide any way to add these in the iOS version so far .
The most popular IRC client on the Mac platform is undoubtedly <URL> ( free ) . It has a sleek interface and is extremely configurable . You can find others here : <URL>
System Version Number follows convention . From <URL> : Given a version number MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH , increment the : MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes , MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards-compatible manner , and PATCH version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes . Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH format . The number in brackets ( 14D136 ) is build number ( more info on <URL> ) . This number is mainly for Apple developers , since normal users do not have access to non public builds . In <URL> , new build can be made daily/weekly - every time build number is incremented . When developers/PMs ( or anyone else in charge ) is " happy " with the build it can be released . Build numbers are constructed arbitrarly ( I do n't know of any standard numbering ) . It looks like Apple increments first number by every MINOR release , then the letter with PATCH release and the last number is the real build number .
end question
start question
Are Mac serial numbers sent to Apple ?
To my knowledge , each and every time your Mac will send a serial number to Apple , you are prompted to explain this and why it will be sent as well as whatever information is needed . You can see this in action from the System Information app : When you click the " Check my service ... " item you will see this alert : Similar notifications are presented when the App Store app needs to verify your specific Mac is entitled to Lion during a restore . The Console app ( in the Utilities folder ) can be configured to send your diagnostic information which includes the serial number as well as other information about the hard drive , software and error logs to Apple . You can also ask Apple if they treat this information as personally identifiable from their <URL> . From what I can tell , they go to great lengths to treat this as other sensitive information and go out of the way to not lump it with your personal account other than when you do that by asking for service from AppleCare or registering your Mac .
No . The developer certificate signs the application and any modification of the seal will make the validation fail . Basically any trivial cut and paste wo n't work . You would need to : sign up as a developer and sign your package get permission from Apple to sign kernel extensions if that is the nature of the driver work with the maintainers of the lab to find and install drivers for your hardware .
In quality terms , HDMI is identical to DVI , but some TVs see DVI as a " computer input " and HDMI as a " media input " , and may give you slightly different options . I 'd have a quick search online to see if anyone 's used your model TV with a Mac Mini , just to make sure . By the way , unless you 're running it a great distance , there 's no advantage whatsoever to an expensive HDMI cable . The cheapest one you can buy is as good as any other !
The only things you absolutely need that is n't already included are : The monitor that you have already identified . A keyboard ; a Mac specific one would make sense , but any PC USB keyboard will do you just need to be careful to use the right settings as the layout will be subtly different A pointing device of some sort . If you are coming from PCs , you may hate Apple mice ( I do ) , but again any PC mouse will work just fine . Having said that , the Magic Trackpad is fantastic . I use one on my iMac and do not use a mouse ever on a Mac any more . Things you do n't not need but are highly recommended would include : A backup drive ! Backup your stuff ! Make it big ( 2x your internal drive at least ) and make it fast ( USB 3 or Thunderbolt if you have too much money ) Things which you might fancy but are n't really needed : A headset/headphones of some sort ( iPhones headphones with the 3 pin jack work fine ) An external DVD reader/writer ( any brand , USB ) USB cup warmers ( any brand ) Novelty stickers ( any brand , except Microsoft Plays for sure ! and Windows license keys )
Right click ( or control + click ) on and adjacent column header letter . For example " Column D " . Then select Unhide from the dialog . <URL>
Most of the third party iPhone ones are mostly safe most of the time . However there is n't a good way to tell which ones are n't . Here is a teardown of an <URL> and a <URL> . I say most of the time since some of the safety issues are only problems if there are faults . But in a poorly designed one , faults can cause fire and/or shock . Also poorly designed ones can get hot , which might be a problem in an enclosed space . I personally would avoid anything that claims to be from Apple but is priced lower than theirs . That demonstrates the seller is willing to lie , so they are questionable to begin with . A reputable seller would n't try to pretend they are selling Apple chargers .
There are applications that do this if you have jailbroken your iPhone . Without jailbreaking however there is n't a way to block a single or specific incoming number . I 've known people that have requested their provider to block a certain number and without a very good ( usually legal ) reason , they wo n't do it . The best thing you can do is record 30 seconds of silence in garage band and then use that as a ringtone for that specific number . Then at least the phone wo n't alert you .
Aside from the service and other qualitative aspects of dealing directly with Apple , the only " advantage " of purchasing direct from the company is the up to date warranty registration . If you purchase your Apple product through a 3rd party , Apple will have on file an " estimated " purchase date based on the model 's manufacturing date . If you want to claim all of the 365 days on your warranty , you will have to send them the receipt ( a scan or picture suffices ) in addition to other purchase information so they can <URL> to reflect the exact date of purchase . Other than that , it makes little difference at the end of the day .
Your expectation that extensions are only a thing of the past is incorrect . Modern Mac OS X uses kernel extensions , which are not identical to the " old school " extensions used in Mac OS 9 and earlier , but yes , there are still such a thing as extensions . You can find them in . Apple expands on this in <URL> about Safe Mode .
These files are stored in / . MobileBackups / and / . DocumentRevisions-V100 / . I am very surprised that your backup is so large - my Backups are only 300MB ! According to the Time Machine preference pane , TM will " keep local snapshots as space permits " . Do you have a lot of spare disk space ? Since these folders are owned by root , to check the size of these folders you 'll need to use sudo , or log in as root user . E.g. the command line commands :
The battery serial number is written physically on the bottom of the battery : Also , in order to ensure at the official repair store that the battery is genuine ( which was originally my purpose ) , the same serial number is on the box the battery comes in : ... and also in the official papers accompanying the repair part . Of course , both the box and the battery inside of the box should be sealed and opened for you only just before the replacement operation .
I did a switch from Linux just a week ago . I am using Linux for 15 + years . Lately my Desktop distro of choice was Ubuntu . Mac OS X is a BSD based system , so minor issues you will have to get used to is staff like using ipfw instead of iptables . As you will pretty soon realise Ubuntu ( and other distros ) simply mimic lots of Mac solutions when it comes to usability . You will find yourself beeig very familiar with a lot of Gui elements . There is virtually no difference from a developer point of view . You can just install rvm and develop your ruby apps as you used too . Main difference is , that now you can use the famous Textedit ! :D As for the drawbacks : Mac has worse package management and you might miss some fancy features of apt-get / dpkg ( or yum / rpm ) . Its not groundbreaking however and Homebrew will be suffcient in the end anyway . There are various minor things like key shortcuts , window management which takes couple of hours to get used to . I for one ca n't get whats the idea behind ho the window maximization works . In the end I must say that I do n't miss a thing so far . I got everything I loved about Linux + beautiful system which can Starcraft and Photoshop . :-)
<URL> is a free Finder alternative , if that type of application suites you . ( Dual-pane Norton Commander like ) .
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
Here is what I do , where I share one appleid for purchases among 3 family members . Number one , only use the appleid for purchases just for purchases . then , each member should have a separate iCloud account with a unique appleid for mail , contacts , iCal , etc syncing . Then , on all devices set the appleid for the store to the purchase id and on the individual devices set the iCloud id to the appleid for each individual separately . Works great for me .
In the English version of Word and PowerPoint 2011 , Templates are stored inside your Home folder in . In other languages , the part is localized ( e.g. in German ) . The User 's Library folder is hidden in 10.7 and later , but you can go there by holding down option while clicking the Go menu in the Finder , then selecting Library .
I assume you are referring to the notice that comes up in Terminal " You 've got mail " Create a file . forward in your home directory . ( that 's a period and the word forward with no space . In it write the address you want the mail forwarded to . This file has to be owned and readable by your userid . Jobs run by cron by default mail their output to the owner of the crontab file . This can be overridden by specifying the option MAILTO=userid@somewhere.com at the top of the file . See man crontab for details . The second only forwards the details of jobs run from that particular crontab . If you have sandboxed services that have individual crontabs on a user basis ( E.g. . You have a database service that runs a consitency check on the database at 2:30 every morning , and runs that service as user mysql , then you have to add the line to mysql 's crontab . General best practice for email that goes to non-real users is to forward it to a role first . E.g. All the machines in your network send their system email to sysadmin@mydomain.com Then on a central server you forward sysadmin 's mail to a real person . This makes it much easier at vacation time to temporarily forward email to your temp sysadmin .
The refurbished one probably has a different part number because it is refurbished now new . It wo n't have anything " wrong " with it , but it is refurbished . Check the specs and compare it to the current production model . Typically they will say " late 2010 model " or something of the sort to indicate if this is different ( hardware wise ) from the current one .
It 's a three step process - with pictures below ! Click support in the Quick Links tab on the right hand side of the App Store app . Click billing in the <URL> that opened as a result of step 1 . Feed in all the information and wait the 24 hours or so it takes to get an initial response . It is so worth it to ask for a refund or help ( especially in your case where you did n't intend to buy yet ) - everyone wins in the end as developers and Apple really do n't want a sale that ends up with an unsatisfied customer . The system is not perfect nor is it set up to allow previews of purchases , so no one should feel bad requesting a refund or two . Especially so if the program was n't explained well or is seriously faulty . Would you want a $ and change if it made someone have a lasting bad impression of the work for which you get paid ? Do feel bad if you find yourself abusing the system or on your 10th refund request with no good reason and just not getting the picture .
iTunes does n't offer this functionality natively : <URL> always comes in handy in these situations . In this case , however , there 's no easy solution , because there is no script that does that . You would need a combination of three scripts , which should work and should be fairly easy as soon as you have installed all three of them : Get <URL> and run it on the tracks you would like to number . This will add track numbers to the beginning of the track name . Run <URL> on the tracks , which will set the track tags based on the number you 've added in step 1 . Use <URL> to remove the track numbers added to the name . As far as I can tell this is the easiest way to accomplish that . Of course you could also write your own AppleScript which does it in one step . And do n't forget to create a backup , just in case .
end question
start question
Can I restore an application by application switching to it ?
With the minimized application selected , start holding the ⌥ alt key before you release the ⌘ cmd key .
You can do this using AppleScript : 1 . Open AppleScript Editor 2 . Paste following code : property appName : " Mail " property minSecsBetweenLaunches : 600 -- seconds property checkEvery : 5 -- seconds -- DO NOT MODIFY AFTER THIS LINE IF NOT SURE -- property lastSeenOpen : " " property lastMailState : " " on run idle end run on idle my check ( ) return checkEvery -- check every n seconds end idle on check ( ) tell application " Finder " to set processes_names to name of processes if ( lastMailState is " " ) then -- First run set lastMailState to ( processes_names contains appName ) if lastMailState then set lastSeenOpen to current date end if else if ( processes_names contains appName ) then if ( lastMailState is false ) then -- App just started set lastMailState to true if ( lastSeenOpen is not " " ) then -- Already been launched , check if launch allowed set timeLeft to minSecsBetweenLaunches - ( ( current date ) - lastSeenOpen ) if ( timeLeft > 0 ) then tell application appName to quit activate display dialog " Wait " & timeLeft & " sec . before opening " & appName & " again . " end if end if end if set lastSeenOpen to current date else if ( lastMailState is true ) then -- App just quit set lastMailState to false end if end if end if end check 3 . Adjust settings The 3 first lines of the script can be edited to fit your needs . By default , check every 5 seconds if Mail has not been seen open since 10 min ( which is 600 seconds ) . 4 . Create the app File menu > Export Choose app name &amp; destination select to export as Application check " stay open ... " 5 . Hide from dock In the Finder , find the app you just exported , then right-click on it , and select " Show package content " . Then open " Info.plist " of the " Contents " folder in TextEdit , and , before the last < / dict > of the file , paste : < key > LSBackgroundOnly < / key > < string > 1 < / string > For info , after edit , end of my file looks like : [ ... ] < string > event log < / string > < / dict > < key > LSBackgroundOnly < / key > < string > 1 < / string > < / dict > < / plist > And save it of course . 6 . Set your app as startup item System Preferences > Users > ...
<URL> might solve your problem . According to their website , it can : Find empty files and folders , orphaned files , duplicate files , broken aliases , and unused preference files . The user interface is a little weird , but it does have the functionality to scan either the entire drive or a particular folder , so I think it 'll meet your needs . It costs $ 39.95 , but you can give it a try for 30 days/10 launches for free and see if it works for your situation .
I 've re-installed the OS many times since , so the original issue no longer bugs me . But I did find a third party application " Shortcut Detective " ( <URL> ) that comes very close .
The simple answer is no - in general the one camera only sends data to one app . The more complicated answer is that the API ( application programming interface ) that Apple publishes enforces this restriction . If a developer hooks into the hardware directly or there is a bug in the API , it is possible to share that stream . So for most Apps made by someone other than Apple , once the iSight is in use by one application , it is unavailable to other applications until the application releases the use of it or the application closes . User <URL> rightly points out that this is not the case for Facetime and Photobooth , where Apple is either using an undocumented or private API or accessing the hardware directly so that both apps can share the camera feed .
Have you tried opening Terminal ( Applications - > Utilities - > Terminal ) and using the commands : or As it is not working try the hosts file : And look for something like this delete the entire block and hit CTRL + O to save the file and CTRL + X to exit . Everything you put at hosts file like : Those addresses will be blocked , you will not be able to access them while they are inside the hosts file To stop and delete SelfControl running as a background process : To delete the firewall rules that have been introduced by SelfControl , read this blog article by Steve Lambert : <URL>
OS X applications are actually special folders which contain numerous smaller files , resources , binaries , localization settings , etc. . When the Finder opens a folder with a lot of apps , it needs to do a lot more than it would to open a folder with the same number of ordinary documents . At the very least , the Finder needs to check for the localized name of each app and load each app 's icon . It will also need to check whether it can launch the app , checking if it 's Intel , PPC , Universal , or Classic , possibly checking if it 's 64-bit or 32-bit , too . It 's possible the Finder is gathering other info as well , possibly checking the folder structure of each app to verify it 's actually an app , or checking its info.plist for file type associations , etc. . Lion may also verify that each app is listed in Launchpad . Of course , the more apps you have , the longer this process will take . I would guess that , unless your Macs are starved for RAM , the only way to make this process faster is to startup from an SSD instead of a conventional HD . Or perhaps delete all unneeded apps ( that were not installed by OS X ) . Also , the first time after each login , the Applications and Utilities folders may be slightly less responsive initially , even after the apps have shown up , because the Finder also needs to examine each app to calculate its total file size .
From Citrix.com - <URL> This is the instructions for Online rather than Receiver . The process is identical for each , substituting the Receiver . dmg file ( the Receiver instructions are in a pdf rather than online &amp; ca n't be copy/pasted ) Citrix Online Plug-in ( client ) for Mac installs files into multiple folders . Here is an easy way to uninstall : Download the installer from <URL> . Open the file and select Uninstall option . <URL>
There 's no default application to handle . rar file on Mac OS X . You might want to try <URL> . It can open many format besides rar files . Then once you installed it , open its preferences and select all the file format you want him to manage .
Apple 's solution , like it or not , is to use Exposé or <URL> ( Lion ) to switch between windows . ⌘ + tab is considered an application switcher . There are third party solutions to change this behavior , but I do n't have experience with them . There is some discussion about these solutions on <URL> .
If you need to logout so that another user can use the computer , you can enable Fast User Switching . The other user will be able to use the Mac , while your program still runs .
<URL> From their <URL> : MacDeveloper helps companies and individual software developers alike improve the quality of their products by providing a platform to have their applications properly tested from a well informed , and energetic Beta Pool .
Just put the application in the home of the user . You could create folders like this for every user : and put the application ( s ) there .
Take a look at the free/open source app <URL> . You can trigger different actions based on context-sensitive rules , including launching an app in response to connecting a display .
It <URL> the AppleScript is run within Quicksilver 's process ( depending on how you run it ) . If that 's the case , you 'd need to relaunch Quicksilver . If it 's not completely frozen , you can do this quickly with ⌃ ⌘ Q . It might also be possible to set some kind of timeout in the script to prevent it from hanging indefinitely .
I personally prefer using Web Sharing and installing only MySQL Server , just to stick with the Mac OS X Apache setup . Web sharing has support for PHP , all you need to do is remove the comment ( # ) from the following line of the file / etc/apache2/httpd . conf : So it becomes : The PHP module includes MySQL support , so you just need to install the MySQL Server , turn it on and then you are ready to go . After turning Web Sharing on , put your . php files inside your personal Site folder , and access it on your browser using the address informed on the Web Sharing activation screen , inside Settings .
In the Save As dialog , there 's a box that says " Run only " . Check that when you save .
We set up separate iTunes Connect accounts for the clients so that the client gets all of the info they need and also the money from Apple where applicable . You would also need to set up Apple developer Accounts for each client ( You get them to pay for their developer accounts ) They can then add you to that dev account and you will be able to manage the provisioning , certificates and other things on their behalf but using your developer access account . Apple documents this thoroughly here : <URL>
It depends on why the application is " Not Responding " . An application in this state is not replying to UI events sent by the system . So nothing you do in the UI is getting through , which limits your options . I know of three scenarios in which a " Not Responding " ( aka " hung " ) application can be resurrected , with the possibility to recover your data . The most common cause of an application hang is heavy disk contention . This usually resolves itself if you wait long enough , but it can take minutes in extreme situations . Quitting all other applications , especially those using a lot of memory , can speed up this recovery . Less common is an application which hangs because of a problem with a disk . This is actually not so rare if you are accessing a network mounted disk , but it can also happen with any external hard-drive . In the case of network disk , you can try to unmount it , or change your network location to disable networking as a way to forcibly unmount it . In the case of a physical disk , try unplugging it ( obviously as a last resort ) . Once the disk device is forcibly removed from the system , the application may be able to resume operation ... or it may crash . Much more rare is an application which spawns a sub-process and then hangs because that process does something unexpected . For example , I have seen Safari hang due to problems QuickTime and WebKit sub-processes . Finding and killing the right sub-process may free up the main application . But you need to be fairly comfortable with the terminal , the " ps " command , and tracking down parent process ids . Figuring out exactly why an application is hung involves a lot of poking around at the unix level to see what the process state is . Tools like " ps " , " top " , and " lsof " can be helpful . But hopefully the tips above can get you pointed in the right direction .
A workaround is to make an alias of the app , drag the alias to Dock and then change the icon for the alias ie . not for the actual app . Downside is that you get a small alias -- arrow added to the lower -- left corner to the icon . Make an alias Drag the alias to the Dock Change the icon like you would for any Finder item . In the following screenshot we have copied the icon of Chess app and pasted it to the newly -- made alias of Automator . ( NB , make sure you first copy the icon and then paste it ; the screenshot accidentally is showing the opposite way . )
end question
start question
Is it legal to use content from Apple developer site for internal training documents ?
Well , not a lawyer here , but you could infer that your use would be considered acceptable use based on the following information , as long as you do n't use any paid content ( content obtained as part of a paid developer program ) in these presentations : <URL> has a question titled " What are the terms and conditions of being a Registered Apple Developer ? " , the answer for which points to the <URL> . The agreement PDF talks about publicly available information and confidentiality here : 4 . Confidentiality . You agree that any Apple pre-release software and/or hardware ( including related documentation and materials ) provided to you as a Registered Apple Developer ( " Pre-Release Materials " ) and any information disclosed by Apple to you in connection with Apple Events or Paid Content ( defined below ) will be considered and referred to as " Apple Confidential Information " . Notwithstanding the foregoing , Apple Confidential Information will not include : ( i ) information that is generally and legitimately available to the public through no fault or breach of yours , ( ii ) information that is generally made available to the public by Apple , ( iii ) information that is independently developed by you without the use of any Apple Confidential Information , ( iv ) information that was rightfully obtained from a third party who had the right to transfer or disclose it to you without limitation , or ( v ) any third party software and/or documentation provided to you by Apple and accompanied by licensing terms that do not impose confidentiality obligations on the use or disclosure of such software and/or documentation . Note the exclusion of " ( ii ) information that is generally made available to the public by Apple " from the list of Apple Confidential Information . Also , when you browse through the documentation online ( or download a PDF ) , they do n't state those as Apple Confidential Information . However , you are allowed to disclose Apple Confidential Information to other employees/contractors who are also registered Apple developers . The agreement PDF also deals with Apple Confidential Information disclosure here : 5 . Nondisclosure and Nonuse of Apple Confidential Information . Unless otherwise expressly agreed or permitted in writing by Apple , you agree not to disclose , publish , or disseminate any Apple Confidential Information to anyone other than to other Registered Apple Developers who are employees and contractors working for the same entity as you and then only to the extent that Apple does not otherwise prohibit such disclosure . Except for your authorized purposes as a Registered Apple Developer or as otherwise expressly agreed or permitted by Apple in writing , you agree not to use Apple Confidential Information in any way , including , without limitation , for your own or any third party 's benefit without the prior written approval of an authorized representative of Apple in each instance . You further agree to take reasonable precautions to prevent any unauthorized use , disclosure , publication , or dissemination of Apple Confidential Information . You acknowledge that unauthorized disclosure or use of Apple Confidential Information could cause irreparable harm and significant injury to Apple that may be difficult to ascertain . Accordingly , you agree that Apple will have the right to seek immediate injunctive relief to enforce your obligations under this Agreement in addition to any other rights and remedies it may have . If you are required by law , regulation or pursuant to the valid binding order of a court of competent jurisdiction to disclose Apple Confidential Information , you may make such disclosure , but only if you have notified Apple before making such disclosure and have used commercially reasonable efforts to limit the disclosure and to seek confidential , protective treatment of such information . A disclosure pursuant to the previous sentence will not relieve you of your obligations to hold such information as Apple Confidential Information . The agreement prohibits you from sharing paid content available as part of a paid developer program with anyone ( including other employees in your organization ) here : 7 . Paid Content License and Restrictions . As a Registered Apple Developer , you may have access to certain proprietary content ( including , without limitation , video presentations and audio recordings ) that Apple may make available to you from time to time for a separate fee ( " Paid Content " ) . Paid Content shall be considered Apple Confidential Information , unless otherwise agreed or permitted in writing by Apple . You may not share the Paid Content with anyone , including , without limitation , employees and contractors working for the same entity as you , regardless of whether they are Registered Apple Developers . Subject to these terms and conditions , Apple grants you a personal and nontransferable license to access and use the Paid Content for authorized purposes as a Registered Apple Developer ; provided that you ma
It is the JDK as noted in the path / System/Library/Java / JavaVirtualMachines/1 .6.0 . jdk it installs into , and also seeing what files are installed there . As far as I understand the removal does not change Java but removes plugins from browsers However I would use the later JDK for Java 7 from Oracle as there are some improvements in the environment and language as per Oracle 's <URL>
Only Company / Organization accounts can add additional developers to its team . As stated under the <URL> page , in the Individual account section : Individual Development Only You are the only one allowed access to program resources .
you will not be able to use that email address as you do not actually own it . All email addresses are owned by Apple , it is reserved for your use at all times , but as you have not been using it it will not transfer . You will need to create a new email , as you can no longer subscribe to MobileMe .
There are arguments and reasons to go either way . First the facts we know ( excluding jailbreak and cracking app store DRM ) : You can never change the Apple ID for each purchase once made . However , with MDM solutions evolving and VPP , there is the ability to purchase apps in bulk and then revoke the " purchase " by a subsequent AppleID and return a purchase to the pool for re-issue to another AppleID on later iOS versions . Perhaps that will come to the Mac at some future point . Apple has a <URL> to make the App Store work better for business use . The consumer level <URL> also exists to let one party pay and another redeem . You can change the payment option on your account with great ease . There is a 5 account limit on most devices . Updating apps is a chore each time you have to : get updates for account A go to store preferences enter account B and the password go back to the app store for updates update again - entering password B a second time go to store preferences enter account A and the password iTunes only backs up apps for which that computer is authorized . ( this can be a benefit or a hassle ) Now for some assumptions and commentary . Starting from the simplest scenario , you will either have to use a work credit card or work gift card on your personal Apple ID ( juggling the payment options and providing these receipts to account for these purchases just like you would a cup of coffee , a hotel room and other petty expenses that the business just writes off . ) Having a " work " id means in theory - the work could ask you for the password ( or force a reset of the password since they would likely maintain control of the email or request/force you to put their email as the contact when you leave the company ) . They could then issue that Apple ID to another person that would then have use of the apps you once purchased . In practice - how would you feel getting a " recycled " Apple ID as the new employee or the boss welcoming a new team member . Even $ 1000 a year in app purchases pales in comparison to the training costs to a business for losing an employee . Company " ownership " of these app purchases is not a big deal in practice . If you ask your employees to switch in the business account - what happens when someone fails to do that - you 'll end up with an expense report anyhow or you 'll have a grumpy employee . Banning personal Apple ID is a potential solution as well . That also is demeaning to someone that 's going to be taking their work on the go with them - especially if work did n't buy the hardware . There are times when I really want my work persona to be totally different than my personal . Having that work Apple ID separate from my home ID does n't seem to work at all to have that separation . I would not be able to remember to switch my account - I would go to purchase - see the password and enter it . About half way through the download I would realize my mistake . I can see this working for some , but think through this if you embark on a two ID strategy . I would draft an addendum to your normal expense reporting policy to call for quarterly reports ( if you do n't report these expenses as they happen ) , urge you to use existing work credit cards to buy gift cards or have one work account gift apps to users that do n't need many or are getting started . Once your company hits thousands of dollars of apps - you can look into the <URL> which still lets the business send redemption codes to individual Apple ID . Make it a point to educate everyone - an executive summary ( this is what we 're doing / how it will be controlled ) as well as a detailed guide - who does what and when . Once you think it through - the idea of work asking for a work Apple ID might make as little sense to you as it does to me . I would however , be sensitive to the finance department - the have long held practices on how to purchase software . Sitting down with them and showing them my purchase history and educating them how this all works . Handing them my phone and letting them buy an app - seeing it download and start using it is an eye opener .
The predominant theory as to why the current Facebook app for iOS is so sluggish is that the app : suffers from its heavy use of JavaScript in a UIWebView component which does not currently benefit from the " Nitro " Javascript engine which is available to Mobile Safari is poorly designed The app uses very little native code , and thus most of your interaction takes place within a UIWebView displaying HTML and executing Javascript . Essentially , anywhere where an app is displaying something that looks and acts like it 's " embedding a web browser " , that 's a UIWebView . In very simple terms , the Nitro Javascript engine makes Javascript " faster " . iOS 4.3 brought the Nitro engine to Mobile Safari , and IOS 5 brought the Nitro engine to web shortcuts launched from the home screen . This is one potential reason why your use of Facebook within Mobile Safari seems so much more responsive . As of iOS 5.1 , UIWebView does not benefit from the Nitro Javascript engine . This issue has been recently discussed on the Mobtest blog , " <URL> " with a number of comments in <URL> . Within the current app , Facebook has recently increased their promotion of additional iOS apps : <URL> <URL> <URL> These apps -- ranging from " old news " to " brand new " -- seem to do a good job of focusing on doing a single Facebook-related task well , in some cases adding support for something which the general Facebook iOS app does not even support .
You would n't have to buy a separate license , if you are a part of developer team on provisioning portal . Since you have a admin role , the certificates , devices and identifiers section should be visible to you . If you are not able to see them , probably the team agent has not yet accepted the latest terms and conditions released by Apple , with the new iOS and OSX . You just need to contact the Agent of your team to sort this issue .
I had this setup for a while and yes , the hard drive in the primary disk bay would spin down when booted from the SSD . It was fairly easy to tell , because when accessing the drive there was a noticeable delay when first accessing the drive after leaving it idle for about 10 minutes . This was on an older machine ( 2009 MacBook Pro 15 " , running Mac OS X 10.7 ) .
As far as I can tell from <URL> you do n't get paid for a month after you hit the threshold for payment of $ 150 . Hope this helps !
Most software has an <URL> associated with it -- which is essentially a contract between the licensor and purchaser , that defines how the established purchaser can use the software along with the liability of the licensor . EULA 's are deployed in many different ways ; often you might never see or know where to look for one within an application and/or on the developers website . Each application has it 's own agreement ( s ) , rules , and fine print . For every app you have it 's likely to have an agreement that is completely different from another . I had very tough time finding the EULA for Comic Life , since the website contained nothing that I could find . I eventually found it in the application under > . I downloaded the version , so the eula associated with my version likely differs from yours . I 'll spare you the entire agreement , since it 's roughly 2383 words long . Here 's Section ( B ) : B. Comic Life Single User License . This License allows you to install and use the plasq Software ( whether trial or full version ) on all your personal computers . These are computers that are exclusively used by you alone . So for this version you would need to be the only person in your classroom using the application or the computers , which seems a bit comical really :D
From my understanding , once you migrate to iCloud Drive , your old ' Documents &amp; Data ' storage is converted &amp; no longer exists in its old location . Mavericks/iOS 7 ca n't see iCloud Drive &amp; Yosemite/iOS 8 ca n't see the old Documents &amp; Data , migrated or not . Refs : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
The closest analog I know of for general purpose document organizing in an " everything box " similar to iPhoto/iTunes would be Yojimbo . <URL> It lets you catalog and organize information in quite powerful ways . Also check out <URL> if you want files to be in the cloud and do n't already use a service for syncing . I 've heard <URL> is also worth investigating but never really known anyone that used it or tried it myself . Finder is capable of using tags and smart searches , but most people that are inclined to do that have already come up with a folder hierarchy that uses the filesystem for storage and spotlight for indexing files . It really depends on how much time you want to invest in cataloging and the volume and type of files you are organizing .
I had that configuration - and also used for friends &amp; family - and it worked just fine . The only drawback is that mail is no longer pushed to your phone . But apart from that , it 's the best solution to have Gmail ( actually working ) and Google Contacts / Calendar on your iPhone .
Unlike Chrome , Safari does n't seems to use a webpage for the top sites but rather another programmatic view . As you might have seen , the webinspector does n't work on this page .
The only thing you can do is to copy a cell without borders over the one that has . If you type the info in first at least you do n't have to remember it .
Modern and semi modern CD Drives ( USB ) are 100 % compatible with OSX since they are really an ATA drive , connected through USB . Bluetooth and LightScribe technology will be another story , but the drive , as a reader/recorder ought to work without problems . In fact , if you ever find one that does n't work , it would be a nice discovery .
No , the hardware radio does n't work in the manner needed for AirDrop to function . See the fine print of <URL> which states : AirDrop is available on iPhone 5 or later , iPad ( 4th generation ) , iPad mini , and iPod touch ( 5th generation ) and requires an iCloud account
In your first question you ask : what should be done if there is currently 1 Apple ID ( my account ) that is used for all the purchases and also is used for my iCloud , and I want to add another user to the mix ? To enable you to share purchases the new user will use your Apple ID for the App Store and iTunes . This use would then create a new Apple ID or use an existing one for the iCloud portion . They would assign this Apple ID to iCloud by clicking Settings - > iCloud - > Account . Secondly you ask : What problems will there be if my Apple ID is used for the purchases on all devices and also used for my iCloud account for my user , while a different Apple ID is used for iCloud for a different user ? This is the solution I noted above , and the preferred method . By separating iCloud accounts for each user you 'll have less devices competing for the 5 GB of free space allotted by default . In summary : All devices use Apple ID for Store ( Settings - > Store - > Apple ID ) Your devices would use your Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) Other user 's devices would use a unique Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) There are no drawbacks to sharing an Apple ID and using individual accounts for iCloud .
I believe that I have the same tablet . I gave it to my niece whose computer was running 10.10.x . I believe that I simply browsed for the most current legacy driver that they was made for it here : <URL> If that does n't work , I would try the next model of tablet after the one you have and its most current driver and keep moving to newer ones util it works . I was able to get it working without issue . I 'll check which driver I ended up using the next time is visit .
This works exactly as one would expect it to : When you share from an iOS 8 device , purchases made with the Apple ID used on that device for purchases ( iTunes , iBooks , AppStore ) -- even if that ID is different from the one used for iCloud ( Photos , Mail , Contacts , Calendars ) on that device -- will be shared .
end question
start question
How long can my MacBook Pro sustain greater than 100 % CPU usage ?
The thing is that 100 % CPU usage refers to a single one of the cores in your CPU being fully loaded ( or an equivalent load distributed among all the cores ) . I assume your MacBook Pro has a dual core CPU with HyperThreading ; that 's 2 physical cores plus 2 logical cores exposed by HyperThreading . Thus , you could in theory achieve as high as 400 % CPU usage ( 4 cores times 100 % each ) . As to whether it is sustainable , in principle it should be , if the cooling system is in order and the cooling vents are not clogged with dust or blocked by any objects . Even if it 's not and you reach supposedly dangerous temperatures , the CPU should throttle itself to prevent any damage .
There are two possible answers here : You are both sharing the same iCloud / . me / . mac account . Look in System Preferences > iCloud > [ Account Details ] on both systems to compare . That your wife has shared a Photo Stream with you . Run iPhoto and look at the left hand sidebar in the section named ' Shared ' .
You can disable some of the F-key shortcuts in System Preferences :
It might be different depending on what type of app you are using , but generally speaking , it sure is beneficial to update from 4 GB to 8 GB since 4 GB is not a lot for a Mac and you are using Xcode . The iPhoto app might not change much , because it has to load lots of photos , its latency depends more on the disk instead of the memory . The value of virtual memory might not be very informative , you should look more at swap used right below virtual memory , this is the memory that is actually stored on the disk since the physical memory is not enough . If you see that swap used is often more than zero , your priority should be absolutely to change for 8 GB memory . Otherwise , installing a SSD might be a better choice though that 's more expensive ... edit 1 : Generally speaking , I would recommend upgrading the memory over upgrading to a SSD . A SSD affects only the loading speed of things , that is , the time that it takes for the computer starts up or for an app to load itself . But the size of memory affects the speed of apps when you are opening lots of them . On the Mac , the concept is switching more and more to holding the app inactive in the background instead of closing them completely , that enables the apps to respond quickly since we do n't have to load them again from disk . Despite Apple 's memory compression technology , opening lots of apps still takes a considerable amount of memory , so upgrading the memory prevents the mac to swap some memory to disk , and makes the mac faster when you have lots of apps in the background .
OS X does not offer this functionality . smcFanControl and the iStat widgets are the typical go-to choices for this issue . I personally use smcFanControl . It gives me both the temperature and the ability to monitor fan operation .
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
Upgrade your HDD with a SSD The hard drive is a common bottleneck in computing these days . This is due to the fact , that processors have become faster at computing . The hard drive can not keep up with the CPU . Because it 's slow , the CPU is not stressed as much as it could be : <URL> . See <URL> <URL> for a comparsion of a SDD to a HDD in a Macbook Pro . Upgrade RAM If your amount of RAM is insufficient , you will see lots of page-outs . Data which should be written to the RAM will be written to the hard drive instead . Because the hard drive 's input/output operations are much slower than the RAM 's , this slows down your computer . However , if your amount of RAM is sufficient already , you will not notice a benefit from a RAM upgrade . You can check how much page-outs there are using the which is located in . There are no official recommendations I know of as to what the ratio of page-ins to page-outs should be . Generally , you need to know that the more page-outs you have , the better your system could perform if you were to upgrade your RAM . I myself aim for a ratio of no more than 5 to 1 ( 20 % , page-in vs page-out ) Activity Monitor & #x 2192 ; System Memory : Clean install If you installed the upgrade ' over the top ' this will be like a ' software factory reset ' . Mostly you 'll notice a better performance because no other software has been installed yet . Still , a clean install helps in removing remains of uninstalled software but should be an ultimate measure for tackling problems that do not want to be solved otherwise .
There 's no direct way to do it , unless you happen to own two Apple Thunderbolt displays you can daisy chain . What most people do is purchase a USB video adapter like a DisplayLink device . Performance and OS X support can be spotty but you might find something that 'll work well , especially if you can get something with USB 3.0 support . There are <URL> <URL> <URL> in the sidebar -- > that have more details on this .
The MacBook Pro has the same number of pixels as the Cinema Display but a smaller area to show them on . That makes the pixels on the MacBook Pro smaller . Since windows and text are a certain number of pixels in size , screens with smaller pixels will make them appear smaller . The solution is to choose a lower resolution on the screen with smaller pixels ( the MBP in your case ) . Choosing a lower resolution means that each pixel of data will be drawn across multiple physical pixels , making everything bigger . I ca n't tell you exactly what resolution to use on your MBP to get things close to the same size , but it should n't be hard to find out with a little testing . Open System Preferences - > Displays and go to the Display tab of the window on your MBP . Check the Scaled radio button and pick the second resolution on the list that appears . If that is n't big enough , move on to the next ( lower ) resolution , etc. . Stop when you get to one that makes things similar in size across both displays . Note that , as a result of this , your MBP 's display may not look as nice . Things wo n't look as crisp and some resolutions will have to stretch things sideways .
The best configurable tool I 've found to simulate light to heavy disk access for testing purposes is <URL> . I did n't get <URL> to compile properly . So download an older installer package ( filebench 1.4.4 ) from <URL> or <URL> . Install the app . You may have to disable SIP and - in Sierra - Gatekeeper to do so . The package will be installed to / opt/filebench . To start the app in interactive mode enter in Terminal.app : Now choose a workload at the prompt - preconfigured workloads can be found in / opt/filebench/config ( e.g. fileserver.conf ) : Set a working directory and other variables ( most have default values ) : and a run time in seconds : To create your own workloads visit <URL> and check the WML link . To " simulate " CPU-load install <URL> and configure it . In my virtual environment ( Sierra - 2 CPUs/4 GB memory ) running go_filebench alone already creates a total CPU-load of 70 % ( go_filebench : ~ 140 % ) . So I do n't have to start prime95 additionally . In your environment you may have to start it though .
There seems to be a bug whereby if the headphones are plugged in when the MBP is put to sleep and are not present when it is rewakened , the headphones stop being recognized . The solution is to : Unplug the headphones Put the MBP back to sleep ( close the lid ; without an external display hooked up ) Plug the headphones back in Wake the MBP by opening the lid . This should fix the problem .
Amazon Fire TV requires a TV with an HDMI input channel to display video , something MacBooks ( or pretty much any computer ) are lacking . So no , this will not work ( it wo n't work with an Apple TV/MacBook combination either ) .
I have used everything from wired Bluetooth ( incl . Razer Naga and a bluetooth Logitech ) on all my Macs . All of the buttons on the Naga work via a control panel interface , and I have had no problem . Nevertheless , the " mouse feel " still is n't up to the standards of the native Mac mouses . No matter the setting , the acceleration goes from too slow to too fast in a heartbeat . It 's usable , but I keep going back to my Magic Mouse for everything but gaming ( in games where I need those extra buttons ) .
This is not normal . I had a very similar problem with a <URL> ( they only sold them for a short time in 2008 . This is nearly the exact same case as the MBP that you have , except your Pro did actually have minor updates to help alleviate the problems we had in our MacBook . The problem would only appear after the machine had warmed up for a little bit . The hinge would make a creaking noise when closing , and as it got worse , when opening . It also would stay hinged just slightly open ( not waking from sleep ) when being carried in a laptop bag . This was due to an issue in the hinge on the keyboard part . Apple replaced two screens for us . The problem would fix it self for a month or two , but them come back . They finally redid the entire top half of the machine , and it worked great for 9 months . 2 months out of warranty , it happened again . Due to having over 3 repair attempts ( there were actually 4 ) , Apple instead offered us a replacement machine . We were told at that time that there were quite a few reports of this problem , and they had been addressed in the latest rev of the MBP . Since the unibody MB was no longer available , they upgraded us to the base 13 " MacBook Pro . Im assuming that while it mostly had been fixed through minor updates , there may be one with a similar problem now and then . The problem is related to the hinge design , and I have only seen it affect 13 " models . I would highly recommend taking it to the Apple store and having it replaced . They will not replace the whole top part on the first try , only the display .
The solution for me was to use the adapter with a three pin extension cord . Then your notebook is grounded , and no more charges stay on the cover that shock you . :-) . About steps 1-3 In steps 1 and 2 , you reset the System Management Controller ( <URL> ) on a Mac that has a battery , which you should not remove on your own . The SMC manages hardware conditions related to temperatures and power consumption . You may also be interested in the question : <URL> . I 'm not aware of the shortcut you performed in step 3 .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
Your Thunderbolt monitor has a MagSafe Connector - your MBP has a MagSafe 2 Connector . Apple now supplies a <URL> with the display ( check the packaging - the adapter is small ) . If you are missing the converter , check with Apple - they should give you a replacement .
You can try this way : App Store > Updates > Purchased View the apps you deleted Find the app which about the same size with NULL app or version that match to the " Null " version Download the app again Remove it again and delete the cache Hope it works for you .
You are right lots of myths . and more info <URL> " kb/ht1446 " Apple Portables : <URL> The battery has an internal microprocessor that provides an estimate of the amount of energy in the battery as it charges and discharges . The battery needs to be recalibrated from time to time to keep the onscreen battery time and percent display accurate and to keep the battery operating at maximum efficiency . You should perform this procedure when you first use your computer and then every few months after that . If you normally leave your Apple portable computer connected to AC power and very rarely use it on battery power you may want to perform this process once a month . Portables with built-in batteries ( aka MacBook Air ) Current Apple portable computer batteries are pre-calibrated and do not require the calibration procedure outlined in this article . In summary : The battery has no memory effect &amp; can be charged whenever you like . You ca n't overcharge it , &amp; charging automatically stops when your battery is full . The two biggest killers of Lithium batteries are heat &amp; frequent full discharge/recharge cycles . For calibration reasons ( to make your battery status indicator accurate ) you can discard but not less than 20 % once in a few months . Best way to prolong the life is to keep it as cool as possible . That might mean do not take your lap top in your bed , do not keep it in the sun , ect .
If your Macbook Pro has the single 3.5 mm jack that can take input and output then iRig should work just fine for you . Someone asked <URL> . If you 're looking for something ultra cheap you could always get a 1/4 " to 3.5 mm adaptor to plug your guitar into your Mac . I did this for a very long time until I could afford higher quality hardware . These things run as low as $ 2 at some places , <URL> for example . Hope this helps !
end question
start question
kernel_task is using 90 % CPU , what could be the cause ?
I found a way to fix this issue , thought I should post it since it might help someone else . Granted this fix kinda worked for me since my fans are at their full rpm but you should read the explanation first and then choose to follow the steps yourself , anyways the info . is here : <URL>
A faulty sensor could do it . <URL> : " A charge cycle means using all of the battery 's power , but that does n't necessarily mean a single charge . For instance , you could use your notebook for an hour or more one day , using half its power , and then recharge it fully . If you did the same thing the next day , it would count as one charge cycle , not two , so it may take several days to complete a cycle . " Looks like a good case for a visit to the Genius Bar , and perhaps having your battery replaced . I agree it does not seem at all plausible that your cycle count is higher than the days you have owned it .
If everything else was equal ( CPU architecture , generation , manufacturing process , OS , power management strategy , software running etc. ) the answer is maybe . Modern CPUs like the i3/i5/i7 series downclock themselves when idle so it depends what you 're doing and what the actual CPUs are . If everything is as equal as you can make it and you compare CPUs of identical generation , one with maximum clock speed higher than the other and you are using the CPUs to their maximum capacity - then the more powerful CPU does drain the battery faster - but it gets more work done in the same time too , and might get back to the idle state faster . You can only really answer this question if you test your exact scenario .
The issue is probably that the space is being taken up by swap files and possibly a hibernate sleep image . To see this do an These files are deleted on a reboot and start increasing as you use more memory and Xcode takes a lot of memory . You need to reduce the space used by the rest of the system . apps and data . Basically 120GB is too small unless you only use it for development and not any music or other media files . You can save a bit of disc space by removing unused applications and clearing out other languages ( see other questions here ) but getting a bigger or external hard disk is probably a better use of your time . To see where the space goes see the applications in this <URL> or from the command line .
One more thing you could try : Uninstall all HP printer driver software using the HP uninstaller in Applications > Hewlett-Packard . Reboot / restart your mac . Reset the printing system via : Sys Prefs , Print &amp; Fax Right ( control ) click in the rectangle listing your printers and then choose Reset Printing System . CAUTION : The above steps will delete all of your printers . Select the plus sign to re-add it . Look for the printer , select it and wait until the " Add " button becomes available . Click it . Hope this helps .
One solution is to use virtualization to have another instance of Mac OS X running on your computer . Many virtualization applications ( such as <URL> ) let you decide how much resources an instance can have ( e.g. memory or cpu ) . Lion <URL> Mac OS X . If you do decide to go with Parallels , there 's a <URL> describing how to set up an instance of another Mac OS X Lion .
I 've used both , bought Versions in the end . They were both about equal in my use cases . What really helped was adding <URL> to my tool box and using it for diffs instead of the XCode diff engine or the simple diff engine in Versions .
I looked for some generic commands that display/manipulate kernel extensions . got my attention and based on its output , the 4th column is The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies . If this is zero , the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts . The only problem was that its size was in hexadecimal . So I converted the hexadecimal to decimal and printed only relevant information ( like kext bundle id ) . Breaking it down : - print a list of loaded non-built-in kexts - pipe the output to , convert the 4th " size " column from hexadecimal to decimal , print that and the kext bundle id . - pipe the output to command and sort the list using numerical comparison ( so that " 10 " is not less than " 1 " ) . You can pipe the output to to get top 3 memory hoggers . Here are mine : Update : you can also pipe this to to see which non-apple kexts are loaded .
Several things could be problematic . the device - you can swap the certs on the devices to test that time settings can cause a cert to fail to be authenticated if it uses some sort of OCSP/CRL revocation check iOS being more picky than Mac and there being something technically wrong ( or just not what iOS wants even if it 's technically a valid cert ) provisioning profiles on one or both device that alters the trust policies or networking in a way that blocks some intermediate cert needed to validate the problem cert .
Same problem here . The problem is caused by a third-party widget that uses the internet . For me , dropbox was the problem . If dropbox is updating my files , systemuiserver keeps using a high amount of CPU . . the only solution is to force quit it ( using terminal or activity monitor ) or disabling the third-party widget .
For starters , encrypting your Home folder using FileVault ( in the Security Preferences pane ) is always a good idea . You might notice a bit of a performance hit ( some people say they do , others do n't notice a difference ) , but the tradeoff of additional security can give you some extra peace of mind . As far as an iPhone-esque " wipe memory after [ x ] failed login attempts " function , the OS does n't have anything like that built in , so you 'd need to search out a 3rd party solution . I do n't have any recommendations offhand for that , but likely someone else here could point you in the right direction .
The worst that could happen is that the iPod could become " bricked " ( or unusable ) during the install process . This rarely happens , but if it does , it 's easily solvable by restoring from iTunes . What I would suggest would be to create a complete backup of the iPod before you upgrade . Once you 've done that , then I would have no worries about upgrading the software . Really , unless you 're messing around with jailbroken devices , iOS software upgrades are almost always painless . I 've upgraded all four of my iOS devices . Only one has been jailbroken in the past , but all of them upgraded without a hitch . So rest easy , and have fun updating your software !
A different approach is to use an app like <URL> or <URL> which not only can record notes , but also integrate with other note taking tools . Evernote is strong for tagging notes with location and time of capture . Notability is stronger since it allows you to draw notes , sketches or type notes while recording . Once the session is over , you can tap on your notes to queue the sound to the time when you wrote that specific note . It 's got reasonably good options for audio recording , but no audio editing features -- but if the combination of note-taking and audio notes appeals , it 's pretty ideal . If you just need a simple - fast - press one button and go app - try out <URL> . It 's snappy and works from the Apple Watch to the iPad Pro .
Once you have purchased something in the App Store , you can always download it again without paying ( This is the same on the Mac App Store and iOS ) . You will see it in your ' purchases ' tab in the Mac App Store . So once you use your redemption code , you have ' purchased ' it , and can install it whenever you need it .
No . Apple actually disclaims that a brand new Mac will work reliably . Only that they will repair it , replace it , or refund your purchase if you seek warranty service under the conditions of the one year warranty : APPLE DISCLAIMS ALL STATUTORY AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES , INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION , WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND WARRANTIES AGAINST HIDDEN OR LATENT DEFECTS Above from the US hardware warranty page at <URL> for a Mac Pro Furthermore , Apple has a long standing policy of cutting off the vast majority of repair service for Macs 5 years from the date when they remove it from sale . <URL> - Vintage and obsolete products There are some exceptions where you can get support between years 5 and 7 , but after 7 years , Apple and Apple Authorized Service Centers often flat out deny repair requests due to lack of support or part availability . I can not find any G5 or PPC machine that is n't officially designated by Apple as obsolete in 2015 . So - in summary , a new Mac Pro is n't sold with the expectation that it will even work for one year and the expectation that it might need repairs . Certainly second hand older machines wo n't be vouched for by Apple to have a working life of 10 years from now . That does n't mean some G5 will run for decades to come , just that the one you buy might or might not be the exception to things wearing out eventually .
This is a compatibility issue between Apple and Microsoft . There 's not much you can do about that except using Outlook 2011 for Mac can help you out in this case . As it is specific Microsoft software for Mac , you do n't have all the limitations you have using the default ( native ) Mac Mail.app . SideNote : A similar thing between Apple and Microsoft is when you flag an e-mail , it will be flagged as Outlook 2003 , which is very pointless if your Exchange is 2007 or up .
Although that enclosure accepts 12.5 mm drives , those WD Passports have the USB connector built into the drive . They do n't have a standard SATA connector and therefore can not be used in that enclosure .
Formatting a partition with Disk Utility on OS X and letting the Ubuntu installer do the rest of the work is a simple and straightforward approach . The Ubuntu installer also takes care of configuring and installing the bootloader . Theoretically , you could boot Linux with only Grub-EFI , as the Linux kernel supports <URL> . But this requires a lot on work on Macs , because you need to configure and install grub-efi . See also this <URL> . So i recommend using rEFIt or rEFInd in order to boot Linux on a Mac .
natd should be runnng ... NAT means <URL> , so it 's basically translating ( communicating ) between the Modem and the Wifi Access Point to share your connection . You can read more about it here , <URL> So in short this needs to run to share your connection , Hope this helps . Karl
The remote wipe is part of Apple 's own code - so any program that wants access to that API has to work with Apple to ensure it follows Apple 's policies of not surprising end users . This feature is well documented in the enterprise documentation as well as part of MobileMe Find My iPhone terms of service . The things that currently will wipe an iOS4 device : ( the first two depend on physical posession of the device - the second two require some sort of data connection to the Apple ( or Exchange ) servers . Restore the device over USB ( in <URL> if a passcode prevents normal restore ) Turn on the failed passcode erase trigger and enter the code wrongly until the erase threshold is passed Turn on Find My Phone and activate an erase through another device using Apple 's push data servers . Turn on Exchange remote wipe and activate it through the Exchange server 's push data service . I do n't know of any apps that have hacked this interface . Ones in the App store would likely get caught before they shipped . Ones in cydia or jailbreak community might be more prevalent , but I 'm not familiar enough to say if there are any in the wild so I 'll leave that for someone else to answer here via an edit or in another answer .
end question
start question
Why is the Amazon iOS App allowed by Apple ?
By my reading , it does n't . Which rule do you think it violates ? Section 11 covers In-App Purchases , which Amazon 's app does n't use , and which are only required for " content , functionality , or services in an App " . Amazon does n't let you buy anything to extend their app . Amazon 's app also does n't allow purchasing ebooks , which is their only product ( AFAICT ) that might be covered by section 11 . They have a note at the bottom of all ebook pages that says " This mobile application does not currently support Kindle downloads , however you may add the item to your Wish List and purchase it using the browser on your device " . Finally , section 20 explicitly prohibits allowing the user to purchase a lottery ticket , which suggests that there is nothing unacceptable about other real-world purchases . Lots of other apps allow them , too , like eBay .
No . These apps would then also accessible from the lock screen which would open a whole can of worms about security . Even the standard Apple apps do have problems with that sometimes , it would be even worse with 3rd party apps .
The microphone and speakers on Apple laptops are located in the lower case , not in the display . What you are noticing are the permanent magnets installed in the display to keep the lid closed without a mechanical latch .
The app wo n't get rejected . Apple do n't browse the source of your app -- they 're testing the functionality from a user 's point of view . Private API detection is left to iTunes Connect . You should still try to remove unused code from your app to make the app as small as possible for users .
There is a change log available , you can find it <URL> . This is what it says about siri : Siri Manually control when Siri listens by holding down the home button while you speak and releasing it when you 're done as an alternative to letting Siri automatically notice when you stop talking New , more natural sounding male and female voices for Mandarin Chinese , UK English , Australian English , and Japanese And the change log you mentioned is n't updated because there was no need for it , I verified on my iPhone running iOS 7.1 and there are no new languages in addition to the list you posted . On the developer portal there is another change log <URL> that shows all changes in different versions . It is a lot more technical than the " consumer log " .
Actually , it turns out , when backing up to iTunes , the * . ipa file is copied from the iOS device . This file is simply a * . zip with a different extension . Using a tool like 7-zip allows One to examine the contents after the back up to iTunes . A checksum can be run on the individual components in this archive , verifying a lack of tampering .
The updated YouTube app requires Apple TV Software Update 7.0 which is only available for 3rd generation Apple TV . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Apple just announced that starting 1 . February 2015 , apps have to support 64 bit . Source : <URL> . So , it will then be a requirement .
No , being enrolled within the Apple Developer 's Program does not provide you with any kind of special downgrade possibilities . In the other hand , being a Developer grants you the ability to upgrade to the newest yet-to-be-released version of iOS . So , being the iPad 2 <URL> for iOS 6 , you wo n't be able to upgrade it to iOS 5.1.1 instead , enrolled as a Developer or not .
Well - at the most basic level iOS and Mac OS X are the same kernel and startup processes using launchd and standard unix-heritage programs . iOS has full sandboxing and arguably tighter access control infrastructure to build up - so in some ways , iOS does more to start up than Mac OS X does . Once you add on mac things , of course it is more extensible so many people have much bigger loads to lift on an OS X reboot than an iOS boot . I would argue that all the above arguments are moot and to a first approximation , you are seeing the CPU capability of the Mac hardware shining as well as the read speed of the mac storage as opposed to the iOS storage and the effects of more RAM being a better advantage and more than offsetting the larger library and binary size on Mac OS X.
Yes , newer versions of Bash are released under GPLv3 This question brings out armchair lawyers that argue points for and against GPLv3 . Simply put , GPLv3 conflicts with Apple 's Licensing Policies ( among other licenses ) . None of these licenses prevent you from downloading the source code and compiling a newer version of Bash . On a historical note , Bash was not originally offered as a shell in OS X. Apple does not supply any software under the GPLv3 license .
I just tested this using Apple 's built-in " Music " app on an iPhone 4 running iOS 5.1 , using and to monitor network activity . No connections to Apple servers are being made when opening an app on any iOS device . As you mentioned , individual apps ( e.g. Facebook ) may keep track of data like this by pinging a server every time you open their app -- but Apple does not do anything like this globally .
Ok , so after some quick googling and reading some Apple forums , it looks like iCloud ( in iOS 5 . x ) is n't ready for prime time . I 've done the following and now iOS 5.x seems a lot snappier . Disabled iCloud everywhere ( Settings - > iCloud ) Disable all apps then Scroll down and hit " Storage and Backup " and disable iCloud backups . If you really want to go strong , just delete your iCloud account setting ( on your phone , Settings - > iCloud - > scroll to bottom ) Disabled sending data to Apple ( Settings - > General - > About - > Diagnostic &amp; Usage - > " Do n't send " ) Minimized Location Services ( Settings - > Location services ) I kept it ON globally , but disabled it for certain Apps Most importantly , disabled it for " Diagnostic &amp; Usage " as well as " Location based iAds " ( Settings - > Location services - > Scroll to bottom - > System Services ) Disabled notifications for the calendar ( Settings - > Notification ) I also removed notifications for many other apps that had added themselves ... However , I suspect this is fixed in iOS 5.0.1 under their " Battery issue fixed " patch . Earlier , Calendar notifications would hang causing CPU to be stuck 100 % , draining the battery and leaving little CPU for other items . Also , there are two apps , SysStatsMon and System Status . Both are good tools to see CPU usage on your iOS device . About 5 + seconds after launching them under normal circumstances , your CPU should be in the 5-15 % range .
<URL> ( free , or $ 0.99 <URL> ) will prompt you to open a copied URL on launch . You tap " Okay " and it opens a new tab in the foreground containing the page . I have n't been able to find an iOS browser which automatically opens the URL on the clipboard with no user action .
Is there somewhere that gives more than just a cursory explanation of how to use it ? Probably not - Apple 's not big on providing manuals when they do n't think they 're necessary . For example , when does it chose to download podcasts ? Probably hourly . There 's no option to change this that I can find . Can you force it to update the podcasts without going one by one and clicking on the download link ? It downloads new episodes for subscribed podcasts automatically . Will it download over cellular ? Yep , it does . It also streams over cellular , and well enough that I did n't notice that that was what it was doing at first . ( I 'm on Verizon 3G . ) Can it download the podcasts but play through the normal music app ? Nope . It 's totally separate . ( There 's rumor/suspicion that the Music app wo n't even have a Podcasts section in iOS 6 . )
Yes . Open the App Store and scroll to the bottom of the featured tab . Tap on your Apple ID and select " View Apple ID " . The tap Ratings and Reviews :
You wo n't need to use OpenSSH at all whatsoever . The VPN settings are saved in / var/preferneces/com . apple.networkextension.plist file . Open it with a text editor . It 's not encrypted . The passwords are saved in the keychain instead of inside this file . You can not access the keychain on an iOS device and decrypt it easily but you can do it over a macbook that shares the keychain with your iOS device ( if you enabled it ) . Type in your master password to view the saved passwords .
You ca n't . Must contact Apple Support to do it . How can I update or change my iOS Developer Program account information ? Please <URL> for assistance with : Address changes Contact information updates Company/Organization name updates or changes <URL>
As far as I can tell from <URL> you do n't get paid for a month after you hit the threshold for payment of $ 150 . Hope this helps !
I believe this is associated with automatic downloads and/or iTunes Match . See <URL> Once a device or computer is associated with your Apple ID , you can not associate that device or computer with another Apple ID for 90 days . This article makes it sound like you can only sign in with a different account every 90 days , but this does n't seem to be the case in my experience . I regularly sign into different accounts on our family 's iPad when downloading apps and this has never been a problem . I 've only gotten warnings regarding this 90-day lockout when enabling iTunes Match . The article also notes that : Note : Removing a device from your Apple ID does not override the 90 day timer . The timer must complete 90 days from the day the device was associated before it can be associated to another Apple ID . It looks like you 'll have to contact Apple if you want to have the device reset .
end question
start question
Where is the Agenda view for Calendar in iOS 7 ?
The iOS 7 agenda has n't been removed , but it 's not as intuitively easy to find . To see your agenda : In the month view , tap on any date to bring it to hourly view , then tap the icon ( bullets with lines next to the search icon ) this will allow you to toggle back and forth between hourly and agenda list view .
Here 's how I understand it . Mobile apps that run on iOS 7 can indeed be set up to ( either manually or automatically ) connect via VPN , but the devices have to be managed with OS X 10.9 as the backend VPN server and MDM . This is intended to separate the corporate connection ( which may be carrying sensitive data ) from the personal one . Functionally , a payload ( XML file ) will be pushed to the iOS device . The VPN payload is designated by specifying as the value . The VPN payload contains VPN connection information , but relevant to VPN-By-App , the key is enabled : If true , the Per-App VPN connection starts automatically when apps linked to this Per-App VPN service initiate network communication . Additionally , there is a VPNUUID key : A globally-unique identifier for this VPN configuration . This identifier is used to configure apps so that they use the Per-App VPN service for all of their network communication . And a SafariDomains key : This array contains strings , each of which is a domain that should trigger this VPN connection in Safari . So , the short answer to your question is Yes .
I had that configuration - and also used for friends &amp; family - and it worked just fine . The only drawback is that mail is no longer pushed to your phone . But apart from that , it 's the best solution to have Gmail ( actually working ) and Google Contacts / Calendar on your iPhone .
Is there somewhere that gives more than just a cursory explanation of how to use it ? Probably not - Apple 's not big on providing manuals when they do n't think they 're necessary . For example , when does it chose to download podcasts ? Probably hourly . There 's no option to change this that I can find . Can you force it to update the podcasts without going one by one and clicking on the download link ? It downloads new episodes for subscribed podcasts automatically . Will it download over cellular ? Yep , it does . It also streams over cellular , and well enough that I did n't notice that that was what it was doing at first . ( I 'm on Verizon 3G . ) Can it download the podcasts but play through the normal music app ? Nope . It 's totally separate . ( There 's rumor/suspicion that the Music app wo n't even have a Podcasts section in iOS 6 . )
The only reason it would not last the hour would be if you did n't have room on the device to store the audio file . Bearing this in mind before you conduct an interview make sure you have enough memory to last . For a one hour recording you will need about 160mb of free disc space
As I have access I 've made a screenshot for you . I do n't know why Apple hides this behind a login , but I do n't think it 's a secret .
For a small office , you may be able to get away with using <URL> . It works well for sharing calendars with a small workgroup . You can turn your co-workers calendars on or off so you can see them , or not , depending on your need to de-clutter your calendar . It 's worked flawlessly for us with MobileMe calendar sharing , or you can set up your own CalDAV server . Free trial , excellent support . I 'm a big fan . You said : MobileMe : Not really shared calendar because I ca n't easily see a coworker 's schedule . I think I need more info , as I have no problems viewing the shared schedules of the other people on our system .
You will have to download the GM seed from the Developer Portal to move off the Beta . This will once again be a complete clean and restore so make sure your backups are up to date before starting . Barring any last minute showstoppers the GM build will be the released version .
It has moved to a little different location . To access the same screen , go to : Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud Usage > Manage Storage Moreover , iOS9 now has a search function inside " Settings " . A user can search for a term , such as " Usage " in the search bar to access the corresponding settings .
There is no Trash any more - instead there is Recently Deleted , same as on the iPhone etc. which will countdown 30 days before final deletion unless purged manually or recovered beforehand . In OS X 10.10 Yosemite , you can access it from the File Menu > Show Recently Deleted . In OS X 10.11 El Capitan , there is no menu item , but it can be accessed from the " Albums " tab , where you 'll find the recently deleted folder in the familiar shape of the trash bin of yore . You exit , once finished , by clicking any other category , or if you do n't have the Sidebar open , any Header - Albums etc. .
Passbook is only for the iPhone and iPod Touch . The following is taken from the <URL> : ... you can scan your iPhone or iPod touch to check in for a flight , get into a movie , and redeem a coupon ...
If I understand your question correctly , in the ' music ' section , sort by date added , select the six albums worth of songs and create a New Playlist from Selection ( Cmd-Shft-N , or right-click on selection ) . From that playlist , you should have the view you want .
Only the iPhone 5C has any theme support , in that they contain custom wallpaper to match the colour of the device which is selected as a default when first using the device . This themeing does not extend into apps , and is simply a pre-chosen wallpaper . It has no relevance for any other phone model , or iPad .
It turns out the issue for me is that OSX has created 2 entries in the Calendar app for my Gmail account ( even though I only have the account entered once under the Internet Accounts system pref ) . The Calendar app wo n't let me delete the duplicate since it thinks the duplicate is managed under the Internet Accounts pref . Deleting and re-adding the gmail account in Internet Accounts did n't help either . After deleting the Internet Account , the duplicate still sticks around in the Calendar app is not deletable since the Calendar app ca n't delete it , and there is no corresponding Internet Account for that calendar . I got around the issue by un-checking the " Enable this account " checkbox for the duplicate in the Calendar app ( since it wo n't let me delete it ) . That at least makes it stop checking for calendar updates so I do n't get pestered for passwords .
The solution is actually simpler than that . In Calendar preferences , click " Default Calendar " and scroll to the bottom and select " Selected Calendar . " Now , whichever calendar you have highlighted in the sidebar becomes the calendar in which you are working .
You could try inspecting the output of to see if any of the names look like the package that claims to be installed , then to see where it was installed . If it 's not actually found there , you could try and see if the App Store will let you re-download ; but at that point I 'd probably contact App Store support first , as mucking with the package database might cause bigger problems ( like , conceivably , forgetting that you ever bought the program -- although I would hope Apple 's programmers were smarter than that ) .
The cable has a faulty connection and takes effort to connect to the iPhone . The TV Out option was n't appearing because the cable was n't connecting to the iPhone unless I pushed it in , held it , and then gently left it alone . When that happens , the TV Out option appears .
I had the same problem and found a great article that helped me decrypt the keychain from my iOS 9 backup : <URL> . Here are the steps for El Capitan : Install pip : Install m2crypto ( see answer to <URL> ) First , install openssl and swig with Homebrew : Then install m2crypto using pip : Install some more Python packages : Download the <URL> Extract your backup : And finally , decrypt your keychain :
Ars Technica recently did a rundown of the performance differences between Parallels 7 and VMware Fusion 4 : <URL> The general takeaway seemed to me to be that Parallels is delivering better performance outside some very particular uses .
You will definitely get a performance boost by upgrading from the Linux box to the Mac Pro . However , I do n't believe that you 'll see a huge difference in terms of actual performance between that Mac Pro and , say , an iMac with a 3.6 Ghz i5 and 6 or 8 GB RAM . As long as you 're not doing a lot of gaming or other graphics-intensive or math-intensive things , the iMac should seem to the user almost as fast as the Mac Pro . There 's no harm getting the Pro , but I think you may as well save yourself the money ... As for running a VM , that 's easy . You can even , with <URL> or <URL> , run Windows apps and Mac apps side-by side . Other software to look into is <URL> ( free , supplied by Apple , restart required to switch systems ) and Sun/Oracle <URL> ( free , no restart required , some features missing ) . As for the learning curve : It 's not too bad . Lots of people make the transition . IIRC , 50 % of Mac purchases are first-time Mac users . Apple offers a <URL> guide to help you out . Also , if you 're used to Linux , you 'll catch on quickly . Besides , most of the CL stuff is the same , so you 'll always be at home there . As for SSDs : They 're really , really fast . You can see various tests and comparisons run by manufacturer OWC <URL> . For best shock value , <URL> where they race an SSD machine with an HDD one to boot and open apps from CS5 . It 's pretty amazing ... A cordial welcome to the world of Mac !
end question
start question
How can I automatically have my Trash emptied when disk space gets below a certain point ?
I use a third party preference pane <URL> that deletes from trash when the disk fills up or if the file has been in trash for a given time . The original download stopped working for me but I have just found this on the author 's site instead of the distributer . Note the author 's comment Compost is in a bit of a state of flux right now . The distributor has moved on to a different market and we wish them well in their endeavors . Additionally , the changes necessary to fully support Snow Leopard have been going through an extensive beta period as a result of the degree and complexity of changes required . Please stay tuned for more information . So it might not work even from this download When I updated this I had just installed it on Yosemite and it installed ( but not enough time to see if it deleted anything ) I have now updated to El Capitan and the installer fails .
Go to your Keyboard Preferences , then Input Sources and you can see " Automatically switch to a document 's input source " . Check that .
Here is an example ( quick scribble ) of how to get and process the labels . Set theNumber to your own number . AND I WOULD BACKUP THE ADDRESSBOOK BEFORE YOU START PLAYING WITH IT . Update . I have change the script to chaco if the phone number starts with rather than contains . ' label ' = an items label . i.e ' mobile ' , ' iphone ' , ' home page ' Phones = the phone numbers of a person/contact 's entry people = plural for more than one person/contact . value = the value of an item in a person/contact entry - in this case the phone number In the set command the code between the brackets ( ) is run first . Meaning the reference to phone number 's label in whole of the address book that starts with theNumber is gathered in a list . Then the surrounding code tells each reference to change to test .
I do n't think it is possible using iTunes . You can try <URL> , though ( wich is free ) , or <URL> ( free until Dec. 1 2010 )
Hold down the decrease screen brightness button at the top of the keyboard , it will get dimmer and dimmer , and at the end jump to a black screen ( the screen 's light will actually be off ) . To turn the screen back just press the increase screen brightness button .
The Synology NAS supports a Network Recycle bin , but only for SMB volumes . Therefore if you want to make use of it from your Mac , you need to access the share via SMB and not AFP . This can be enabled from the under . The Synology by itself fully supports Time Machine , and can act as a Time Capsule . Most of the documentation on the Internet mention the Network Trash and Time Capsule option in the same place , but as an Windows/Mac comparison type description . The manual for DSM does not mention Network Trash for Mac either , only for Samba . I am not entirely sure where you read that the Synology supports this feature for OSX , since I could n't find any reference to it in the way you described . OSX , unlike the previous OS 9 , does not support a of any kind , and I am not aware of any plans to bring this feature to OSX . Therefore it also ca n't be activated from the OS layer . I suspect the naming was changed from Network Trash to CIFS Recycle Bin in the new DSM by Synology because of the confusion it has caused .
If these applications offer the ability to Hide the Dock Item , and live only in the Menu Bar , then they will not show up in the Command + Tab switcher list . Review the preferences within each application to see if this feature is supported . Last I knew , there were no stable solutions for hiding Dock Icons without adverse application affects . I have numerous applications that live in the Menu Bar only , and most have an option to show it if necessary : Alfred , Sparrow , iMenuMeters , Divvy , Last.fm , Flux , Little Snitch , and Tunnelblick .
In Calendar.app , you can right-click on any calendar , and choose Get Info . From here you can select Ignore Alerts
According to <URL> you only need 7G of free space . Amazingly small amount of space considering the download is 3.6 G itself . Many are reporting gaining back between 5 and 10 GB of space as Lion is more compact than Snow Leopard .
This feature seems to now exist in Apple Screen Sharing Version 1.5 ( 481.1 ) Or and then select
Using the tool Disk Utility , select your hard disk , then select the " partition " tab that appears on the right . This will allow you to list the partitions on your drive . If you used a standard bootcamp install , you will probably find that the windows partition appears after the end of the Mac one , and is at the end of the disk . Selecting this partition , and hitting the minus button should remove it , and will leave a blank hole in it 's space . Now you should be able to select the first partition , and increase it 's size in order to fill the available space vacated by the windows partition . Top tip : Backup your Mac partition ! Use Time Machine , Super Duper , Carbon Copy Cloner of similar tools . This should be perfectly achievable without even a reboot , but you are mucking around with your disks partition table , risks do exist , there is always a chance of failure ruining both partitions . I would n't worry it about it too much , but if your data is important , you should do this first .
The only way I have found to eliminate the " other " space on in iPhone is to do a full restore , which wipes the device , reinstalls iOS , and then allows you to restore from backup . Just click ' Restore ' in iTunes : <URL>
Removing Dropbox does n't delete its preferences/cache/etc , which is stored in ~ / . dropbox . You can delete this yourself .
If I get it right , you want to monitor all file-system operations of your app when you launch it and when it 's running ? Rather than finding each and every byte that this program has ever written to your hard-drive . For the first case I have two recommendations : <URL> Instruments.app from / Developer/Applications / ( you need <URL> for that ) Choosing " File Activity " from the templates Supplement from 2011-12-22 And for the command-line , copied from <URL> Shows you all of the files that are being accessed on your system by a particular process ( by passing its PID )
Mac OS X has no explicit option for users to power down external hard disk drives . This capability is managed by Mac OS X 's lower level <URL> . Regrettably , not all external hard disk drives offer energy saving features . However , Western Digital ( WD ) claim that <URL> . It is likely something is accessing your external hard disk drive . It only requires a tiny read or write to cause the disk to stay active . Maybe a log file being written to or back up software that never stops . Does the drive spin down when you unmount it in the Finder ? If so , consider scripting the mounting and unmounting of the drive as part of your back up routine .
You can try : <URL> ( free one ) <URL> ( paid one )
⇧ shift + ⌘ cmd + G Opens the dialog in the Finder window : This will let you open any folder for the directory you type .
Got a reply from the support . What I asked is not possible -- but you could use two <URL> ( in my case I could n't do that though ) . Our licensing agreement with Apple does n't permit transmitting the operating system via the internet . As there are other methods to run the application ( as outlined previously [ <URL> ] ) most folks can run the software using the downloaded application . Also , DiskWarrior is the type of utility to prevent these problems - regular maintenance can help prevent the emergency situation .
What you observe is the default setting for podcasts in iTunes , which is to download the most recent episode of a podcast . To avoid this , follow these steps : Go to Podcasts in the iTunes Library pop-up menu . Select a podcast . Right click and choose " Settings " ( or alternatively , click on the gear icon next to the podcast title on the episode list on the right ) . In the Podcast Settings dialog , under the " Settings for : " dropdown , select " Podcasts Defaults " ( this would apply your changes to all podcasts ) . In the " When new episodes are available : " dropdown , select " Do nothing " ( the default option being " Download the most recent one " ) . Click OK . With this change , iTunes will never download new episodes for any of your podcasts . If you wish to change this setting only for specific podcasts , you can do so by selecting the specific podcast in the " Settings for : " dropdown and/or by changing the defaults .
I found two options Use a folder action on to unmount any DMG getting moved into the trash can ( see second part of <URL> , summarized below ) <URL> claims to be able to do this as well Folder Action to unmount DMG moved to Trash Create a new " Folder Action " workflow in Automator Set Folder Action to work on Add a " Run Shell Script " action to the workflow Set shell to " / usr/bin/python " and make sure input gets passed as arguments Replace the content of the script box with the following script Save the workflow
end question
start question
How can I configure Lion to use PHP mail ( ) locally ?
<URL> works for me at OS X Snow Leopard : When an email is sent using PHP 's mail ( ) function , the email is piped through to the smtp_catcher.php script . The smtp_catcher.php script saves the email into a local folder as a . emlx file . The email is opened through Apple Mail and displayed on the screen ( woo ! ) .
You should boot on the <URL> and use Terminal there to unlock the drive using the recovery key ( you ca n't check the recovery key if you are booted on the crypted disk , since the unlocking process will fail : already unlocked ) . To start with , you will need to identify the Logical Volume UUID of the encrypted drive using the diskutil corestorage list command : Running that command will give you a listing of all Core Storage volumes . Once you have the UUID of the encrypted volume , you can then unlock the encrypted volume using the following commands : When prompted enter the passphrase you would like to test . This article provides more information and screenshots , <URL> .
From one of the <URL> , one user found a tool that could handle batch conversions of Claris Works documents : Panergy Software had just the right tool for me . It 's called Doc X Converter . I have n't used it yet , but I emailed with their tech support and I understand that it will batch convert Apple Works and Claris Works files to . rtf files , which , of course , will open fine with any version of Word . ( They no longer sell One Click Convert . ) However , it 'll only convert the word processor files . The <URL> has a link to a <URL> , which states : The cwk file extension is the extension associated with an Office program originally called ClarisWorks and later renamed AppleWorks . This Office program is composed of several modules , word processor , spreadsheet , drawing , painting , presentation and database . The cwk extension is used for all the files regardless of the module that has created them and is also used in both version 5 or version 6 of this program . docXConverter open and converts the cwk word processing files of version 5 or version 6 . So long as the ClarisWorks documents are version 5 or 6 and are word processing documents , this tool should provide the functionality that you 're looking for . Caveat : I 've never used docXConverter before , but the product description looks promising .
You do it right at the point of sending an email ... right after you hit send , this screen appears ...
<URL> ( Formerly called KeyRemap4MacBook ) allows to intercept the keyplay . Assign your scripts for fine volume adjustment to F11 and F12 ( actually it 's a combination of fn + vol . up/vol . down ) . Download and install <URL> . Open the Karabiner preferences via the menu icon , which is a black square ( like a keyboard key ) , somewhere in your menu bar . In the Tab Change Key select the options : Volume Down to F11 Volume Up to F12 F11 to Volume Down F12 to Volume Up This will switch the behavior of the function keys with the volume keys : Now you can use fine volume adjustment with one touch and the usual volume adjustment using fn + vol . up/vol . down . Note that there is also an option " Fine grained volume controls " that enables fine grained volume controls by default , so you can do this purely within Karabiner , without any other scripts . You can find this in the giant list , under " Change F1 . . F19 Key &amp; Functional Key " and then the submenu " Change Functional Key " .
If your mac shipped with Lion , you should be able to run the hardware test by simply holding D when your computer boots . If your mac did not ship with lion , you will need the original install disks to boot into the hardware test mode . <URL>
Apple 's tools for accessing the Spotlight index ( Spotlight itself and the command ) do n't offer any regex options , nor do I know of any 3rd party tools that offer that ( I 'm not actually sure Apple has APIs that would make that possible ) . However the command does offer a much more powerful interface than the GUI Spotlight search . It offers proper binary operators and finer grained control over what metadata you search . Check out <URL> for some good information , as well as the <URL> .
You 'll want a tool that lets you script the changes so you can roll them in and out or perhaps get fancy and script it based on the detected network connection interface . I would start by evaluating <URL> to see if it fits your needs or at least can give you a leg up on the processes that are connecting in case you care to just control them . I would n't be surprised if Little Snitch were controllable from the command line - but have n't used it lately to know for sure .
No , this is limitation of GMail via Exchange on iOS . The only way to have draft support is to use the GMail template when adding a new mail account .
In iOS 6 , your phone number and your Apple ID will be unified , so when you 'll receive a iMessage or a Facetime call , they will appear on all your devices ( iOS and Mac OS ) . More info <URL> . So I think you just need to wait until this fall to resolve your problem !
Enter Mission Control Hover over the selected space or hold & #x 2325 ; remove by clicking on the x
I can think of a variety of methods to do what you want , but none of them are easy solutions . You 'll probably need to write some code . This question should be tagged PBX , but that is too obscure for this site . You 'll probably want installed to control the G5 modem . Get it via or . If you can use minicom to check the number without answering , then you are mostly done . If it does n't match , ignore it . If it does match , you 'll need to find some way for minicom to answer/forward/pass the incoming call out the modem out line . I 'm not yet sure how to do this . If minicom needs to answer the call in order to determine where it came from , then the situation is as above , but you might need two modems . If it is a call for the security center , pass it out one modem . If it is n't , pass it out the other , which goes to your home phone I presume . If minicom can not determine the number , or if can but has to answer in order to check it and this is problematic , then I would get a caller ID display , put it in next to the G5 , and use a webcam to read the numbers off the caller ID . <URL> would help with this part , or any script-able optical character recognition ( OCR ) software . You can get from fink or macports too , and that might be sufficient . Determine the number and if it should go to the security console , have minicom patch it through . But , why do you need to call in ? If your G5 is at home and online , it might be easier to not call into the security system , but SMS or email yourself , have the G5 fetching the mail , and taking action based on that ( perhaps that action is using minicom to connect to the security system , but you do n't need a phone line to the outside world in this case ) .
Launch the Terminal mail app with : You 'll see a list of all your messages . From the mail prompt , do And that should be it . Make sure do to the after the command , that saves the changes to disk .
At the time of writing Rosetta is not included with Lion , not supported by Lion officially and not available from any other channel ( official or unofficial ) for use on Lion . So : no , there is no workaround . Your Rosetta-based applications cease to function if you upgrade to Lion .
You can use the Recovery partition or Internet Recovery to download the full installer . The basic method is , tell it to re-install on an external drive , let it download , interrupt it before it reboots your system , then you can grab the DMG file and write it to a USB drive so that you 'll have a full ( no internet required ) installer when you need it . Full details here : <URL> You 'll want to have a spare external drive handy to use as the install target so that you do n't risk overwriting your boot drive .
True and False . iCloud only backs up such things as reminders , calendar events and such . AND it also backs up documents created in Pages , Keynote , and Numbers , as well as other programs that are designed to work with iCloud , which is especially useful when you would like to access them on your iOS device . It does not backup your entire Documents folder . True . True . iCloud comes with 5GB free . After that there you must buy more storage at their set price . ( While talking about backups , you should checkout Backblaze . I 've been signed up for about a year and have been really impressed with them - besides it 's only $ 5 per month )
Go to sent messages . <URL> Right click the message and click " Send again " <URL> This will open the message as you wanted .
It is tied to the new mac . The store verifies the mac rather than the Apple ID to allow the download if you need to reinstall the OS . Some people are reporting that the few macs that shipped with Snow Leopard from the factory , but were changed later get a redemption code that works more like you purchasing an upgrade . That purchase seems to work on 5 macs like the other App Store purchases .
Three-finger drag is n't a gesture for " move the window " ; it 's a gesture for " click and drag . " While there might ( now or someday ) be third-party software that could accomplish your desired behavior , it falls beyond the scope of a simple hidden preference .
Firefox <URL> is a shell scripts that will install all major versions of Firefox on OS X , and set up separate profiles so you can use them simultaneously . Currently it installs : Firefox 2.0.0.20 Firefox 3.0.19 Firefox 3.5.9 Firefox 3.6.28 Firefox 4.0.1 Firefox 5.0.1 Firefox 6.0.1 Firefox 7.0.1 Firefox 8.0.1 Firefox 9.0.1 Firefox 10.0.2 Firefox 11.0 Firefox Beta Firefox Aurora Firefox Nightly Firefox UX Nightly You can set it up so it only installs the specific versions you want . Optionally , the script can install Firebug for each version of Firefox too . It will also set icons that contain the version number : Safari For Safari , check out <URL> . Chrome/Chromium For Chrome/Chromium , install any version you want , change the app name from to e.g. for clarity , then <URL> for that version . Opera Download old Opera versions here : <URL> IE Get VirtualBox and then run <URL> . It will automatically download legal Windows images for testing purposes and set up virtual machines for every IE version you need .
end question
start question
Why does Eclipse launch so slowly on Mac OS X ?
I was able to resolve the issue . I inspected the logs and noticed the PyDev plugin was searching for a Python 2.5 interpreter ( which had been installed on previous OS X installations ) . After I removed the Python 2.5 interpreter from PyDev 's list of configured interpreters , the issue vanished .
On a high level , it 's like an automatic transmission - when you press the gas gently , the throttle increases but when you stomp on the accelerator pedal the engine downshifts the transmission to increase the mechanical advantage . You can influence switching to the powerful GPU by hitting the API with significant work and expect the " transmission " to dispatch that load to the non-integrated GPU . The documentation on the API are all in Xcode ( and online too , but I prefer using search on Xcode to hunt for a document ) . I would start with : xcdoc : / / ? url = developer.apple.com/library/etc/redirect/xcode/mac/1153/technotes/tn2335/_index.html ( <URL> ) Those links cover the Mac Pro and the " What you should know when using OpenCL " section contains a helpful note that WWDC 2013 Session 508 : Working with OpenCL describes how to switch between two GPUs in a Mac portable using power considerations .
There is no serial number ( like a Windows 7/8/10 product key ) tied to the OS X installation . If you did n't configure iCloud/iTunes accounts while setting up the system it 's almost plain vanilla . But installing OS X in Internet Recovery Mode will install the system the Mac originally was shipped with . Moving the disk with this system to a newer Mac - which usually relies on a newer OS X version - will probably fail to boot . Usually newer Mac contain newer or additional hardware . The older system usually does n't ship with the newer or additional drivers needed . Example : The iMac Late 2011 ( Mac12 ,1 ) was shipped with OS X 10.7.2 . The iMac Late 2013 ( Mac14 ,2 ) was shipped with OS X 10.8.4 . Attaching the external disk to the iMac Late 2011 and using IRM 's Restore OS X will install 10.7.x on it . The same disk attached to the iMac Late 2013 will probably fail to boot because the system is too old .
Be sure to click the mouse once to wake it up , because it will likely have gone to sleep .
On OS X , the kernel task accumulates IO wait time and the process accumulates CPU time managing the IO call setup and results but not the actual IO wait . Put another way , in or Activity Monitor , IO waiting is time when the CPU is idle . The system/kernel would take any core storage / filevault processing time needed to accomplish the IO but for the general case with a normal drive there is n't CPU overhead on IO past the normal virtual memory overhead .
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
Yes , at : ~ / Library/Preferences/com . apple.LaunchServices.QuarantineEvents . OS X uses the data in this file for the warning messages that come up when you open a downloaded app .
This could get very technical but the answer is actually relatively straightforward . The act of " ripping " takes place in 2 stages , reading the source material , and writing out a converted version of same . For music this is straightforward , mainly because the technology is old enough to predate stuff that was later incorporated into DVDs . Music CDs do not have any form of encryption . The data is laid bare for you to use as you see fit . This means anyone can read it without requiring the use of a licensed decoder which you can them laden with prohibitions on use . Once you can read it , you can convert it , so long as you have a suitable encoder , which Apple provides to allow encoding into the formats you list . For a movie , this is different . The source material is encrypted and copy protected in a way that Music CDs never were , and never will be . This means you need a licensed decoder just to be able to read them . The terms of the license will often dictate that you can only decode for playback , and not for conversion . Most often this is purely a legal distinction , and not a technical one . Obviously Apple have to abide by the terms of these licenses or they could not provide you with them , and as such they will not allow you to subsequently decode a film , then instead of watching it immediately encode ( rip ) it into a different format . They do provide an encoding mechanism for movies , but it will only work on unencrypted and decoded files . Of course , there is nothing to stop other programs that Apple do not supply from ignoring such paper restrictions ( or providing replacement decoders that are less inhibited in what they allow ) , and happily ripping away .
FYI , iPhone 4 does have heat sensors and if it gets dangerously hot it will show a black screen with a yellow warning sign and shut down . It 's perfectly reasonable to be concerned and take the measures you have to increase heat dissipation , but batteries warming on charging is quite normal . I would n't worry unless the iPhone displays an overheating warning consistently .
Yes , videos and photos are stored in messages and they take up too much space . Try deleting any large discussion thread you do not need if you would like to free some space . Or , if you would like to weed out individual photos or videos , you can tap and hold on any message bubble for the context menu . It will appear with two options : " Copy " | " More " . Tap " More " for a list of checkboxes to appear on the left side of the screen . This allows you to easily delete one or more ( large ) individual messages . Up to iOS 6 messages just were n't in the usage tab , and consequently one could n't easily see how much space it consumed . Also note , that you are just deleting those messages off of that device . If they are iMessages , and you have other devices ( a Mac or OSX device ) with those accounts synced there , the messages will stay there .
You are right to leave media in the original location to help save space . Beyond this setting , take a look at your Library 's settings . Manage Storage Locations Final Cut Pro is likely <URL> of your original media . By default , these temporary files are stored within your Final Cut Pro libraries . You can change the location of temporary files , see <URL> . When you finish working on a project , ask Final Cut Pro to delete all associated runtime created files : Final Cut Pro.app > File ( menu ) > Delete Generated Library Files ... <URL> This will dramatically reduce the file size of your library .
The amount of space the OS needs is neither fixed nor predictable . It depends on a huge number of factors : what programs you run , what you do in them , what background activity they trigger , what background activity happens for other reasons , etc. . Hard drive space is used for overflow from RAM , logs , temporary files , etc. . If the system reserved a fixed amount of space for this , it would wind up being bigger than it needs to be a lot of the time ( and hence waste space ) , and too small some of the time ( which would be very bad ) .
To answer your question as stated : Yes , MAC OS X has something similar to SELinux providing <URL> security polices and roles . As you have discovered it 's called MAC and I believe it 's based on the TrustedBSD implementation of the same name . To answer your implicit question : No . MAC should not interfere with the ability to serve documents out of your home directory . Most likely either your permissions or your virtual host configuration is incorrect . If I remember correctly the logs should be in or . Please edit your question to contain the relevant parts of your virtual host configuration and logs .
Applications such as CleanMyMac or CCleaner are unnecessary for your Mac . They can clear certain caches or preferences that can interfere with the proper functionality of your other applications - they 'll be recreated anyway the next time you use the software . Unless you 're in dire need of extra space on your hard drive , I would n't suggest trying to erase caches using cleaner applications . If anything , invest in an external hard drive and move some of your larger files over .
<URL> is the best tool I 've found for recovering files . It does have some baffling limitations however , like the fact that it ca n't recover . dmg files . It 's a command line program but still very easy to use . And it 's free :) <URL> on their wiki makes it even easier .
Yes , Disk Utility can do this . Use then select your file . In the dialog that follows , select . Disk Utility will insist on saving the new ISO as a file , but it is really an ISO . You can rename it to in the Finder , if you like . At <URL> there are screen shots that walk through this process .
On newer OS X , you can access these advanced features from the Bluetooth icon in the menu bar . Hold shift and option ( only ) when clicking on the icon : <URL> The debug menu has most of the action oriented items you 'll need : <URL> I 've never seen resetting the module work better than powering it off , but I 'm sure theres cases where that saves a trip to the repair shop . Logging is useful , but the logs are very very large , so keep that in mind and set a reminder to turn it off tomorrow . On older OS , you needed a developer tool to systematically remove pairing records and HID devices . Bluetooth Explorer ships with Xcode 3 . ( as of today , early June 2011 - this is something available at no cost if you agree to the terms of the free developer program . It might also be bundled with Xcode 4 - available with paid download or paid mac developer program - but I ca n't vouch for that ) You can also browse the <URL> for free to learn more about bluetooth implementation . The explorer has a detailed window with many settings to automate resetting devices for testing . Here is a portion of the window showing that not only are the local mac settings cleared , it will reach out to Apple Bluetooth devices and reset their internal state as well . Since bluetooth has to start very soon in the boot process ( and is part of the setup assistant since new macs that have no accounts have to know how to set up Bluetooth keyboards and mouse out of the box ) it 's not just a simple user preference file but instead a system level preference and stored in several locations . You will be able to make your mac factory fresh to test bluetooth with the Bluetooth Explorer .
The OS X disk utility checks the HFS + volume header , and its backup header ( located in the last block of the disk ) . If both match , then the rest of the disk is assumed to be consistent . That 's along the lines of quick fsck ( 8 ) check . Another quick check for journal consistency is performed if you 've set up journaling , and if that also checks ok , then the rest is skipped . You can always run fsck manually , or - <URL> has a tool called HFSleuth which - while directed at programmer/hacker types - can allow you to do a more thorough check .
Go to the network preferences panel in System Preference Select airport , then ' Advanced ... ' Press the plus button It will work even when the network is n't near .
OS X applications are actually special folders which contain numerous smaller files , resources , binaries , localization settings , etc. . When the Finder opens a folder with a lot of apps , it needs to do a lot more than it would to open a folder with the same number of ordinary documents . At the very least , the Finder needs to check for the localized name of each app and load each app 's icon . It will also need to check whether it can launch the app , checking if it 's Intel , PPC , Universal , or Classic , possibly checking if it 's 64-bit or 32-bit , too . It 's possible the Finder is gathering other info as well , possibly checking the folder structure of each app to verify it 's actually an app , or checking its info.plist for file type associations , etc. . Lion may also verify that each app is listed in Launchpad . Of course , the more apps you have , the longer this process will take . I would guess that , unless your Macs are starved for RAM , the only way to make this process faster is to startup from an SSD instead of a conventional HD . Or perhaps delete all unneeded apps ( that were not installed by OS X ) . Also , the first time after each login , the Applications and Utilities folders may be slightly less responsive initially , even after the apps have shown up , because the Finder also needs to examine each app to calculate its total file size .
end question
start question
How to get Outlook email indexed by Spotlight after reinstalling Office 2011 ?
Finally found the solution to this problem . Outlook provides a custom importer to Spotlight to index email . It is typically found in : " / Applications/Microsoft Office 2011/Microsoft Outlook.app / Contents/Library/Spotlight / Microsoft Outlook.mdimporter " , You can use the command to list all installed importers . When I did that I saw that the importer from the old installation of Outlook was still installed because it was still in the trash can . When I tried to manually import an email using the command I saw that it was failing to load the importer from the trash . Emptying the trash fixed the issue . Wish there was a way to selectively empty the trash without deleting everything . Once I emptied the trash , I had to force Spotlight to reindex the email folder by adding the folder to the Privacy tab of Spotlight System Settings , and then removing it again . After spotlight reported the indexing was complete ( via the Spotlight dropdown in the upper right ) the email was all indexed again . Hope that helps !
Open Mail.app , then go to Mail in the top menu > Preferences > Viewing > Uncheck " Use Smart Addresses " . This should display the full name of the contact plus the email address .
You may be able to use <URL> to access FileVault 2 encrypted drives on Linux . OS X turns the password for the drive into a derived key by using <URL> . That derived key then unlocks the encrypted drive . I 'm not aware of a way to display the key .
You can extract your iPhone contacts and back them up to your computer via <URL> . Then use the same program to transfer the contacts from your computer to your new iPhone .
According to Apple 's <URL> : Page Up key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Up Arrow key . Page Down key functionality is performed by pressing Fn and Down Arrow key .
Yes , you can easily go back to a previous version of os x if you have correctly saved that version using time machine . You 'll need to : connect the time machine to your mac Restart your mac and hold Command + R After the mac boots go to OS X Utilities and select Restore from a Time Machine Backup then hit next or continue A screen will show Select a backup source select your time machine bacup You will have next a screen with OS X Version and Backup Date and Time , If you want to go back to Yosemite select 10.10.X ( Mavericks is 10.9 . X )
Create a file named inside a folder . Rename folders or files so that they end with . If you only want to hide files from the GUI , move them to a system folder like . Move the files to a folder that starts with a period like . It does n't remove them from mdfind queries like though . Related questions : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There 's no built in feature in the Finder to achieve that , but with the " plugin " <URL> you can get that . It 's located under the " Tweaks " tab in the TotalFinder settings . Edit : There was a screenshot here , but it was out of date . Look at <URL> instead for an up-to-date screenshot !
I 've solved my system wide stuttering with Mountain Lion by now ( first sound only , mostly , then aggravated system wide ) . Here 's why : My MacBook Pro became unbootable from stock HDD . I had a bootcamp partition , no luck when booting into Windows too , got stuck when booting , jusk like when booting into OS X ( got stuck at apple sign with spinning wheel ) . I 've got a Ubuntu DVD and started a live session , SMART disk diagnostics : 258 bad blocks , imminent disk failure . I half apologize Apple in this point , for blaming solely the OS for being just weird . The stuttering origins , in my case , was n't solely about the OS . I should have take notice since when first upgraded to Mountain Lion . With my stock HDD , everytime I tried to install OS X , I needed to reboot a few times and got negative time counter ( WEIRD ) for the remaining installation time . So what confused me so much ? I booted into Windows bootcamp : no stuttering , booted into Mountain Lion : stuttering plus very slow OS . OS X Disk Utility never helped or warned about the amount of bad blocks ( doing PRAM/SMC resets , filesystem and permission repair never truly helped ) . When using Lion and Snow Leopard , there was no such a slowness/stuttering as there was in Mountain Lion . Before ML , I never experienced " sound stuttering " , only when upgrading to ML this started to happen . So I suspect ML may be more sensible to disk with bad blocks . I think I had few bad blocks initially and it became aggravated over time , I do n't know whether ML usage helped in the aggravation process . Truth is , it was like I 'd forced the disk to became unbootable when I last used it with Mountain Lion . It was slow as aways but still usable , I 'd got a miniDisplayPort/HDMI cable and thought it was time to try it . The machine became very sloooow when I tried to play some video while connected to my TV , after disconnecting , it just hang , so I forced shutdown and it never booted again . I 've just replaced the original Toshiba MK5065GSX 500GB 5400RPM ( what a crap and I think it was failing when under warranty ) with a new Seagate Momentus XT 750GB ( SSD hybrid drive , 7200RPM ) . MAN , NOW IT 'S BLAZING FAST ! ( also now I see the benefit of my early OWC 16GB RAM upgrade ) Anyway , I bought a MacBook Pro in early 2011 and here 's what I 've learned about MacBooks : First problem : MacBook Pro refuse to charge without any apparent reason , I thought it was some smart emergency battery calibration routine , no it was not . I 've dumbly let the warranty end and did n't replaced this failing and VERY expensive MagSafe , needed to buy a new one . At some point the stock MagSafe stopped charging and did n't return to charge after some hours , as it was aways doing . Second problem : Slowness in Lion ( I bought Lion ) Got RAM upgrade , no help ( I bought 16GB RAM ) Got ML upgrade , NO HELP , got stuttering ( I bought ML ) Died HDD ( started dying around 1 year of usage ) Got new better HDD ( bought ) Third problem : Bad management of headphone jack makes sound speakers muted . Blame OS X , any other OS : sound speakers working when expected to work . Google for : Headphone jack red macbook I think I ca n't solve this Fourth problem : I 've spent a lot of more money Given my experience , I have some concerns whether ML helps HDDs die . Now it 's blazing fast , no stuttering and I ca n't put a headphone . If a put one , sound speakers only return to be recognized at random afterwards . I WILL NEVER BUY APPLE STUFF AGAIN Maybe , only used and cheaper apple stuff for upgrades with my own choice of good hardware . TIP : Aways check your disk healthy with serious tools
One thing is speed . I believe Alfred is currently faster than Spotlight . And , this is specifically for Lion I believe , Alfred learns where Spotlight does n't . If I want to launch Adobe Photoshop and start to type ' Ph ' Alfred will offer Photoshop as an option and move it to the top with the more I select it . With Spotlight , Photo Booth with be the first choice , and it will not learn what I want with repeated use . I believe at one point it did , but lost the ability in Lion .
I found how to make iTunes restore only contacts , while preserving the rest intact : run iTunes before connecting iPhone disable auto-syncing in preferences : should be switched On connect iPhone to PC . In iTunes : on the Sidebar , select your iPhone ( press if Sidebar is hidden ) on the top central menu ( ) , click scroll the page to bottom , there 's section switch on : click in the bottom right of iTunes window ( or right click on iPhone and choose ) These steps wipe the local contact store on iPhone ( leaving cloud contact sync alone , if applicable ) and injects all the contacts stored in the PC-side data source that iTunes has selected ( from Windows Contacts in my case ; Outlook on Windows / Contacts on Mac in other setups ) and pushes those contacts to the device . It does not load contacts from an iOS backup .
Fire up Safari and check the settings for the default search engine . For me that is google and searching the way you described it for me opens safari ( currently my default browser ) with a google search . The option is right there on the first settings tab . I included an image detailing where to find it ( sorry for the german ) :
If you remove the Microsoft Database daemon from login and do not open Entourage you should receive no notifications .
Finally found the solution to this problem . Outlook provides a custom importer to Spotlight to index email . It is typically found in : " / Applications/Microsoft Office 2011/Microsoft Outlook.app / Contents/Library/Spotlight / Microsoft Outlook.mdimporter " , You can use the command to list all installed importers . When I did that I saw that the importer from the old installation of Outlook was still installed because it was still in the trash can . When I tried to manually import an email using the command I saw that it was failing to load the importer from the trash . Emptying the trash fixed the issue . Wish there was a way to selectively empty the trash without deleting everything . Once I emptied the trash , I had to force Spotlight to reindex the email folder by adding the folder to the Privacy tab of Spotlight System Settings , and then removing it again . After spotlight reported the indexing was complete ( via the Spotlight dropdown in the upper right ) the email was all indexed again . Hope that helps !
Just for reference , Spotlight index should n't get corrupted , but when that 's the case <URL> . You have to remember that spotlight is a database and as such is prone to corruption ; compared to relational databases for example , spotlight can only be deleted and rebuilt when that happens . There 's no " spotlight - repair " command ( one can only wish ) . All in all , it 's rare to see Spotlight failing in OS X 10.6 , it has been very stable compared to the first Tiger version . External applications , on the other hand , can make use of the APIs to store information in the metadata , and here 's where we lose control of what goes in there . If one external application is storing bad data , it could cause the whole index to go nuts . Since you have a healthy working index now , try it for a few weeks and pay attention to any application or utility that claims to support Spotlight . Good Luck !
<URL> One of the fastest ways to hide a file or folder , from Spotlight , on the fly is to add the . noindex extension to the end of the filename or folder . The simplest way to get those files hidden is to create a folder , preferably named something innocuous , and add the extension to the end of the name . I 'll end up with a folder named " Nothing to See Here.noindex " or something similar . Hide just a single file Select the file to be hidden . Right-click and select Get Info , or click Command + I. Find the Name &amp; Extension field , and replace the current extension with . noindex . When prompted to confirm that I want to change the extension , I agree . Now my file is properly hidden from Spotlight search . Finlay : Finder wo n't know what to do with my file anymore , though . Look to the drop-down labeled Open With , and select an application to handle the file . Be careful of setting a single application to handle all . noindex files , as many different file types may be hidden from Spotlight , and OS X sometimes creates . noindex files itself
In the assistive touch menu you 've to select : device - > more - > screenshot .
The only surefire way to avoid having JavaScript trap keyboard input is to disable JavaScript in the browser . I understand you 'd like to leave JavaScript on , but it is designed to pass near total control of raw key presses to the browser and not to the app once the OS hands it input data . This means you would need a specific code solution for each implementation of keyboard filtering on potentially each individual page/site to ensure arbitrary key chords like Command H get sent to Safari instead of JavaScript . See these links for an overview of how key presses are handled : <URL> <URL> <URL> The last link is a tester to show you the raw events and you will see that even a brief ⌘ Q can be trapped by JavaScript if the website developer wishes to do so .
Thunderbolt contains a DisplayPort channel . You can get a Thunderbolt/Mini DisplayPort to DisplayPort cable . I found a cheap one on <URL> a while back . <URL> is a 6 footer .
Here is one way to get webcal feeds to show up in Outlook 2011 for Mac if you are using Office 365 . Open the Office 365 Web Application Go to My Calendars on the left and right click " Open Calendar " and paste your webcal URL into the " from the Internet " field The calendar ( basecamp or tripit for example ) will now show up both in your Office 365 web app and also in Outlook 2011 for Mac ( assuming you have this set up )
end question
start question
How to set proxy configuration file in command line ?
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
On a new Mac ( presumably one that uses an Intel i5 or better processor ) , I think the hassle of rebooting to use BootCamp outweighs the benefit . I would run both Ubuntu and your favorite flavor of Windows in one of the Virtual Machine products . Some prefer <URL> because it is free . I 'm not in that camp , and I think it has poorer performance than the competing solutions . That leaves <URL> or <URL> . I 've used both , and find little difference between them in real-world usage . I use VMWare Fusion , myself . I would purchase whichever one you can find at a discount . I note that you can often find Parallels included in the Mac software bundle deals that pop up several times a year .
Here is the code : Just replace the with the index of your script in the menu . ( FYI : 1 is , 8 is
A popular command line e-mail clients is <URL> . Use a package manager such as Brew or Macports to install it on MacOS . Have a look at <URL> for some pointers . You can find the IMAP settings for iCloud in <URL> .
You can change the shortcuts from System Preferences : If you want to disable the shortcuts , edit the NSUserKeyEquivalents dictionaries directly : Then quit and reopen Chrome and Safari to apply the changes .
tl ; dr - It 's safe to delete in whatever way you choose . The only conceivable problem would be if Time Machine was trying to prune a backup at the same time you were deleting , so maybe turn off Time Machine for the duration of your clean up if you 're not using the built in delete button . You can use in Lion to safely delete backups . The benefit of this is the deletion happens more silently in the background . The downside is the UI is n't speedy for deleting more than one snapshot at a time . In practice , you have to be there to attend multiple deletions . Do n't worry about the internals of how files are linked or stored - yes most of the files in most of the backups are hard links , but to clean these up , you have to delete things folder by folder . The system will handle decrementing the link count so there 's no better or worse way to go here . It is also safe to simply remove them via Finder or any other method - just be patient as each backup contains a full set of directory entries for each file . My ( worst ) record is 4 days to delete through finder a batch of unwanted backups . Good advice might be to start small if you ca n't leave your mac on overnight . You wo n't lose any data unless you are deleting the last copy of a version of some file . You do n't get any warnings , it will get deleted - this is the same whether you use Time Machine itself , or Finder or in some terminal script . As a brief aside - Why do you want to do this ? Time Machine automatically prunes old backups when you 're getting low on space . I 've found it very comforting to just clone my Time Machine drive to a cheap USB external drive and put it on the shelf . ( or make this the drive on the shelf and use it as an excuse to get a new drive ) Perhaps it 's the perfect pack-rat-keep-everything verses if-you-don ' t-need-it-now 's - the-time-to-delete-it test for Mac users .
Generally this is equivalent to dragging a file onto an app 's icon : You can use the complete path to your app if it is n't in an expected place .
Your best bet seems to be AppleScript : ( from <URL> ) As for entering a username and password , I 'm not sure how you could do that . Further scripting could get you the frontmost window and input the username and password , then submit the dialog , but as I do n't have a Cisco VPN to test I could n't tell you how to set that up . If you have the actual Cisco VPN client installed ( which afaik is not necessary ) , you could just use this command :
Yes this really is one long command -- make sure to run it all . Replace with actual website , and with the relevant version of the simulator that you 're using .
You can edit in a text editor after converting it to XML : Then add entries like this to the array : You can use to see the UTIs of file types and something like to see the bundle identifiers of applications . You can apply changes to by restarting . Logging out and back in is n't enough . I also use <URL> though . I have saved a file like this ( with about 100 lines ) as : I have a launchd agent that runs automatically when is changed . You can normally use filename extensions ( like ) instead of a UTIs ( like ) to specify file types . converts the extensions to UTIs that also apply to other extensions ( like ) . For some extensions like and , the UTI depends on what application registered the extension first . The latest version of ( 1.5.1 ) only includes source code , but <URL> also includes an installer .
A lot of searching around , and I finally found <URL> which works quite well . There is a slight build problem with v0 .92.3 when compiling with Lion and XCode 4.5.1 - there is a make error that it does not recognize " - Wno-unused-but-set-variable " . Just comment out that warning from the Makefile , and it compiles and runs well .
. command - ( Terminal shell script ) Specifically associates a shell script with Terminal . Sometimes referred to as a " Terminal File . " . tool - ( Terminal shell script ) Same as the " . command " file extension . . sh - ( Shell Script ) A basic shell script that is associated with Xcode 4.1 . Programmatically , I 'm sure the difference between the first two ( . command vs. . tool ) are subtle , while the third is essentially a simple , default shell script . And does in fact associate with Xcode 4.1 .
There is a command line wireless utility called , but it is not in the user $ PATH to be able to call it without remembering where it is . so to make it available at the line , and put it where it really belongs , in Terminal : And when calling it , gives great info about the wireless network you 're connected to : for syntax and quick help : outputs what looks like a man page , for examples and full help , call command without arguments :
You could also create an Automator workflow with just an empty New Reminders Item action and then run it with . See also <URL> .
In " System Preferences > Network " , chose your WiFi connection and in " Advanced " options at " Proxies " tab check " SOCKS Proxy " and type your server 's dress and port . Also very important to uncheck " Use Passive FTP Mode ( PASV ) "
This is n't a pretty way to do it , but it does get you the info you desire : The command is slow , mostly because of how much data spews out . But as a summary : lists loads of info about the system is a " pipe " and puts the output of 1 to another command ( 3 ) searches for patterns/words , in our case " Interfaces " The switch prints out the 15 lines following the match . Example output : You can limit to a lower number ( say 3 ) to just get the card id and the Firmware version ( i.e. That 'll be the chipset ) . If that is too much info , you can always get some info on your interfaces with or , but neither includes info about the chipset/manu unless you want to parse it out of the MAC address ( first 6 chars , I think ) . Otherwise , you could look into installing , but that is probably in the scope of another question .
Compass Compass should n't require the Command Line Developer Tools , just a compatible <URL> environment . I suggest a ruby version tool instead of using the system ruby , so that you can control your ruby version/environment . I favor chruby , but any of these works well and can be installed without needing the Command Line Dev Tools : <URL> <URL> <URL> Once you have a ruby env with the version you want you should be able to install Compass from the command line ( as detailed on the <URL> ) : Note : the " $ " is n't part of the command , just an indicator of the terminal prompt Command Line Developer Tools While the above works for Compass , it sounds like you are asking about general package management with OS X as well . <URL> is a very popular tool for this , but depends on the Command Line Dev Tools . <URL> is an alternative but has the same dependency . I 'm not aware of a package manager for OS X that does n't depend on the Command Line Dev Tools . In case you have n't tried one of these methods to install the tools I 'm throwing them out there : Download directly from <URL> ( you need to login with Apple ID ) . The URLs provided there may be resumable if the download is interrupted , and may be more reliable than installing without Xcode via the terminal . Install without Xcode via the terminal : Having the tools definitely makes things easier ; I personally love Homebrew ( and it 's offspring <URL> ) for managing both CLI and GUI packages .
is a configuration tool for network settings in System Preferences . event I do n't really known what the ShadowsocksX project is , but I decided this command can help up . PS : if you just need to set the proxy for something like wget , or curl , then you can use the fairly universal ' http_proxy ' and ' ftp_proxy ' env variables .
Here is a shell script I wrote at work to handle this as part of the NetInstall process ( creating a local administrator account automatically during imaging process ) . Some notes to mention : I have this saved as an executable " . sh " file . Since it executes during NetInstall it runs as root , and needs to run as root to work properly . You can also subtract the first two lines , add a " sudo " to the beginning of each subsequent line , and manually run these as individual commands in Terminal . Modify UniqueID from 501 to a number that you will know is safe on all systems ( 501 is taken by the first account created on a Mac , generally something higher like 550 will probably be safe , depending on how many users you have on your system ) . PrimaryGroupID of 80 creates an Admin user . Change to PrimaryGroupID of 20 to create a Standard user . I 've imaged well over 50 Macs this way with no issues . I use this account to run commands via SSH , to push out patches via ARD and to do local desk-side administration .
I 've set a stylesheet in Safari and these are the changes that occurred in Safari 's plist : Your command line would be :
end question
start question
How to decrease and Increase Sound of chosen App ?
I have found a solution or an answer to my own question , so I thought I 'd share it with everyone else . Everyone who has the same problem or who wants to know how to do this , check out the application called <URL> . You have to pay for it but there is a demo version . It might be worth noting though that it does n't seem to work with USB/Firewire audio interfaces currently . It does exactly what you are able to do on Windows with the integrated sound regulation thing on the task bar .
I figured out that the problem came from fingerprint ( Touch ID ) , as when I turned their options off , it worked like charm . Just turn off those settings under " Touch ID &amp; Passcode " section : 1 . iPhone Unlock . 2 . iTunes &amp; App Store .
You can set and change your price at any time . You can set price changes immediately , or scheduled ahead of time . You can choose which price from a range of tiers provided by Apple . eg . 99c , 1.99 , 4.99 , etc. . You ca n't yourself choose 49c or $ 2.68 , or any arbitrary value . See : <URL> <URL> <URL>
To create a dictionary for the built-in OSX Dictionary.app you will first need <URL> to convert to the AppleDict format from the input format which can be ABBYY Lingvo DSL , Babylon BGL , Stardict IFO , etc ( see <URL> ) . Once the AppleDict source XML is generated , the Apple Dictionary Development Kit is used to generate the native binary files that the Dictionary.app can use . Proceed as follows : Installing dependencies Install Xcode command line tools : Install the <URL> from <URL> -- you 'll need to login with your iCloud or Apple Developer account . Mount the DMG file by double-clicking in Finder , and copy the folder Dictionary Development Kit to / Developer/Extras ( as root ) : Install Python 3 via <URL> ( OSX comes with Python 2.x preinstalled ) : Checkout the pyglossary project : Install lxml and BeautifulSoup , the parsers that pyglossary depends on : ( for current user only ) ( system-wide ) Now everything is ready to do the actual conversion . Performing the Conversion Convert the source dictionary ( in this case Babylon BGL ) to AppleDict : Compile the generated AppleDict sources to OSX Dictionary.app binary files . Pyglossary creates the AppleDict sources in a subfolder named the same as the source file . copies the generated dictionary to . Now if you restart the dictionary app and and open preferences ( ⌘ + , ) the new dictionary will appear in the list . Click the checkbox to enable it . Other formats , for example ABBYY Lingvo DSL require a bit more fiddling . Here is a <URL> . And finally , the latest OSX versions already include Spanish dictionaries which can be enabled in preferences in the Dictionary.app ( ⌘ + , ) . <URL> are some Free dictionaries in <URL> format . There are also literally hundreds of dictionaries available in DICTD , Stardict and ABBYY Lingvo DSL formats .
A solution is as follows : Download updates on the iPad Connect iPad to computer running iTunes In iTunes , select This causes the update that you 've already downloaded on your iPad to be transferred to your computer , and iTunes should n't try and download it again .
You should be able to use the Audio MIDI Utility ( a.k.a. Audio MIDI Setup on Mountain Lion ) to create an Aggregate device to mix both output destinations into one item the OS can select . The Help topics in OSX around this area are ... <URL> <URL>
Not strictly a duplicate of <URL> however the answer is the same , so I 'll save future Googlers some effort by copying it , with slight modification , to here . Spring-Loaded Folders The slider is located in System Preferences → Accessibility → Mouse &amp; Trackpad You can change the spring-loaded delay by writing the setting manually : Replace with the delay in seconds before springing . Credit to <URL>
I 've found I can use <URL> to make copies of preferences files , etc. . The ( somewhat tedious ) click-driven process is as follows : Start iExplorer , navigate to device , Apps . Locate the app to back up data for . ( This can be tricky , as not all apps are named internally similarly to their friendly public name . ) Browse the app contents . Generally , game progress is stored in Library/Preferences . Drag the appropriate files to a local disk for safekeeping . Delete the app . When the app is reinstalled later , drag the files back in their previous place and restart the app . iExplorer also has a mode for automatically mounting one of its folders as a <URL> volume when an iOS device is connected ; this allows me to connect my device and then use the command line to more efficiently back up and restore documents and preferences .
Decided to try restoring my iPhone . That seems to have fixed it .
As Ian C. says , the heap size is Application specific , therefore , here 's how you increase it for Netbeans : Right click on the NetBeans.app and select Show content of package . Inside the package go to / Contents/Resources/NetBeans / etc / and open the netbeans.conf file . In the setting , change or add the following options : ( e.g. ) or ( e.g. ) . Save the file and restart the IDE . If you want to increase the Project 's heap size you must go to your project 's Properties / Run / VM Options , and in the text box add the arguments .
If you 're able to save the file you 'd like to play as a ringtone , then the iPhone can play it once the timer hits zero . The big limitation here is that it 'd need to be ~ 35 seconds in length , but depending on your specific need , that might be enough . There are a few apps on the App Store that will allow you to create ringtones from music files , or you could <URL> . The linked instructions are for Garageband ' 11 , but searching " garageband ringtone " at Apple support will yield links for various other versions of Garageband - the process is pretty much the same .
Depending on the App on the Phone , there may be an export option for streamed files . An alternative might be to extract the desired file ( s ) from the iPhone backup on your computer . Once you have the ( large ) stream file on your Mac ( ? ) , you can extract the desired tracks from the file . For lossless MP3 editing you might want to try Rogue Amoeba 's <URL> or Macsome <URL> ( free ) .
The Change Settings ... button in Safari > Preferences ... > Advanced opens the global Proxies sheet . Changes made here affect every app that uses that connection . Alternatively the sheet can be opened by opening System Preferences.app , selecting Network , then Advanced ... , then Proxies .
Try disabling sound notification permissions for all apps that you do n't need sound notifications for in your notification settings ( Settings > Notifications , scroll down to Apps and disable from there )
You can select snippets of text and drag them to the Desktop , thus creating a Text Clipping file that you can drag back to another app .
You could try <URL> it allows you to save apps to your computer without using iTunes .
I would recommend the following setup ( which is what I currently use ) : <URL> Use Plex as your remote-control-friendly home theatre hub . I find Plex to be much easier to set up than <URL> , but where I think Plex really shines is in how easy it is to share your mini 's media with other devices . On your mini you install both the Plex Media Server and Plex Media Center apps . If you want to stream to additional Macs or PCs , you can install just the Media Center on those . On your iOS devices , you can install <URL> to stream your mini 's media to the device . Plex Mobile can also be used as a remote control for Plex . You can add your iTunes Media folders to Plex to access your iTunes songs and videos , however neither Plex nor XBMC can play DRM videos purchased from iTunes . <URL> Hulu Desktop is a remote-control-friendly app for browsing and watching Hulu videos . Best of all , you can launch Hulu Desktop directly from Plex . <URL> HippoRemote is a remote control app with better integration with various media players than Mobile Mouse ( formerly Air Mouse ) and Plex Mobile . Plex Mobile only works with Plex , Mobile Mouse works with most things except Plex . HippoRemote works with Plex , Hulu Desktop , and just about everything else , and it even works with the Netflix player . HippoRemote also has much smoother mouse tracking than Mobile Mouse . <URL> The Apple Remote is certainly easier to just pick up and use than using than any remote app , so it can be handy to have it close by for quickly navigating Plex and Hulu Desktop on a whim . <URL> I actually do n't have one of these yet , but I know several people that love Logitech 's Harmony remotes . If want a remote that will also control your TV and receiver , these would definitely be worth checking out .
There is a feature that 's currently experimental called HiDPI that may do what you want . Like the retina displays on the iPhone and iPad , HiDPI mode creates a " logical " resolution that 's half the current resolution on your display but uses all the physical pixels to keep the image sharp . This results in all the user interface elements appearing much larger , but with no lack in clarity . For example , if you 're outputting to a 1080p TV with a resolution of 1920x1080 , the HiDPI resolution would be 960x540 , and all the elements on the screen would be the same size as if you were outputting that physical resolution . To enable HiDPI mode in Mac OS X Lion : Download the " Graphics Tools for Xcode " download from Apple . This download requires you to enter an Apple ID , which you most likely have and can get for free . Mount the DMG Open the " Quartz Debug " app In the menu bar , select " Window " , then " UI Resolution " <URL> Check " Enable HiDPI display modes " You 'll be prompted to log out and log back in . If multiple accounts are logged in , they must all log out for the change to work . Once you log back in , go to System Preferences , then Displays . You will see the new HiDPI modes there . <URL> For your 1080p TV , select " 960x540 ( HiDPI ) " P.S. . If you 're curious what HiDPI mode looks like , the screenshots I 've taken are both in HiDPI . Click on them to see them full sized .
StartupSound works for me . It 's true that it is sometimes not totally OK , but if you set different sounds volume , or check-unchech the mute radio button , finally it does the job .
OK , I 've found the answer . You can assign keyboard shortcuts to any Word 2011 command . Go to Tools , then Customize Keyboard . Choose Format category . Find GrowFont and assign a keyboard shortcut to it . Find ShrinkFont and assign a keyboard shortcut to it . I assigned CMD+SHIFT+A rrow keys ( up to grow , down to shrink ) . They make no conflicts to me , and they are Word only . These two single keyboard shortcuts make worlds of difference when editing docs .
end question
start question
How can I create a multipage PDF from JPG 's in Preview ?
Oops , just tried it again . The problem was that I was dropping the files below the page rather than on the page thumbnail .
Try Adobe Reader . You can use iTunes to transfer PDF files to and from it and send them by email too . ( Tested on an iPad ; probably works the same way on an iPhone . )
You would have to use something like <URL> , or a <URL> . There are no AppleScript dictionaries for <URL> . Which means you would not be able to do it in AppleScript .
Create an Event , and then select " Repeat = > Every Day " and click " Done " - you 'll now see a new option below " Repeat " called " End Repeat " where you then choose e.g. a date 3 days from today .
Since you have two other DNS addresses listed , you can click on the entry for 192.168.1.1 and click the " - " ( minus ) button to remove it ( although it may not have any practical effect on connecting to sites ) . The IP address 192.168.1.1 is your default gateway and is the address of your router or modem that you connect to for Internet access . By default , this address will be added in the DNS list in OS X , and the DNS lookups will be done based on the DNS servers configured within the router/modem ( where again , the default would be what your ISP provides ) . The order of the DNS server entries matters for how DNS lookups are performed . So OS X would anyway try the first two that you have from your ISP before going with the third one . If you wish to check and find the fastest DNS provider for your connection , you can use the free <URL> tool and reconfigure your DNS accordingly . You can also check your router/modem configuration and configure it to use specific DNS servers if needed ( note that any settings in OS X will override these settings ) : Open a browser window and go to Type in the administrator credentials ( check your router/modem manual or with your ISP for the credentials if you do n't know ) Navigate through the settings , check and/or reconfigure DNS
Exactly . To delete an Application that is not sandboxed ( not downloaded from App Store ) you have to go in and delete the Application File .
removes extended attributes and ACLs by default implies and ; would require is compress , uses PKZip ( zip ) instead of CPIO Setting tells to remove extended attributes and ACLs instead of creating files The files that start with are AppleDouble files ( not resource forks ) , and they are used to store extended attributes and ACLs . Extended attributes are used to store the quarantine status of files , the source URLs of files downloaded from the Internet , information about aliases ( aliases stop working if extended attributes are removed ) , Spotlight comments , the encoding of files saved with TextEdit , and so on . You can list extended attributes and ACLs with . You can remove extended attributes and ACLs recursively with
To remove an item , just swipe your finger to left over that particular entry . A red " delete " button will pop up .
You can alternatively try to insert your signature in a blank pdf document , crop to take only your signature and then save the document as a PNG file . FYI , it 's seems that the signature is stored in a . plist file . The file name is " com.apple.Preview.signatures.plist " and it 's in folder : / Users/YourAccount/Library / Containers/com . apple.Preview / Data/Library/Preferences / Hope this helps !
If the song/sound you want to use is n't already in your iTunes library , add it to your iTunes library first . If you want to use just a part of the song/sound , right click it , select " Get Info " , then " Options " tab , and enter a start and stop time there . Remember , ringtones ca n't be over 40 seconds ! On the File menu , select " Convert " > " Create AAC Version " . If you do n't have this option , go to Edit , Preferences , General tab , and click the Import Settings button . Make sure the import setting is set to " iTunes Plus " ( AAC ) . This will create a new file in your iTunes library . Delete it from your iTunes library now , but be sure to check " keep file " in the delete dialog so the file itself is n't removed , just the library entry . Navigate to where the file was created on disk , somewhere like Rename the file from to Drag and drop this file into the Ringtones folder of your iTunes ( or , just double-click it and iTunes will handle it automatically ) . Sync your iPhone . Make sure that " Sync Ringtones " is selected in the phone sync options ( mine was off by default ) . After syncing , you can select your new ringtone in Settings , Sounds at the Custom section at the top .
A lot of PDF viewers on the iPad allow rotation of PDF files . An example would be <URL> which is a good app to have anyway if you need offline access to PDFs etc. . To open a PDF in GoodReader e.g. from Mail use the " Open with ... " button .
It sounds like what you want is to have your PDF docs displayed in a continuous flow on screen with no " page breaks " regardless of length , yes ? I do n't know of commercial software that can remove the " page breaks " from the onscreen view of a PDF , so my next question is , do you do any programming ? In my preferred language , Perl , there are several open source modules dealing with PDFs , and I 'm sure most other serious languages have similar capabilities . I 've written several applications whose output is PDF docs ( stuff like mailing labels , formatted contact lists , lapel stickers , name tags ) . From what I have learned about PDF document creation , it 's necessary to specify dimensions for the " page " in order to give structure to the number of lines and other layout features , not the least because locations are measured from the BOTTOM left corner of the page , NOT the upper left as is most familiar in page composition software . So I think F ' x 's comment above has a good hint , which is that if you can dig in there , changing the height of the " page " / bounding box might be a way to get a continuously scrolling PDF instead of one with onscreen space-wasting pagination . Perhaps F ' x or someone else knowledgeable could expand on this .
It 's possible to do that with AppleScript . If you 're familiar with this technology , you should just browse iCal and Mail respective dictionary . If not , that 's the occasion to become familiar ! <URL> Here 's a very basic script you could use ( tested on Snow Leopard only , but should work fine on Lion as well ) : In order to use it easily in Mail , you should save it in ( create folders if they do n't exist ) and activates the Scripts menubar item in preferences of AppleScript Editor . Here 's the result when you 're in Mail : You can also use a productivity tool to launch your script . There are plenty of them out there but I personally use Keyboard Maestro &amp; Alfred . There 's a lot of room for improvement . By example , you could set a default alarm , insert it in a given calendar ... In order to improve it yourself , use the AppleScript dictionary : it 's the best reference you could find . However , those links may be useful as well , as they provide many examples ( some are maybe too old ) : <URL> &amp; <URL> .
It does work in Lion , the way you tried it . In Snow-Leopard you have to select the text itself to change the font ( size ) by first clicking/selecting the text-field to get the selection rectangle ( for re-sizing or moving - as you described ) and then click a second time on your text to select all the characters . Now your text should be selected ( visible by the highlighting ) and you will be able to change the font-size in the Text Properties field . Edit 2012-01-04 : I could reproduce the problem described and also found a simple solution . If you open your pdf and re-arrange pages or rotate them and then try to change the formating of existing text fields it ( sometimes ) fails . The solution/fix is to click the window ( menu - ) bar of the " Fonts " window , then click on your text field again and finally chose the new font variant → and it will be applied :D
In his little-known novel , <URL> , Leo Tolstoy wrote , Optimally encoded PDF files are all alike ; every sub-optimally encoded PDF file is sub-optimally encoded in its own way . It 's hard for anyone to answer why your PDF files are larger after Preview modifies them . A PDF file consists of many different kinds of data : images , content streams , fonts , document overhead , color spaces , extended graphics states , and a cross reference table . Just like one sentence might be concise and another verbose , but both are valid English and say the same thing , so too one PDF file might have a more verbose way of representing the same content as a more concise PDF file . We 'd have to look at your exact PDF files . It 's likely that they were created by a variety of different pieces of software , some consise , some less so . It also matters what version of Mac OS X and Preview you are using , because that determine the software that writes the new PDF file when you do a Save As in Preview . I can , however , tell you what gets larger about some of my PDF files . This story applies to my computer , running Mac OS X 10.5.8 and Apple Preview 4.2 ( 469.5 ) . One file , , is a 22-page document with text as text , not scanned images . It is 461,092 bytes large . I opened it in Preview , did File ... Save As ... , and saved it under a new file name . The new file is 724,421 bytes , or 57 % larger . I opened each file with Adobe Acrobat Professional , version 8.3.1 for Mac OS . I did Advanced ... PDF Optimizer ... Audit Space Usage ... A small dialog box gave a break-down of how many bytes were due to each category of usage , plus the percent of the total file size for the category . The original has 390,754 bytes ( 84.75 % ) devoted to content streams , and zero bytes devoted to images . It is in the PDF 1.4 format . The file saved by Preview has 675,846 bytes ( 93.29 % ) devoted to content streams , also zero bytes of images , and is in the PDF 1.3 format . Preview made the content streams 285,092 bytes larger , and that represents 73 % of the file size difference between the two . I wondered if the PDF 1.3 file format was inherently less efficient for storing this kind of file . I opened the original in Adobe Acrobat Professional 8 , and did Advanced ... PDF Optimizer ... Make compatible with : Acrobat 3.0 and later and pressed OK . I saved the resulting file under a new name . The resulting file is in the PDF 1.3 format , and was 452,356 bytes , or smaller than the original . Its content streams are 375,171 bytes ( 82.94 % ) , a similar proportion , but smaller than the content streams of original file . Thus it seems we can conclude that the Preview app on Mac OS X 10.5.8 is not as efficient as some other PDF creators at making concise content streams in PDF files , and the difference is enough to account for three-quarters of the size difference in a PDF file without images . I did a similar experiment on , a 1-page document scanned from paper . The original file is 303,730 bytes , of which 298,197 bytes ( 98.18 % ) are images . A copy of this file created by Preview using Save As ... is 300,601 bytes , or 1 % smaller . This file size difference is more than accounted for by a smaller " document overhead " category of bytes in the file created by Preview . Thus it seems we also can conclude that Preview does n't always cause a PDF file to increase in size . It depends on the nature of the original PDF file , and how concise it was to start with .
If you are using Keynote 6 then all you have to do is take an existing theme , make the modifications that you want then choose Save Theme from the file menu It well then ask what you want to do with your shiny new theme
Customize Preview ( easy ) Have you looked under Preview preferences ? You can set Initial Document Scale to 100 % or larger if you want . You might need to adjust the option below that , defining size equal to screen or print sizes . Use a better PDF viewer If Preview.app ca n't do what you want , look into Skim.app Skim has an option to open PDFs as Default , Maximized , or Fit . One of these ought to improve . Customize Preview ( complex ) If you want all three points requested above and want them in Preview.app , I would do the following : Turn on Universal Access so you can script applications via the GUI Make a new app in Automator that accepts PDFs . Replace Preview with this ( open with this by default , put it in your dock so you can drag-and-drop onto it , etc. ) The new app should simply take the input PDF and pass it to Preview , so it displays there The new app should then use Universal Access commands to Maximize the window Set to " Single Continuous Page " Select the mouse tool you want .
I myself Always used TextEdit for this job , open TextEdit and save blank page with desire extension in desire location . Also you can use <URL> ( I did n't test myself ) Or use some <URL> .
You can use the " Save as PDF " option in the Print dialog ( drop down is in lower left corner of the dialog window ) .
I looked at some of the saved search files in Finder 's application bundle , and for example used a format like this for excluding directories : So you can exclude subfolders by adding strings that start with a minus character after a full path . Something like does n't seem to work . You can edit savedSearch files by dropping them on a text editor . and seem to list the same paths by default , but just editing the second one appeared to exclude folders at least in Finder .
end question
start question
How to get 4 channel audio from a MacMini ?
Your Mac Mini has optical audio-out , which supports multiple channels . Apple has cleverly put a little optical transmitter inside the headphone jack ( many Macs have this , not just the Mini ) . To turn it into something useful , you have to use a little adapter ( like <URL> to get a Toslink signal . From there , it gets interesting . You say that your speakers have to jacks . I assume you mean two analog 3.5 mm ( headphone ) jacks . Unless your speakers have a digital or optical input , you 'll need to get a receiver that can do the digital - > analog conversion . Something like <URL> should work ( there are tons of options , this is just the first one I found ) . The key is to look for something with digital/optical in , and 4 + channel preamp out . Another option : The Mac Mini has HDMI out . You can find a receiver that has HDMI input ( like the one above ) , and 4 + channel preamp out .
While I did have Sound > Input set to internal or webcam mic and neither worked , it seems the Internal Microphone was not selected on the Dictation &amp; Speech > Diction tab . It got switched to Aggregate Group which I was playing with a few months ago ( trying to generate multiple simultaneous outputs ) . So yeah just needed that Mic selected on LHS of Diction preference . <URL>
While browsing the this site , I found a link to <URL> that might be useful . So , it looks like a <URL> wireless dongle attached to the computer should do the trick . I 've never used it ( or even heard of it before today ) but it sounds like it should work . The reason the computer does n't work is that both the computer support the A2DP profile but both as a server but not as a receiver . There might be a software solution to get the Mac to support A2DP as a client but I do n't know of one . Another option which does n't quite do what you want but might be useful would be to use the <URL> on your iPhone to control your iTunes library remotely . This allows you to uses the iPhone as a remote control for your iTunes .
Open Settings > General > Reset and choose Erase All Content and Settings . This will wipe all personal data off the device ( including all apps ) and when it restarts it will be at the beginning of the wizard to set up a new device . This will not effect any other devices linked to the same iCloud account , it purely clears the current device . iOS 7 Update If you have Find My Phone enabled , disable this before performing the steps above otherwise the buyer will be contacting you to get your account to activate the phone . This can be achieved by switching the Find My iPhone option in Settings > iCloud . This process is necessary as Apple added an Activation Lock in iOS 7 . Details can be found <URL> and the support article is located <URL> .
This uses Mail 's unified inbox to display the number of unread messages , thus , it 's equal to the number on Mail 's red icon badge .
I assume you are referring to the notice that comes up in Terminal " You 've got mail " Create a file . forward in your home directory . ( that 's a period and the word forward with no space . In it write the address you want the mail forwarded to . This file has to be owned and readable by your userid . Jobs run by cron by default mail their output to the owner of the crontab file . This can be overridden by specifying the option MAILTO=userid@somewhere.com at the top of the file . See man crontab for details . The second only forwards the details of jobs run from that particular crontab . If you have sandboxed services that have individual crontabs on a user basis ( E.g. . You have a database service that runs a consitency check on the database at 2:30 every morning , and runs that service as user mysql , then you have to add the line to mysql 's crontab . General best practice for email that goes to non-real users is to forward it to a role first . E.g. All the machines in your network send their system email to sysadmin@mydomain.com Then on a central server you forward sysadmin 's mail to a real person . This makes it much easier at vacation time to temporarily forward email to your temp sysadmin .
A friend just said : I 'm on a Mac but I shell into a remote server and run irssi in screen , most people I know do that . The second most common , and what I think you are looking for is : <URL>
I find it easiest to use the settings app on iOS : General About Diagnostics &amp; Usage Diagnostics &amp; Usage Data scroll to the crash you care about and tap it select all , copy the text Now you can paste the report wherever you please . Email , <URL> , notes , <URL> , or wherever else you like to store the text for submitting a <URL> . You can also get at the logs after syncing from iTunes or Xcode - but getting it when the crash happens works best for me in most cases .
I 'm afraid there is n't a solution currently available for this . I 've been using Nike + alongside Spotify for over a year now by starting my Spotify playlist then starting a run in Nike + and selecting " no music " . I used to use iTunes playlists which worked with the power song feature and while that was kinda cool it 's really not something I miss . You might email them through their support page ( could n't find a feedback form ) and mention it as a feature for future revisions . <URL>
It 's rather easier than these solutions . Click the icon view beside the search and select the Albums tab at the top so the icons show albums rather than Artists or Composers . Then when you hover over an album you can click " Play Album " to play it . You can also double click the album to see all the songs making sure they are ordered by song number ( if necessary ) . This way you can also by command or shift clicking select multiple albums . Or you can show with the second icon ordered by album by artist . In this view an artist search will help :
Try the <URL> . While it 's not free , it is cheap : $ 6.99 . See reviews <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> . Below is the description from the product page , and a screenshot : Boom is a simple volume booster and system-wide equalizer that lets you boost the volume of your Mac and your music files . Using Boom is simple . You know the ways to change the volume of your Mac . Boom provides the same easy access to boost sound . From the videos on YouTube , Hulu , your favorite music playing on iTunes , to voice applications like Skype , iChat and your favorite Games , Boom can boost them all . [ ... ] ( emphasis above is mine ) I use Boom on my own MacBook Air and it does a reasonable job of increasing the internal speaker volume beyond what I was getting with the built-in volume controls at maximum . The graphic equalizer is an added bonus , letting me tweak the sound I get from these tiny speakers so it sounds a bit better for music .
Ability to see per-application sound output : Check out <URL> Within Chrome , you can use the <URL> extension to see what tabs/windows are playing audio .
In short you ca n't . Apple has a very efficient supply chain so the window where they sell devices that are n't the latest version is very limited . On occasion a service replacement unit can sit in the " supply " chain a bit longer , so I have seen several people still getting phones from the Genius Bar / AppleCare with iOS 4 loaded . I would expect that to be mostly over as well . You will likely have to find a seller of a device and you can always ask for the serial number or look for one with AppleCare still active in case you have suspicions of the motivation of the seller . ( and since you or others may wonder ) There really is n't a good way to tell if a phone has been stolen ( no police database ( and if there were it could always be reported stolen at a later date ) . Due to privacy concerns you ca n't get data on prior owners from Apple . You do run the risk of problems if the device you buy ends up being stolen goods . You do run the risk of having to do some work to ensure any return policy is workable if you need to locate the seller if the phone does n't work as advertised . Given your problem you might offer to sell a brand new in-the-box phone and once you had a buyer , use your AT&amp;T subsidy to offset the cost of a new unlocked iPhone for your wife . It all depends how valuable your time is and how hot your local market is for current AT&amp;T phones . I would feel a lot more comfortable buying a phone when I could come to the store with you and see the new phone being bought . You could be sure the buyer had the cash in hand and everyone should end up happy .
Go to settings > phone First line is My Number
What you need to do to re-download the Lion installer is to HOLD down the OPTION/ALT key whilst opening the App Store and keep holding it all the way through to the purchased tab , from here you should see the option to install . Just download that .
It 's hard to say , considering we do n't have access to any material on it other than the website and the keynote . It 's likely you 've already reviewed all public material on the device . To quote the bottom of <URL> , emphasis added : Features are subject to change and may not be available in all regions or all languages . Requires iPhone 5 or later . I bet the watch ca n't even be activated without an iPhone . Due to power requirements of Wifi , I doubt the device will carry an 802.11 radio , preferring to get it 's data through the phone . ( This answer is entirely speculation and may be invalidated as we learn more about the device . )
EDIT : In this case it sounds like we want to disable auto-lock . This can be done by opening Settings.app , going to General , then scrolling down to " Auto-Lock " . Set this to " Never " . It is possible use the speakers on iPhone to play even when the device is locked . This is possible by : Opening Music.app Select song/album/playlist Lock the device . The music will continue to play . You can also double tap the home button when the device is locked to show play/pause controls for the last-played music . Also , other apps continue to play when the device is locked such as Voice Memos . Note : all audio will shut off when the phone is powered off .
The only exposed API to use the audio hardware under iOS is the RemoteIO Audio Unit API . The driver for the audio input/output hardware does not seem to be exposed via a * nix device on Mac OS X , or in its iDevice derivatives .
The easiest way is to hook up an Airport Express with audio cables to your external multimedia player , or Apple TV . Then you can stream iTunes directly to either of these devices - the functionality is built-in to iOS 4 and works awesome !
Use a Smart Playlist . These are playlists that are dynamic and can be built off filters on track metadata . To create a new Smart Playlist select ( or Opt-Cmd-N ) and then set the following options to build a Smart Playlist that always contains all the tracks that are from 1969 in your library : If you wanted to limit it to a specific genre from 1696 press the + button to add another filter criteria and pick a genre like so : You can filter in all kinds of ways -- Smart Playlists are incredibly powerful .
end question
start question
What are the default sounds for iOS 7 ?
They are listed beside each sound . If we look at AirDrop for example , iOS will list : Pulse ( Default ) . All sounds will have this ( Default ) suffix attached to them .
This depends on several factors and is not generally tied to a fixed time schedule - active usage of the device , push notifications to apps , location based updates and iOS 7 's learning ability to optimize based on your usage patterns for apps . From <URL> ( bold italic emphasis mine ) : Certain tasks or services can continue to run in the background . To lessen the affect on battery life , normal app background refreshing is scheduled for efficient times , such as when your device is connected to Wi-Fi , plugged into a power source , or being actively used . You can adjust your apps ' background activity in Settings > General > Background App Refresh . When Background App Refresh is on , apps that take advantage of this feature can refresh themselves in the background . For example , an app can check if new content is available and download the updates , or retrieve the updated content in the background when it receives a push notification , so the new content is ready for viewing when you launch the app . Apps can also schedule background refreshing based on your location . iOS learns patterns based on your use of the device and tries to predict when an app should be updated in the background . It also learns when the device is typically inactive , such as during the night , to reduce update frequency when the device not used . To improve battery life , you could selectively turn off background refresh for certain apps from Settings > General > Background App Refresh .
I am using the new <URL> , which does scrobble to last.fm for me . The ex.fm app is brand new , so the twitter integration is off and on , but last.fm scrobbling of the ex.fm streaming songs is working very reliably . It does n't scrobble my iPod songs that are on the device yet - so I do n't know if that 's intended , a temporary service issue , or a bug needing a new build of the app .
There are a variety of iOS icon templates available for free on the web -- the best I 've seen so far is from <URL> -- that will offer up this information ( and possibly even obviate the need to know entirely ) . There is even a ( very ) short discussion about the corner radii . A quick search for will return a lot of similar results .
Per <URL> , AirPlay makes use of a number of ports : ╔ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╦ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╗ ║ Port ║ TCP/UDP ║ Name ║ ╠ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╬ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╣ ║ 80 ║ TCP ║ Hypertext Transfer Protocol ( HTTP ) ║ ║ 443 ║ TCP ║ Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL , or " HTTPS " ) ║ ║ 554 ║ TCP/UDP ║ Real Time Streaming Protocol ( RTSP ) ║ ║ 3689 ║ TCP ║ Digital Audio Access Protocol ( DAAP ) ║ ║ 5353 ║ TCP ║ Multicast DNS ( MDNS ) ║ ╚ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╩ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ═ ╝
Ok , so after some quick googling and reading some Apple forums , it looks like iCloud ( in iOS 5 . x ) is n't ready for prime time . I 've done the following and now iOS 5.x seems a lot snappier . Disabled iCloud everywhere ( Settings - > iCloud ) Disable all apps then Scroll down and hit " Storage and Backup " and disable iCloud backups . If you really want to go strong , just delete your iCloud account setting ( on your phone , Settings - > iCloud - > scroll to bottom ) Disabled sending data to Apple ( Settings - > General - > About - > Diagnostic &amp; Usage - > " Do n't send " ) Minimized Location Services ( Settings - > Location services ) I kept it ON globally , but disabled it for certain Apps Most importantly , disabled it for " Diagnostic &amp; Usage " as well as " Location based iAds " ( Settings - > Location services - > Scroll to bottom - > System Services ) Disabled notifications for the calendar ( Settings - > Notification ) I also removed notifications for many other apps that had added themselves ... However , I suspect this is fixed in iOS 5.0.1 under their " Battery issue fixed " patch . Earlier , Calendar notifications would hang causing CPU to be stuck 100 % , draining the battery and leaving little CPU for other items . Also , there are two apps , SysStatsMon and System Status . Both are good tools to see CPU usage on your iOS device . About 5 + seconds after launching them under normal circumstances , your CPU should be in the 5-15 % range .
I recommend <URL> which can recover a very wide variety of <URL> . Even if you do n't see the file type listed , ProSoft maybe able to help you recover the data . I once had a client delete a their QuickBook 's for Mac data file . It was a new version of QuickBooks with a radically different file format from prior versions . The current Data Rescue did n't recover the data ; however , ProSoft was able to provide a new file definition and all of the data was recovered . There are separate Mac and PC versions of Data Rescue . I have used both with good results , but I have far more experience with the Mac version . I find $ 99 for Data Rescue to be a very fair price , however , if you are only needing to recover image files from digital cameras , checkout ProSoft 's <URL> for $ 20 . I believe Image Rescue comes with both Mac and PC licenses .
Attempting to reset your jailbroken phone from your phone will break everything . You 'll need to put your device in DFU mode and restore it with iTunes . Connect your device to iTunes , then hold the power and home button until the Apple logo shows , then keep holding home and let go of power . iTunes should prompt you to restore iOS .
Looks like the main difference is that the Pro version is universal . That means it will work on iPhone and iPad whereas the normal version only works on iPhone . From the <URL> : Optimized for iPad , but also runs perfectly on an iPhone or iPod touch . View many files at once in the tabbed viewer . This lets you easily copy between files , compare , etc. . Switch between browsing and full-screen viewing or editing with just a tap . Quick-scrollers let you scroll through files or folders super fast .
Yes . Excluding any major issues , the GM release for developers is the same as the first release to the public . Future point releases can be updated over-the-air rather than through a manual image install .
Assuming you still have the AT&amp;T - SIM card ( To verify , go into Settings > General > About > Carrier ) , AT&amp;T will not allow you to change the APN settings , even on unlocked phone . You need a SIM card from a carrier that <URL> , that will depend on where are you going . Usually if you go to the new carrier they have a section <URL> how to . Some more helpful <URL> .
<URL> ( who now works for Apple ) has a nice selection of geeky iPhone/iPad wallpapers . Some of his stuff is featured at the <URL> , along with some other wallpapers by Dave Brasgalla , Gedeon Maheux and others .
There is no reason this should not work . Assuming your model supports iOS 7 of course . I 'd like to be able to tell you more . But there is just not much to say . The lock to a certain provider is not affected by an upgrade to iOS 7 . Provider settings will just be the same as well .
<URL> I have purchased and evaluated a newly released program called Reflector App ( which runs on your Mac ) that does everything I need it to do . It costs US $ 15 and works using Apple Airplay on your iOS device , so it supports iPad 2 , iPad 3 , and iPhone 4S . It makes its own QuickTime recordings with audio and video . If you have a good connection with a WiFi N router ( such as my Apple Time Capsule ) and an Ethernet connection to your Mac , you get a frame rate good enough to record yourself playing Angry Birds , at full iPad screen size . It records audio and video from your iPad . This app is quite new and small updates are being released frequently . The documentation is sketchy but the tech support via email is responsive . You can download a trial version that will only work for 10 minutes total ; after that you must pay for the app . It 's not available in the Mac App Store and I suspect it wo n't be . You can purchase it directly from the web site .
Crowd-sourced Wi-Fi and cellular Location Services If Location Services is on , your device will periodically send the geo-tagged locations of nearby Wi-Fi hotspots and cell towers in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to augment Apple 's crowd-sourced database of Wi-Fi hotspot and cell tower locations . In addition , if you 're traveling ( for example , in a car ) and Location Services is on , a GPS-enabled iOS device will also periodically send GPS locations and travel speed information in an anonymous and encrypted form to Apple to be used for building up Apple 's crowd-sourced road traffic database . The crowd-sourced location data gathered by Apple does n't personally identify you . <URL>
The iBooks app is better . But Amazon Kindle Store is cheaper and has a superior selection . The books Publishers are responsible for creating and making available the books in each store . Sometimes a book is exclusive to one store . In that case , you have no option of where you purchase it . When a book is available in both stores , you must compare the price and quality on a book-by-book basis . This is easy to do because both stores offer free sample chapters . Books tend to be better formatted in the iBooks Store than in Kindle 's Store . This can be critical for some genres , such as technical/programming books with graphics , code samples , and tables . The ecosystem iBookstore purchases can only be read on iPhone/iPod touch/iPad/Mac . Kindle purchases can also be read on Amazon 's dedicated Kindle devices , Microsoft Windows , iOS , BlackBerry , Mac OS X , Android , webOS , Windows Phone , as well as in a web browser . The apps iBooks app : better interface ( you even can turn off the skeuomorphic design features , if you prefer ) it has less features , but the features it does have are better : dictionary , highlighting , type/fonts , footnotes , navigation , look and feel better PDF support iBookstore built-into-the-app for convenient browsing and purchasing Kindle app : Sharing feature where you can publicly publish snippets from your book to kindle.amazon.com for linking-to in Twitter/Facebook . <URL> Amazon creates an email address for you to send documents to your Kindle via email . E.g. yourname@kindle.com Con : You have to jump out to the web browser to browse and purchase content . On an iPad , I prefer reading in iBooks because Apple executes the fundamentals better . Amazon 's Kindle app has some nice differentiating features , though . All that said , at the end of the day , nothing 's better than reading a basic novel on a standalone e-ink Kindle device .
Being a programmer myself , I think screen size and amount of memory are the most important factors to consider . The processors and graphic chips of all current MacBooks will be sufficient for this kind of work , although the MacBook Airs come standard with an Intel i5 processor , which can be upgraded to an i7 for a small price . Memory : MacBook Airs come standard with 4 GB , which I think is not enough . They all have the option to upgrade to 8 GB though . The 13 " MacBook Pros come with 8 GB standard , with 16 GB as an option . The 15 " MacBook Pros have 16 GB standard . For screen size , I like to have lots of it to do development work . Unfortunately , Apple stopped selling 17 " laptops some years ago . On the other hand , almost all MacBook Pros now come with a Retina display , which means they have a much higher resolution for the same screen size . If you are comfortable working with smaller font sizes , you can switch to a " more space " option in the display settings , which gives you lots of screen real estate . You can choose between 13 " and 15 " MacBook Pros , but the 15 " models are Apple 's top of the line , so they might be costlier than what you 're looking for . The MacBook Airs do n't have Retina displays , and they come in 11 " and 13 " models . A last point to look out for is disk size . All MacBooks , except for the 13 " MacBook Pro without Retina display , come with an SSD . But with the cheaper models it 's just 128 GB . On all MacBook Air models you have the option to pick up to 512 GB , and up to 1 TB on the MacBook Pros . I suggest you go to the <URL> for your country , and customize a MacBook Air or MacBook Pro to your liking and within your budget . Welcome to the Apple development world !
The absolute worst case scenario is you are forced to revert back to a non-jailbroken device and may lose content if you did not make the necessary backups . That is bar-none the worst case scenario . It is also of note that Apple will turn you away should you bring in a device that is jailbroken . They have a firm stance against the practice and state that it will void your warranty . Of course reinstalling iOS and removing the jailbreak corrects this matter . Additionally , upgrading to future iOS versions will remove the jailbreak ( OTA updates in iOS 5 can not be performed ) . You can not " brick " your device , rendering it inoperable by using any jailbreak utilities . Repeat , you can not " brick " your device anymore than you can render a Mac inoperable by messing with OS X . A simple restore returns the device back to its original state . The ill-gotten rumor likely started due to the protection schemas in place that safe guard the mobile device from tampering ( i.e. , breaking Apple 's closed system ) . Apple has set up a gauntlet a jailbreaker must bypass in order to open iOS . During those stages , problems may occur , leaving the phone in a state of " flux . " This occurs when the device is left without a working operating system . In this state , it will not graciously look to iTunes for a fix . But rather sit in this state of limbo and require additional software to " bring it back to life . " It is , however , always possible to restore it and any coming forward to claim otherwise are only bringing to light their own ignorance and ineptitude at correcting the matter . I think an apt analogy would be to look at someone trying to jump start a car . It 's possible to boost any car , but some may reverse the cables , or fail to clamp the negative to a proper ground . Sparks fly and the ECU shorts . Surely if the person knew what they were doing , they would have jump started the car without issue . Jailbreaking itself does not pose an inherent risk . There have been cases where a jailbreak actually allowed the patching of a known security risk ( <URL> and then subsequently provided means to repair it well before Apple stepped in correct the matter upstream ) . These cases , are however , rare . Most of the time , a jailbreak relies on similar exploits to deliver itself ( <URL> ) . So while the jailbreak is safe , it may force a user to remain on a compromised version of iOS and unlike the initial PDF exploit that made jailbreakme.com possible , may not have the means to patch it . The biggest threat is the expansion of capabilities made famous through Cydia . The most prolific is the installation of SSH ( a secure file transfer protocol ) without changing the two accounts on the device ( root and mobile ) . They both share the same password ( alpine ) and without changing them , a mischievous hacker only needs to get the device 's respective IP address . After which , they will have root access ( full control ) . This , of course , is easy enough to overcome and will likely only affect the most ignorance of user bases . Surely you can not claim a house is unsafe because the residents refuse to lock their door ! Lastly , the installation of apps through untrusted Cydia repositories may also be a cause for concern . Jailbreaking a device removes Apple 's signature checks , so the device is only too happy to run most code thrown at it . While Apple stringently approves what code is given the authority to run on your device ( and sandboxes all apps for that matter , greatly restricting their privileges ) those checks are removed after the device is jailbroken . Moreover , those apps are no longer sandboxed like the ones found on Apple 's App Store . It 's possible that a user may come across malicious code , but no such cases have been made public . The jailbreaking community is n't bent on malicious intent , but rather freedom of choice . In that respect , they act as paladins , and anyone seeking to exploit their work would be brought to light before long . The troubles affecting jailbreaking essential revolve around ignorance and naivety . For an experienced and intelligent user , they bring no more risk to one 's security than a " locked " device . And in some cases , may provide the ability to tighten 's one 's security and privacy ( typically made possible by developers that use Cydia to distribute their wares ) . Note : Cydia itself is a reputable " store . " The programs found within it 's walls are all safe and typically carry some level of professionalism . The problems arise when users register outside repositories ( or repos ) that carry untested , pirated , or questionable software . Jailbreaking also does not mean iOS is free to run " cracked " software found legitimately in the App Store . Those security measures remain intact even on a jailbroken device and must be circumvented separately , outside of the actual jailbreak . Many are confused by this duality and assume a jailbroken device can natively install pirated apps . That is not the case .
Cell network search : when in presence of two or more network antennae , probably it register which one is better where ( so it has to know where ) , in order to automatically connect to it the next time you '' ll be in the same place . Diagnostics &amp; Usage : possibly related to the one above , about battery life draining with different antennae Traffic : I guess this one is to collect data for a yet to be announced product ( see the Apple <URL> regarding this .
Whenever I hear a song and I want to know the name of it , I use <URL> on my iphone . So far it has identified all of the songs I 've searched . Even if for some reason I do n't have network access , it will store the search and you can send it to their servers once connectivity is restored . By the way , SoundHound and Midomi are the same thing . Midomi changed its name to SoundHound .
end question
start question
Can I trust Apple support and share my password ?
In a word , NO . No-one reputable will EVER ask for your password , EVER . Proper support have the tools and such in place to allow them the access they need to do what they need . If they have to actually login as you ( Which clearly they can only do from a different device anyway , limiting any usefulness it may even have ) then surely there is nothing they need to do that for which they ca n't simply ask you to replicate for them without handing over credentials . I smell a rat .
If you have single WiFi card then you can not use it for receiving and sending WiFi . If your internet comes from cable ( Ethernet ) or from a USB - WiFi , then those can be shared using your WiFi card .
No . This is n't a function of the iPhone OS from Apple . If this is n't a short term need , there might be a jailbreak tweak to turn the OS into a fully functioning router / hotspot , but the hardware is n't designed to extend a network as your use case requires .
Once you 've completed the registration , all the information you 've filled up , will be sent to Apple with your iDevice / Computer 's Serial Number . Having an Apple Id associated to a Device is necessary for the AppleCare Protection Plan , but , if you purchased the AppleCare at the same time as your Device / Computer , the Protection Plan will be automatically registered , being unnecessary for you to do so . The information you fulfill and submit is useful in other ways , using Autofill in Safari , for instance , or enable the possibilty of using the Remind me of-doing-something when I get Home of the iPhone 4S . Therefore , if you want to sell your Mac or iDevice , you could just make a clean install to get rid of all that info . Not deleting it will just cause privacy / security issues .
Yes ( maybe ) . There 's an open-source kernel driver <URL> for Mac OS X that will work for some USB and Firewire enclosures . It uses <URL> to pass the SMART commands through to the hard drive , so only works if your enclosure supports SAT . SAT is n't something enclosures seem to advertise support for , but the one I use ( WD MyBook Studio Edition ) happens to support it , so it works for me . It 'll probably be quicker to test the software with your drive/enclosure , than to find out if SAT is supported in the specs .
I found if you leave all the folders starting with Printing ... and the Assets folder that are in the folder , you can still print . Just delete all the other folders and you will regain a chunk of disk space .
It turns out the issue for me is that OSX has created 2 entries in the Calendar app for my Gmail account ( even though I only have the account entered once under the Internet Accounts system pref ) . The Calendar app wo n't let me delete the duplicate since it thinks the duplicate is managed under the Internet Accounts pref . Deleting and re-adding the gmail account in Internet Accounts did n't help either . After deleting the Internet Account , the duplicate still sticks around in the Calendar app is not deletable since the Calendar app ca n't delete it , and there is no corresponding Internet Account for that calendar . I got around the issue by un-checking the " Enable this account " checkbox for the duplicate in the Calendar app ( since it wo n't let me delete it ) . That at least makes it stop checking for calendar updates so I do n't get pestered for passwords .
I 've never been able to figure out why this function seems so unreliable - holding D for diagnostics does n't seem to work for me in practice . I wish I had a better explanation than " many models do n't have this and even the ones that do , this is n't something I can count on . " I have come to rely on AHT that are available for authorized Apple technicians to download so you might be able to get help from one closer than an Apple Store - <URL> Apple will usually run a very good test for free as past of a genius bar appointment , and both Apple and Authorized Service will usually check a mac in for diagnostics under coverage for no charge . Out of warranty , expect to pay $ 39 to $ 85 for a diagnostic . Lastly , you can order replacement media if yours are misplaced from Apple . 800-APL-CARE
It appears that the login gets blocked after the wrong password is entered too often ( see <URL> ) . Maybe somebody else has a AppleID similar to yours ( or you fell victim to a DOS attack ) .
Yes you can . Enable Screen Sharing by connecting the computer to a display ( and keyboard ) once . Then you can easily unplug display/keyboard and access the computer via Screen Sharing . As long as you do not mess with the network and screen sharing settings of the headless computer you also can turn it off and reboot it without loosing the ability to screen share again .
After being told on the Apple Discussion boards that this ca n't be done , I found a solution . I re-entered all the original log in information into the account details . It took a bit to get them to stick , because iPad kept trying to verify the account , which it could n't do , because the legacy server was n't responding , but I finally got it . Once the I had the original credentials entered , all the original Inbox and Sent emails were back . One important key : Although I did n't change my email address , the new server did require a different username syntax . The old username was just " name " while the new username was " name@mydomain.com " . That little change is what caused iPad to decide it was an entirely different account .
iOS devices can not relay WiFi signals to other devices ( at least not without a jailbreak ) . To share a single WiFi login with several devices you need to set up a WiFi repeater . Airport Express is one device which can do that , <URL> is another one which I have successfully used for this purpose .
Yes , but only with the iPad in sleep mode . The iPad requires at least 500mA from a USB port : Apple peripheral devices may request more than 500 mA ( Milliamps ) at 5 V ( Volts ) from a port to function or to allow for faster charging . Such Apple peripheral devices include : iPad iPhone Alluminum Wired Keyboard * About wired keyboard we get the information : * When connected to a computer that supports a connection of 1100 mA at 5 V , the first port on the keyboard to have a device or peripheral connected to it that requests standard 500mA power will receive that power . At that point , 100 mA at 5 V is available through the remaining port on this keyboard . This keyboard does not support extra power out of its two ports simultaneously ; it requests extra power from the host computer to provide power out of either one of its two ports , then the second keyboard port receives the standard 500mA . Note : Apple computers and displays that were introduced before 2007 support only 500 mA at 5 V from their ports and do not offer additional power . [ <URL> ] As the wired keyboards can provide the minimum 500mA required by the iPad ( just like older Macs can ) , it should be possible for it to power the iPad . However , it can not provide an additional current which would allow for faster charging . But , the new iPad can only charge in sleep mode when connected to a low powered USB hub : The fastest way to charge your iPad is with the included 10W USB Power Adapter . iPad will also charge , although more slowly , when attached to a computer with a high-power USB port ( many recent Mac computers ) or with an iPhone Power Adapter . When attached to a computer via a standard USB port ( most PCs or older Mac computers ) iPad will charge , but only when it 's in sleep mode . Make sure your computer is on while charging iPad via USB . If iPad is connected to a computer that 's turned off or is in sleep or standby mode , the iPad battery will continue to drain . [ <URL> ]
No there is no way to accomplish this . From Apple - <URL> You close the Exercise ring when you reach the globally recommended 30 minutes of exercise per day . And you do n't even have to do it all at once , which means you 're more likely to fit it into your day . From all searches I have performed I have not found any possible way to change it and the above quote suggests that 30 minutes is the amount Apple has fixed on ( the call it " recommended " ) .
A plausible way of resetting the password of your login on your OS X is to : Go to Single-user mode ( CMD + S on boot ) Type : and press Enter Type and press Enter Type and press Enter . On boot , you will be prompted to setup like if your mac was new . Do n't panic , as your data is not lost ( I would backup just in case though ) . Skip all unnecessary options , and later you will be prompted to create a new admin account . Once your setup finishes , from the new account , go to System Preferences > Users and Groups , click on your previous username and click Reset Password . Now type in the new password and login as your old account .
It 's pretty common for a repair facility of any kind to ask for a username/password for the sake of verifying functionality . This is why it 's always a good idea to have a separate administrator account setup for these kind of tasks . Usually an " Administrator " account with a unique password works . I 've worked in the IT industry for almost 20 years , and I 've always appreciated when a user has a separate admin account . It makes working on the machine faster as there usually is n't as much stuff loading on start up . It also keeps me from seeing any of your information , which is great for legal reasons .
It 's not at all clear that Apple will endorse the transference of an App Store account and it 's clear they do n't endorse transferring parts of the purchase history . Legally , you might be able to get away with this in certain parts of the world , but it 's clearly not something Apple is keen to point out how to accomplish this or has built in a " gift my license " functionality to their stores at present . Why not include a gift card for the App Store in question or some other cash equivalent with the sale ?
I have since found that accessing SMB shares from localhost simply is n't supported . However , I have no single authoritative documentation to cite here , but suffice it to say it can not be done ( natively ) . More to the point , <URL> - you should only use local accounts .
Found it and putting it here for reference , simply hold the home and power button down for 10 seconds ( ignoring the power off slider when it comes up ) then keep the home button pressed down and release the power button . This needs to be done while connected to iTunes . At that point iTunes will offer to restore it .
Go to settings > iTunes &amp; App Stores > Apple ID : Select sign out , that will clear your stored password ... Then you can enter the proper information .
end question
start question
Can I lower the minimum volume on my Mac ?
This only gives you one more notch below 1 , but it might do as much as you need it to . Use the decrease volume button to lower the volume to 0 . Then , press the Mute button once . This will let sound play , but at a lower volume than 1 . Also , you can change the volume in 1/4 increments with the following shortcuts : ⇧ + ⌃ + volume buttons in Snow Leopard ⇧ + option + volume buttons in Lion or later
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
To fix this problem , I got my iPad charger ( which was disconnected from any power source such as a wall outlet ) , and plugged it into my iPhone , and unplugged it twice . This process fixed the iPhone .
You can reinstall the OS back to the same version that it shipped with by using the restore discs that came with your Mac to wipe your disk and reinstall Mac OS X. However , just because Apple has officially dropped support for XP and Vista with Boot Camp does n't mean it will stop working - the most likely situation will be that new computers will have hardware that Apple will only provide Windows 7 drivers for . Existing hardware should be unaffected .
In short , yes . Most application downloads are packaged either as a . dmg ( Disk iMaGe ) file , or as a package , ending in either . pkg or . mpkg . A . dmg is a regular file on Mac , Win , Linux , etc. , so all you have to do is follow your usual transfer method and you can easily move it from PC to Mac . On the other hand , . ( m ) pkg " files " are actually directories ( just like the . app files in the Applications directory ) so you need to take care to copy the entire directory from one device to the next . You can then install it like usual . However , many . ( m ) pkg packages are actually downloaded as . dmg files , so you should n't have any issues at all . Good luck !
Yes you can , drop them into iTunes or email them to an account you can check via the iPad . You can choose to either read it in the Maill app or read it in iBooks . Or just use Safari on the iPad to go to <URL> and download the PDF to iBooks right there .
Yes . I use it on Mountain Lion . Details here : <URL> . It 's not clear to me how Contacts.app is merging Google/iCloud duplicates that arise if you use iCloud , or handling editing of those duplicates . There 's no support for Google Group/Tag relationships or Mac Group/Tag relationships . Nobody has gotten it working on Snow Leopard , though if you want to try that ( do publish ) Hsiaoi 's technique is a good start ( <URL> ) . I suspect SSL is a problem . I believe it also works on Lion but I 've not tested .
Possibly a duplicate of this question : <URL> On this question , the highest voted answer suggests that you use BetterTouchTool ( download from here : <URL> )
I assume you 're talking about on your Mac since you do n't specify . Yes you can do this but in all likelihood , you wo n't see much other than your internet connection probably wo n't work . Most ISPs ( Internet Service Providers ) are not yet ready to handle IPv6 traffic and many wo n't be right up to <URL> . Many wo n't be ready beyond then either . But it wo n't do any harm to try it out if that 's what you 're worried about . As an aside , the <URL> . To turn IPv4 off go to System Preferences > Network > Advanced > TCPIP Then on the drop-down list next to ' Configure IPv4 ' select the ' Off ' Option . Then beneath that , you can set the ' Configure IPv6 ' drop down menu to whatever you want .
If you have bootcamp 3.1 and install windows 7 with your bootcamp you can do it without problem but if you installed other type of windows I recommended you read <URL> . Edited 1 trick is just dragged the iTunes library into the iTunes window on my bootcamp partition and left the files where they are on the mac disk and it works just fine .
I believe that <URL> is exactly what you are looking for . The only downside is that Rubbernet can not distinguish between LAN traffic and WAN traffic . It sounds like you are looking at one computer , so that should n't be an issue . There is a demo available on their website , or you can buy it from the <URL> for US$ 25 , which seems to be a pretty good deal since they want $ 29.99 ( about US$ 42 ) for a single user copy or $ 49.99 ( almost $ 69 ) for a " family pack " if you buy through their website . ( Hat tip to <URL> for bringing it to my attention a few months ago . ) If you want something cheaper , <URL> might suit you too .
There is no serial number ( like a Windows 7/8/10 product key ) tied to the OS X installation . If you did n't configure iCloud/iTunes accounts while setting up the system it 's almost plain vanilla . But installing OS X in Internet Recovery Mode will install the system the Mac originally was shipped with . Moving the disk with this system to a newer Mac - which usually relies on a newer OS X version - will probably fail to boot . Usually newer Mac contain newer or additional hardware . The older system usually does n't ship with the newer or additional drivers needed . Example : The iMac Late 2011 ( Mac12 ,1 ) was shipped with OS X 10.7.2 . The iMac Late 2013 ( Mac14 ,2 ) was shipped with OS X 10.8.4 . Attaching the external disk to the iMac Late 2011 and using IRM 's Restore OS X will install 10.7.x on it . The same disk attached to the iMac Late 2013 will probably fail to boot because the system is too old .
I do n't know of a general purpose Bluetooth only control that exists on the App store ( but that store is really hard to search these days for a needle in the haystack of apps ) , but one of the more common remote control software packages does say it will work without WiFi on the Mac . <URL> Once you 've installed the free Mac software and tested that you are OK tethering the Mac to the phone ( which can use prodigious amounts of cellular data ) you can download the free and ad supported iOS app . <URL> There is IAP to remove the ads if you really like it over time . I prefer to use the computer 's create network and tether over USB if needed for control in situations where I do n't have a pre-existing WiFi network . The apps I prefer for that are : <URL> - <URL> Rowmote Pro by Evan Schoenberg - <URL> Touchpad is truly standalone , just turn on screen sharing on your Mac and run the app . Rowmote Pro is more integrated with various apps such as spottily , hulu , etc. . . Both function fabulously as a keyboard and mouse/trackpad for OS X from iOS and I find I use both for different tasks at different times .
At the moment , you ca n't really do this . Although I suspect that Apple are looking to integrate iOS and Mac OSX in the future so that this sort of thing can be done ( purely speculation ) . GarageBand on the Mac is different to the iPad version ( it 's more comprehensive ) and it has indeed been out on the Mac for far longer than on the iPad . It is possible to run iOS apps in the iPhone Simulator that comes with Xcode . However , it 's not as simple as downloading from the AppStore . You 'd have to get the source code for the app , compile it in Xcode and run in the simulator . Most apps being closed source , this wont be possible !
The workaround I found so far is to use <URL> as an intermediate filter between PC output and the X-Fi . This allows to control volume from Mac OSX at the price of some sound processing . I can not comment yet on sound quality but on first auditions it seems to sound better than setting the volume to 1/100 in Songbird ( my FLAC player ) .
Open terminal and type : You will be asked for your password , provide it , as this command requires administrator privileges to run . After confirming your Spotlight index will be re-built and your files should appear in the search . ( Depending on the size of your HDD it can take a while ) To turn Spotlight on/off use : To fine tune your Spotlight settings open System Preferences > Spotlight Exclude certain folders from getting indexed :
Not today . This is similar to how iBooks also can not ( currently ) be viewed on a Mac . ( and I do n't have any clue if this will ever happen , it just seems like something that could happen )
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
The iCloud files are cached on your Mac , so you can access them even when you have no internet connection . They are stored in . To make it even more accessible , you can add the folder in your sidebar . There you 'll see that each application has it 's own folder with it 's own documents . Files can be added or removed in this window . To make sure you 're working in your iCloud , you can try and delete a file . Your Mac will notify you , you 're deleting the file in iCloud .
Certain upgrades are possible , but it 's not that simple . Accelerate your Mac is a nice source of information , you can find them <URL> . ANandtech <URL> change the CPU of a Mac Pro . <URL> does have memory upgrades ( there are others ) . Video card : Unless you want to experiment with modified firmwares , your only choice in that model is the <URL> , which is considerably faster than the regular NVidia ( it 's very noticeable in x-plane and 3d applications ) but still lagging behind the " latest offerings " . According to <URL> : " The Mac Pro , as with other Macintosh platforms , requires Mac OS X firmware . That is to say , a PCIe video card designed exclusively for other operating systems will not work properly under Mac OS X without appropriate drivers and/or firmware " Sadly , no other video card has that , other than the Apple 's offerings . But If you google around there are some posts about people who managed to make other cards work . Forget about upgrading your Motherboard , as it 's a custom design . Hard drives/SuperDrives are generic and can be replaced , as you may have already guessed . Any other component is probably " custom " designed for a Mac Pro ( the power supply for example ) and you wo n't be able to get away with it ... Is it worth ? I have an early 2008 Mac Pro with 2x4 Intel XEON 2.8 and 10GB RAM . I 've upgraded the RAM ( from the lame 2GB to 10 @ OWC liked above ) , and I ordered the machine with the NVIDIA card ( 8800 ? I do n't remember ) , which was the only option other than the stock ATI2600 or something lame like that . A couple of years later , the NVIDIA died ( the Apple guy told me it had bugs and used to fail ) , so I got the new ATI 4780 512MB ( it was 100 $ less expensive than the out of warranty NVIDIA apple replacement ) . The difference was really noticeable in 3d apps . I have n't thought about upgrading the CPUs because getting faster XEONs ( I would n't be able to upgrade to Nehalem or anything new ) wo n't really make a big difference for me . I use a SSD and 4 Hard Drives in the bays , if that counts as an upgrade ( my original drive was 750gb , up from the stock 500 ) . I brought it with the Bluetooth/Wifi module ( it was optional back then ) and tho I have n't used it a lot , it came in handy in a few occasions . OS X Does n't support SLI/Crossfire for using more than 1 video card in parallel ( you can install more than one , but it 's not the same thing ) , so forget about getting two super video cards for running crysis y super-top-ultra-maximum quality . Conclusion Yes , if you upgrade the RAM to something other than the 2GB and yes to the video card if you do 3d intensive stuff . Exposé will work fine on the NVIDIA8800 you have , but X-Plane ( among other 3D things ) will be noticeably faster with a new video card .
end question
start question
Can a late 2013 Mac Pro ( cylinder ) support dual 5K displays ?
Yes - three 5K displays are supported on even the least GPU endowed Mac Pro Late 2013 . While I do not have the luxury of owning this kind of a setup , the following coming directly from Apple should answer this : <URL>
If both system are using the IMAP mail provider all you have to do is setup the connection to the mail server and all the emails and folders will be copied down to the windows computer . That is what IMAP is for . The mail stays on the server , and can be store on the local computer also , and when you connect to the server with another device , computer , phone or pad , all the mail with folders gets copied to the other device . But I think some of your mail was gotten using POP so it is not longer on the server . Or you have emails in local folder only and they would be on the server . But you can create folder on the server in one mail program , or on the mail web interface and then copy those emails into those folder on the server byt copying them in one of the email programs . Then when you log on with the other device all of them will be downloaded to the other device . Other alternative : - You can find various solutions on having a <URL> search for your problem . Or you can have a look at the following link : <URL>
Here 's one example of someone running two 27 " displays at 2560x1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort plus an HDMI display at 1920x1200 : <URL> The Thunderbolt ports officially support up to 2560x1600 so that resolution should n't be any problem either : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors <URL> To get up to that resolution , you 're limited to either Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort or Dual-Link DVI via an adapter - single link DVI and VGA adapters wo n't go that high . For the HDMI port , I have n't seen any specific maximum resolution . This person got up to 2048x1280 : <URL> Generally , external monitors work fine in Windows . I see no reason why it would be any different on the Retina model or on Windows 8 specifically .
According to a google search for [ safari 2 tabbed browsing ] , yes . Source : <URL>
I upgraded a similar era Macbook a while ago . In all likelihood you are unlikely to be able to buy an SSD that will not max out the BUS speed available to it on a machine that old . That particular Macbook has a SATA I ( 1.5 Gbps ) interface for it 's existing hard drive . SATA III ( 6Gbps ) SSD drives have been the standard for many years now , although you may be able to get a bargain bucket SATA II device ( 3Gbps ) . Basically , I would get the cheapest SSD you can for the capacity you require that is at least SATA II ( you do n't need it for the speed , but a SATA I one will be based on older technology that may have a shorter lifespan than a newer drive ) . It is almost certain to be faster than your machine can handle , so there is no point getting a particularly recent or fast one .
The physical MagSafe adapter remains unchanged from a pinout perspective ( the shape has altered externally from a T shape to an L shape and back again ) for almost every Macbook except the 2012 Macbook Air and Retina Macbook which use MagSafe 2 ; Adapters are available to connect a MagSafe power supply to these machines , but you can not use a MagSafe 2 adapter to power anything other than the 2012 Air and Retina at present . You need to ensure that you use the correct power rated charger for the Macbooks . Macbook Airs use a 45 watt supply , through to something like 85 watts for Macbook Pros . It 's OK to use a higher rated supply than is required , the charger only supplies what is asked of it , so a Macbook Air on a Pros power supply will only request its 45 watts , not get fried with 85 watts . Conversely , it 's not OK to do the opposite , running a MBP on an Airs power supply will request up to 85 watts of draw on a 45 watt power supply , and burn out the adapter eventually .
According to Apple 's <URL> for the 2015 13 " MBP , it is possible : " Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on up to two external displays ... "
Simple answer -- yes you can ! there should be no any problems .
No , this is not possible . <URL> , the only models capable of supporting 4k resolutions ( 3850x2160 UHD ) at 30 or 60 Hzs are the late 2013 Mac Pros and late 2013 Macbook Pros : " You can use 4K displays and Ultra HD TVs with your MacBook Pro ( Retina , Late 2013 ) or Mac Pro ( Late 2013 ) computer . You can use these displays at the following resolutions and refresh rates with the built-in HDMI port 3840 x 2160 at 30 Hz refresh rate " In fact , this is the default configuration . Though these two models also are capable of supporting 4k @ 60 Hz refresh , multi stream transport must be enabled on the external display . The same applies to your Thunderbolt port . <URL>
The Late 2015 iMac 5K with AMD 395X can support two external 4K ( UHD ) displays ( at the full 3840x2160 res ) with the builtin iMac display set to 5120x2880 FYI . This is the configuration that I am currently running ( with 10.11.2 ) , using two LG 27MU67 displays attached via DisplayPort-to-miniDP cables on each of the iMac 's thunderbolt ports .
The iPad is a high power draw device , and Belkin N150 USB Wireless adapter probably is no power slouch either , so it is technically possible for them to be overdrawing an internal USB Bus or Hub in the Mac Pro . The Mac Pro has 5 independent USB Buses as noted in the picture below . Now depending where things are plugged in they show up in different USB Buses , you may want to Open your System Information Application , and try to avoid placing the iPad and the Belkin N150 on the same bus . For Example , on my computer the ZyXel ... and the DataTraveler are plugged into front USB ports and they appear to be sharing the same usb tree . While my external Hub labeled " Generic USB Hub " and my VF0680 , CIRCA102 are all plugged in rear usb ports on the Mac Pro , note how the CRCA102 is on its own Bus .
You can rotate your MacBook Air screen using the OS X system preferences . What you need to do is : Launch System Preferences ( first quit it if it 's already open ) Hold down Command Option and click on " Display " Look for ' Rotation ' on the right side of the Display window and take your pick If System Preferences is already open then holding down Command + Option does n't seem to make the Rotatation menu appear . If you run into that , just quit out of System Prefs and relaunch it . ( found on <URL> and found here on <URL> ) EDIT : Cave ! I had serous troubles on my MacBook Pro retina . Do NOT try this method described above in Yosemite ( and properbly newer systems as well ) Read this : I recently tried this trick again to rotate my screen and got stuck in a nasty situation . My screen is inverted and my ' Display ' menu in System Preferences will not open , when trying to open the ' Display ' preference pane it gives me the following error : " Preferences Error Could not load Displays preference pane . " I have tried the following things to fix it , non of these work : Removed and , and rebooted . Logged in as another user or as guest user . repair permissions , gives the following warning : User differs on on " private/var/db / displaypolicyd " ; should be 0 ; user is 244 Group differs on on " private/var/db / displaypolicyd " ; should be 0 ; user is 244 Installed the ' OSXUpdCombo10 .10.3 . pkg ' Re-installed ' OS X - Mavericks over my current system ' Manually removed the Display preference pane from and installed the ' OSXUpdCombo10 .10.3 . pkg ' after that . Luckely I have an external display that does not go ' Australian ' on me , but this is quite nasty . I am now preparing for a clean install of my system as I am out of further ideas . EDIT 2 : - Temp fix/hack . This will not fix the broken ' Displays ' preference pane , but it will help you to leave ' Down Under ' and zero out gravity . Rotate your screen using a third party app : ' <URL> ' <URL> EDIT 3 : Complete clean reinstall of the system ' fixed ' the issue . I have only restored the non-admin users via TimeMachine . Error message :
Yes , I too am a developer using a mid-2011 Mac Mini ( with AMD Radeon GPU ) connected to two Samsung displays one display connected using HDMI cable which comes with the Mac Mini , and another display connected using an Apple DisplayPort to VGA cable which I had to buy separately .
According to <URL> This model supports a simultaneous maximum resolution up to 2560x1600 on two external displays via Thunderbolt . Alternately , it can support a single display up to 2560x1600 via Thunderbolt and a single 1080p display at up to 60 Hz , 3840x2160 at 30 Hz , or 4096x2160 at 24 Hz via HDMI . ... so I 'd say ' yes ' .
Update ( 5/24/2016 ) Salvation is here ! OWC has released <URL> for the MacBook Pro with Retina Display 13 " &amp; 15 " Late 2013 , 2014 , and 2015
You can install any drive , provided it 's of the 2.5 " variety ( notebook disk ) . <URL> can purchase ( see image below ) , or you can readily just buy the flex cable ( PART # 922-9560 ) . I purchased mine from <URL> and a few dollars shipping/handling . The iFixit kit includes the logic board puller , but I used two small screw drivers , which work just the same . If you have no qualms about spending the extra dough for what is likely a one-time affair , then by all means . Do note that you can pick the grommets from Home Depot ( they are 1/4 " grommets ) on the cheap . I had to shave a bit off to make them thinner , but they work beautifully . The screws are standard " <URL> " . 8mm M3 with a 0.5 mm thread . The ones provided in the iFixit kit are not OEM , but just aftermarket screws that meet the dimensions . In any case , the grommets and screws are not entirely necessary as the limited room stops the drive from thrashing around . And since the unit is likely to stay stationary , not a large concern . It depends entirely on the level of craftsmanship you possess . <URL> has a thread outlining the process , and that can be supplemented with <URL> . One thing to note , after you 've installed the drive , reset the <URL> to ensure a problem free experience . I had data on my secondary drive and saw my boot sequence lengthened to minutes as a result . Resetting the unit 's PRAM did the trick . The entire process took me about 1 hour , but it all depends on your level of proficiency . While adding the second drive is possible without removing the logic board , you will not be able to align the screws with the chassis ( and will crush the grommets in doing so ) . You 'll also wrestle 3x as long trying to get the SATA cable connected . There is literally not a mm to spare inside the unit . If you want to do the job right , you will need to take the mini apart and systematically install the drives one at a time so the holding screws line up with the grommets , the rest is a cakewalk .
It is the JDK as noted in the path / System/Library/Java / JavaVirtualMachines/1 .6.0 . jdk it installs into , and also seeing what files are installed there . As far as I understand the removal does not change Java but removes plugins from browsers However I would use the later JDK for Java 7 from Oracle as there are some improvements in the environment and language as per Oracle 's <URL>
If you are talking about a Thunderbolt equipped 15-inch MacBook Pro then yes according to this : <URL> Interestingly you can also drive two from a 13-inch MacBook Pro , it will disable the built in display .
From EveryMac ... This model supports a simultaneous maximum resolution up to 2560x1600 on two external displays via Thunderbolt . Alternately , it can support a single display up to 2560x1600 via Thunderbolt and a single 1080p display at up to 60 Hz , 3840x2160 at 30 Hz , or 4096x2160 at 24 Hz via HDMI . If you have 2 Thunderbolt ports , you can use 2 miniDP to Display Port cables , one from each port , just as though the ports were miniDP as they are backwardly-compatible . See <URL>
My information is second-hand , but another user at my company gave an strongly enthusiastic recommendation of a " NewerTech " USB to DVI adapter . Note that this will require use of their driver , but he has had no issues with it . It is available from <URL> .
end question
start question
Pages - Why dont numbers like 6th format like they do in Word ?
You can manually make the " th " superscript . Highlight the " th " , then in the menu bar , select " Format > Font > Baseline > Superscript " . There is also a keyboard shortcut : ⌃ + ⌘ + +
After taking it up with Apple Support , here is the answer : The first user ( AppleID ) which activates a new iPhone gets those apps free . If the iPhone is reset to defaults and another user ( AppleID ) is used , which is what I did , then that user does not get them for free . So the free option is a one time thing .
iOS Numbers does not support conditional formatting , and it is removed from the document upon import . According to <URL> the following changes are made on iOS ( my emphasis ) : 3D charts are converted to 2D charts . Chart data is retained and editable . Conditional formatting is removed from imported spreadsheets . Cell content is retained . Table Categories are removed . Tables remain organized and category names are retained as static text . Filters are removed .
No , there 's no official , Apple-approved replacement for the lock screen . If you really want to use Android Lock , you must jailbreak and then install it via Cydia . Un-jailbroken phones can only do what Apple allows , which is to run one app at a time . Android Lock is different because what it does is to modify the basic system of the phone , which Apple does n't allow . And that is the reason why such apps or modifications are only available on jailbroken phones ( through Cydia , the jailbroken appstore ) .
I you are looking mainly for annotation then <URL> could be worth a look . It lacks the more fancy features you asked for ( torn edges , blur , etc. ) but for basic annotation ( arrows , text , freehand ) it is quite good . Although it was acquired by Evernote it is possible to save the annotated image back to the camera roll .
It appears that everyone that owns an older copy of iWork for iOS gets a free upgrade whether or not your version came from a retail CD or the Mac App Store . If you do n't already own iWork - you will have to pay for either a new Mac or the apps piecemeal on the App Store . The above summary is my understanding of this MacWorld article that includes calls with Apple Press relations and an " on-the-record " confirmation that all owners of iWork should get free upgrades despite some glitches in the initial roll out today . <URL>
1 ) It 's a one-off payment . 2 ) Apple do n't allow duplicate app names in the store , so as long as you make sure that the name of the app you 're buying exactly matches the name of the app that you want , then you should be OK . Or if it 's a popular app , like Fruit Ninja , just buy it from the listing of most popular apps .
In System Preferences , click Universal Access then Keyboard : You 'll find the options for sticky keys in there .
I am 99 % sure that Finder can not change tags . Check <URL> for free ID3 editors .
You might want to investigate the fine-grained control available to you in the Terminal command <URL> . There is a host of features too numerous to mention in this simple posting .
Macs do not have Activation Lock . The only Find My iPhone lock that is present on OS X is the force lock from selecting the device in the Find My iPhone device list and clicking Lock . Simply reinstalling OS X ca n't lock a Mac unlike iOS Activation Lock . Note that Find My Mac will register the serial number ( or other hardware identifier ) for the purposes of recording a single Mac and that reinstalling OS X will not remove this identifier from Apple 's servers and may show a " Find My Mac is already in use " message if you attempt to set it up in the future .
Agree with Loïc that this question should be rephrased , but if you 're looking for a possible solution without being subject to Apple 's whims , there are many third-party bluetooth keypads available ... <URL> -- meant to attach to an Apple wireless keyboard , but has mixed reviews <URL> -- blasphemy , I know , but it has good reviews <URL> -- non-Bluetooth alternative that uses Logitech 's mini USB receiver
Whilst copying from Safari as plain text is not possible as far as I know , the OS X system shortcut for pasting as plain text is ⇧ ⌥ ⌘ V. For Microsoft Word , go to Edit → Paste Special → Unformatted Text or Edit → Paste and Match Formatting .
Search for in Lion or later ( or in Snow Leopard and earlier versions of Mac OS ) in Spotlight ( press ⌘ and Space ) . The program is in / Applications/Utilities and is the tool to see the connected USB devices and other hardware details . It is quite simliar to on Windows . Alternatively you can access it via the Apple Menu - > - > - > The System Information can save system profiler information to a file , so you could review an older snapshot to see what was connected once , but the Mac OS does n't record all the devices connected - just the ones actually connected when you run the tool and it scans the current items on the device tree .
Right click on the misspelled word and select " Unlearn Spelling " . As Pages uses OS X ' global spelling services , you can use this method anywhere text input is spell checked by it ( more or less any text area , with the notable exceptions of MS Office , OpenOffice / LibreOffice , Firefox and a few other apps ported from the non OS X world ) . If a misspelled word is not underlined in red and the " Unlearn Spelling " option is missing from the context menu , it may be that you originally used " Ignore Spellin " rather than " Learn Spelling " . In that case , try opening a new document and pasting in the misspelled word -- the red underline will appear in the new document if you ignored the spelling in the original document .
You can set the date to update every time the document is opened by double-clicking on it , and selecting " Automatically update on open " . As for making the date ordinal , I do n't think it 's possible or would require heavy plist modifications or may depend on your localisation settings .
You do n't need to use a separate application . You can share wi-fi without any app . Go to System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing : You will be prompted to enter a network name and a password ( if you choose to ) . It does also require you to have a hard-wired Internet connection . ( If you are wondering why my sharing checkbox is greyed out , it 's because I do n't have a hard-wired connection ) You can also click on the Airport icon in the menu bar and then click " Create Network ... "
Its old question , but still if it helps anyone . You need following 2 in order to maximise your window when clicked on title bar : Go to Apple icon > System Preferences > Dock > Select " Double-click a window 's title bar to " " Zoom " Shift + Double click on title bar to maximise the window . Cheers
You did n't mention which version of Numbers you were using . Here are general directions to create a custom cell format in both <URL> and <URL> . In Numbers ' 09 , once in the Custom Number Format dialog , drag a few integer elements into the format box . Pull the menu down for each , and choose Hide separator . On the appropriate groups , change the number of digits to two . If you 're not mixing with USD and prefer India 's conventions , a much simpler approach is in the <URL> . Choose India from the Region menu , and any cells set to Currency format will not only have the correct symbol , but the correct groupings . Of course , then if you want USD formatted correctly , you 'd need a custom format for that - so use whichever region is most appropriate to the bulk of your content .
Boom is most likely the culprit to your speaker failing . Boom uses algorithms to increase the overall volume of the track to a point without clipping . Pushing speakers beyond what they are supposed to do can and will cause damage to them . The reason the speakers have a maximum volume is that is the safest high fidelity sound they can produce . Here is a review of how boom works algorithmically <URL> Note the overall wave form increase in the article . This will cause damage , clipping and distortion with prolonged use .
end question
start question
Does macOS Sierra support multiple users simultaneously connecting to the same machine using screensharing ?
macOS Sierra still supports multiple simultaneous connected users . In the example below Sierra is running in a VM and admin is logged in . user is a remote screen sharing session from the VM host machine ( 10.9.5 ) -- an iMac -- and root is a remote session from a MacBook Pro ( 10.11.6 ) : <URL>
If your computer is locked , the screensaver settings for the root user account is used instead of your own . You can change those settings according to the answer to this question : <URL>
No , Time Machine does not do this . The only reliable way to back up your BootCamp partition is to boot into Windows and run Windows-compatible disk backup software from within Windows , to back up to a separate external hard drive formatted with NTFS . Winclone has not been updated in a long time and is not a useful solution .
Using the built-in tool " Automator " , you can define a workflow to batch rename files . To do that , you will have to : Open Automator find it using Spotlight or in / Applications Create a new Workflow Type get into the search field Scroll to the bottom of the list of items and drag Get Specified Item from the Files &amp; Folders actions list on the left panel and drop it into the right panel Click the Add button and find your files Add the Sort Finder Items action followed by Rename Finder Items It the " Rename Finder Items " panel , select " Make Sequential " and " Add number to " Picture Hit the play button and you should be done Have a look <URL> or <URL> for an example tutorials on your specific renaming task at hand . An excellent overview of what Automator does and how powerful ( and simple ) it can be as a personal assistant - see the web page <URL>
macOS Sierra still supports multiple simultaneous connected users . In the example below Sierra is running in a VM and admin is logged in . user is a remote screen sharing session from the VM host machine ( 10.9.5 ) -- an iMac -- and root is a remote session from a MacBook Pro ( 10.11.6 ) : <URL>
The iTunes Store uses HTTPS for most of it ( if not all ) , at least that 's how it was when I checked . Regarding your specific question , you have to consider the iPhone is another regular device , albeit full of limitations in the tweaking department , it still runs a OS X variant , with derived UNIX parts , etc. . So for the sake of this question , let 's say your iPhone is a computer running some form of Unix Operating System ; with that in mind , all the security risks that affect a computer are valid . Should the iPhone ( and iOS ) have a remote vulnerability , you would be exposed , just like your Macbook or your Windows computer or even your Linux Box . Using ' open ' Wi-Fi means anyone can log in and inspect the traffic . Anyone trying to do malicious stuff will be eavesdropping and listing for traffic in the network . If you send an email , it will likely be unencrypted and visible . If you use IM ( MSN , Yahoo , iChat/AIM , Jabber , etc. ) you are likely not encrypted either ( nor using a secure channel by default ) . When using Safari , anything that does n't go though some form of HTTPS is visible . Cookies and Data , with all the associated risks . So as you can see , and excluding particular OS vulnerabilities , we 're very exposed when using open networks . Most people does n't really care or know but the risks are there ( and so are the malicious users ) :) Connecting through a VPN will help with your traffic , but I have never used a VPN on an iPhone and thus I do n't know what the capabilities of that are .
Ah . I finally found it . The file is and it 's under the key .
Use the command The command is So , after you SSH in as the admin , issue the command : That will set the preferences value for the particular user you are interested in without having to know their password . I personally checked this on OS X 10.11.4 using an account called " testguy " . I was able to SSH into the machine , set the preferences using the command you provided and verify that it was set by issuing the command : The response was ( true )
This is because your iOS device supports the <URL> ( which is for mobile only ) protocol where Mail and Calendar do not . For your OS X Mail and Calendar to work , you either need : Exchange protocol support in Mail and Calendar meaning Apple has to pay for licensing ( not likely to happen ) IMAP , CalDav , and/or POP3 service enabled on the Exchange Server It sounds like your company has enabled IMAP and/or POP3 support , but nothing for the calendar which is why email works and calendar does not . However , if you have Outlook 2016 and VPN in ( or they enable services on an " edge server " ) , Outlook Mail and Calendar will be able to sync up .
Even with multi-homing on iOS 7 starting to allow traffic over LTE and WiFi simultaneously , there is n't a good way to accomplish this on OS X Mavericks and lower . I have run <URL> on macs since 10.4 and it 's really nice when you have a gigabit switch . You will need a switch that runs LACP and two physical ethernet ports like is typical on G4 &amp; G5 PowerMacs days and of course the entire MacPro line . This is built into the OS X network stack and you need nothing but the hardware and a compatible ethernet switch . Mac OS X wo n't show LACP as an option without two ethernet ports . I do n't know of a switch that does LACP over wireless or allows mixing of wired and wireless interfaces . You might be able to trick the OS some way , but without the switch to cooperate you 'll have to rewrite LACP on the switch for that to work . It 's much easier to segregate certain traffic over specific interfaces by modifying your routing table . This will allow you to send some traffic over wifi and others over the wire . For example netflix and such could be routed over one connection if you set up a route to their network to prefer one gateway IP on the ISP you prefer . It 's not feasible to tell an application to use only one interface as that has to be " baked " in to that app and not common practice . What is common practice is to use local routing tables ( or routing tables on the router ) to steer certain traffic to one gateway . More sophisticated routers have quality of service where you specify some metric like VOIP or video conference traffic is a priority - so when the network is overloaded in some specific , measurable way , then non critical traffic will be shaped or steered to a different route to keep the fast network clear for better responses . These routers and the knowledge to run them do not come cheaply . I 'd guess $ 3k us for the hardware and triple that for training and software licenses on the routers .
Yes , it does . From within Mail , open up preferences , select the Accounts tab , and click on the small " + " button in the lower left-hand corner of the window . This will run the " Add Account " wizard to guide you through the rest of the steps .
Basically , an upgrade just makes a lot of the files that are included in a backup write a newer copy . There is n't any major change to the storage format and has n't been since Time Machine was implemented . All the changes have been in the code that runs the backup or changes to the rules about what files are excluded , but those changes revert when you install a clean OS before you go to restore files from any of the intervals stored in the backup . Time Machine backups are not bootable and they do n't include all files - so you might not even end up restoring the files that change when you go from one OS update to the next . Specifically - here are files that get excluded by rule : <URL> Time machine just backs up all files that are n't on a list to be skipped . It goes forward , time interval by time interval - writing any new files and updating any changed files . Assuming you are n't running low on space in the backup destination - you wo n't have any older files deleted from the backup and could restore files from before you made the upgrade .
Go to an Apple store or Apple reseller and purchase the Snow Leopard install DVD . It 's relatively inexpensive ( as far as Operating System prices are concerned ) . Here is the <URL> to the online store , where it will ship within 24 hours .
Installer wo n't let you install two programs simultaneously , so the question is moot . Click Install on as many packages as you wish and Installer.app will queue them up and install them individually .
No - Apple 's firmware on the keyboard remembers the last paired device . Some bluetooth keyboards can switch back and forth , but that feature is n't available on Apple 's current hardware .
It uses both Bluetooth LE 4.0 AND 802.11 ac WiFi . Bluetooth is used to discover the Apple Watch and establish a connection . Then it uses WiFi to do " time-in-flight " calculations - i.e. to figure out how far your watch is from the Mac . The Mac needs to support 802.11 ac WiFi for this to work . All watches are supported , both the old and the new - even though the old ones does not support 802.11 ac . This way it is possible to prevent attacks such as someone planting a " bluetooth repeater " near you , so that it could replay your bluetooth responses captured this way to a Mac located somewhere remotely .
Not at this point , no . WebKit , that which Safari for Mac OS and iOS are both based on , is supposed to support WebGL but I have yet to be able to get it work properly on Mac OS 10.6 , much less iOS . I get the impression the whole thing is too new ( relatively ) for proper support .
I 've changed the setup to use the same SSID for all APs and I observe much faster handover times , at least on my iOS devices . Have n't done yet any tests with Macs though . So far I have n't reduced power levels as @ScunnerDarkly suggested because I 'm satisfied with the results right now .
I found it . Apple uses <URL> More information can be found at <URL> The advantage of using a no redirect URL is that you can determine which state you are in : Connected Connected to Wi-Fi but Internet is inaccessible due to Wi-Fi router requiring user intervention . Not connected These are called <URL> , or , as Apple calls them , <URL> : Captive networks ( often used in hotels , coffee shops , and other public places ) may intercept your software 's HTTP requests and provide a login page instead of the expected data .
If you are backing up to an external disk , the fastest way is to disable Time Machine erase the backup drive/partition with DiskUtil re-enable Time Machine OTOH you wo n't loose anything if you keep the old backups for now . As every time slice within TM is a full backup you can still recover up to " now " .
end question
start question
My iPod has fallen out with iTunes . What 's the safest way to get them back on speaking terms ?
Yes , it should work . All music she has bought is under Purchased in Quick Links menu in iTunes Store in latest iTunes . It can be redownloaded from there .
As @iampearce answered in the comments : If you 're manually syncing , grab the file from in iTunes and drag it onto the iPod itself . This will force it to copy over , and you 'll be able to see it happen in the progress bar .
There is a small print at the bottom of the download info page for the GarageBand ver 10.1 . - Requires Apple Music Connect Account Do you have one ? But here is the good news . I do not have the Apple Music Connect and was able to get the GarageBand 10.1 update . I have a MBA 2012 with Mavericks ( 10.9.5 ) and here is the process I had to do . need to accept this then continue with download You will be asked to log in again to complete the download/installation . And it is ready to go :
I do n't think there is a way to do either of your choices built in , and I do n't know of any tool to do them for you . The only way to get this ability in every application would be to have a plugin which is automatically loaded into every application and replaces the default scrollbars . A possible workaround is to scroll just a little bit , so that the page does n't move much . This will cause the scrollbars to become visible , and they wo n't hide again as long as either you are moving the mouse on top of that window , or you have the mouse above them . This means you can scroll a little , then move the mouse on top of them , and not worry about them disappearing . If you want to try to implement this yourself you will probably need to create a custom <URL> subclass , and find a way to make NSScrollView use it instead of the default class ( I think NSScrollView has a private method to create a default scrollbar which you could override , but you will have to find it yourself ) .
The short answer is processing speed , screen resolution and memory . The newer ones are obviously faster , and the lastest generation ( 4g ) includes both front and back cameras for shooting video and video calling . For a full list of the differences check out this <URL> .
Yes . The keys in Visual Studio 2010 that you refer to ( for others that are unaware ) are known as " Navigate Backward " and " Navigate Forward " and work as described in the the following <URL> allowing you to quickly move back and forward between places you 've already been in your code , via a " Jump to Definiton " in Xcode , for example . The equivalent keyboard shortcuts in Xcode 4 are : Navigate Backward : Ctrl + ⌘ + Left Cursor Navigate Forward : Ctrl + ⌘ + Right Cursor
You can add the columns iCloud Status and iCloud Download and sort song lists by those criteria . All songs that did n't upload will include the missing tracks so you can clean them appropriately . You could also attack the inverse problem . Make sure everything you care about is in the iCloud and matched . Once that process is complete , you could turn off iTunes Match on that computer , quit iTunes and archive the entire music folder . Then you could delete the library folder and start with a fresh library and turn on match to restore all playlists , metadata , play counts , etc. . . At that point , you could decide to re-import some or all of the songs so you do n't need to download all the music again , but most with broadband are happy to just re-download what they need rather than have everything in one place . I have done this exact process , and when I go to iTunes and select a track I want to delete , the following dialog pops up : If you are not getting that dialog , then I can only presume some other corruption is present in your Library .
If you hover you mouse over the name of the Process a Tooltip will show up telling you the URL Base domain
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
After some more searching , I found a command-line answer : This will print out an XML plist with values like : If anyone knows an easier/nicer way , though , I 'd love to hear it .
Times have changed since this question was asked . CloudOn has been bought and shut down by DropBox . Currently , the best way to edit Word documents on iOS is with the <URL> app .
It should Just Work . In more detail : First , do n't run yourself , since launchd will run it for you on demand . Make sure your private ssh key is in with appropriate permissions , i.e. , not readable by anybody but yourself : Now run . A dialog should pop up to let you unlock the key . The dialog has a check button for storing the pass phrase in your keychain . Check it , and hit OK . ( You need to do this with , I think , and not any that you might have from macports or fink . ) If you do n't get the dialog , it could be that needs to be told about the name and location of your private key . If so , specify it using the flag , as in
There is a <URL> where occasionally revealing files in Finder stops working and Archive Utilility stops responding whenever you try to extract an archive . As a workaround , you can terminate from Activity Monitor or with . ( Without - kill other processes stop responding . ) The issue will probably return within a few days or hours though .
The stuff in the Other category is typically documents that have been deleted on the iPad , and also documents that are in use by various apps ( for example , PDF documents that are in use by GoodReader , or docs from the iWork programs ) . Sometimes these documents are available via the Apps tab in iTunes , other times not ; it depends on the program . For example , Documents to Go and GoodReader can manage their own documents outside of iTunes using Dropbox . Deleted documents should be cleared out when you sync with iTunes . Sometimes , due to a known iTunes bug , the Other category wo n't shrink as expected . There 's more at these Apple Discussions threads : <URL> <URL>
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
Lifehacker 's <URL> to triple booting has worked well for me in the past . You will also definitely need <URL> . I 've seen varying reports of how well refit works on Lion - it seems to be that if you do n't have FileVault enabled , you should be fine . Obviously make sure to back everything up before starting - any sort of partitioning/boot loader editing/etc is always slightly risky . The basic steps are : Install refit Partition all the necessary partitions ( OS X , Windows , Linux ) . Be careful at this step , it can be very difficult to resize partitions that are n't HFS + . You 'll need three additional partions : Windows , Linux , and Linux swap . Install Windows , then install uBuntu . ( Lastly , this does not invalidate the MBP 's warrantee . )
Here is the contents of my / System/Library/LaunchDaemons / com.apple.mDNSResponder.plist from OS X 10.9.1 : It 'd probably be worth running a permissions repair after restoring the file .
If you have a verified phone number and have set up the ability to verify devices using SMS verification code , you can use this method . Otherwise , you will not be able to recover your keychain yourself . You may find help by contacting Apple : <URL>
The most popular IRC client on the Mac platform is undoubtedly <URL> ( free ) . It has a sleek interface and is extremely configurable . You can find others here : <URL>
Turn off iTunes Match on the PowerMac . Use Home Sharing to move the ALAC files to the PowerMac . Re-enable iTunes Match on the PowerMac . It should re-scan the library and match the ALAC songs . Do n't ever delete the ALAC songs from the PowerMac , otherwise your only choice will be to download a 256Kbps file from the cloud .
end question
start question
Zeitgeist for Mac OS X ?
<URL> provides at least part of the functionality you are looking for . Timing is the best way to keep track of the time you spend with your Mac . Find out where your time goes - without ever having to start a timer again ! Timing automatically tracks which documents you are editing , which applications you use , and the domains of the websites you visit . Afterwards , just drag and drop activities into projects . There are some default categories , but you are free to customize them !
Yes . There is a product called <URL> . The best part is that it 's <URL> One of the features of iTerm2 is that you can remap any of the keys including the ones you asked about . For instance , I remapped Ctrl + Tab to send the text it it worked perfectly . <URL> After hitting Ctrl + Tab , it sends the keystroke : <URL>
Yes . At the login screen , login as with an admin password . To get the user name field , open the Login Options in System Preferences and change the default login window display option : <URL>
You can press the option key to change the behaviour move instead of copy between different volumes copy instead of move on the same volume
Lion 10.7 was the first consumer Mac OS to be licensed for virtualisation [ OS X Server 10.5 was actually the very first ] No Mac can boot natively on an OS from before it was manufactured , as the drivers to support that hardware were n't yet invented . There is a distant chance you may be able to get <URL> [ list is for current version , not compatible with Snow Leo anyway ] to virtualise Tiger [ even though it is against the EULA ] , but I would be doubtful . <URL> supports Leo &amp; Snow Leo Server , not Tiger . It might be simpler , if not cheaper , to get an old Mac that would run Tiger natively .
Apple Mail allows importing from . mbox files ( see the import option in the File menu ) . I do n't know how well it supports the other requirements you 've listed but it might be worth a try .
Not free but my favorite is <URL> . I went through a few free ones and ending up buying this on a <URL> special and it was worth every cent . It supports resume , password protected sites , and can even FTP if you need it too . It also allows you to share files with other users on the network . I have to admit , though , since moving to the Mac , my failure rates on downloads without a manager has drastically dropped if you 're on a decent internet connection .
You do n't need to use a separate application . You can share wi-fi without any app . Go to System Preferences > Sharing > Internet Sharing : You will be prompted to enter a network name and a password ( if you choose to ) . It does also require you to have a hard-wired Internet connection . ( If you are wondering why my sharing checkbox is greyed out , it 's because I do n't have a hard-wired connection ) You can also click on the Airport icon in the menu bar and then click " Create Network ... "
Would the Windows Latin American layout mentioned in this article meet your needs ? <URL>
Nobody 's mentioned Apple Mail . I love it , particularly the Lion version .
I never used stay but I am using Moom ( Apple store ) and pretty happy with it . It stores windows positions and has configurable hotkeys . There is no automatic settings for different displays but since you can assign hotkeys to configuration is not a big issue . It is very stable .
Simplified explanation : When an application is started , an entry is written to disk that says this app is currently active . When an application quits , that entry is removed . When the system starts and finds entries in this list , it 's an indicator that the system crashed or did not shut down properly and it can offer to relaunch those apps for you . It takes virtually no practical overhead at all to track this . Each application individually may also be tracking which documents you opened pretty much the same way and then reopen your documents when it is being launched . There 's no need to " constantly track the state of everything " , the system just needs to make a few notes here and there when key events happen ( such as an application launching or quitting ) .
All actions taken on a non admin account that would need admin privileges require the user to enter the name of an admin account and the password before continuing . So if you download software on a standard user account , when you come to install it you will be asked to enter the admin user name and password . I use the admin account and my girlfriend has a standard user account . She can import music , photos download apps from the app store , she can change system preferences in the settings panel but not alter the status of my admin account , create accounts , etc , etc. . I have not heard of this procedure of using a non admin account as to do anything that will change the system as you are required to enter the password anyway .
You can edit Date and Time in iPhoto , and do it in batches too : Photos Menu - > Adjust Date and Time - and it will also correct the date and time on the original file if you choose to . Another thing to consider : iPhoto catalogues the images on import . If you subsequently change the metadata with a 3rd party App , iPhoto wo n't recognise this . It will not rescan for changed metadata , so while you 're original files may be corrected , it 'll make no difference in iPhoto .
Yes , you can use the shortcut ⌥ option + ⌘ command + W.
<URL> for OSX and <URL> for iOS Only 1.2 MB in size . ( Mac version ) The iOS version works on both the iPad and iPhone . Fullscreen Autosave Reading time , word counter sync via Dropbox supports <URL>
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
It is possible that you pressed the esc key . Yosemite has a similar feature to iOS 8 's QuickType keyboard that " intelligently predicts " what you are trying to type . It looks like this : Is this what appeared ?
A few searches tell me that there is n't good SSD support for power pc macs . This seems to be mostly a SATA III compatibility issue . TRIM support seems to have been introduced in 10.6.8 but only for Apple-supplied drives . Since Apple was producing Intel-based systems by that point , that is where they focused the support . There are blog posts where people have talked about specific drives working in G5 and G4 macs but this is notably without TRIM . OWC has some posts about TRIM and how it is n't for everyone . The important question is , why do you need TRIM ?
Server.app is just a set of scripts and apps that run on top of the base OS X . So just follow the <URL> . So , I just carry a second USB drive with server.app and other downloads and use the first drive to install the OS , the second to outfit that image after it it running .
end question
start question
How do I delete podcasts in iTunes without deleting them from my iPod ?
This can be done if you disable auto sync in device settings , and automatic sync manager . For that however you need to sync the new ones by selecting and dragging to ip * d to sync . That way the ones that got deleted wo n't be deleted from the device but only from the computer .
Best I can tell , the answer is a resounding " no " -- at least without deleting your iTunes Library . itl file .
Use <URL> it 'll sync pictures automatically between Mac and iPhone ( it does also work with iPad , Apple-tv 4 and iPod Touch 5/6 ) with iOS 8.1 or newer .
Try running Keychains Repair Tool by opening Keychain from you Utilities folder , then from the menu bar choose Keychain Access , then Keychain First Aid , then enter your password , verify then start it . If there are any problems click Repair then Start . ( via <URL> ) If that does n't work then try Resetting your Keychain . Via <URL> you just need to do these steps : Open Keychain Access , which is in the Utilities folder within the Applications folder . From the Keychain Access menu , choose Preferences . Click General , then click Reset My Default Keychain . Authenticate with your account login password . Quit Keychain Access then Restart your computer .
One idea would be to run TagScanner , then create a new iTunes library : Hold Option while starting iTunes . Click " Create new " library . Choose its destination ~ / Music and name it . In the new library , open Preferences and navigate to Advanced . Make sure that " Copy files to iTunes Media folder when adding to library " is checked . Import all the TagScanner 'd music files into your new library . iTunes will create a new folder/sub-folder [ artist/album ] hierarchy based on the new ID3 information , and nothing would be broken . If everything looks the way you want it to , delete the old library . Here 's how to delete the old library ( this edit is in response to your comment below ) : delete the entire / iTunes folder and all its contents . You 'll notice that when you make a new library , you get a new folder in ~ / Music . For example , ~ / Music/Nathans _ Library . That folder is n't where the iTunes application lives , so it 's fine to wipe out the whole thing . ( It 's handy to know this , because it means you can store your iTunes library wherever you want to . For example , at work I archive loads of audio tracks in an iTunes library on a server . That way , my co-workers can access it if they need to , and our ITS department can back it up more easily . ) One tip for albums featuring guest appearances : Set the album artist , because iTunes looks at " Taylor Swift " and " Taylor Swift feat . Tim McGraw " as two separate artists , so make sure to set the album artist to " Taylor Swift " . iTunes will use the album artist field to make the organizational folder hierarchy , so your tracks will stay grouped together in the file system as well as in iTunes . Caveat : Following this approach might mean losing your personal metadata like play count , rating , date last played , etc. . I 'm not sure though . Definitely back up your entire iTunes library before trying anything like this ; you never know what might cause you to need a " do-over " .
Sorry but it is n't possible from just a configuration change . Neither the iPod nor Windows have options to not mount it . I had the same requirement and ended up making my own USB cable that only passed the power but not the data connections . If you look around online , you can find the same thing for sale for only a few dollars
<URL> ( $ 99 ) Lets you capture , copy , convert , share and burn discs or <URL> ( open source ) again does the same but a more basic version which is free .
If you have the 4.0 beta , you are able to download the 4.1 GM from developer.apple.com and use Xcode 's Organizer or iTunes ( by holding the option key when clicking restore ) to choose the correct version of iOS ( which is on the disk image you downloaded ) to reload onto the iPod .
In a sense the basis of your question is in error . While iMovie is saving videos to your camera roll , this is n't using any extra space on your iPhone . That 's why you get the error you 're getting after deleting the files - because that 's where iMovie is trying to access the video from . Basically , what happens is the video is saved to your camera roll , but project specific info is saved within iMovie . Once you have totally finished a project , you can export/share/save the final version and after that you can delete the video you took from your camera roll ( if you want ) . If you like , you can actually prove this to yourself by doing a simple test : Go to Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud usage In the Storage section , tap on Manage Storage Wait for the list of apps to appear ( this may take a while if you have lots of apps ) . Tap on iMovie ( likely to be in your top 10 ) Take a note of how much space is used up by Documents &amp; Data Now go to your actual iMovie app and take a 30s video Go to your Camera roll and try to email this video to yourself You should get a warning saying that this attachment may be too large to email . This message will give you the size of the video . Take a note of this . Cancel the attempt to email the video . Repeat the first 5 steps . You should note that while your iMovie Documents &amp; Data have grown a little , it will not have grown by anywhere near the size of the actual video itself . The reason this has grown is because it 's storing project info , not because it 's storing the video again . Hopefully this little test will put your mind at ease . Do n't forget to delete your test video .
In the iPhone app , at the bottom of the list of episodes you will always find the link you can tap to " Get More Episodes " . That is a hardwired link to that podcast 's page on iTunes . This link will be shown regardless of whether or not there are more episodes actually available . The podcast pages in the iTunes app and in iTunes on the desktop are the same and contain the same episode list . The episode lists themeselves are not controlled or determined by Apple or iTunes , but by the makers of each podcast . Podcast makers use different feed systems ( like adlib or feeedburner ) and they have different bandwith limitations depending on their own usage terms . Podcasts like This American Life , for example , in order to minimize bandwith costs , will only keep the latest episode on their episode list . So when you tap on " Get More Episodes " you will only get a list of one . Podcasts like This Week In Tech , for example , have bandwith sponsors that allow them to host most of their back catalogue . So when you tap on " Get More Epidodes " , you will get a list of fifty or more . It basically all depends on how each podcast maker handles their feed and bandwith costs . Hope this helps .
Turn off notes sync in Settings - > Mail , Calender , Contacts - > select your account and then turn off notes sync . In Mail if you hit command + comma you can also stop showing notes in the inbox .
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
There are several applications for doing this : <URL> Yamipod is a freeware application that works on Windows , OS X , and Linux . It has a simple interface and looks very easy to use . There is a document on how to transfer songs from your iPod to your computer <URL> It is also an iPod manager and an alternative to using iTunes . <URL> Transferpod is avaiable for both Windows and OS X. However , it is not free . It supports the iPod shuffle , the iPod mini , the iPod nano , the iPod classic , the iPod with video , the iPod touch , and the iPhone . Key features : iPod to computer transfer Manage iPod playlists in an easy way Organize entire iPod music/video for your convenience Browse iPod file information in detail Quick search your music and video file on iPod <URL> iPod2iTunes is for Windows . It also is not free . Features include : Connect multiple iPods . Drag and Drop Songs , Playlists or Video back to iTunes . Move entire genres , albums and artists . Keeps your playlists intact . Enhanced searching and grouping of songs . Find duplicate songs within iTunes and remove them quickly . Optimizes iPod storage space . Supports <URL> Support for the latest 6th generation iPods . ( excluding iPod Touch/iPhone )
Yes , it 's true <URL> . This is a failsafe in case a nefarious app accidentally makes it past the review process . Not sure about Mac App store , I doubt the ability exists there . It 's a different installation/update process . I do n't think it 's been done before , and I would n't worry about it . It 's a good thing . I would want an app that say sniffs my credit card numbers or is actually a trojan horse of some kind to be removed from my iPhone post haste .
Your computer iTunes is waiting for the iPhone to " fix itself " and clean up from the interrupted sync . The mobile iTunes database ( and I 'm sure several others ) will need to be rebuilt to clean up after an interrupted sync . You can see/test this by disconnecting your iOS device in the middle of podcast or music syncing . If you then immediately start up iTunes for iOS - you will get an Updating LIbrary screen while it itdbprepserver does its work . You 'll get a " verifying message " until these post-sync and interrupted-sync cleanup activities finish . Once iTunes on the desktop has " verified " the phone is ready to start another sync , it commences with the normal backup and sync activities . My timing shows the interrupted recovery to take twice the time of a normal sync completion but usually less than a minute either way .
For each Source/Library item ( Music , Movies , Podcasts ) you want to open with a shortcut , create a new Applescript as follows replacing " Podcasts " with " Music " or " Movies " , and save it with to your ~ / Library/iTunes/Scripts folder ( if this doesn ´ t exist , create it ! ) , giving it an unique name ( like " show podcasts " , " show movies " ) . Next , open " System Preferences " > " Keybaord " > " Keyboard Shortcuts " and select " Application Shortcuts " . Click on the little " plus " button to add a new shortcut with : Now pressing " cmd +2 " ( or whichever shortcut you defined ) while being in iTunes will open the Podcast library item .
On iOS 7 Open the Photos App and make sure you are in the " Photos " section from the three icons at the bottom of the screen ; Look at the top of the screen and make sure the view is " Moments ; " Now you can tap individual thumbnails one at a time to select them , or you can tap the word " Select " that appears at the top of each grouping to select an entire grouping . On iOS 6 Go to Settings → General → Usage → Photos &amp; Camera ; Swipe on the " Camera Roll " entry ; A " Delete " button appears . This solution does not work on iOS 7 ( last tested on iOS 7.0.4 ) . It is probably a bug . Any iOS , but using a computer If you have iOS 7 , you can use Image Capture on your Mac to delete photos from the iPhone without importing them : Plug the iPhone to your Mac with the iPhone cable ; Quit iPhoto if it launches automatically ; Launch Image Capture ; Select the photos you want to delete ; Click the red icon to delete the photos . <URL> <URL>
Launch the Terminal mail app with : You 'll see a list of all your messages . From the mail prompt , do And that should be it . Make sure do to the after the command , that saves the changes to disk .
Normally , to shut down an iPod touch : Hold down the Sleep/Wake button on top of the device . ( NOT the Home button on the front . ) Use the <URL> link below to find the manual for your device . Then " slide to power off " when prompted . I suspect you may be holding down the Home button , which invokes the Voice Command . From <URL> : How to restart Press and hold the Sleep/Wake button until the red slider appears . Drag the slider to turn your device completely off . After the device turns off , press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again until you see the Apple logo . You can <URL> for iPod touch .
The iPod nano and classic iPods get loaded a custom firmware that could be downloaded from the internet and possibly loaded with a tool other than iTunes , but on a PC you could easily use whatever disk tool you want to erase the drive by reformatting it . Since this would render the device unbootable , you will not want to sell it to a user that 's not familiar with why it 's not working , so the elegant solution would be to rent another computer with iTunes and restore it . Apple 's retail stores usually will even loan you a cable to restore your device from any of the display Macs . iTunes on a new computer would want to erase all the content anyhow - so going another step to wipe and restore the device will leave a clean slate and you might even be able to sync some demo content to the device depending on how iTunes is set up in the store you visit .
end question
start question
Where is Java installed in OSX Mavericks ?
George Garside 's path is correct . Latest JDK released today from Oracle . I advise downloading directly from <URL> . Use the symlink to create your variable . Add the following to your or profile . Just downloaded the kit and added the above to my . As you can see , variable is now clearly defined : Returns :
According to <URL> , you can either use eject and F12 as mentioned before , or keep your mouse button pressed . If you keep pressed during boot , it should ask you from what disk you want to boot . That might be a better solution . Are you sure this is the issue though ?
It 's not provided by the system ( nor the XCode installation ) . But you can get it with <URL> ( ) <URL> ( )
Every version of Mac OS X has QuickTime . QuickTime Pro is/was an optional paid extra , which included extra codecs and additional functionality . The situation with " classic " Mac OS was rather more complicated , but I 'm guessing you only care about OS X.
The application needs to implement Auto Text Expansion and it has n't been implemented in Chrome yet . You could try this Chrome plugin <URL> . You 'll have to again add the text-expansions though . Mac 's Text expansion should work in Safari though . If not already enabled , you can enable by typing the following in terminal .
You can use the command to get info on the packages installed on your Mac ; should list the installation time for the base system . But it 'll be in the form of seconds since the unix epoch , so you need to use to convert that into a human-readable format . Here 's an example : EDIT : I misunderstood the question a bit -- I did n't realize the OS had been updated since 10.6 . Unfortunately , the receipts system does n't generally records for more than one version of a specific installer package ( as defined by the package ID ) , so if you 've installed more than one version of " com.apple.pkg.BaseSystem " it 'll only have records from one of them . But you can find the oldest package you have records of , and there 's a good chance it 's a holdover from the initial system installation : ( Then use to convert to the timestamp to a readable form , as before . )
Firstly , you should be sure why you would like to do this and what a fresh environment would provide . This is going to be a bit tedious to do since you have multiple sources for the installs . For homebrew , follow the steps in <URL> . For MacPorts , follow the steps from the <URL> page . For PHP and Apache , it may not be simple to revert them to what the OS came with if you installed these outside of solutions like homebrew , MacPorts , MAMP or XAMPP . The non-tedious way , which may take longer to complete , is to Clone your drive ( using a tool like <URL> or <URL> or <URL> ) . Reinstall the OS afresh . Then use Migration Assistant to bring everything over from the clone . You would have to uncheck the " Other files and folders on ... " option in Migration Assistant to prevent it from bringing back the locations that homebrew , MacPorts , etc. , use . This method would also skip many files ( like in / Users/Shared ) that you would have to copy over manually from the backup .
Here 's the official Feedback form for OS X . <URL> The general feedback pages do get to the marketing and engineering people as well as measuring user satisfaction , but you also can sign up for a free developer account and file bugs more directly with the engineering team . It 's best to reserve this for real bugs , but it 's also appropriate to make usability / functional requests there too . <URL> Your issue where you can repeatably break a known function is clearly a bug and might get resolved much faster through the bug channel . You can upload specifics of your hardware and steps to reproduce and honest bugs get resolved quite efficiently through this channel .
George Garside 's path is correct . Latest JDK released today from Oracle . I advise downloading directly from <URL> . Use the symlink to create your variable . Add the following to your or profile . Just downloaded the kit and added the above to my . As you can see , variable is now clearly defined : Returns :
I experience the same . The " Disable Idle Sleep " selection is automatically turned off and the computer goes to sleep after some time .
What I ended up doing is buying a bootable 8gig flash drive of it for $ 20 on Ebay . Just do n't have enough peops locally nor expect to count on getting the value out of the balance on the $ 99 apple dev package - although that 's on my radar now .
The tags name are in . You can read it with It will need some parsing to be a bit clearer : Other possibility is parsing the plist as xml . To do that you 'll need to first convert the plist from binary to xml using .
The databases associated with your mailboxes are probably corrupted and need to be rebuilt . Simply choosing " Rebuild " from the " Mailbox " menu is <URL> , but is unlikely to do the trick . If it does n't , the following steps will fix the problem : Quit Mail . <URL> from the folder by opening the folder in Finder ( ⇧ + ⌘ + G ) and deleting all files whose names that begin with " Envelope Index " . After deleting these files you should " Secure Empty " the Trash to be sure they 're gone . Relaunch Mail and wait . This will take quite some time : many hours if you have a lot of messages . Once Mail is fully launched , search your mailboxes ( ⌥ + ⌘ + F ) for " flagged " messages and wait again . This can also take a surprisingly long time during which it will sometimes appear that nothing is happening , but patience will be rewarded as your flagged messages begin to appear . Depending on how serious and extensive your database corruption is , it 's possible that not all of these steps is needed . You might simply try the last step alone and see if it works . However , the missing flags are likely a sign of a problem that will manifest itself in other ways , so the surest approach is to do all the steps above .
Here is the contents of my / System/Library/LaunchDaemons / com.apple.mDNSResponder.plist from OS X 10.9.1 : It 'd probably be worth running a permissions repair after restoring the file .
From <URL> : Apple supplies their own version of Java . Use the Software Update feature ( available on the Apple menu ) to check that you have the most up-to-date version of Java for your Mac . I seriously recommend not to use any other way , but OS X Software Update .
After some experimenting , I found a <URL> . Create a directory . Create a symlink to from Java 8 . If missing , create an empty directory . You 'll probably need to be to do this , so use using an administrative account ( consult an expert if you are inexperienced , use at your own risk ) : You can ignore errors stating that something already exists .
It has moved to a little different location . To access the same screen , go to : Settings > General > Storage &amp; iCloud Usage > Manage Storage Moreover , iOS9 now has a search function inside " Settings " . A user can search for a term , such as " Usage " in the search bar to access the corresponding settings .
There 's no built in function afaik . However - even if you manage to hide the menu bar via terminal magic ( do n't know if there is ) you will still face the issue that windows ca n't lap over the monitor ( since windows ca n't lap between spaces ) , you can only move the complete window to one space/monitor or the other
It is not possible in Mavericks At least 10.9.3 and down . Recently Apple brought back Sync Services in 10.9.3 however the resetsync.pl script is not in the Sync Services framework folder . Seeing how Apple brought back Sync Services without the script it seems unlikely that the script and reset functionality will return .
The main store of the Photo Stream is on iCloud . Local copies of the latest 1000 photos in your Photo Stream are stored on your iDevices . Photo Stream pictures can also be downloaded into your iPhoto and/or Aperture photo libraries , or onto a designated folder on your Windows PC . Photos are purged from the Photostream cloud store after thirty days , so be certain that photos you want to save are downloaded to your computer , or saved to your iOS device camera roll on a regular basis . ᔥ Apple : <URL> ᔥ Macworld : <URL> Note that you now have the ability to delete individual photos from Photo Stream Macworld 's statement to the contrary was true at the time of publication .
end question
start question
How can I disable the " Welcome , Name ! " banner notification for Game Center ?
That login banner is a provided aspect of the Game Center API in the iOS SDKs , as far as I 'm aware there is no way as a developer to disable it from opening when the Game Center login completes . As a user , there is certainly no way to disable it , because it is part of the application 's compiled source code . However , note that it 's not the banner that is causing the delays and skips . It is actually the entire login process to Game Center . My only advice is when you open a game that has Game Center logins , open it up to the first functional screen , and just wait the ~ 5-10 seconds it takes to reveal the Game Center banner . After the banner has displayed and disappeared , proceed normally and you should not be affected any further .
No , I have suffered some Game Center outages in the past , but could not find a source directly from Apple which stated so , not even the iCloud status page . The <URL> now lists the status for all Apple internet services , including Game Center .
Although I never usually have any luck finding them , I used MacWorld 's guide , " <URL> " , and I was able to find the hidden preference : Type the above into Terminal , replacing with the number of seconds you want the banner to last for , and press return . Then , log out and log back in to reload Notification Center .
<URL> supports the Notification Center and adds clickable notifications that open in the app itself . It does not intercept the standard Twitter notifications Mountain Lion added though , but as you mentioned , you can disable those to only see the Tweetbot ones . You can still tweet from the Notification Center after disabling standard Twitter notifications .
You can send a notification from the command line with this <URL> utility . Getting the notification data off a site can be fairly involved , requires at least some decent scripting and/or web coding knowledge , and is probably a better question to pose on <URL> . The basic outline of such a script would be : Open a site Send login data if necessary Scrape the page for the data you need ( unless you 're lucky and the site has a JSON or XML API , in which case you can parse that ) Send the appropriate data via the terminal-notify utility This sort of thing may be more common in the future though , as Safari 6 and Mountsin Lion add support for <URL> , which will allow a site to display notifications , when Safari has an open tab for that site . Support for this needs to be coded into the site however , so it 's not really an end user solution I 'm afraid .
In iTunes 10.1 , there 's a setting for that : Additionally you can set a parental control that also disables Ping .
You can disable voicemail button ( not remove it ) if you jailbreak and install " voicemailblock " from Cydia it will disable it . Works with SBSetting so you can enable and disable the button when you want .
The short answer is no . The long answer is wipe the device and then start over . If you have a backup , hopefully it 's from before the restrictions were set .
As documented in <URL> : If you cancel before logging in to the network Tapping Cancel on the Log In screen disassociates the device from the captive Wi-Fi network . If you joined the network from the Wi-Fi screen using the ⓘ button , or you joined less than eight minutes ago , you 'll see a message telling you the network is n't connected to the Internet . You can choose one of these options : Use Without Internet : this option will dismiss the Welcome screen , turn off Auto-Login for the network , keep your device associated with the network , and allow you to interact with the network in other ways . Use Other Network : this option will dismiss the Welcome screen , disassociate your device from the network , and return you to the Wi-Fi Settings screen . From there , you can choose a different network . Cancel : this option will return you to the Welcome screen . Therefore you can ( now -- I do n't know in which version of iOS this was introduced ) click cancel and then " Use Without Internet " .
Yes . All times listed on your phone indicate when you received the notification and are relative to the current time on the phone . This includes not only notifications on the lock screen , but also in the Messages.app , for example , and the Mail.app . All time stamps are listed for when the notification was delivered , or when the action occurred on your phone ( you made a phone call , and looked in Phone > History ) .
Go to Finder → Preferences → Tags . You can rename/delete tags by right-clicking and modify the coloured tags with the control at the bottom .
Firstly , in order to integrate into Notification Centre , an app needs to have been purchased from the App Store . Only App Store apps can use it ( same with most iCloud features ) . So your search needs to start there . 2 very popular RSS readers are Reeder and NewsNetWire . Neither have been update to use Notification Centre yet so far as I know , but for sure some of them will be . It 's likely that if you can find an RSS reader that used to use Growl as it 's notification method , then it will be modified in time to use Notification Centre instead , but there are so many RSS readers ( particularly on iOS , perhaps less so on the Mac App Store ) that I ca n't name a particular app right now . I quick search for " rss notification " yields no results , but " rss growl " gives 3 hits ( Note that for those who are not aware , Growl is in effect a third party tool that has done what Notification Centre will do for years already , and loads of apps already support it ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> The fact that these 3 already support some form of notifications may be indicative they they will be amogst the first to support OS X 10.8 Notification Centre . However there is another way : For those apps ( not just RSS ) that use Growl , there is talk that Growl will morph into a sort of bridge between the Notification Centre and non MAS apps , because it is on the MAS itself , and as such can install notifications into the tray , and it can also poll other apps for Growl notifications and simply pass them on without the originating app needing to know about Notification Centre formally . See <URL> blog post for info . It 's not happened yet tho , although there is already an app to bridge between Growl and Notification Centre called HISS ( See here <URL> ) which will punt any grown notification into NC instead , although it 's very much Beta , and frankly will be superceded as soon as Growl get their own act together , but at least it is available now . As such you may be able to roll your own temporary bodge using a combination of an RSS reader as suggested above that supports Growl , installing and using Growl , installing Hiss to pass Growl notifications into the Notification Centre ...
I found this application that claims to do what you asked for . <URL>
You do n't need to add Time Machine to the list . Along with all other OS X system notifications , they are shown in Notification Center without any user intervention required to activate them . Conversely , you ca n't disable them either . This is the same with battery notifications , disk ejection notifications , etc. . If you want to disable Time Machine notifications , set the flags value for in the table in ~ / Library/Application Support/NotificationCenter / < udid > . db to or . If you want to customise it further , change one of the other entries for Notification Center , then read the flags value for that app and save it as the flags value for TMHelperAgent .
Enter Mission Control Hover over the selected space or hold & #x 2325 ; remove by clicking on the x
If I understand your request correctly , <URL> might be right up your alley . It allows you to assign custom abbreviations to text snippets and graphics for insertion anywhere .
Disabling Handoff is currently the only way to disable Universal Clipboard . Mac : Go to System Preferences > General > uncheck Allow Handoff iPhone : Go to Settings > General > Handoff > uncheck Handoff Just so you know , Handoff uses a secure communication channel to transfer information between devices signed into the same Apple ID . Data does not travel to Apple 's servers or even over the internet . Devices advertise availability to each other via Bluetooth and data is transmitted over Wi-Fi , but only on the local network .
No , but you can create an image that has your name and contact info on it , then use that as your lock screen wallpaper . You could also create a note on the device or an " emergency/lost " contact in the address book , but both of those require you to not use a passcode to use the device . A wallpaper with contact info works even if the person who finds your iPod ca n't unlock it .
With Mavericks and later , you can do this using AppleScript 's ' display notification ' : That 's it -- literally that simple ! No 3rd-party libraries or apps required and is completely portable for use on other systems . 10.9 notification on the top , 10.10 DP in the middle , 10.10 on the bottom . AppleScript can be run from the shell using / usr/bin/osascript : You can also customise the alert further by adding ... a subtitle Append ' subtitle ' followed by the string or variable containing the subtitle . The above example produces the following notification : sound Append ' sound name ' followed by the name of a sound that will be played along with the notification . Valid sound names are the names of sounds located in ... Posting notifications can be wrapped as a command-line script . The following code can be run in Terminal and will add a script to / usr/local/bin ( must exist , add to $ PATH ) called . This is the script that the above will add to notify . Now to display a notification :
When this happens , it 's usually because the nickname field is also filled in . The nickname field trumps the phonetic first name field . So if you ever used the Siri command " Call me ... " she would automatically fill in the nickname field , making the phonetic field useless . To fix the problem , either write the phonetic spelling inside the nickname field , or delete the nickname field and write the phonetic spelling in the phonetic first name field . Tip : To hear her pronounce your name , you can ask her , " What is my name ? " The advantage of using the phonetic spelling field is that it expresses the property more accurately . However , I noticed that it has a flaw in that it messes with the sorting in the Contacts app ( especially if you sort by first name and include an accented character to help with the pronunciation ) . Therefore , you might want to use the nickname field instead of phonetic spelling .
end question
start question
How do you get a printer 's IP in lion ?
Use the built-in CUPS web interface to get detailed printer information : <URL>
I do n't think it 's possible to make the clips shorter then 5ms in any video software , because depending on the frame rate a single frame takes more time ( 16,6 ms for 60 fps ) . It does n't make much sense to add a clip to a video , that is so short that it is not seen on screen for at least one frame .
Go to and then turn and then the . That will reset the dock .
BetterTouchTool can surely do this and a lot more ! Enjoy : <URL>
Open the iTunes store , click the triangle at the end of the App Store tab at the top , and choose iPod Click Wheel Games from the very bottom .
Probably not . The system requirements for 10.8 say " MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) " . You 'd also need to install 10.6.8 or 10.7 first in order to install Mountain Lion from App Store . See these Apple KB articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> EveryMac.com has a list of maximum OS X versions supported by different Macs : <URL> <URL>
Search with Google is a service provided by Safari and has nothing to do with Terminal . Google Chrome should provide its own service for this feature . It does n't . Or you can write your own , e.g. using Automator and AppleScript : Open Automator and select to create a new Service . At the top , select text and any application . Then , add a Run Shell Script action from the library to the workflow by drag &amp; drop or double-clicking . Change its input to as arguments , and paste the following script in its main text area : This will open the URL followed by your URL-escaped text selection in your default browser . Save as Search with Google in Default Browser and try again .
The Knowledgebase article <URL> contains some general guidelines and illustrates using System Profiler ( System Information in Lion ) to provide information about the output ( according to specifications ) of a Macs USB ports . If you want to test the real world voltage output of a given USB port on an individual Macintosh at a given load you will have to use a test device . ( <URL> )
This annoyed me too , and it does n't seem the solution is entirely satisfying -- we 'll just have to hope that Twitter for Mac gets updated soon to be better compatible with Lion . If you have " Swipe between pages " set to " Swipe left or right with three fingers " or " Swipe with two or three fingers " , then left/right three-finger swipe gestures will work in Twitter . If you have Mission Control &amp; App Exposé set to " Swipe up/down with three fingers " , then you can hold ⌥ Option to use up/down three-finger swipe gestures with Twitter . ( I 'm not sure why , but if you have these set to 4-finger swipes , it does n't seem 3-finger swipes work at all in Twitter . )
To use a mouse wheel or trackpad to scroll in Terminal.app you 'll need to install <URL> . After installing MouseTerm you 'll need to add to your . vimrc file : If you 're still not able to scroll in elinks it 's possible that it was n't compiled with GPM ( General Purpose Mouse ) support . Since elinks is n't a native application to OS X you probably installed through MacPorts or <URL> . I 'd open the " formula " file for elinks ( by default for Homebrew ) and verify that is n't anywhere to be found . Though your question states you want to do this in Terminal.app I 'd recommend taking a look at <URL> which supports this natively , and has quite a bit more to offer then the stock Terminal app .
Drag anywhere in the circle to move the selection area &amp; use the dot on the right to resize . X on the left to cancel . <URL>
The icon in the menu bar with binoculars inside of a screen is definitely the way to disconnect . Thanks to Chard Marmon for the answer in the comments of my question .
DynDNS does support <URL> ( mDNS ) , which provides the ability to do dynamic DNS and much more . They even have <URL> for setting it up with an Airport Device . It will cost you a $ 30/yr standard account , though .
Yes , it is possible . Numbers can be entered using the keyboard . The correct tones will be produced and transmitted on your Yosemite Mac .
You can do this without having to install any additional apps or software . Just use the command and the free geo ip website <URL> . Execute the following command in Terminal ( I am using Apple 's IP for this example ) : You will get your results in an XML format : You can even issue the same command using the domain name instead of the IP : Other Formats ... freegeoip.net also supports CSV , and JSON CSV : JSON :
The <URL> is a great device for sound input and output via USB .
There is an easier option . Go to the contact that has been merged . Click edit . Click the minus icon next to the Facebook card at the bottom of the contact . The two cards will spring apart and you will have two contacts . Hit save .
The feature description is a bit misleading . It appears that by " close Notes " , Apple means " close the main Notes window " , not " close the Notes app " , which ( not surprisingly ) leaves other windows open . In fact , the context menu refers to the main Notes window as Notes : So what Apple 's description basically means : Even if you close Notes , the note stays open on your desktop . = You do n't need to use the overview window at all times . You can use similar to By the way , is still available in Mountain Lion and has been upgraded to version 9.0 .
Use the built-in CUPS web interface to get detailed printer information : <URL>
Developers registered with Apple 's <URL> can <URL> of Mac OS X for development and testing purposes . The screenshot below shows OS X Mountain Lion is still available to developers .
end question
start question
iTunes : What is the usefulness of checked/unchecked songs ?
It keeps holiday music out of my playlists , off my iPhone , until I want to overdose on them from December 24th through 25th every year . For that alone : I love the check box .
If you want your music to be uploaded to iCloud , you must sign up for iTunes Match . Make sure you 're running the latest version of OS X and iOS . ( El Capitan - iOS 9 are the stable releases right now , although you can get the public beta of macOS Sierra and iOS 10 ) . Then make sure the Apple ID you 've entered in the Music App on iOS is the exact one on the Mac 's iTunes . If it did n't work , make sure both devices have been connected to the internet since setting the Apple ID . By the way , " Songs of Innocence " is an album by Irish rock band U2 , which was a ' gift ' from Apple to you . If you want it removed , see <URL> Of course , connecting your iOS device to your Mac can help you sync them . <URL> webpage has got a table which lets you know how to do deal with some of these similar problems .
In the behavior I have seen in the 5 + years of podcast listening . iTunes marks it as played based on a percentage listened . My guess is that would be about 98-99 % listened . A 5 minute show would basically be the end . An hour and a half show would be just the last few seconds .
You can option-click the shuffle button at the top of an album to queue it in a random order . Oddly , if I do that for the artist it only adds the first song in the list . Weird . And you ca n't intermingle different albums like this , you have to do that manually in the Up Next panel . Correction : if you go to Artists view , select All Artists and then option-click the shuffle button next to one of the artist names , it will queue all the songs by that artist in a random order . If you select an individual artist and do it , it will only queue the first song .
From my experience , 3.1.3 is indeed the best version for iPhone 3G , if you do n't want any new or updated app . I 've installed 4.2 on an iPhone 3G and it does become slower , though not so bad . If you put <URL> , you 'll see the 3 outperforming the 4 for most tasks ( other than some native multi-tasking maybe ) . Other than the slightly faster performance , the best iOS for any iDevice is the latest one , like wjlafrance said . Unless it is jailbroken , I ca n't tell what could possibly make iOS 3 slow . On iOS 4 it is only multitasking that can harm the performance AFAIK . Same issue with jailbreaking - gets slow if you install too much stuff running on the background . And an old device will suffer aging impact only on the battery . Hopefully a fresh restore would solve the " sluggish " but I 'm afraid it might not . Anyway you can easily * downgrade without jailbreaking . On 3G , you just * need the <URL> , <URL> and option + click on Restore from iTunes . * It is that simple , but there is more to it and it can become complicated . If you need more details , try <URL> or this another <URL> .
According the <URL> for iTunes Radio : There may be some DJ-curated stations that you may not be able to modify . You ca n't like or play more tracks like this while listening to some DJ-curated stations . You can however , start new stations based on the current track or artist of a featured station or add tracks to your iTunes Wishlist from the Star ( ✭ ) menu .
OS updates will now happen over the air . The only reasons would be to sync a new iPhoto event/album or to sync content that you added manually ( ripped CD ) . But outside of that , iOS does n't require syncing .
OS X ships with and you will want to to get vi-style commands . A very popular choice is and the many customization packages like <URL> . Neither she 'll is fully in either style by default . For emacs style , it 's similar - see <URL> : You switch between the two modes in bash , zsh or ksh with set - o vi or set - o emacs , and with bindkey - e or bindkey - v in tcsh or zsh .
According to <URL> , the Power Mac G4 ( Mirrored Drive Doors 2003 ) is the newest and most powerful computer that can run Mac OS 9 . 1.25 GHz PowerPC G4 ( 7455/7455B ) ; can hold up to 2 GB memory ( although OS 9 might not recognize all 2 GB ) .
You can find this out yourself . Open System Preferences - > Language and Text - > Input Sources . Check the boxes for the keyboards you want . Then , check the Show Input menu in menu bar box . Click the new menu bar item , select the keyboard layout you want to see , go back to the menu bar item , and click Show Keyboard Viewer . This will work from any computer , and you can see any layout . The first picture was snapped while a full sized keyboard was connected , the second shows the option key held down - and is what you will see if you have a smaller bluetooth or built in keyboard connected .
The shift modifier has been around for most animated sequences since at least Panther ( 10.3 ) . I do n't know that there was ever an official reason given but it 's widely assumed that it was built in at the request of Steve Jobs in order for him to highlight Expose ' as he announced it to the world at the 2003 World Wide Developers Conference . You can see this announcement here , with the slow motion effect being used for the first time around the 2:00 min mark . <URL> Given the crowd 's reaction I think it 's clear why Apple did n't remove it from the final version . It 's always been one of those little easter eggs that Mac users use to impress their PC using friends . So there you go , no practical purpose , just a bit of fun for Apple . You can also use shift to slow down most functions that have an animation . Minimizing windows , opening Mission Control , etc. .
Let 's start with the obvious . A song is considered played once the reproduction ends . It does not matter if you 've listened to all of it or just skipped to the last second of the song , once the song automatically changes to the next one ( or ends the reproduction list ) , the play count is incremented . Now , the less obvious : If a song is skipped in it 's first 10 seconds , the skip count is incremented . If the song is skipped when the are 10 seconds remaining for the song to end , the play count is incremented . If you skip the song in between , nor the skip nor the play count is incremented . The skip can triggered by either using the left arrow key , pressing the fast forward key or just selecting a different song a hitting enter .
Silverlight - 5.0.61118.0 MacBookPro9 ,2 50 - 10.7.5 ( 11G63 ) 5 - 10.8.2 ( 12A269 ) Silverlight Prefs come up just fine . Installed programs : Chrome 24 Safari 6 Firefox 18 All updates iLife iWork Office 2008 Adobe CS3 VLC Smart Notebook
The domain names are from to . These domains are for downloading from the App Store or the iTunes Store .
To change stores you can do so on the iTunes Store : Click on your Account in the iTunes Store to go to your Account Page . Click " Change Country or Region " . Choose your Country or Region : Another alternative is to use Apple 's <URL> and change your address - next time you use iTunes it will ask you to change your region and verify your address details .
Fn is simply a modifier to allow the same key to be used for two purposes . It started on laptop keyboards , where space was at a premium , and has since migrated to Apple 's regular keyboards . As far as Fn-Delete : if you are referring to the Delete key in the same column as Return , Mac has used Delete as the name of that key for a while ( could n't nail down a date , but it seems like it started shifting sometime in 2010 ) . Windows has used Backspace instead ( a holdover from typewriters , where it literally moved the carriage " back a space " , to allow for overtyping ) . Regardless of what it was called , it has always deleted the character or space to the immediate left of the cursor . Delete seems more accurate , since you are not actually just moving the cursor , but removing the character too . The key that is generally further to the right on the keyboard , labelled Del or Delete on most Windows keyboards , deletes the character to the immediate right of the cursor . This key is also present on full-size Apple keyboards . On laptop keyboards , where space is , again , at a premium , the key does not exist , so the modified key combination of Fn-Delete was implemented to allow this functionality to still exist absent a dedicated key . Command is generally used for command execution . Command-Q executes the Quit command for the foreground program , for example . The majority of keyboard shortcuts use Command as a starting point , sometimes adding Option and/or Control as modifiers . Control in recent times is generally only used as a modifier to allow additional keyboard shortcuts to exist . It still , however , acts as a right click when using Control-left click , from when Mac did not have mice with more than one button . Option is generally also used as a modifier . In some applications , it changes what menu items are present . In Chrome 's File menu , it changes " Print ... " to " Print Using System Dialog " and " Close Window " to " Close All Windows " . This extends to its use as a way to type characters not found on the user 's physical keyboard , such as cents ( using Option-4 ) . <URL> outline their philosophy on the creation of keyboard shortcuts : As much as possible , use the Command key as the main modifier key in a keyboard shortcut . Avoid creating a shortcut by adding a modifier key to an existing shortcut , unless the shortcuts are related . Use the Option key sparingly . As much as possible , avoid using the Control key .
You 're looking for any 2.5 " SATA drive . I 'm not sure if the MacBooks came with SATA 3 ( 6 Gb/s ) or SATA 2 ( 3 Gb/s ) , so you should match whichever the installed drive is . ( There 's no harm in putting a SATA 3 drive in a machine that only supports SATA 2 , you just wo n't get the speed and you 'll pay more . ) You should be careful of 12.5 mm height drives - they wo n't fit in some Macs . Anything smaller should be fine . Some references : <URL> -- look in Chapter 3 for specifics on hard drive replacement <URL> -- has better pictures than Apple 's manual ( I think this is the right one )
It turns out higher impedance headphones will produce very low sound on MacBooks . For this reason headphones with an ohms rating above 80 may not be suitable , and would require a headphone amplifier to function properly . Something like the <URL> could get the job done at the expense of some portability , although it would allow such headphones to be used with most portable devices too like iPods , iPhones , and iPads .
iTunes Essentials . Full list here : <URL> Most popular lists are shown on the main page , and you can browse them all alphabetically .
Pros : All works . Easy to use . Easy to Configure . Does Backups of your data . Allows iTS purchases . Handles everything for you . And every other iTunes feature that you might consider important ( AirTunes for example ) . Cons : iTunes might be a " heavy " application for some machines with limited RAM . Even if all you want is a music player , iTunes is all or nothing .
end question
start question
How do I check where the file in . Trash was removed from ?
Based on the <URL> , the information about original location is stored within DS_Store file . In older version of OS X it was just a plain text and now binary format and it 's undocumented by Apple , however there is a tool created by <URL> which can reads it . Written in perl project provides routines for reading and writing the files generated by the OS X. Using would attempt to dump a store file 's records in a more human-readable format . Example usage : See : <URL> and <URL>
One commercial app which provides the effective permissions for a user and a selected file or folder is <URL> : In the example below the effective permissions of the file / private/var/log / clamav.log for the user Spotlight are shown . The user Spotlight can neither read nor write data . <URL> Triggering the tab Show or Set Permissions the POSIX permissions/ownership are shown explicitly . <URL>
This should work with iOS 7 and above . Go to the Settings app and tap the Cellular icon at the bottom of the screen . Anything beyond that , you will have to check your phone bill . <URL>
You can find the location to your home directory by looking in the " Users &amp; Groups " System Preference pane . Open " System Preferences " application Click " Users &amp; Groups " Click the padlock to unlock it , if it is not already unlocked . Enter user name and password for an Admin user . Right click on the User name you want to find the home directory for , select " Advanced Options ... " Observe the path as noted next to " Home directory : " Now , once you see where OS X thinks your home folder is located then you can work on un hiding it if it is not showing up where it is suppose to be . Make sure its name does not start with " . " , Additionally you can use the command to make it visible if it appears to be hidden for no apparent reason .
If you do n't want to use , you can edit your crontab as you would do on any unix systems : crontab - e Or , you can use a GUI software like <URL> .
It enables what basically is just normalization . It scans the library for track volume information , and updates the normalization metadata if necessary . It also honors it , of course .
Sorry for the self-answer , but I found a way to do it quickly using just the iPhone and no third-party software . In iOS 4.3 , do the following : Open Camera.app Click the photo thumbnail to view the photo library Click Camera Roll to view all photos There 's a capsule button at the top that says ' All | Photos | Videos ' . Select videos Press the Export icon - you can now tap on videos to select them before hitting Delete . Not sure why this functionality is not available from Photos.app , but there you go . Thanks for all the other answers .
It 's stored in an <URL> on the file . Specifically the attribute . It may stay with the file when you move it to different computers , but it depends on the filesystem or file sharing protocol you use . If you move it to another Mac on an HFS + disk , it will likely keep it , but not necessarily if you transfer over the network , and most likely not with an external disk with a non-HFS + filesystem . You can check a file by running in the Terminal , or remove it with . flag is also useful ; it will list the names of xattrs along with the usual ls information . If you want to remove it from multiple files , have a look at this question : <URL>
I think you can just right-click the file and select " Put Back "
If you quit the application and re-start it , that seems to resolve any devices that connect and get missed when you plug them in after the application has launched and enumerated the connected USB devices . Even if you have iTunes and Xcode and other apps running , I 've not seen Image Capture fail to recognize connected devices if you restart the program and I have certainly seen it miss device connects on occasion when other apps are running and want to talk with an iOS device .
Select Finder and click View → Show Sidebar or press ⌘ cmd + ⌥ alt/option + S . A tip when it comes to menus : if you go to the Help menu and search for what you want . It will highlight the result in the menu if you hover over it .
Some step by step instructions can be found <URL> . After opening Disk Utility : Click the New Image icon Place the contents of folder/directory into the newly created disk image .
You only need the first part of this code to do what you ask , but the rest may also be helpful .
The file could simply still be open by something . Use to see which process is hogging it , if any . Otherwise should get rid of it If that did n't work , try removing all the flags it 's complaining about first :
I seems that I use filters in GMail to skip inbox , and the sound is actually come from Mail.app . As a result , no new mail arrives to the Inbox of Mail.app , but to the Archive of the Mail.app . In the preference of Mail.app , one option is to choose " Inbox Only " for " New message notifications " . But it seems that this option will not mute the new messages sound when new message arrive to other mailbox , only skip the notification alert that shows up in the upper right corner of the screen .
From this <URL> : What happens if I do not renew my iOS Developer Program membership ? Once your membership expires , your apps will no longer be available on the App Store and you will lose the ability to submit new apps . You will lose access to pre-release software , the Apple Developer Forums , Developer Technical Support , and the Certificate Utility . In addition , your existing iOS Distribution certificates will be revoked and invalidated . Finally , if you enrolled in the program as a company , you will lose the ability to manage your development team . You will , however , retain your status as a Registered Apple Developer and will have access to free development resources . In order to conserve your app on the AppStore , you must renew your iOS Developer Program . Hope this helps !
You might be able to use ioreg to determine the cycle count of the battery . A low cycle count indicates that the battery has not been discharged and charged very much . " Cycle Count " shows how many times the battery has been cycled . You can read more about battery cycle counts <URL> . Another idea is to use pmset to log the state of the system 's power . You could , in theory , have that dump to a file to investigate after some time has passed . Take a look at the <URL> . will log the state of system 's power . As the device is unplugged or plugged you 'll see the log update . This could show how frequently a notebook is unplugged and charged . If it remains plugged in for long spans of time , or is often drawing from ' AC Power ' then you 'd know if it 's mobile or not .
This works for both iTunes Apps and the App Store on the Mac . Log into your account via the App Store account link . Look for iTunes in the Cloud Click the View Hidden Purchases link . Select Unhide next to the App you want back in the list . Items are n't deleted from the list , just merely hidden .
A . dmg file is kind of like an USB stick in a file and can be handled more or less the same way . To install from a . dmg file you usually do the following : double click the . dmg to make its content available ( name will show up in the Finder sidebar ) , usually a window opens showing the content as well drag the application from the . dmg window into / Applications to install ( may need an administrator password ) wait for the copy process to finish eject the . dmg ( by clicking the eject button in the Sidebar ) delete the . dmg from Downloads
Grab it in the list &amp; drag it out to the desktop - like you would with an app in the dock , etc. . You should see the little puff of smoke &amp; it 's gone .
end question
start question
How to change the document language in Keynote and make the red lines disappear ?
Turns out I figured it out not long after typing this question ! I just thought I 'd experiment a little and found out how to do it . You change the language in Edit > Spelling > Spelling ... and then reopen the document . That did it for me . I 'm guessing it is a bug : I do n't think having to close and open a document for language error display settings to make effect it 's very intuitive , but I 'm glad it can be done ! I 'm posting this anyways to share the knowledge and in the hopes it will be useful to somebody else , struggling with those dotted red lines !
iTunes starts playing what is currently selected . For me for instance the playlist selected was " Most recently added " , so when I hit the play button on the keyboard , the first song from this list starts to play . The only way I know of to solve your problem is to enable random play in iTunes . This is easily done by clicking the snaked arrow button next to the cover image in the top view . If it 's highlighted blue , random play is on . Quitting iTunes and hitting the play button again will play a random song from the library . Drawback : Whenever you changed that ( because you do n't want to have random play but want to listen to an album ) you have to remind yourself to enable it again before closing it . AFAIK there 's no preference setting for that .
Based on your updated question , the answer is no ; there 's not a standard , built-into iOS way to go to the end of a file . Individual apps are able to create custom gestures or menu commands to perform that function , so it might exist in specific apps but there 's no standard way that works with every app .
If you change the extension to then drag it over , it 'll ask you to optimize for iOS , at which point it will treat the GIF as a movie .
After taking it up with Apple Support , here is the answer : The first user ( AppleID ) which activates a new iPhone gets those apps free . If the iPhone is reset to defaults and another user ( AppleID ) is used , which is what I did , then that user does not get them for free . So the free option is a one time thing .
iOS does have an Armenian font and can therefore display Unicode Armenian in emails , webpages , and text . For input there are at least two apps that let you construct custom keyboards , and one of them , UniKey , comes with Armenian already : <URL> Beyond that or jailbreaking , I think all you can do is ask Apple to add it via their feedback channel . PS To see Armenian display on your iOS device you can go to <URL>
I just solved it ! SOLUTION : 1 . Activate the OS X Root User in the System Preferences . How to activate the root user : <URL> 2 . After the root user is activated , log out from your account and log in as the user " root " . Go to System Preferences - > Displays - > Color and pick the color profile ( that you want on your OS X Login Screen ) . Log out of the Root Account and you 'll see the selected color profile will be used on the Login Screen . 3 . Log back in to your normal account . Now you can deactivate the root user via System Preferences , the same way it was activated . The color profile selected via root user earlier will stay . Result : The color does n't change anymore between Login Screen and account and I do n't have a yellow/dark login screen anymore , finally ! Could Apple make that easier ? YES ! But that 's a pretty fast way to do it , without any " hacking " tricks .
In Lion and Snow Leopard , you can create a network from the AirPort menu and choose whatever SSID you please . The same dialog should be available from the network preference pane in System Preferences if you prefer that avenue .
As suggested on <URL> , you can use the following applescript : To add it to the contextual menu , do as usual : Create a new automator service with this script . Do n't forget to select Service receives selected file and folders in the app you want ( At least Finder but it can be from any app ) .
Go to <URL> and set the preferred language for your account . iCloud calendar invitations will use that language .
You could either edit property lists that store the setting and reopen the DictationIM process : Or use UI scripting : Both scripts are copied from my answer to <URL> .
I actually asked a <URL> ( but more broad so this is n't a duplicate ) . I got this as an answer ( it works , I tested it ) : Write the below line in terminal : defaults write com.apple.Safari com.apple.Safari.ContentPageGroupIdentifier.WebKit2BackspaceKeyNavigationEnabled - bool YES Then restart Safari . Hope this helps !
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts and there will be various shortuc setups for almost anything . If you see something that is not listed , Make a service in Automator and add it as shortcut : Here you see the service in Automator . It ai n't always have to be an AppleScript . You can chose other services from the Menu on the left . And here is a screenshot of enabling the service and assigning a shortcut by double clicking the shortucts on right , and pressing a combination of keys . <URL> is a full tutorial on services and automation as a little bonus to the question .
As they removed the option to load a picture from disk in the Contacts.app , you can instead drag it from iPhoto or your harddrive into the contact you edit .
If you want to change the appearance of all the slides : While creating a new document , choose any template . From the menubar , select View > Show Master Slides . Select the layout you want to edit from the navigator pane on the left . On the Toolbar , click on Inspector ( " i " icon ) . Choose the second tab icon ( slide icon ) in the Inspector window . Click on Appearance . Here you can specify any background for the slide . It can be an image , a colour , a gradient or a tint . If you just want to change the appearance of the current slide , follow steps 4 to 6 . To change the style of text for all the slides : Follow steps 1 to 4 . Choose the capital " T " icon in the Inspector window . Select the text whose colour , font , etc. you want to change . In the inspector window , there are various properties like text colour , character spacing , etc. which you can change . You can change the font from the toolbar . To change the style of text for the current slide , just follow the steps without opening the master slide .
Right-click or Control + click on the Documents folder in the Finder , and click ' Make Alias ' . You probably want to move the alias somewhere else and rename it " Documents " . Then , drag the Documents alias into the Dock . Voíla , a link to the Documents folder instead of a Documents folder stack .
There is a alternative way to do that . Go to System/Library/Sounds and create a sound file with the same name as Basso.aiff and it will supersede Basso without the need for deleting a system sound file .
Mac OS has always had a <URL> . Applications like TextEdit can have multiple main windows open without requiring multiple instances . The open command does n't usually open documents over the current document . The close button might also quit the application after closing the last window like on Windows . But what if you want to create a new document ? Many applications create an untitled document on startup . Should closing it quit the application ? There 's no real harm in keeping applications running in the background . They do n't usually use CPU , and you should have enough free or inactive memory anyway . Quitting and opening applications all the time would take more time . OS X has also supported <URL> since 10.7 . Automatic termination eliminates the need for users to quit an app . Instead , the system manages app termination transparently behind the scenes , terminating apps that are not in use to reclaim needed resources such as memory . [ ... ] Automatic termination transfers the job of managing processes from the user to the system , which is better equipped to handle the job . Users do not need to manage processes manually anyway . All they really need is to run apps and have those apps available when they need them . Automatic termination makes that possible while ensuring that system performance is not adversely affected . Apps must opt in to both automatic termination and sudden termination and implement appropriate support for them . The close button does actually quit some applications with a single main window , like Dictionary , System Preferences , and Calculator . Opening them again does n't take that long and quitting them frees users from having to do it manually .
No . These apps would then also accessible from the lock screen which would open a whole can of worms about security . Even the standard Apple apps do have problems with that sometimes , it would be even worse with 3rd party apps .
Select the picture , then in the Arrange tab uncheck Constrain Proportions [ you may have to revert to original size before that will un-grey . Then dragging the image by any edge will stretch . If you need to crop , that 's in Image - Edit Mask [ though crop does n't constrain anyway ]
end question
start question
Mountain Lion : How do I see the description of a software update after I 've installed it ?
If you go to the Purchases tab in App Store and click on a software title , the description of the app is presented in all its full glory , with screen shots , customer ratings &amp; everything else .
It can be found in an easy to read format using the system information app : System Information.app > Software > Installations System information can be found in or via Spotlight .
A simple click should do it . I find that it takes a second sometimes to reconnect so I usually click and move the mouse side to side until I see the mouse cursor move . Here is the official document from Apple : If you turn your mouse or trackpad off or turn off the Bluetooth option in your computer , the connection between the computer and the mouse or trackpad will be lost . When you turn on the mouse or trackpad and Bluetooth , you can re-establish this connection by simply clicking the mouse button or trackpad surface . <URL>
Apple documents the difference between an update and an upgrade as follows : <URL> Updates within each named OS include security , performance and sometimes new features . They are focused on the first two . Upgrade is from Lion to Mountain Lion or Mavericks to Yosemite . These are primarily about large feature introductions and major changes . Sometimes a big change will arrive as an update , but in general you have to purchase ( even if it 's a free redemption ) upgrades whereas updates can be automated with the software update app and or the software update portion of the Mac App Store . Historically , the two were separate , but it 's a bit more confusing now since everything the normal end user sees is in the App Store app . You can see what updates are pending by running the command in terminal and it will only list system updates .
If you copy the CD to a disk image on the PC , you can put the image on a USB stick and transfer it to your Air . I am not sure how to do this on Window , but I 'm sure you can find out how to do this somewhere . <URL> looks like it should do what you want . Also look at <URL>
OS X Mountain Lion should still be listed in list of purchased applications in the OS X App Store application . You can download it from there .
First , I put both the new and old drive into a PC of mine , and loaded up an Ubuntu LiveCD . At this point , my old drive is showing up as / dev/sde and new drive is / dev/sdf ( WARNING : be sure to update the below commands with your device assignments or you can easily ERASE all your data ) . does n't work on the drive because it is a GPT partition table ( ? ) , and so I use instead . I forgot to mention in my question , the drives are of different sizes ( 500gb was old , 128gb is new ) , so I could n't just clone the entire drive . Instead , I recreated the partitions with and copied the MBR over . I most likely went about creating the MBR ( master boot record ) on the new drive completely wrong , but this way worked for me : ( the reason was the first 39 sectors were not part of a partition ) Next , I opened with which there was a problem : the MBR I copied over brought the old drive 's partition table &amp; its sector information ( i.e. new drive thought it was 500gb ) . So I used the " repair " option in as it recommended , deleted partitions # 2 &amp; # 3 , and saved the table . At this point , if I went back into , the disk showed a MBR , and no longer had errors . Next , I created the other two partitions , being extra careful to setup the sector size exactly as the old disk had ( for the # 1 EFI partition and the # 3 Recovery HD partition that is ) . For # 2 , I just did the math , and created the disk accordingly ) . Finally , I used to copy partition # 1 ( " EFI System Partition " ) and # 3 ( " Recovery HD " ) over from the old drive : When I put the new drive in my MBP , I held Command + R to get into the Mac OS X Utilities , at which point I erased my main partition ( at first , the disk was n't listed when I went to install Lion -- probably since I just created the partition and did n't format it ) . I formatted it to the recommended file system ( Journaled -- I forget how they phrased it ) . OS X Lion is currently installing , and seems to be okay . I 'll post back if I get any oddness . Note : mentioned in its help section that it is probably best to use a Mac disk utility if the GPT drive is being use on a mac , so take my solution with a grain of salt . ( I think fdisk says the same warning about NTFS and FAT , but I 've never had a problem with using fdisk/linux to create/format/etc on that end ) .
This question was answered by updating to iOS 7.1 . I 've since turned all the features of the phone back on ( e.g. , background app refresh , notifications , use my location , all the processes that I tuned off trying to troubleshoot ) and my phone just lasted three days with normal use .
When you update your OS - ( if it contains a Mail.app update ) it will replace the previous version of the app with the new one and by doing this it will also replace the icon file . Anyway something that you can try after you 've replaced the icon again : 1 . Open Terminal and enter this command - 2 . Enter your password and press Enter 3 . WITHOUT switching to other windows press CMD + TAB and select Finder 4 . Press CMD + N this will open a new Finder Window with root privileges ( BE EXTREMELY CAREFUL WHAT YOU DO ) 5 . Press CMD + G and enter 6 . Find the ( it should be the new one you chose ) file - Right Click it and select 7 . Check the attribute . 8 . Go back to the terminal window and press CONTROL + C this will close the Finder Window . This should prevent it from being overwritten Command line alternative :
The feature description is a bit misleading . It appears that by " close Notes " , Apple means " close the main Notes window " , not " close the Notes app " , which ( not surprisingly ) leaves other windows open . In fact , the context menu refers to the main Notes window as Notes : So what Apple 's description basically means : Even if you close Notes , the note stays open on your desktop . = You do n't need to use the overview window at all times . You can use similar to By the way , is still available in Mountain Lion and has been upgraded to version 9.0 .
Ok ... i did some digging around ... and struck gold . The digging part is not for the " faint of heart " since the Terminal is your best friend and some coding knowledge is involved . Suffice to say my trip in Wiki Server 4 land led me through Ruby on Rails code . I was surprised to find that i 'm able to read ruby code , and i do n't know Ruby at all . After looking through Model Views and Controllers i figured out the solution was simpler than i anticipated . To modify the title on the first page you need to edit a . strings file . You need to use the download version ( not the mac app store app ) of TextWrangler or some other editor that allows Authenticated Saves ( save files as other users ) . Make sure the Wiki service is off ... the slider in the server app is off . The location of the file depends on your language locale that you use : / Applications/Server . app/Contents/ServerRoot / usr/share/collabd / coreclient/locales/en . lproj where " en " can be either de , es , fr , it , ja , ko , nl , zh_CN , zh_TW depending on your wiki language . First ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " to " Read and Write " . Open the file in TextWrangler and find the key general.os _ x_server and under it you can modify the string " OS X Server " to anything you want " My own company Wiki " . Save ( ) the file . Second ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " back to just " Read " . Move ( ) the slider in the Server App to On again for the wiki . Enjoy !!!
Launch Terminal , found in / Applications/Utilities / and enter the following command : Set the number at the end to the number in days between checking for available software updates , the example uses 3 days
From <URL> : Apple supplies their own version of Java . Use the Software Update feature ( available on the Apple menu ) to check that you have the most up-to-date version of Java for your Mac . I seriously recommend not to use any other way , but OS X Software Update .
The list of blocked sites is in the BannedURLStrings array in ~ / Library/Safari/TopSites . plist
Software Update checks and updates both your running Lion and your recovery partition , so that in the event of a significant security issue booting to the recovery partition wo n't instantly open you up to attack . ( Compare booting unpatched Windows XP from DVD or a vendor recovery partition for recovery purposes ; it has severe security issues fixed by service packs . I 'm not picking on Windows here ; XP 's quite old at this point , and was the biggest target out there for years , and security is a rapidly moving target . ) Given the recent growth in Mac malware , this is a good thing .
You can get the home timeline from the Twitter API and display tweets using <URL> . would stack multiple notifications and not clip the text in long tweets . The Twitter library can be installed with . You can run the script every minute by editing the crontab with and adding a line like . A recent update to <URL> added an option to send notifications for all tweets :
Buy an <URL> from OWC or another vendor . Buy and put your SSD in the enclosure . Connect SSD/enclosure to your computer . Format the SSD with Apple 's Disk Utility . Use <URL> to copy your entire internal HD onto the SSD . Set startup to the SSD and boot from it to make sure it boots . Remove SSD from enclosure and install in MacBook Pro . Put MacBook Pro 's internal hard disk in now empty enclosure and use it as a backup . You also can use Disk Utility to image the drive if you do n't want to use a third party product like <URL> or <URL> . Some people also prefer a simple USB to SATA connector and you can usually get them for less than $ 5 from Amazon if you do n't need or want a drive enclosure for your old drive . However , the use of your old hard disk in an enclosure and a backup tool like SuperDuper ! or CCC gives you both an external drive and the beginning of a solid backup solution as well .
This annoyed me too , and it does n't seem the solution is entirely satisfying -- we 'll just have to hope that Twitter for Mac gets updated soon to be better compatible with Lion . If you have " Swipe between pages " set to " Swipe left or right with three fingers " or " Swipe with two or three fingers " , then left/right three-finger swipe gestures will work in Twitter . If you have Mission Control &amp; App Exposé set to " Swipe up/down with three fingers " , then you can hold ⌥ Option to use up/down three-finger swipe gestures with Twitter . ( I 'm not sure why , but if you have these set to 4-finger swipes , it does n't seem 3-finger swipes work at all in Twitter . )
I am still looking for a solid answer . In the meantime , I have the following script running in AppleScript Editor . This script looks for the every 15 seconds and kills the process . This renders calendar syncing unusable , but at least I can use my Mac again . I will let this run until I find a permanent solution . The script is :
Since OS X has no package manager , anything you install would have been manual , through MacPorts or through Installer . If you want a list of the binaries your terminal has access to , you can run the following commands to check the most common spots , and output the result as a text file : Alternatively , if you just want to get the packages installed by MacPorts , run the following ( this is probably the one you want ) : And for <URL> : And finally , for all packages installed by Installer To restore , for example , your MacPorts ports from the list generated above , use the following :
end question
start question
How Do I Change The Desktop Order in Mission Control ?
Per my answer on a related question ( <URL> ) , there are only two order states with Mission Control . Order generated as Desktop/Full Screen spaces are created , or the default ; " Automatically rearranged based on recent use " which I admit that I have no entirely narrowed down exactly when it changes them . As of this writing , in OS X Lion 10.7.1 , there is no way to explicitly order spaces except to remove and re-add them in an order you would prefer , after unchecking the checkbox listed in the screenshot above .
On a clean install , the core Mac OS X apps are originally ordered alphabetically . Newly installed apps will be appended at the back on an empty spot starting with page 2 ( they will never be appended on page 1 , even if there is room available , but you can ofcourse drag them there ) . Apps can then be arranged manually , and they should remain in the order you sort them . However , I have noticed quite some buggy behaviors , mainly apps changing position after a reboot , and MAS updates pushing apps of the page . I hope these will get ironed out in a coming update .
I ended up with this problem , too , after upgrading from Snow Leopard to Lion . I really needed my F8 key working as a standard function key for my job . I also really did n't want to delete my entire symbolichotkeys plist , though , so I did some digging . If anyone else is having this issue still , you can edit your com.apple.symbolichotkeys.plist ( located in Library/Preferences ) with a basic text editor . Once you 're in there just do a search for the number 75 . Keys 75 and 76 ( 76 is the slow animation for when you hold down shift ) are the ones for F8 activating mission control . You can just delete those two entries and your F8 key will become just another normal F-Key again . F9 will still work for mission control and you wo n't lose any other hotkey settings either . As usual , always make a backup of these files when you 're messing with them . Good luck to anyone else with the issue , and thanks to those here who 'd already provided some input and answers .
You can do this from the dock . Switch to the space you want to pin your app to , then access the options menu from its dock icon :
Select Finder and click View → Show Sidebar or press ⌘ cmd + ⌥ alt/option + S . A tip when it comes to menus : if you go to the Help menu and search for what you want . It will highlight the result in the menu if you hover over it .
Sorry , Apple does n't allow people to change the mouse cursor anymore .
Yes , Google Chrome has a sandboxed built-in version of Flash . Download Chrome . Navigate to : Macintosh HD > Users > Guests Right Click and select " New Folder " and change its name to Applications Open the Google Chrome disk image and drag Chrome.app to this folder Google Chrome and its Flash player will only be accessible to the Guest user .
<URL> is a Preferences Panel which allows you to edit the default application used for various URL schemes , file extensions , file types and MIME types .
To follow up Martin 's answer , for British English you will need to edit the list and check the " British English " tick box . I spent while looking for " English ( British ) " , but it 's the former format that appears .
Unfortunately , neither <URL> nor the popular <URL> alternative currently support it , <URL> . I have n't tested it , but the $ 20 <URL> claims to support it .
If you go into Preferences , Accounts , select your account , then select the " Mailbox Behaviors " tab , there 's an option to disable saving drafts on the server . I know you said you did n't want to disable saving of drafts , but this option will still save the draft on your computer , yet it wo n't mess up Mobile Me .
You can directly copy to/from the desktop to/from fullscreen mode using drag-and-drop . You need to go via the desktop " preview " window of mission control ( at the top ) : Here 's a <URL> demonstration .
The <URL> extension allows you to set any search engine you want . It achieves it by listening to the event , canceling the default behaviour and checking your settings for your chosen search engine . Then it puts your query into the specified search engine and displays the results . You could , too , edit the file , redirecting form any of the default search engines to the one you want , but that wont be so neat .
To reassign the key globally , go to System Preferences " Mission Control and under Application Windows , where it currently says ^ ↓ , assign another key ( I used F10 , à la exposé ) .
You can use an Automator Workflow . Something like this : Sort Finder Items step will sort image names descending ( IMG_0003.jpg , IMG_002.jpg , IMG_001 . jpg ) . Make Sequential step will rename them sequentially ( IMG_0001.jpg , IMG_0002.jpg , ... ) . Copy Finder Items step is optional , just to be sure not to mess with original files .
The simplest solution would be to add the address to which you want alarms sent to your Address Book entry . Beyond that , I do n't have an elegant workaround , but you could , for example , run a script that could contain a variable to send alerts to multiple recipients . I sympathize in that it 's annoying that your Address Book entry is forced to contain a mix of public and private information used for various , and differing , purposes . This is one of Apple 's many decisions that ( I assume ) works for the majority of the user population , but bites the outliers in various ways .
From the <URL> , here is a picture that shows you where the IR port is located .
Yeah you sure can ! Find the picture in the Photos app , press the menu button in the bottom left corner and press Use as Wallpaper .
You can use VNC to remotely control your Mac . There 's instructions around here to turn on the built-in OS X VNC server ( it 's pretty straightforward ) , and a <URL> ( I linked to a Google search because I do n't know a particular good viewer for Windows because I do n't use VNC on Windows ) .
This icon is shown on files that have been downloaded from the Internet and not used yet . The first time you open the application , you will see a dialog warning you that you downloaded the application from the Internet and asking if you are sure you want to run it . Say yes and run the app , and the icon should soon be changed back to what it should be ( you may need to log out and back in ) . To answer your question in general : To change an app 's icon , you first need to copy the new icon you want to use to the clipboard . Open the image file you want in Preview ( found in your Applications folder ) , select all ( & #x 2318 ; + A ) , and copy ( & #x 2318 ; + C ) . Find the app whose icon you want to change . Select it in Finder and choose ( & #x 2318 ; + I ) . Select the small preview icon in the top left of the Get Info window , and paste ( & #x 2318 ; + V ) .
end question
start question
Is there a scale indicator bar for the Maps app on iPad ?
There is no scale bar in Maps for iPad . I think it is not official ( yet ) because even on Android it can only be enabled from the " Labs " settings . So , it is not part of the official Google Maps images .
I found two workarounds for this , but both are a pain . The first is to replace the scaled up image after the scale action completes . This works pretty well , but during the scale process you can see the loss of quality until the regular image replaces it . The second is more complicated , but produces better results : Start with small scaled version of the image ( image A ) where you want it . Apply any Build In animations on it . Have a full size image ( image B ) with the opacity set to 0 % . Have a Scale Action on the image B setting it to the size of Image A. Add a Opacity Action on image B to 100 % . Use a Disappear Build Out on image A . Then use the Scale Up Action on Image B to the new size you want it to be . This produces perfect results , but as you can see is very complicated . I created <URL> to show the steps and the results . <URL>
Here are the steps I took to Find and Replace a word with a word ( s ) in Pages app for iPad : Tap in the toolbar and tap Find in the popover . When the search field appears at the bottom of the screen , type in the word ( s ) you 're searching for . The results are immediately highlighted in the document . Use the forward and back arrows to move through the document to see the results in context . To replace the found term , tap ( gear ) to the left of the search field . In the popover , you can refine your search by searching for matching cases or whole words only . Or , simply tap Find and Replace and a second text field appears to the right of the search field . Type in the replacement word and tap Replace . Pages for iPad finds the first instance of the word and replaces it . Tap the forward and back arrows to find each instance and manually replace it by tapping the Replace button . To automatically find and replace all instances of the word , tap and hold the Replace button until Replace All appears in the popover . Tap it and all the found words are automatically replaced . For a graphical representation of the steps mentioned above , check out this article which I found useful : <URL> Source : my.safaribooksonline.com
Google Chrome comes with its own instance of Flash that runs only when it needs it and only within the scope of Chrome . I have uninstalled Flash from all my Macs and simply turn to Chrome when I really need Flash for something .
It does n't rely on the same system , but the <URL> can provides you anonymity while connected to the internet . It fully works under Snow Leopard without Rosetta . WARNING : With this kind of softwares , the final node of the system ( last Tor node or the VPN company ) can , technically ( understand " if it wants " ) , see all your data going through it ! The system grants anonymity not secure connection ! The connection is secured between you and the last node at the minimum , the rest depends on you . So , always use secure connections ( SSH , SSL/TLS , ... ) when using these systems . By the way , the same principle apply with your ISP , you just have to choose someone to trust !
No ; iOS does not provide any options or control for wallpaper positioning - you set the file and it does what it does .
No , I 'll link to some of the questions that cover this . The App Store version is sold and licensed differently than the version licensed online . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Nomenclature The terms 2G , 3G and 4G do not refer to a specific wireless standard , but a a whole bunch of different standards : There has been controversy on what standards should be referred to as 4G . When Apple introduced the iPhone 4S , they followed other companies in referring to HSDPA as a 4G standard . HSPA + is the successor to HSDPA . DC-HSPA + Technically , HSDPA and HSPA + are 3G wireless standards . However , HSPA + has received technological upgrades which increased the theoretical throughput to become similar to that of LTE . If 4G were to indicate speed rather than a wireless standard , it 's legitimate to refer to the upgraded HSPA + as 4G . However , this improved HSPA + should be referred to as DC-HSPA + , not merely HSPA + .
In OSX 10.9 and above this is all in Activity Monitor app under the Energy tab . It shows your battery life over the last 12 hours , and while it was plugged in is highlighted in green . It also shows you what apps are sucking on your battery and how much they are draining at the moment , and on average .
Siri dictation is never going to be 100 % accurate and the easiest way to get the result you want may be to edit the text by hand after you 've dictated the body of the message . Jim Rhoades provides a useful list of <URL> .
No . In short . The longer answer : All apps in iOS are sandboxed , meaning they effectively have no permission to do anything other than that which they were written for , other than through specific exceptions through API calls to other parts of the OS etc as allowed . For example my Twitter app is allowed to access my contacts to use and set contact details as is deems fit . Many apps ( in my case Instagram , Tweetbot and Youtube ) are allowed to send tweets through the Twitter App , but in all these cases ( or any case where one app access some data or functionality provided by a second app ) this is not a system wide availability . Using said APIs an app can make portions of itself available to other apps , but unlike Quicksilver/Alfred/Launchbar on the Mac , this must explicitely be defined by the target app . So taking for example the " Due " app for iOS which is a reminders app , it has an API that will allow other apps to create reminders in it , but that is all that other apps are allowed to do , and in order to do so they must be aware of the Due API . As such the " Agenda " iOS calendar app has integrated the " Due " API , and is able to set a reminder in Due for an event created in Agenda . But it can not search for existing reminders in Due , or just start Due ( or close it ) etc. . So in order for an app like QS to exist on IOS , it would need to incorportate the API of every other app that it might want to connect to , and be limited by the fact that a ) not every app ( in fact I 'd say very very few ) actually has an API , and b ) even where they do , they are often tied down to very specific functionality . A bit rambly , but I hope this answers your question . Just got an upvote on this , and re-read , and there is more the the answer than when I first made it . There are a few apps these days that are trying to get closer to what the OP wanted , by effectively collecting and allowing the use of as many of these 3rd party APIs as possible in one place . One such ass is <URL> which collates APIs for nearly 50 apps , allowing you to do all sorts of actions from a single place - it 's no quicksilver replacement , but it is an effective way to get at particular app functions directly rather than having to open the app and navigate to the function manually . - 1 example , is using clipboard contents for all sorts of things - tweet using clipboard contents , new task from clipboard contents etc etc. . Very useful .
To date , I have found only one PDF reader that has Dropbox connectivity and has autoscroll ( after a fashion . ) It is PDF Reader Pro <URL> It is a universal app that works on both iPad and iPhone and ties to Box.net , Dropbox , Googledocs , and iDisk . It has an " Autoflow " feature that allows timed jumps ( from 5 to 100 seconds ) of a preset number of pixels ( 20 to 400 . ) I bought it at the low price of $ 0.99 and it performs , pretty much , as expected . It has some basic annotation capabilities and " scans " documents using the camera in the iPad 2 . I have an original so I could n't test that feature . I have n't used it a lot as I like the annotative capabilities of iAnnotate , but the app is a good fall back if I need the autoflow feature . For $ 0.99 it looks to be a solid reader that fits the requirements you laid out .
Fraser Spiers recently did <URL> and <URL> on this question on his blog . In short , to paraphrase : you do n't " leave apps open " . By pressing the Home button , you signal them to enter the Background state , from where , depending on how they 're written , they are either immediately moved to the Suspended ( not-running ) state , or are Suspended after completing a certain amount of background processing ( such as completing a download ) . As Fraser explains , there is no need to manage the number of apps in the ' multitasking tray ' except in the case where a specific app stops working and needs to be forcibly restarted . Indeed , that tray is merely a " recently running " list ; there 's no way to know at a glance which of those apps have been Suspended and which have not .
Try <URL> . The last time I tried it , it was pretty quick ( quicker than OpenOffice ) and according to the website , can open files .
My understanding is that there currently is not one , although <URL> that one is coming up soon . The best place for " official " information is the <URL> . More direct/recent updates can be found by following various team members on Twitter . <URL> is a good example . If other legitimate groups released anything solid , you will hear about it through them anyway ( as is the case here : Chronic Dev Team seem reliable too ) . There are already fake sites springing up in anticipation of the next release ; the important thing is not to use anything that has n't been confirmed by them or that you have to pay for . Additionally , if you have saved your SHSH blobs using Cydia on an already-jailbroken phone or <URL> , you can downgrade and jailbreak the old version . Normally this means you can upgrade using PwnageTool without losing your jailbreak , although I do n't think the Dev-Team has released something compatible with 4.1 yet . UPDATE There is now a full jailbreak for 4.1 and later on 3GS . BigBoss maintains a <URL> which may be useful for updates at-a-glance . My understanding is that all current devices are now able to be jailbroken forever ( greenpois0n/limera1n exploit ) , but iPhone 4 and later model 3GS are sometimes tethered on iOS new releases ( as of this edit : not tethered on 4.1 , but currently - hopefully not for long - tethered on 4.2 )
Is there somewhere that gives more than just a cursory explanation of how to use it ? Probably not - Apple 's not big on providing manuals when they do n't think they 're necessary . For example , when does it chose to download podcasts ? Probably hourly . There 's no option to change this that I can find . Can you force it to update the podcasts without going one by one and clicking on the download link ? It downloads new episodes for subscribed podcasts automatically . Will it download over cellular ? Yep , it does . It also streams over cellular , and well enough that I did n't notice that that was what it was doing at first . ( I 'm on Verizon 3G . ) Can it download the podcasts but play through the normal music app ? Nope . It 's totally separate . ( There 's rumor/suspicion that the Music app wo n't even have a Podcasts section in iOS 6 . )
The keyboard command for sleeping all displays is Control ^ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏ . This shortcut does n't put the computer to sleep , but only shuts off the display .
As you state , VLC has been pulled from the app store because of incompatibility issues between its GNU license and the AppStore DRM . If you have already bought it ( even at 0 cost ) you can still use it under the same account used to buy it . Because of DRM , apps can not be shared between users , so you can not use an . ipa from other user , just your own . If its your case , VLC is available as a Cydia download for jailbroken devices . Otherwise there are good alternatives for a few bucks . You might wan na check out these : GoodPlayer ( $ 2.99 ) CineXPlayer ( $ 3.99 ) I 've used GoodPlayer and it works as expected , allowing you to play almost anything without reencoding .
In a word , No . Apple did n't want to hand over the responsibility of application and memory management to the user , and personally I 'm glad that they made that decision . The purpose of the multitasking bar is to allow users to switch between apps and to quit apps in order to open them afresh ( in case of crashes or weird behaviour ) . iOS does n't actually allow 3rd party apps to continually run in the background . There are several methods that Apple have provided to developers which allow a sort of pseudo background tasking functionality . Long and short is , iOS is pretty damn good at managing memory usage and will kill applications in situations where RAM is running extremely low to prevent a total OS crash . My advice is , let the OS handle it .
The closest thing I know of is <URL> . HackPorts was developed as a penetration testing framework with accompanying tools and exploits that run natively on Mac platforms . HackPorts is a ' super-project ' that leverages existing code porting efforts , security professionals can now use hundreds of penetration tools on Mac systems without the need for Virtual Machines .
end question
start question
Can a Mac Mini use a MacBook Air CD SuperDrive ?
Only if it does n't have a built in optical drive . I think the limitation is built into the drive not the OS and as far as my searches have discovered can only be subverted by hardware hacks of the drive . It 's a bummer as it is is a neat little drive and Apple built-in slot loading drives are not that reliable ( 4 out of 5 of mine have failed over nearly a decade . ) On the other hand there are a lot of cheap and ugly 3rd party alternatives which work fine .
You should use iTunes to burn the MP3 CDs . If I remember correctly , MP3 CDs are very slightly more complicated than just a folder on MP3s on a CD . iTunes does an excellent job . I 've also had luck with LiquidCD .
Provided it connects fine you should be ok . It uses a standard power plug with this design . <URL> Otherwise any sort of Apple Service Provider or <URL>
Unfortunately the solution is not a great one . I had a similar problem on my MacBook a while ago , and the problem is actually due to file fragmentation , however no defrag tool could actually solve the problem . There are various solutions on Google indicating that a defrag does work , but I had no success with any of them . The problem is related to how the files are spread on the drive , and BootCamp requires a continues 10GB or more of free space on the drive to be able to create the required partition . The only way I got around the problem eventually was to format and reinstall the drive . My honest advice is to look at using something like <URL> which is free , and create a virtual image for Windows . Depending on what you need to do , you can get away with a relatively small image . Windows 7 can run quite happily with only a 1GB of RAM if you do n't need Aero . You can also look at paid for options like <URL> or <URL> Alternatively , you could look at installing Windows on a secondary drive via USB . The speed wo n't be great , but if again , depending on what you need it for , it might be a sufficient solution .
I believe I am correct in saying ( without a Mini to cross check against ) that they both ( along with all the Mac lineup ) use the integrated Intel HD audio chip , and as such there should be no real difference between the 2 . I would say that you limiting factor would be that the Mini does not have an integrated microphone , whereas the Air does , so you will need to bring your own mic . Also , neither have separate mic input/audio output ports , and require you to use something like an iPhone headset ( modified 3.5 mm audio connector with both channels on the same connector ) , which may not provide the quality ( or comfort ) you need . So , on the Mini , you will need to buy a headset in order to get mic input , and if you already have one you may need to replace it with a USB one or iPhone one . On the Air you 're good to go unless you are already a regular headset user , in which case you may beed to replace if it uses 2 discrete connectors for headphone/mic .
You can daisy chain up to 6 Thunderbolt devices from a single port , so you can connect the display via an adapter to that without any problems .
Yes , I just got a new Mid-2012 MacBook Pro 13 " and did this very thing over USB 3.0 . I know of no reason why it would not work on a MacBook Air . When booting from an external spinning hard drive over USB 3.0 on my new MacBook Pro , the external hard drive sends data back and forth to the Mac about as fast as it would if it were installed internally . I have not specifically measured drive speeds in this scenario ; I 'm just saying that it performs quite well . As far as I know , all Macs with USB have been capable of booting from an external drive connected via USB -- all the way back to the first iMac circa 1998 , which only made use of USB 1.0 . Booting from an external USB 2.0 drive , whether a flash/thumb drive or a spinning hard drive , is , however , quite slow . When you boot your Mac , immediately after the startup chime , hold down the Option key . Your Mac will show you a row of icons of each volume or partition currently connected to the Mac ( internally or externally ) that holds a Mac OS X installation that you can successfully boot from . Use the arrow keys to select which one you want to boot from , and hit the Return key to boot from that volume .
It 's a good idea to keep the machine shaded , if only because it 's very hard to read any screen in bright sunlight . Also , on my deck in Carmel Valley California I 've had a thermometer placed in direct sunlight read well over 100 deg F ( 37 + deg C ) when the air temp has been around 80 deg F ( 26 deg C ) . Your Mac exposed in direct sunlight could well burst through Apple 's upper limit even when the ambient temperature is below .
No , not directly . The Mac Pro uses full-sized desktop DIMM modules , whereas the Macbook pro uses laptop-sized SO-DIMM modules . These can not be directly swapped without a passive adapter , which I honestly would n't think makes much sense to bother with given how <URL> .
The two model numbers do n't seem to refer to the exact same configuration . Model MD232LL/A appears to reference to the base model ( as noted in Apple 's <URL> ) . The KB also notes : If you have a custom configuration the Model Number and Configuration in the table may not match . Please use the Model Identifier to confirm the model of MacBook Air for custom configurations . One example from <URL> - the specs include : 1.8 GHz Intel Core i5 Processor 256 GB Flash Storage 4 GB DDR3 RAM In the page from <URL> , the specs for model Z0ND0002Z include : Core i7 2 GHz 8 GB RAM 512 GB HDD It 's probably that the Z0ND0002Z model is used by retailers that provide more customization , since Apple uses the MD232LL/A model in its online KB . The excerpt from the KB also supports this conclusion .
Both <URL> and <URL> allow your Mac to act as an Airplay receiver for audio or video . I 'm not aware of an app that specializes in audio only Airplay , but either of those should do what you need .
You can disable the Bluetooth Setup Wizard by : Go to System Preferences Click Bluetooth Click Advanced Un-check ' Open Bluetooth Setup Assistant at start up when no input device is present ' . The screen should look like this ( the checkbox above the highlighted section ) : More information in this Apple KB - <URL> Also , if you are not using Bluetooth at all , you can disable it as well .
Depending on how your Mac Mini is connected to the internet ( wifi , ethernet , firewall , age of the machine , NAT , ... ) it should be possible to do it using <URL> . You could , for example , use a GUI software like <URL> .
You should be able to do this via Ethernet or wireless , depending on whether you want to buy a wireless dongle for your TV or whether you have the Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air . If you have the <URL> , you should be able to follow the instructions found <URL> : Set up the Sharing - The first step is to set up sharing on the host Mac . Head to Set up the client - make sure your TV uses DHCP General instructions from <URL> : To set up Internet sharing : Choose Apple menu > System Preferences and click Sharing . Select Internet Sharing . Choose the Internet connection you want to share from the " Share your connection from " pop-up menu . For example , if you 're connected to the Internet over Ethernet , choose Ethernet . Select how you want to share your Internet connection in the " To computers using " list . For example , if you want to share your Internet connection over AirPort , select AirPort . If you share your Internet connection using AirPort , click AirPort Options and give your network a name and password . Either approach should work - it 's most likely a matter of the hardware that you have ( or are willing to acquire ) . Getting the USB Ethernet adapter for your MacBook Air is likely to be cheaper ( and of more use long-term ) than a dongle for the TV .
You might take a look at VirtualBox which includes a GNU GPL version as well . It offers limited/experimental capabilities to run virtualized OS X VMs , but I think Apple generally forbids virtualizing OS X via their licensing/usage terms .
it generally depends on being constantly connected ( be it ethernet , wifi or some sort of 3g dongle ) or not . ultramobile and having the data everywhere where you have an internet connection : I personally have tried to host my 80gb itunes collection on a jungledisk ( powered by amazon s3 ) and I can only say it 's cumbersome . e.g. : you download new podcasts and end up re-uploading them to your s3 storage . ultramobile and all your data at home on your network ( e.g. time capsule or some sort of network attached storage ) : also did this for a while , no hickups , works great via 802.11 g although I 'd recommend 802.11 n if you 're likely to watch HD videos straight from your NAS/Time capsule . ultramobile and all your data always with you : that 's the approach I 'm currently using , I have a 500g usb2 drive I carry in my notebook bag containing my itunes library and assorted other data ( iphoto library and what not ) that does n't fit on the internal drive . It 's my favorite solution as I have my data on me even if there is no internet connection available . cheers florian
I have that exact disk ( WD7500BPVT ) in my late 2010 ( bought it in September ) 13 " Macbook Pro , and it fits fine . No EFI problems when installing , just replaced the disk , formatted it and installed OS X. Excessive head parking I experienced the excessive head parking problem with this disk . I resolved it by using the <URL> utility to set the disk 's power saving settings to the least aggressive setting , which stopped the heads from parking , and it works just fine . I had the same issue ( with a different disk ) in Linux on my previous laptop ; I did an equivalent fix , and it has worked fine for well over 3 years -- so I 'm not worried about the disk , but had I known this before buying it I might have chosen a different disk . When I was googling around for a solution to this problem , I got the impressions that lots of disks behave this way , so I guess it 's not just the WD Scorpio Blue . This is a very common issue with certain disks on Linux as well . Advanced Format on OS X WD says <URL> about their Advanced Format disks on OS X : Mac OSX version 10.4 onwards ( Tiger , Leopard and Snow Leopard ) can use the GUID Partitioning Table scheme ( GPT ) which will align an Advanced Format drive correctly . Mac OS versions using Apple Partition Manager ( APM ) will not align partitions correctly and will not provide optimum performance . Basically ; use GPT , and you 're good .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
I 've had the best results restoring from Time Machine to a freshly formatted drive . I did this for a machine with lots of system modifications , ( httpd.conf , ssh_config ) and all of these files were restored . When I did that with an OS in place these files were missed . There were no problems when I restored to a clean drive . Everything was restored properly . So , if you buy a Mac Mini , format the drive before running the Time Machine restore . I recommend sending machines to Apple as stock as possible . I 've put in known bad hard drives with the Apple Logo on them when sending a machine back to Apple . The hard drive was replaced and the primary problem was fixed . The drive swap would be fine , but unless you are in a big hurry I 'd discourage it .
end question
start question
What are the best disk cloning tools ?
<URL> should do the job . CCC ( Carbon Copy Cloner ) creates a bootable backup , and preserves all your files , and in the right hierarchy . You can also have incremental backups ( it only backs up items that have changed since the last backup ) . You can schedule CCC to backup regularly . CCC also has the ability to backup over a network . I also like the Growl notifications . <URL> is another handy little application . We used to use it for backing up before Time Machine came out . It has the ability to do incremental backups , so you wo n't be backing up the whole hard drive ; just the data that 's changed . Unlike CCC , it costs $ 27.95 . Another option would be <URL> or <URL> . Both will have the option to make a perfect backup , invisible files included . Rsync can also backup incrementally , which means it will only backup what has changed . With rsync and cp , you can also schedule it to backup with <URL> or <URL> .
For starters , encrypting your Home folder using FileVault ( in the Security Preferences pane ) is always a good idea . You might notice a bit of a performance hit ( some people say they do , others do n't notice a difference ) , but the tradeoff of additional security can give you some extra peace of mind . As far as an iPhone-esque " wipe memory after [ x ] failed login attempts " function , the OS does n't have anything like that built in , so you 'd need to search out a 3rd party solution . I do n't have any recommendations offhand for that , but likely someone else here could point you in the right direction .
Most people use QWERTY , just because it is the most popular , but if you 're learning a new layout anyway you might want to try Dvorak . If you do n't want to learn another alphabetic layout , you can use a tool like <URL> to make a better programming layout for the special characters while still keeping AZERTY for the rest of the keys .
I 've used both , bought Versions in the end . They were both about equal in my use cases . What really helped was adding <URL> to my tool box and using it for diffs instead of the XCode diff engine or the simple diff engine in Versions .
Hard linked files share the same inode ( which kind of identifies the file in the filesystem ) . So what you can do is to get the path of two photos which should be the same ( " Reveal in Finder " in the old application , probably something similar in the new ) , open Terminal and run to see whether the number is really the same .
I have used 2 for iPhone , and have eventually gone back to the Mobile View as it was considerably better than either : <URL> : Free . Worked OK , but you ca n't actually log in , you can merely track yourself as a user without being able to actually do anything <URL> : $ .99 . Looked great , but soon worked out that by Stack Exchange it actually meant just SO , and not the SE network - wasted dollar . As for iPad , there are only 2 available that work on iPad : <URL> <URL> And they both suck ( imho ) . For a start , FullStack only supports the Trilogy sites and Ask Ubuntu , so not the whole network . And while " Answers for " covers all sites , it shares a further letdown with Fullstack in that neither of them allow you to actually log in and do anything other than browse . This ( as per the comments ) may be because the API calls do not allow posting , but there is no reason why an App developer can not use the APIs where they are available , and also put in a normal HTML webview of the actual site to finish of the missing parts - using the API does not limit you to only using the API if you are writing an app . The mobile web view is far superior in every respect unless you are looking for non interactive bedtime reading . One noted problem with the mobile view is that Chat does not seem to recognise the fact that you are logged in , meaning that while transcripts are available , you can not enter a room and participate . In addition to the above , <URL> yeilds the following results , which are either deprecated , or were never fully released and may be interesting to read up on. : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you are wanting a native iOS app for reasons such as getting push notifications , you can easily bodge up a system for allowing push notifications for your inbox to be sent to you iOS device . You will need the following : An account with <URL> An account with <URL> Your Boxcar account linked into IFTTT A task within IFTTT that says IF RSS - New feed item from apple.stackexchange.com/feeds/user/9495/responses ( change to your own user ID ) THEN Boxcar - Send a message to my inbox The Boxcar app downloaded and installed on your iOS device . Then , whenever you get a notification ( an answer to your question , a comment on your answer , a shout in Chat etc ) in your SE global inbox , it will send you a message into Boxcar , that may look something approaching the following : You can customise the wording in the notification , but I have stuck to the defaults in this example . Note , that the IFTTT feed checks currently run every 15 minutes .
I use the Wikipanion free version on my iPad and there 's a Wikipanion Plus available that supports offline viewing . I 'm happy with Wikipanion on my iPad and iPhone . Hope that helps !
I ended up being patient and did not make any purchases until recently when Age of Mythology : Extended Edition was released on <URL> . It includes the Titans expansion and is likely to have more content added like what was done for Age of Empires II on Steam . I do have to boot into Windows to play but it runs really well ( graphics look awesome ) through Steam .
The weight of data ( in gigs ) does n't really matter with iPhoto . That 's just file storage . If you have a large HD with plenty of free space ( 30 % + and never less than 10 % ) , it really does n't matter . iPhoto used to be rated for 250,000 items in the library , but in the most recent update it has the same format as Aperture , and that is effectively unlimited . As to how well iPhoto scales : pretty well . I have a 40k plus library that opens in a couple of seconds . I 've worked on Libraries in excess of 100k items and while longer to launch ( one was almost a minute ) it worked fine once open . You can easily have multiple libraries : Hold down Option while launching iPhoto , and from the resulting menu select Create Library . Bear in mind that only one can be opened / searched / accessed at a time . Again , unless you 're getting very large indeed , I would avoid them . Upgrading to Aperture is simple . Install it . Open the Library . Done .
The command only looks in the standard executable paths . Try instead . Here 's an example from my machine . I used " git " because I do n't have " bower " installed . returned the path of the system-installed version of " git " . returned the path of the version that actually runs when I type " git " at the command line .
I found the direct download links for . ipsw files from <URL> . The links below are for build 11A465 of iOS 7.0 : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Should you be a reviewer or get lucky with an early delivery , the 5c and 5s firmware update - build 11A470a of iOS 7.0.1 are below courtesy of an <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Also , I 'd kindly remind people to not be greedy - downloading all the builds means someone else looking for one build might be prevented from getting a download .
All current iPods support the same : Frequency response : 20Hz to 20,000 Hz Audio formats supported : AAC ( 8 to 320 Kbps ) , Protected AAC ( from iTunes Store ) , HE-AAC , MP3 ( 8 to 320 Kbps ) , MP3 VBR , Audible ( formats 2 , 3 , 4 , Audible Enhanced Audio , AAX , and AAX + ) , Apple Lossless , AIFF , and WAV This is from the Apple <URL> . So , since they all support the same bitrates and formats , the quality does not change between models . Get whichever you want . The real sound quality difference will come from your speakers or headphones . Note : If you want the best sound , use the Apple Lossless format .
You can use a provisioning profile as long as he gets a new provisioning profile before the current one expires . Apple also has a business store ( basically a corporate App Store ) but I think that is way over the top for what you are trying to do . The most legitimate/safe option is to deploy a provisioning file and update it each year ...
<URL> ( <URL> ) Free Allows you to make completely free phone calls using your Google Voice account . There are ads , but hey , it 's free ! I 've had no trouble with it at all and I highly recommend it .
There are a variety of iOS icon templates available for free on the web -- the best I 've seen so far is from <URL> -- that will offer up this information ( and possibly even obviate the need to know entirely ) . There is even a ( very ) short discussion about the corner radii . A quick search for will return a lot of similar results .
Fink is a binary distribution using tools that originated from Debian ( e.g. , apt-get , etc. ) Macports is built around the philosophy used by the FreeBSD ports collection . In this you download tarballs directly from the upstream source , apply patches and compile . It 's entirely automated . I have n't used Fink in quite a while ( since Panther ) because it did n't seem very well done to me .
DOE is a method to wipe disks , developed by Department of Energy as part in their manual to ensure the confidentiality of Department of Energy information . From <URL> : When Disk Utility uses the DOE-compliant 3-pass secure erase , it will write two passes of random data and then a single pass of a known data pattern . This will take anywhere from a day to a week or more , depending on the size of the drive . You can run this stress test in the background while you use your Mac for other activities .
I find the best way to install Node.js is to use <URL> , which allows you to install and manage multiple versions of Node . I use Homebrew for pretty much everything else , but Node is easier to use through nvm , since it does n't use global folders - everything is in your home directory , and you can easily switch between Node versions . To install ( check the website for the latest version ) : There are some specific notes about OS X on the web site , please make sure to read through those , e.g. regarding the use of the file . After that , the function will allow you to specify which version of node to install and use . In the simplest case , you run which will install the stable version of Node.js .
<URL> should do the job . CCC ( Carbon Copy Cloner ) creates a bootable backup , and preserves all your files , and in the right hierarchy . You can also have incremental backups ( it only backs up items that have changed since the last backup ) . You can schedule CCC to backup regularly . CCC also has the ability to backup over a network . I also like the Growl notifications . <URL> is another handy little application . We used to use it for backing up before Time Machine came out . It has the ability to do incremental backups , so you wo n't be backing up the whole hard drive ; just the data that 's changed . Unlike CCC , it costs $ 27.95 . Another option would be <URL> or <URL> . Both will have the option to make a perfect backup , invisible files included . Rsync can also backup incrementally , which means it will only backup what has changed . With rsync and cp , you can also schedule it to backup with <URL> or <URL> .
Here is what I do , where I share one appleid for purchases among 3 family members . Number one , only use the appleid for purchases just for purchases . then , each member should have a separate iCloud account with a unique appleid for mail , contacts , iCal , etc syncing . Then , on all devices set the appleid for the store to the purchase id and on the individual devices set the iCloud id to the appleid for each individual separately . Works great for me .
end question
start question
Can I play DVDs from a DVD player on an Apple Cinema Display 23-Inch ( Aluminum ) ?
AFAIK these display are not HDCP compliant therefore you 'll have some troubles watching movies that have these protections .
One of my favorite tools for doing this is <URL> which is " donationware . " You can adjust each monitor separately , and set keyboard shortcuts for them as well . If you want a command line solution , I found <URL> which compiled cleanly using : ( You 'll need Xcode to be installed to compile it . If you want a precompiled version , mine is available here <URL> ) It will let you set the brightness for either monitor . UPDATE : Note that this answer is several years old . The link above is now 404 but there is a newer tool available at http://github.com/nriley/brightness or ` brew install screenbrightness `
I 'm afraid there is n't a solution currently available for this . I 've been using Nike + alongside Spotify for over a year now by starting my Spotify playlist then starting a run in Nike + and selecting " no music " . I used to use iTunes playlists which worked with the power song feature and while that was kinda cool it 's really not something I miss . You might email them through their support page ( could n't find a feedback form ) and mention it as a feature for future revisions . <URL>
The Thunderbolt monitor includes a number of integrated peripherals as well as being a monitor : Three powered USB 2.0 ports FireWire 800 port Gigabit Ethernet port Thunderbolt port The actual connector for MiniDisplayPort and Thunderbolt is the same , but Thunderbolt can pass many protocols over the same cable , not just A/V signals .
It is possible to set a conversation in Messages to " Do Not Disturb " . This will cause notifications to stop and will put a small moon icon next to the conversation . Works great !
<URL> will let you add custom URLs ( including ShoutCast server URLs ) to your bookmarks list and stream from them . It will also keep your playlists in sync across multiple devices , record streams for , find local streams using your current location and more . You but it <URL> . And when you 're at your Mac , you can use their browser-based desktop app to keep listening and access your bookmarks . To add a ShoutCast server as a custom URL use : Where : is the IP or host name of the machine hosting the ShoutCast server is the port where ShoutCast is broadcasting on the server is the name of the stream from ShoutCast is the number of the stream Once you add the custom stream to your bookmarks it should be available from any TuneIn Radio application or their web app .
The health data is not deleted beyond one year , but Health.app does n't show graphs beyond one year . You can view the raw data by selecting the metric and choosing Show All Data .
No - the cable routing for the pro comes to the left side and the MacBook on the right . Check fixit.com for the details - it matters if you have a 2009/2010/2011 MacBook pro - each part is slightly different .
You could get something like <URL> , which has passthrough for any standard 3.5 mm audio , and provides volume controls and a clicker remote ( just like on Apple 's headphones ) . The clicker can to play , pause , and skip ( double click for forward , triple click for backward ) . There are other similar products out there , I found a few by searching for " iPhone inline remote " .
Not today . This is similar to how iBooks also can not ( currently ) be viewed on a Mac . ( and I do n't have any clue if this will ever happen , it just seems like something that could happen )
Try <URL> . It is free and should handle most kinds of video formats . The method for recognising AVCHD format is with regard to Apple Video applications , and not QuickTime . Those applications have the reader for that format . But you 're only interested in viewing them so I suggested VideoLan . Also there is a QuickTime plugin which recognises many formats , but I have never tried it with AVCHD or MTS formats . It is called <URL> . Please note that it is no longer supported in the form of updates but it is still offered on the official site .
I searched everywhere for a clean solution . Many solutions that worked for Lion and below no longer worked for Mountain Lion . However , this works and it took me hours to find . Enjoy ! <URL> From the website : In a search for a non-hacky way to disable direct mappings to iTunes for the play/pause/next / previous buttons in the keyboard in OSX , I stumbled across the " Remote control daemon " ( rcd ) . As it turns out , disabling the iTunes launch behavior for these keys is as easy as unloading rcd with the following command :
Google Chrome comes with its own instance of Flash that runs only when it needs it and only within the scope of Chrome . I have uninstalled Flash from all my Macs and simply turn to Chrome when I really need Flash for something .
Use a Smart Playlist . These are playlists that are dynamic and can be built off filters on track metadata . To create a new Smart Playlist select ( or Opt-Cmd-N ) and then set the following options to build a Smart Playlist that always contains all the tracks that are from 1969 in your library : If you wanted to limit it to a specific genre from 1696 press the + button to add another filter criteria and pick a genre like so : You can filter in all kinds of ways -- Smart Playlists are incredibly powerful .
This is exactly what <URL> allows you to do -- stream music stored on my Mac using your iDevice . The short steps for setting this up are : Enable home sharing in iTunes on your Mac : Start iTunes Go to Preferences - > Sharing and make certain ' Share my library on my local network ' is checked . LEAVE ITUNES RUNNING ! Now connect to your shared library from your iDevice : Go to the Settings app and click on the Music settings Scroll down to the bottom of the Music settings page and you 'll see the ' Home Sharing ' setting Enter your iTunes account ID and password to enable your iDevice to see your shared library Use the Music app on your iDevice to access your shared library Open the Music app Your shared iTunes library should now be available as a source of audio in the app This works for video , audio and podcasts as well . If your Mac puts itself to sleep you might need to wake it back up for the shared library to show up in your iDevice before you can stream audio or video from it .
Yes , doing a restore , similar to how one does this on an iOS device , will reset it to the factory default settings and install . You do this by going to Settings - > General - > Reset , and selecting restore . If that doesnt work , you can also plug it into a computer with Micro USB , and use iTunes to restore . More information is available in this <URL> .
In OS X 10.9 , you can simply do . This will immediately turn off your display without changing any of your settings or putting the entire host to sleep . Escalated privileges do n't seem to be required ( at least with recent versions of OS X ) , but if you get a message about inadequate privileges , you could do . Based on feedback from commenters , this is not available in OS X 10.8 or earlier .
It 's not using VLC ( although it uses some of its components and should be able to open anything VLC can open ) , but it looks like there 's a way to do this . It requires on-the-fly transcoding for formats the AppleTV does n't support ( essentially anything not . mp4 or . m4v ) , which means it may take a fair bit of CPU power on your Mac , especially for HD stuff . It also means that aside from files the AppleTV natively supports , you 're not getting bit-perfect renditions of the files , it 's a lossy translation , but if you have a decently fast Mac , it should be pretty good . The main tool you 'll want is <URL> . It 's a pretty basic program that sends a URL to the AppleTV that tells it to open a stream from your computer . It also handles transcoding the non-native files . It 's not very well documented ; it looks like the latest versions use a built-in copy of ffmpeg for transcoding , but some of the resources around the web suggest that it may need <URL> installed as well . Usage is pretty straight forward . Open up AirFlick Select your AppleTV from the drop-down in the upper-left Drag the file you want to play onto the droplet , and hit play . It should take around 30 seconds to buffer the transcoding , then start playing . It 's definitely beta software , so YMMV . From what I can tell , the transcoding support is pretty simplistic . If you want to configure the transcoding process , you need to use custom VLC or ffmpeg command-line options and pass the output to AirFlick . <URL> should give you a starting point for how to do that , but you 'll want to consult other VLC or ffmpeg resources for specific configurations - it 's beyond my expertise . The basic idea seems to be : Use VLC or ffmpeg to transcode the source ( in the example , that 's , replace that with the path to your file of choice ) on-the-fly to an AppleTV compatible format Pipe that output to <URL> which breaks the video into a streaming playlist the AppleTV can read Host the streaming playlist on a webserver on your Mac Use AirFlick to pass the URL of the playlist to your AppleTV
You need to run VLC . In VLC , go to the Video menu and the Fullscreen Video Device menu and choose which screen you want to use for fullscreen video playback .
Yes - just get a simple pass through adapter to plug the male USB into an adapter that fits in the lightning slot . <URL> There are also knock off and legitimate third party adapters being sold , so you can pick your price point / fit and finish / support sweet spot .
end question
start question
How do I spin down a secondary disk when not mounted ?
Solution is a terminal command with which you can control the sleep timer . I set it to 1 minute . This still means the disk wakes up every hour for the time machine backup , and also every 15 minutes-ish for god knows what reason . But its much better than before , just annoying that it regularly wakes up for a minute , which is distracting .
Yes . Intel calls it " SpeedStep . " Variable CPU clock speeds that adjust to conserve power based on demand . The feature is engaged whilst the device is on battery power . All Apple products support this feature ( it 's actually supported at the hardware level and the operating system 's kernel ) but since desktop devices do n't have batteries , you 'll never experience it on anything that is n't mobile . Your MacBook Air supports SpeedStep , as does the iPhone , iPad , and the traditional MacBook Pro . More info on SpeedStep : <URL>
I feel the same way you do about this . That 's why I 've filed a radar at bugreport.apple.com . Please reference " Problem id : 9153445 " when you filed your radar as the this will increases the incident count and making it likelier Apple Xcode team will prioritize a fix . Since bugreport.apple.com does n't allow you to search and view another 's radar , I 've copied the radar I filed at Apple at <URL> . Thanks for reminding me that this regression needs people to start filing radars .
Some obvious causes : Need to wait 30 to 60 seconds for the SMC to read the battery and decide what to do check for pencil lead/debris on the mac end of the magsafe check for pins stuck down on the magsafe cord end of things The <URL> on the Mac The battery , all adapter or charging circuitry itself is faulty or detecting something that causes a pause and the mac might need service . ( This is exactly what your mac will do if it needs an 85 watt adapter but you 've somehow gotten your " friend 's " 65 watt adapter - if your adapter is n't putting out enough power , the mac can only run and not support the CPU/GPU load as well as the charging circuitry . Similarly , if the battery is drawing more than designed , the mac will prefer to run than charge and tells you this in the not charging message . ) Due to the way batteries work , they can be out of range at only a certain voltage range so initially it will be good until you reach that one point where the voltage drops too fast and shows aging or a problem with the cells . Do a <URL> at your earliest convenience and think about a visit to the genius bar or other service desk if the problem continues . Take your wall adapter with you when you go as it can be checked with the mac together .
I had this setup for a while and yes , the hard drive in the primary disk bay would spin down when booted from the SSD . It was fairly easy to tell , because when accessing the drive there was a noticeable delay when first accessing the drive after leaving it idle for about 10 minutes . This was on an older machine ( 2009 MacBook Pro 15 " , running Mac OS X 10.7 ) .
Open up the Terminal and enter the command : You will see an output listing at least one Logical Volume Group , with a Logical Volume Family and Logical Volume nested below . There is be a item in the Volume Family entry that will tell you if it 's converting to an encrypted volume or not , and for a progress indicator , look under the Logical Volume entry for and entries , to see how many GB have been converted so far . During encryption : Encryption completed : The actual Terminal output is nested and longer . Here , only the most important information is listed . Apparently decrypting an external disk is very slow ( or even paused ) if you use a laptop which is running on batteries . So always make sure to plug it into mains power when performing this operation .
Here 's a few ways to check . The last one only works in Lion . The third one is probably the easiest if you 're comfortable using Terminal . Lock All Keychains A quick way to check is to open Keychain Access ( found in / Applications/Utilities / ) , choose File > Lock All Keychains , then try to mount the disk image . If it 's encrypted , you should get a message like diskimages-helper wants to use the " login " keychain and be prompted for the keychain password ( same as your OS X login password ) . If it 's not encrypted , it will simply mount . Search login Keychain Instead of locking all keychains , you could instead search for your disk image in the login keychain : Select the login keychain , then type the name of the . sparseimage file in the search field . However , if the . sparseimage name has been changed since it was created , it wo n't show up in the login keychain with the new name . If you do n't find your disk image you can try the Lock All Keychains method above or the Terminal method below to be certain . Terminal Command You can enter the following command to check if the disk image is encrypted : Replace the with the path to the disk image . If the disk image is encrypted , the command will return something like : If it 's not encrypted , it wo n't show anything at all . Use Disk Utility in Lion New in Lion , Disk Utility now shows if a disk image is encrypted . Unmount the disk image if it 's mounted . Open Disk Utility and drag the . sparseimage file to the device list on the left side of the Disk Utility window . Select the . sparseimage in the device list and look at the information area at the bottom of the window . If the disk is encrypted , then that will be indicated under " Disk Write Status " .
will permanently delete files , with a confirmation dialog warning that this action can not be undone . simply moves files to Trash , without confirmation . Tip : whenever you want Mac app to do the same action but a little differently , try doing it with button pressed .
Thanks for everyone 's advice on this . When I asked the question I thought this auto-shutdown thing was some feature I must have accidentally enabled somewhere ... But after a lot of searching , update-installing , settings-tweaking , etc , I concluded it was just some rare bug in my system . In the end , I just re-installed OS X . That fixed it :)
No , you are n't doing anything wrong . Apple does n't allow you to paste into certain secure dialog boxes . It 's a feature , not a bug . ( It makes a brute force hack of the dialog box more difficult . ) You can paste the password into the command line if you mount the secure image using <URL> . Open Terminal and type : When prompted for the password , copy it from a text file or ( preferably ) a password vault and paste it into terminal . If the path/to/imagefile is complex , you can type the command , a space , then drag the imagefile icon from the finder into the terminal window to automatically enter the path/filname .
This is annoying but you ca n't turn it off unfortunately . If the iPhone detects a momentary loss of connection to the cell tower and it believes the user is interacting with the phone then it will pop this message up . It 's intention is to let you know that you do n't have a signal and therefore wo n't be able to send your SMS , email etc. however more often than not it 's a sub-second blip in the signal rather than a total loss . If you watch closely you 'll sometimes see the signal bars disappear and reappear as the signal is reacquired . You could try going to Settings > General > Reset > Reset Network Settings to see if somehow you 've altered some network setting which is affecting your reception but you 'll lose wifi passwords etc I think if you do that .
I 'd say there are basically three things that impact the file size of a GIF . The number of colors in the GIF -- The more colors there are in a GIF , the higher the file size . The dimensions of the GIF -- Tumblr requires the width to be less than 500px , so at least start there . I think around 450px is a great size . However , do n't forget you can use the crop feature to just highlight the action . The number of frames -- The number of frames you can use is highly dependent on the above two points . The three items above mirror <URL> and you can use the GifBrewery preferences to help reduce the colors by processing it lightly or using dithering algorithms :
You can just delete the files and use Disk Utility 's Erase Free space feature to make them permanently gone . Open Disk Utility , go to the partition you want to clear , select the Erase tab and click on This will give you options that depend on your OSX version . a slider with the settings , and represent 1-pass , 3-pass and 7-pass wipes respectively . radio buttons labeled , and are quite self-explanatory You may want to first go with a single pass to get an idea how long a single pass takes and then depending on your time allocation ( or paranoia ) choose between the multi-pass wipes . Note that 7-pass is good enough for NSA .
The solution is called . It can remember your passphrase for the session . You run the agent with ( might be even running in your session already , so check before using ) and add the key to the agent using : it will prompt you for a passphrase . The further connections using this key will not prompt you for the passphrase .
In a Terminal , use the following command : This will output the fully qualified pathnames of files in which the metadata stores used by Spotlight classify it as some type of movie . Example output from a movie taken on my iPhone and transferred to iPhotos on my Mac , one of the lines outputted by <URL> is : " QuickTime movie " , which have a extension was just one of extension types that showed as " $ some_type_of movie " . So you will probably see other file extensions as well .
ddclient is what I use on my Linux boxes . Works really well . You can find instructions details here : <URL> I think all you would need to do to get ddclient to run is to a @reboot line to your crontab and you 're set . then add this line :
<URL> could help you out here . It 's very configurable outbound firewall for Macs . The rule set it supports is comprehensive and you can block based on interface as well as IP ranges . You could set it up with everything blocked , tether , let through just the apps you want , and then enable/disable Little Snitch with this ruleset based on how you 're using your Mac at any particular point in time .
You can use traditional unix tools to start monitoring now . The free space statistics can be generated with the command , but you might just set your warning levels on server app and rely on alerts to notify you when space fills . I ca n't imagine needing to track storage space more than once a day to graph the growth or manage things , but your needs might be quite different . I 'd say 15 minute ( 900 seconds for iostat ) snaps of io activity would be sufficient and hourly or daily disk space logs would be overkill for most servers . You would probably decrease the monitoring interval during an investigation / performance tuning period , but day in and day out these stats usually just chew up CPU and disk space and do n't really help you manage the server . Once you decide upon how often you want to capture the data , you can get more fancy with a wrapper to start and stop the script / cut and process the log files daily , etc. . . I would say you 're going to want to instead look at the tools you want for actually analyzing and acting on the data . For one server , you could probably get away with one free instance of <URL> running and just log the data to syslog . From there you can graph / extract to spreadsheet / act on the data in a very flexible manner . Also , you might look at <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . There is an excellent write up at <URL> by Charles Edge explaining the how and why you would use those tools to tame the logs and graph things . If you had that , sending the statistics to the system log might be a very easy way to solve your problem of monitoring IO on your server .
The screensaver for the login screen is the one set for the root ( i.e. system ) user account . To launch System Preferences as root , use sudo ; a Terminal window run : Then you can change the screensaver settings as you normally would . Note that in order to use sudo , you needs to be an admin user .
It turns out that the two problems were not related . My Mac refuses to shut down henever an external hard drive is connected to it .
end question
start question
What should I know about replacing my computer 's battery ?
Here are some tips about the batteries that go inside Apple computers and devices . lithium cells will catch on fire and burn with such intensity that they can ignite almost anything that is combustible if you damage during the replacement . To save space , Apple engineers designed the case of your MacBook to protect the battery - once you open the case , the battery is extremely vulnerable to physical damage or a short circuit . If you lose one tiny metal screw behind the battery and then shut your case it could easily squeeze , crush or puncture a battery cell - setting you up for disaster down the road . that being said , assuming you power off your Mac before you start the replacement , you wo n't lose any data and you probably wo n't damage anything else as long as you are slow and careful . Pay attention to not damage the delicate cables or lose any parts . Be willing to take it to a trained technician if you ca n't be absolutely certain you did the replacement right . dispose of the spent battery properly and insure it is safely protected and packaged so it does n't get punctured and start a fire . Lithium batteries are considered hazardous waste in many places and should it catch on fire , release of very toxic gases will happen . as long as the battery contains the proper parts , there is no break-in procedure whatsoever . You might be on your own if you select an aftermarket part have to do some research with the vendor to be sure you have the correct part .
I suggest taking a backup and going to an Apple Store soon . I had two situations like this with funny creeking noises , the hard drive eventually slowed down and stopped working - no bad sectors or anything . It just eventually stopped . It was not an Apple drive , but I am sure it 's worth asking . Worst case scenario you will have to come back when drive eventually dies .
I have both the Magic Trackpad and the Magic Mouse , and IMO the trackpad works really well for browsing , navigating in the general system , and is a very natural way to interact with the computer . That being said , it is not precise enough to be used when you need to do photo/video editing , and in those rare occasions I use the mouse . I also do programming , but barely use the mouse/trackpad when I 'm coding . Pros : Very easy to navigate in pages ( Web browsing , preview , etc. ) Enable one to use the built-in gestures , and that make a huge difference in day-to-day computer usage Ideal for an " HTPC " usage of your Mac : I frequently casually use my Mac from the couch , and not having to move a mouse is a definitive plus . Cons : Precision Does n't fully replace a mouse You 'll miss the gestures as soon as you 'll use a different computer .
Modern and semi modern CD Drives ( USB ) are 100 % compatible with OSX since they are really an ATA drive , connected through USB . Bluetooth and LightScribe technology will be another story , but the drive , as a reader/recorder ought to work without problems . In fact , if you ever find one that does n't work , it would be a nice discovery .
I definitely would not use electrical tape . Honestly , if for some reason you do not have the plastic tab that came on the HDD , then you can go without it when you replace it with the SSD . The opening is large enough you can get a finger between the SSD and the side rails , should you ever need to replace it . You can see <URL> for another opinion on the matter .
<URL> say to keep it for troubleshooting and/or if you need to send it in for warranty service : <URL> " 2x1GB is worth so little so you 're better off keeping it for troubleshooting purposes . " <URL> " I would hold on to the memory ; if you ever need to take it in for service , it 's better to have the original memory in it . " " Keep them for warranty " <URL> " Apple guidelines are that if you do have 3rd party hardware installed , they wo n't service it . "
James Dempsey and the Breakpoints do a song every year at WWDC . Knowing the secret to which session will have the song requires knowing some very subtle clues to watch for in some of the Monday sessions . Besides " Model View Controller " ( 2003 ) , there 's been : " Fetch Specifications " - 2001 " Relationships " - 2002 " Model View Controller " - 2003 " <URL> " - 2004 " <URL> " - 2005 " Endian Reservations " - 2006 " <URL> " - 2007 " <URL> " - 2008 " Pasteboard Writin ' " - 2009 " <URL> " - 2010 Sorry I ca n't find all of the videos . There are also comical songs about Mac OS X. " <URL> " - 2008
First you should figure out whether or not compression is worth it . This depends largely on the type of content you 're storing . If the content is not compressible ( JPEG images , most video formats , ZIP archives , etc. ) , there 's little benefit and the added overhead of decompression may even cause a ( minor ) slowdown in file access . HFS + compression is most likely the wrong tool , for several reasons . First , compression is n't transparent , only decompression is . That is , if a file is stored compressed , it will be transparently decompressed when being read , but a newly created file will not be compressed by default . Worse , when you overwrite or append to a compressed file , it will once again be stored without HFS + compression . Therefore , if you wanted to use HFS + compression with user data , you would need to copy the entire volume first ( using ditto or afsctool ) , file by file . On 60 TB this might take rather a long time . Furthermore you would regularly have to run a process that determines which files were added/modified recently ( or are n't compressed ) and ( re ) compresses those . As the ditto man page states , HFS + compression " is only intended to be used in installation and backup scenarios that involve system files " . It 's great for your folder , but not very suitable for your filer . Only if you 're really desperate for capacity and have a lot of files that never get written to I would even consider it . Key being desperate :) I 'm not aware of any transparent file system level compression packages for OS X. ZFS supports transparent file system compression , but switching your filers OS and FS may not be an option ( since sadly there 's no complete ZFS implementation for Mac OS X ) .
You have to trust the developer of the app . Period . Besides code analysis there is no way to eliminate the possibility that an app does send your password somewhere . And even tools like Little Snitch wo n't help you if the app is allowed to send emails from your account . If you send an email to somebody it would just use the established connection to afterwards send another email with your password . Since the connection is encrypted you ca n't see what the app is doing . And because the whole purpose of the app is sending emails the connection is not suspicious at all . Same thing is true for all apps that need access to the internet , if you enter the password to an facebook app it could just use facebook to send a private message with your password and so on . To make it even more difficult to detect , the developer could implement it in a way that the malicious routine waits 30 days before it sends your password . And if the developer is a smart criminal ( he wrote a great app so he probably is ) he can detect testers who just fast forward their device date setting too . If the developer is smart it is nearly impossible to figure such things out without looking at the code . Entering your password somewhere is all about trust . And with all those apps from unknown developers it 's hard to figure out which app you can trust enough to give it your password . That 's the reason Twitter , among others , uses an authentication process where the app never knows your password . Having a different password for different services helps in case you have accidentally trusted an untrustworthy developer . But your email password is a little bit special because usually it can be used to gain access to almost all services you use .
It 's likely that you are running something in the background ( such as Skype ) which is triggering your dedicated graphics card , despite it not actually doing anything graphically intensive . This is a known issue in Apple 's graphics card switching technology . Download and run <URL> and see if I 'm right . If so , close the problematic program or use gfxCardStatus to manually switch to the much lower-powered integrated chip . You should get longer battery life after that ; I have n't directly measured it but I know I get at least 30 minutes to an hour of extra life . And of course it also depends on what you 're doing with your computer , what background programs are running , the brightness of your screen , etc. .
Thanks to Asmus 's suggestion I found that if you remove your graphic card 's model from the file unspt_gfx_cards you can install AutoCad . So to recap : Copy the . mpkg package out of the DMG file to some place like your Desktop Right click on the package and select ' Show Package Contents ' Browse to Contents/Resources/unspt _ gfx_cards Right click unspt_gfx_cards and open with textedit Remove all lines that contain Intel or GMA ( for your macbook ) and save Double click on the . mpkg to install without hardware restrictions Not sure if you will have any problems running Autocad but at least you should be able to install it .
<URL> seems to provide the best predictions for updates . They use the average timescale for updates to provide a guess as to whether an update will come soon . They also include prominent rumours towards updates .
The most important upgrade is making the system drive a Solid State Drive ( SSD ) . This alone may double the effective speed of your computer . Extra RAM is a nice second . Since SSDs are usually more expensive than traditional hard drives per GB , you could explore a ' hybrid ' drive , though I 'd recommend the fastest SSD that your Mac 's PCI bus throughput can handle . When I upgraded my old MacBook Pro ( I think it was also a 2009 model ) , large SSDs were still expensive , so I bought a 128MB SSD for the main system drive and moved the existing HDD into the spot where the Optical Drive was ( with a special mounting bracket ) , and put the Optical Drive in a cheap external USB case . I found all the parts on eBay for under $ 250USD and was honestly shocked at how much faster that MacBook performed .
Apple battery packs contain a set of 6 lithium Ion ( Li-Ion ) cells ( the metal covered envelopes ) , connectivity circuitry , and a small logic board . The main cause for battery cell swelling is what is known as thermal runaway . If a cell reaches a certain temperature then a chemical in the cell ( usually Cobalt Oxide for Lithium Ion batteries ) starts an unintended reaction which is exothermic in nature ( i.e. it creates heat ) . More heat raises the cell temparature further which causes more of the same chemical reaction This creates a runaway thermal overload which can end in one of two ways , the cell and therfore the battery pack , catches fire or the reaction fizzles out with the cell in a swollen state .
According to <URL> and <URL> , there are a number of things you should do before upgrading . Make sure your computer will actually run Mountain Lion . <URL> is a list of all the Macs that will not support Mountain Lion . Run Software Update . Go to the Apple menu > Software Update and make sure you have all the current updates installed . Make sure that you are at least running Snow Leopard 10.6.8 ( as required <URL> ) . Make sure you have enough space on your drive . Mountain Lion requires 8GB of space , so make sure you at least have that amount free ( preferably more though ) . If you do n't have the space required , you can use a disk visualizer such as <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) or <URL> ( free ) or use <URL> to remove old , unused applications . More detailed information on that is available from <URL> Check that all your applications wil run on Mountain Lion . <URL> is the best place to check . It has a status indicator , and a feature list of what feature the application supports Repair disk permissions and disk . If you are running Snow Leopard , start from the install disc and open Disk Utility . If you are running Lion , shut down and restart while holding Command ⌘ + R ( restart into the Recovery partition ) . In Disk Utility , click on your main hard drive and then click " Repair Permissions " . When that 's done , click " Repair Disk " . Thanks to <URL> that repairing permissions before an install is not necessary . " You do n't need to repair disk permissions prior to installing Mac OS X over a previously-installed OS . The installer will do this automatically . " <URL> Backup your computer . This is the most important step . If something goes wrong while installing Mountain Lion , you want to have a backup to go back to . Also , if for whatever reason you want to revert to Lion , backing up your computer will make it a million times easier to revert . The Tech Scoop recommends using Disk Utility to backup your computer . Lifehacker recommends using either Time Machine or <URL> to backup your computer . My preference is Carbon Copy Cloner , freeware software for cloning a hard drive . If you want to use the other options , check out the links above . Open Carbon Copy Cloner , select the source and the target and click " Clone " . Wait for it to backup your computer ... If you 've completed all the above steps , your Mac is ready for Mountain Lion ! Go to the App Store and install Mountain Lion .
Here are some tips about the batteries that go inside Apple computers and devices . lithium cells will catch on fire and burn with such intensity that they can ignite almost anything that is combustible if you damage during the replacement . To save space , Apple engineers designed the case of your MacBook to protect the battery - once you open the case , the battery is extremely vulnerable to physical damage or a short circuit . If you lose one tiny metal screw behind the battery and then shut your case it could easily squeeze , crush or puncture a battery cell - setting you up for disaster down the road . that being said , assuming you power off your Mac before you start the replacement , you wo n't lose any data and you probably wo n't damage anything else as long as you are slow and careful . Pay attention to not damage the delicate cables or lose any parts . Be willing to take it to a trained technician if you ca n't be absolutely certain you did the replacement right . dispose of the spent battery properly and insure it is safely protected and packaged so it does n't get punctured and start a fire . Lithium batteries are considered hazardous waste in many places and should it catch on fire , release of very toxic gases will happen . as long as the battery contains the proper parts , there is no break-in procedure whatsoever . You might be on your own if you select an aftermarket part have to do some research with the vendor to be sure you have the correct part .
You can save the whole iTunes folder ( it should be at . . / Music/iTunes directory ) and just put it back after you reinstall iTunes on your new Windows system ( new iTunes installation will put it 's new " blank " folder in / Music , just replace with your backup copy ) . By doing so iDevices will recognise your library as the one they had synced with before and will continue to sync with it like nothing happened , hence keeping all the saves on the devices .
It depends how " minus " . In general , li-on batteries live longer if you respect their acceptable operating temperatures . In the case of your Macbook Pro , <URL> has a dedicated page with tips about Battery Maintenance . If you observe the temperature graph on the left , the Minus degrees are not in the " I like this " zone . Truth is , your MBP will get warm relatively fast , but if your MBP is at 0ºC , I 'd wait a little bit . At those temperatures , depending upon the dew point and the humidity ( among other factors ) the risk of running moisture is higher , especially if the MBP will start heating fast when you turn it on . Just let the machine heat for a few minutes at room temperature to be safe . Of course , if you have to use it one day , the battery is not going to die on you . Remember , extreme temperatures are enemies of batteries ! The cold Swedish tundra is not a friendly place for a Li-on battery :)
What I do in these cases ( which I seem to run into fairly often lately ) is create a new folder in Applications , and then drag everything from the disk image into that folder . It 's one extra level , but it works just fine for almost every application .
You should definitely try resetting the SMC , since it 's a known fix for fan issues . Here are the instructions : <URL> .
end question
start question
Why get a regular MacBook Pro versus the Retina display model ?
I can buy a regular MBP , with a cheap HDD , open it , upgrade the RAM and replace the HDD with a SDD , all for a fraction of the price Apple would charge me . In addition , I still have Ethernet and a CD/DVD drive , in case I need one . As I said , you might need the retina , or you might just like it , both of which are perfectly reasonable points . I do n't , and I prefer to keep my money with me , upgrading my hardware when I need it , and at the price I choose to pay ( out of a range of options ) . Uh , and I also hate the lack of Ethernet port . To each their own .
There is no " official " way of changing it , though OSX is customizable with 3rd party apps . I researched around a bit and found out though that most of these apps wo n't work with Lion . Perhaps as time passes by Lion updates for these apps will be released , and perhaps you will be able to make Lion look however you want . Here is a <URL> with some themes for both Mac OS and iOS . They provide a theme for Lion , the only one I could find . Nevertheless , I should clarify : Aqua is still there . The term " Aqua " refers to the whole UI of Mac OS X , including that of Lion . Over the years it <URL> , and it happened again in Lion . I too thought the Leopard-style aqua was better , but trust me , you will like the Lion Aqua . Scrollbars hide automatically and they are meant to be discrete : having the blue scrollbars back would just defeat the purpose . Just the same , Lion tries to streamline elements such as tab views and progress bars that were perhaps to " obtrusive " to the eye , or called to much attention . Im typing this from a machine with Lion , and can tell you you will love the new UI whenever you get your mac . Just give it a try ! :) Designers at Apple did a great job to my opinion . Hope it helps !
To enable a retina eclipse From : <URL> Here 's the workaround : Do " Show package contents " on the Eclipse.app . Edit Contents/Info . plist . Just above Place this : Then , log out or make a copy of the app so that OS X will notice the change . Now , the info window will not show " Open in Low Resolution " as checked . Launch Eclipse and enjoy your new retina awesomeness .
There are a great many games that support 2880x1800 and most of them support 2560x1600 ( Cinema , Dell , and HP 30 " resolutions ) Windows 7 &amp; 8 do n't support the quad-pixel and dual-pixel modes of OSX , they do things a bit differently . You always have the 2880x1800 resolution , and simply select larger font size ( 150 % in my case ) . Most games will work out fine , but some will need some tweaking ( mostly selecting the option Disable display scaling on high DPI output on the compatibility tab . If you regularily use an external monitor i would reconsider the retina display . Having upgraded to it from a 17 " i5 I found out the hard way that neither OSX nor Windows can display different DPI to 2 monitors , hence my 30 " Dell is pretty much useless .
I called Apple to find out , and they confirmed that it is not user-upgradeable : the tech explained that they used the same process they used for the MacBook Air to save space : there are no sticks of RAM , and the RAM has been soldered directly onto the main board . As <URL> , this is now confirmed <URL> before purchase : Please note that the memory is built into the computer , so if you think you may need more memory in the future , it is important to upgrade at the time of purchase . So if you were thinking you might want the 16GB RAM in the future , you 'd want to choose it when you order the MacBook Pro , as you wo n't be able to upgrade later .
No , the 2012 and early-2013 Retina MBP SSD 's are not PCIe-based , so you could not install an SSD from a late-2013 Retina MBP .
Praise the beardless moon king ! The issue was solved by connecting an external mouse via blue tooth and just clicking around the screen . I was fortunate this had previously been set up , so it only required turning on the mouse to connect . The MacBook 's inbuilt TrackPad then started responding to clicks again and everything works as expected ( presses , clicks , and deep clicks , etc ) . The cause of this problem remains unknown , therefore I have no idea how to prevent it . Note : it has not happened again since .
As far as I am aware you can replace the battery and HDD/SSD on most MacBook Pro models . Have a look at the manuals on <URL> . <URL> : You can replace the battery like <URL> And the SSD like <URL> . <URL> : I think the last HDD MacBook Pro . No retina display , but you can replace the optical drive and use a 2nd HDD/SSD instead .
This is because of how Retina is implemented on these new systems . In the Mac OS ( and iOS for that matter ) , resources are doubled in size , therefore each point is roughly the 4 pixels . To the system though , it still reports the 1440x900 size , even though the actual pixel count is 2880x1800 . The Mac OS knows how to handle this looking for @ 2X resources or using native code to render things at a higher resolution offscreen before painting to the screen . While on Windows though , it is outright seeing the 1440x900 . Since Windows does n't really have a built in way to handle the ' Retina ' feature that the Mac does , things would be grainy . You would see the same problem on a Mac App that does n't use native text or image rendering , that has n't been updated yet . So the only way to make it look crisp on your Windows install would be to run at 2880x1800 - which would be hard to see , or a higher resolution than 1440x900 that you felt comfortable with depending on stretching/artifacts/etc . That is until Windows does have some possible feature like this and implemented in a similar way . When connected to your external display though , Windows is seeing the 1280x720 px , and rendering that correctly , but at whatever your native resolution is . Also , the pixel density on the larger display may be different . It comes down to the easiest way to understand - the pixel doubling/retina features are an OS feature , not a hardware feature .
According to Apple 's <URL> for the 2015 13 " MBP , it is possible : " Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 3840 by 2160 pixels on up to two external displays ... "
The Other World Computing Blog <URL> the new MacBook Pro 15 " with Retina Display Can Run 3 External Displays : image source : <URL> These resolutions were used : Retina on laptop @ " best for Retina " iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort LG monitor @ 1920 x 1200 via HDMI Quote from the <URL> : This makes the Retina MacBook Pro the first Mac -- other than a tower-based workstation like the Mac Pro -- to natively power four displays simultaneously .
There are several complicated and time-limited things that are causing apps like Tweetbot to very likely get all shut down by Twitter in the near future . My impression is the high price of <URL> not only reflects the high cost that the developers spent to make such a complicated and design intensive app , but also to discourage too many people from " trying " it out as well as a calculation that they need to make their investment back sooner rather than later due to the uncertainty of being dependent on Twitter 's API rule changes . Twitter is in the process of shutting down all third party apps that replicate what you see at <URL> in terms of showing you the timeline . <URL> In a nutshell - in the last 12 months , Twitter has been telling developers to not make apps like Tweetbot since they <URL> and the 100,000 user token limit is really making it impossible for a team of talented professionals to recoup their costs without charging for an app since you need way more than 100,000 users to make money on data or advertising . Twitter wants to make money , developers want to make money , so at the moment the development of great , free twitter apps is n't exactly a hotbed of innovation in 2012 like it was in the past . Many in the development community had assumed that Twitter would bend the rules when their app was n't ready , but with the Windows 8 release , they shut down the most popular client when it hit 100,000 user-tokens even though Twitter does n't even have a windows 8 client ( perhaps yet ) . When that happened , I imagine a lot of projects are being dropped or at least halted . Not only is Twitter putting hard limits on third party app growth , it also is getting more and more exacting in telling these devs <URL> ( with the implied threat that they will shut down those apps if they fail to comply to Twitter 's exact design standards which include serving all promotional content ) So , now that a brief back story is complete , here is your answer : The following OS X twitter clients have been viewed to broadly and/or fully support retina display Macs : <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> <URL> by <URL> Both <URL> and <URL> have free downloads so you can try them both before buying . Check all of them as one is on sale now for half price and prices can change over time . All of the above render text with great precision and have all or many of the app 's graphics in retina . Of course the twitter stream has many non-retina people thumbnails , etc. . .
Supported resolutions Retina , Ratio 16:10 2880 by 1800 pixels scaled , Ratio 16:10 1920 x 1200 pixels 1680 x 1050 pixels 1280 x 800 pixels 1024 x 640 pixels According to the <URL> by Apple . How does the scaling work ? According to an <URL> : Selecting any of these options gives you the effective desktop resolution of the setting , but Apple actually renders the screen at a higher resolution and scales it to fit the 2880 x 1800 panel . As a result of this scaled rendering , there can be a performance and quality impact . There is a new option to configure the resolution in the system settings . While you actually change the resolution , Apple only refers to the visual impact of the settings . So basically changing the resolution offers : Large text , but much crisper . More space for visual content ( and smaller text ) , but not as sharp . Something in-between ( default retina ) . ( original picture from AnandTech ) Note : Due to the imprecise definition of " retina display " , this answer may seem confusing , because at the top Apple speaks of 2880x1800 as retina , but the picture suggest something different .
There could be several things here that are creating the lag time , but there is never a need to reinstall everything . Plan A : I actually do these things on the first Monday of every month Purge Caches : and . You lose some of your application preferences , but things are all but guarenteed to be snappy . Repair Permissions with the Disk Utility : You can either view permissions or fix permissions . Just go straight for fixing permissions and get a cup of tea and read a magazine while you wait . Reboot on a regular basis : I do n't care what anybody says about uptime ; the occasional reboot does wonders . My Macs are real workhorses , and I reboot Monday mornings when I get in . I rarely , if ever these days , have problems . Plan B : The Not So Obvious Let Spotlight index when it finds new stuff : Spotlight makes for good searches , but it 's indexing processes are a real hassle . If things slow down , I first look for the little dot in the magnifying glass in the menu bar icon . If that 's going , I go get a cup of coffee or find something else to do . Look for background services you may have forgotten : Also , look for any background processes that may be dragging things down . Look at your login items in the System Preferences , because maybe you have some kind of a server daemon that loads in the background you forgot about . Or maybe you have your iTunes library shared and enough people are on listening to content to slow things down ( this was also a problem at my company ) . Check free hard drive space : I have also noticed in the past that things can slow down if I do n't have enough hard drive space . Things really get wonky on my Macs when I have less than 10 % free space , so I start cleaning things off when I am at the 20 % free space threshold . Plan C : System Level Look for multiple , related processes : Check Activity Monitor for anything that might be hogging CPU time . Do n't just look for a single process that has a high number , but also look multiple processes that might be related . I recently had a problem with McAfee AntiVirus ( my company 's IT department foisted it onto us ) trying to almost continuously scan my iDisk . No process got above 2 % , but there were over a half dozen of them . Once I disconnected my iDisk , McAfee was no longer a problem . Let overnight processes run : Most days I leave my Macs on all day and all night because there a number of system processes that run at around 2:00 a , Sunday mornings being especially important ( that 's when the and processes run ) . Do a quick reboot and all should be well . Plan Z Apple Certified Technicians are your friends : Third-party system maintenance software is not . I 've been working with Macs for years and the one immutable fact that I have learned is that applications designed to help maintain the system are more trouble than they are worth . When all else fails , take it in because there may be a hardware problem at this point .
Here 's one example of someone running two 27 " displays at 2560x1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort plus an HDMI display at 1920x1200 : <URL> The Thunderbolt ports officially support up to 2560x1600 so that resolution should n't be any problem either : Simultaneously supports full native resolution on the built-in display and up to 2560 by 1600 pixels on up to two external displays , at millions of colors <URL> To get up to that resolution , you 're limited to either Thunderbolt/MiniDisplayPort or Dual-Link DVI via an adapter - single link DVI and VGA adapters wo n't go that high . For the HDMI port , I have n't seen any specific maximum resolution . This person got up to 2048x1280 : <URL> Generally , external monitors work fine in Windows . I see no reason why it would be any different on the Retina model or on Windows 8 specifically .
Yes , as @Buscar 웃SD said , you can use an external Bluetooth adapter . On my Macbook Pro 13 " I had to use Apple 's Bluetooth Explorer to set my USB adapter as the active controller . <URL> describes how to download and use Bluetooth Explorer .
You can find this out yourself . Open System Preferences - > Language and Text - > Input Sources . Check the boxes for the keyboards you want . Then , check the Show Input menu in menu bar box . Click the new menu bar item , select the keyboard layout you want to see , go back to the menu bar item , and click Show Keyboard Viewer . This will work from any computer , and you can see any layout . The first picture was snapped while a full sized keyboard was connected , the second shows the option key held down - and is what you will see if you have a smaller bluetooth or built in keyboard connected .
There 's no direct way to do it , unless you happen to own two Apple Thunderbolt displays you can daisy chain . What most people do is purchase a USB video adapter like a DisplayLink device . Performance and OS X support can be spotty but you might find something that 'll work well , especially if you can get something with USB 3.0 support . There are <URL> <URL> <URL> in the sidebar -- > that have more details on this .
Despite what Weird Al would have you believe , it is no longer " All about the Pentiums " ( jury is out regarding whether the ' Benjamins ' are still a relevant unit of currency ) . The answer depends very heavily on the exact specs of each system , but I would expect you to notice better performance out of the laptops for a few reasons : The Core i series all support <URL> , which will make the dual core processors act like they have 4 cores . I forget which versions of the Core 2s have that available , but neither of my Core 2 duo laptops support it , so I 'll be spiteful and assume yours does n't either ( feel free to prove me wrong ) . The next question is how big your large spreadsheet is . The larger <URL> on the Core i will mean that spreadsheets approaching the 5-megabyte range will process appreciably quicker . To build on the theme of low-latency data access , I believe that all Core 2 CPUs use DDR2 memory , while the MacBooks will use DDR3 , so you 'll feel faster start up times and have an easier time using multiple applications or spreadsheets . The last piece to consider is the longer <URL> means that the Core i series can do much more with each " tick " of the processor . All in , you 'll likely feel an increase in speed and peppy-ness over your iMac with a newer MacBook ( though the MacBooks wo n't quite keep up with a new iMac ) . That all being said , I 'm just some random guy on the internet who copy/pasted some Wikipedia links . Go to an Apple Store and try one for yourself to see if it 's actually worth the money to upgrade ! Edit : For July of 2015 , the relevant processors ' <URL> scores are : 2009 27 " iMac ( <URL> ) with 1201 2015 13 " MacBook Pro ( <URL> ) with 4608 2015 12 " MacBook ( <URL> ) with 2484 To answer the original question , from a purely CPU-based perspective there is an appreciable increase in performance , though it may be worth noting the value-based scores passmark gives , where the MacBook with the 5257U trounces the other two options .
Do n't confuse a USB-C / Thunderbolt 3 port with USB only as the new MacBook Pro do have thunderbolt and not simply USB-C . The new MacBook Pro can output to a Mini DisplayPort target display mode compatible Mac with either a cable that connects directly or an adapter to the existing cable you would have used with the Mac . I would probably go with a USB-C to MiniDisplayport and use the display port over USB-C protocol since that cable is less expensive than a thunderbolt adapter and would also work with a MacBook ( non Pro and non Thunderbolt ) or other USB only device . There 's probably no speed benefit of thunderbolt for this application . <URL> - $ 30 or so street price <URL> - $ 5 or so street price If you wanted thunderbolt - then you 'd get <URL> - $ 30 on sale this month and use any standard thunderbolt cable . All iMacs that support Target Display mode will take mini display port signal in . Some iMacs support both thunderbolt as well as mini DP . Not all iMacs with either port support Target Display mode - especially the new 4k and 5k iMacs - they do n't support any video input so you would need a software screen sharing solution for them . <URL> - Use your iMac as a display with Target Display Mode
end question
start question
Where can I find the official OS X 10.10 documentation ?
Here is the <URL> . You can always find developer resources on the <URL> sites . You can find other OS X documentations there , as well as iOS documentations . Other resources , such as feature descriptions , revision histories , upcoming changes , and user agreements can be found there , also . The best of luck in your programming endeavours !
There 's an OS X feature called <URL> that stores the FileVault key in the SMC for the duration of the reboot . Apple acknowledges <URL> that it does reduce FileVault security for the duration of the restart : On supported hardware , allows restart of a FileVault-enabled system without requiring unlock during the subsequent boot using the command . WARNING : FileVault protections are reduced during authenticated restarts . In particular , deliberately stores at least one additional copy of a permanent FDE ( full disk encryption ) unlock key in both system memory and ( on supported systems ) the System Management Controller ( SMC ) . must be run as root and itself prompts for a password to unlock the FileVault root volume . Use to prevent saving the key across standby modes . Once is authenticated , it launches and , upon successful unlock , the unlock key will be removed .
I just checked the box for my iPad 2 . There is essentially nothing other than : a tiny card with minimal instructions . This tells you that there is further documentation at <URL> , along with information about needing to download iTunes , etc. . The obligatory " Important Product Information Guide " containing a whole lot of legal stuff . Some Apple stickers . So I think your best bet for information would be the <URL> linked in the other answer . A couple of photos of the card are shown below : Please note that this is from the iPad 2 so this may have changed since I bought mine . Although Apple has been moving towards less and less documentation over the years .
The dark linen source file is stored in the System Library folder so you will need " root " or administrator permissions to make changes to the directory or the file .
The screensaver for the login screen is the one set for the root ( i.e. system ) user account . To launch System Preferences as root , use sudo ; a Terminal window run : Then you can change the screensaver settings as you normally would . Note that in order to use sudo , you needs to be an admin user .
Currently , no , your only option is to upgrade to iOS 7 . This is because <URL> and the <URL> shows iOS 7 as the only signed version . Note : Lookup the signing status ( or get the direct download links ) for <URL> .
I have 2 mac : 1 office running OS X 10.9 , Mavericks , and 1 personal running OS X 10.10 , Yosemite . My files in OS X 10.10 , Yosemite are not showing but in OS X 10.9 , Mavericks they are still present . Try logging in from another Mac running OS X 10.9 and you might find them there and be able to take a copy , as this is what I am doing right now .
Any files located in the following locations will available to choose as alert sounds : ( Note : By default the latter 2 folders may not exist , but if created and populated with files , you 'll be able to choose them in the Sounds preference pane ) .
Garageband as included with iLife '08 will work fine with Tiger but you 'll need to complete the free online upgrades to 10.4 to bring it up to date .
Just following up . I unmounted the . ISO file , deleted the windows partition and re-created the USB drive ... Seems to have worked this time . Gon na chalk the issue up to an anomaly . Like @DavidAnderson pointed out in the question comments , users with a Retina MacBook Pro 15 inch should use <URL> version of the support software , not the one I linked in the original question . Cheers .
Here is a link to at least iTunes 9.1.1 for Mac <URL>
They are on one of the installation disks that comes with your iMac . Also , I 'm pretty sure the drivers get installed if you download and run a " <URL> " from Apple 's support site . They are usually 200MB or up downloads that come packed with drivers for windows , so give it a try in case you ca n't find your cds .
If you are running Windows the free version of <URL> will do this : Record CDs and convert MP3s , M4A , OGG , FLAC and WMA files etc. into other formats . It comes with a time limited mp3 encoder , but you can replace that yourself . However , this probably is n't an issue if you 're converting for the iPhone .
I realise that this thread is probably quite old by now , but for all the options that has been given here , the simplest way has not been discussed . Apple allows you to lock your screen with a keyboard shortcut . You do n't have to create one , there is one built right in to OSX -- via the " Require password after sleep or screensaver " feature . Here is how to use it : Make sure that you have " Require password after sleep or screensaver begins " set to " immediately " . To do this , follow these steps : Open System Preferences Click on Security ( on Lion , " Security &amp; Privacy " ) Go to the General tab If you do n't already have one , put a tick in the box next to " Require password after sleep or screen saver begins " Set the time interval to " immediately " Exit System Preferences When now when you want to lock your Mac , simply use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl ⌃ + Shift ⇧ + Eject ⏏
My question was solved by AllInOne : Download BBEdit . The time to search and replace went down from 1 hour + to about five seconds .
Go to then choose . There you will find a list of your current subscriptions , which you can turn to " off " if you no longer wish to subscribe to a given product . Some users have indicated that there are still issues , such as unsubscribing , then going back into settings -- > store and finding they are still subscribed , but this seems to be rare , and I expect it will be resolved . There are also usually contact options to reach the developer of the product in the newstand store , just like contact options in the app store . You can contact the developer directly for support if their app does n't seem to be successfully unsubscribing . Most newstand subscriptions should have an interface to unsubscribe in the app itself , or under the app in . Due to the way subscriptions work in the App Store , though , a developer would have to add a non-recurring subscription option to their app . I imagine most wo n't - they will only offer their subscriptions under the app store 's auto-renewal process . You should contact the developers directly if you wish them to add a non-recurring purchase option .
Are you sure that it 's not to be found ? If I look at Preferences → Settings → Keyboard , the checkbox for Use option as meta key is at the bottom . I am on 10.7.1 so it may be something overlooked in the GM of Lion and fixed in the first patch .
You can use traditional unix tools to start monitoring now . The free space statistics can be generated with the command , but you might just set your warning levels on server app and rely on alerts to notify you when space fills . I ca n't imagine needing to track storage space more than once a day to graph the growth or manage things , but your needs might be quite different . I 'd say 15 minute ( 900 seconds for iostat ) snaps of io activity would be sufficient and hourly or daily disk space logs would be overkill for most servers . You would probably decrease the monitoring interval during an investigation / performance tuning period , but day in and day out these stats usually just chew up CPU and disk space and do n't really help you manage the server . Once you decide upon how often you want to capture the data , you can get more fancy with a wrapper to start and stop the script / cut and process the log files daily , etc. . . I would say you 're going to want to instead look at the tools you want for actually analyzing and acting on the data . For one server , you could probably get away with one free instance of <URL> running and just log the data to syslog . From there you can graph / extract to spreadsheet / act on the data in a very flexible manner . Also , you might look at <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . There is an excellent write up at <URL> by Charles Edge explaining the how and why you would use those tools to tame the logs and graph things . If you had that , sending the statistics to the system log might be a very easy way to solve your problem of monitoring IO on your server .
Apple documents the open source components for each release at the web page : <URL> Internally , they clearly do work before it 's publicly documented as we have 10.9.2 out today but only 10.9 is listed publicly with the versions .
The maximum OS version is 9.2.2 for Classic Mac OS or OS X 10.3.9 ( Panther ) . I 'm not sure which one to recommend . OS 9 might be faster , but OS X is certainly more powerful and will be far better supported by software ( though Panther is so old that you 'll have to use old versions of many apps ) . You 'll probably have to go digging on Craigslist or eBay for install discs that old .
end question
start question
How do I prevent iTunes from syncing 400 apps to my new iPad ?
Unfortunately iTunes does n't support selecting multiple applications , apart from manually selecting each one . The best option would be to disable syncing of Applications on iTunes . For iTunes sync to work correctly you either need to use it to manage your applications , or only use the iPad and download all the applications you want directly to the iPad using the App Store on the iPad .
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
iTunes loads the most recent view on startup . Selecting anything other than iTunes Store or Ping in the left sidebar before closing iTunes means that the store will not load on startup . The store will then first load when you select iTunes Store or Ping .
You can disable Icon preview in the view settings . For example : right click the desktop and select " Show view option " and then uncheck the last box .
I used to get this issue as well and what I did was to prevent iTunes from auto syncing when I connect a device , this option is found in the iTunes Preferences/Devices and tick the checkbox as shown in the screenshot It 's also worth going into the user preferences then login items and remove " iTunes helper " which should stop it from launching iTunes anytime you connect a device .
Arrrgh . I found the reason , my own stupidity . :) I use a Bluetooth keyboard whose keys are extremely sensitive to pressure when it 's stowed in the backpack . It usually goes to sleep when not used , but wakes up when you press a key . The " play " key on that keyboard was what made the iPad blare away .
You can drag the home and root folders to the sidebar . They used to be there by default , but they were removed in 10.7 . I have also removed all of the default locations , so the root folder of column view windows is always or . ⇧ ⌘ G opens a Go to Folder sheet . It can also be opened by pressing or in file dialogs . You can show the path at the bottom by checking View > Show Path Bar : There is also a hidden preference for showing the path on the title bar :
I love the setting where you can only sync songs with the checkbox to one or more iOS devices . Simple deselect the songs by plalist , genre , or as you find them and even if they are in a playlist or genius mix that would normally install the song on your device during a sync , iTunes will suppress those songs that are not check marked .
Have you looked into software like <URL> to transfer the videos ? It offers a Windows and Mac version . I prefer <URL> to this software on a Mac , but you have tagged this windows so TouchCopy seems a better fit .
" 128 kbps AAC " - tells the system to convert audio to AAC encoded files at a quality of 128kbps so this conversion is what is taking the CPU . AAC is only for audio/video and nothing to do with still images
( take a copy of your songs ) delete the songs you do n't want on match , re-add them but change the type ( right klick , info ) to audio-book hence iCloud do n't upload audiobooks To be clear - the AudioBooks that are incorrectly marked ' music ' can not have their identifier edited ( when already uploaded to cloud ) , as the Get Info > Options > Media Kind is greyed out . You must save the audio away from iTunes , and when you reload it , you can change the option before it 's uploaded .
From testing , it seems you ca n't break that link without having to re-download . Since the change requires you to synchronize the phone , you will need to re-download the files from the phone once you 've un-ticked the box , since the synchronize does remove the applications completely . Unfortunately the answer to your question is right now there is n't a default way , but I suspect it will become possible in future iTunes versions . I have looked for possible hacks to do this and have yet to find one that does n't require jail breaking to copy the files back .
On your iPhone , force close all the Apps in the multitask window . Depending on your version of iOS , you do the following : On iOS 7 and before : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Tap and hold on the app . When it starts to jiggle , tap the X to close it . Repeat until all the apps have been closed . On iOS 8 : From the Home screen , click the Home button twice . Swipe the application preview window upwards to close the app . ( you can close multiple apps at once ) Repeat until all the apps have been closed . Now do a Soft reset of your iPhone : Hold both Home and Sleep button for around 10secs until you see the Apple logo then release . After it returns to Home screen , connect to sync and see if this resolves the issue . Source : <URL>
Currently there is no way to sort them in mass , you could one-by-one right click on each app , select ' Get Info ' and then a window will pop up with app info . Under the summary tab you will see ( middle right hand side of the window ) ' Purchased By ' and ' Account Name ' . Sorry but that 's currently the only way . Unless your on a Mac and can code a shell script .
Eventually I found the basic solution : For Java applications in general you can specify that they are ' headless ' , by adding the option to your java application . ( also posted to stackoverflow ) .
Well after an hour on the phone with Apple support , 2 phone restores and 1 iOS upgrade , we finally got to the bottom of this . Turns out the feature ( to disable uploading of burst photos to PhotoStream ) DOES work as intended . It 's the wording of the feature description that is more than a little confusing . The text below the feature states : Only favorite Burst Photos will be uploaded to your Photo Stream The trouble is , to me ( and to the techs at Apple that I spoke to ) , that sounds like no part of a burst photo will be uploaded until you have chosen one of the photos in the burst , as a favorite . This is not so . What it actually means is that the entire burst will not be uploaded . But if you have Photo Stream turned on , a single photo from the burst WILL be uploaded . And unfortunately , it 's not the first frame . I 'm actually not sure what criteria iOS uses to decide which photo to upload , but it seems to be the first photo that it thinks is " the best " somehow . So , the bottom line is that Photo Stream is an all-or-nothing proposition . Either every photo you take ( including a single frame from any burst photos ) will be uploaded , or nothing will be uploaded . There is no way to selectively upload photos on a case-by-case basis , unless you either leave Photo Stream off and manually share photos you want in your stream every time , or turn Photo Stream off &amp; on between each photo you do n't want to upload ... but then you lose and have to re-download all your photostream content each time . Not a real great solution either way . I feel Apple should re-word the description of this feature to make it more clear what the expected behavior actually is , but I wo n't hold my breath on that .
In all cases I have tested , iOS recognizes epub files and will offer to send them directly to iBooks . I have tested this from the email all , dropbox app as well as mobile safari . Other apps like Evernote and AirSharing also are able to receive my epub files , so if you are not able to do this , perhaps it 's an encoding issue or something about how the files are being attached to the emails and not necessarily a problem with iOS .
Check this thread out <URL> otherwise you might ask directly on askubuntu . You can log in on askubuntu using your stackexchange credentials
Try doing a ' repair permissions ' in Disk Utility . A permissions error could be causing the preference to get overwritten by the default .
There used to a be a method where by you edited the iTunes Music Library.xml file on the second computer to make your device think the two computers are the same computer . I 'm not sure if it works any more though . Explanation guide <URL> Alternatively the easier way of doing it is to take advantage of <URL> and use an application from the app store . The advantage of this is that most app store video playback applications support more file formats than would be supported though the default video playback app so you wo n't need to do any conversion before copying the videos across . The application I would recommend , and use myself , is <URL>
end question
start question
How can I transfer annotations from a PDF to another in iPad ?
GoodReader ca n't do this and GoodReader suppport is unaware of a product that can , since they operate in this space I assume there is n't an iOS app for this . GoodReader can display PDF files , add annotations to them , and save those annotations to that specific file . Unfortunately it 's not able to edit the content of a PDF file , merge files or create new PDF files . On a computer , the software that does this is Adobe Acrobat Pro . Unfortunately I ca n't recommend an iOS app that can perform these functions .
Yes - I had to do this for the same devices : 2G to 4G . I think I just synced the new iPod Touch ( there is no such thing as an iTouch ) with iTunes , and everything went over , but I might have had to restore a backup from the old to the new .
<URL> from the App Store lets you browse your shared network folders .
This totally will not work . iTunes explicitly says gift certificate balances can not be used to purchase other gift certificates . I will call apple tomorrow to find another work around .
Open the " Photos " view and press the Sharing button : You can then select one or more photos and delete them :
No . As of version 4.5 of the kindle app for IOS in pdf searching is not available . As of version 1.10.7 of the kindle app for OS X in pdf searching is available .
Yes , it 's very simple . Select the photo you want to copy the location data from and hit CMD+C to copy Right click the photo you wish to paste the location Select ' Paste Location ' from the contextual menu . Also you can check out <URL> for a pictorial guide .
<URL> BetterTouchTool allows you to set a trigger to move a window to a second monitor , such as the one below : Trigger : Doubleclick Window Titlebar ; Predifined Action : Move Window to Next Monitor Alternatively , a mouse button , keyboard shortcut , Apple Remote , Magic Mouse or trackpad gesture could be set up as the trigger . <URL> Slate is an extremely customisable tool that allows you to set window layouts/positions through keyboard shortcuts . Combining this with a BTT gesture , you can create a gesture-driven window movement tool for free ! Slate is a window management application similar to Divvy and SizeUp ( except better and free ! ) . Originally written to replace them due to some limitations in how each work , it attempts to overcome them by simply being extremely configurable . As a result , it may be a bit daunting to get configured , but once it is done , the benefit is huge .
I 've managed to get pretty far on my own , so I 'm posting an answer . If someone else has a better way , I 'll be glad to accept their answer . I ran into some gotchas along the way , so I wanted to share those as well . Here are the steps I took . Make sure TextMate is not running on your new Mac . On your old Mac , tar up the TextMate and Avian folders under ~ / Library/Application Support : ( You may or may not have the Avian directory . If not , skip instructions related to that . ) Copy those two tar files to your new Mac and place them under ~ / Library/Application Support , and then extract them : Copy the TextMate . plist files from ~ / Library/Preferences on your old Mac over to the same locations on your new Mac . For me this was the following two files : ( Here is the ' gotcha ' which took me awhile to figure out . ) You need to unquarantine the files you just copied over to your new Mac . Do this ( on your new Mac ) by clearing the extended attribute as follows : The and options to say to handle all files in those directories ( recursive ) and delete the attribute specified . If you get a bunch of permission errors , place in front of the xattr commands . The above appears to have restored the majority of the TextMate " behaviors " from my old Mac to my new Mac . I still had to open up the TextMate - > Preferences menu and do a side-by-side comparison , checking and unchecking boxes for various settings that did not transfer over with the above steps . Update : If you have a . tm_properties file , e.g. , , you 'll also want to copy that over to your new Mac .
This is currently not possible ( iOS 8 , OS X 10.10.3 ) . A similar question has been asked on the Apple Communities forum , and the consensus there was that it 's not possible : <URL> It 's possible that Apple will add this functionality in a later version of their software/OS .
The trouble is in the handling of JPEG2000 image files . Some solutions are offered <URL> . If this was your problem , it was solved with the release of iOS 5 . Those images should be viewable now .
Look at the iOS app <URL> . GoodReader is a $ 5 app that allows you to transfer files from Windows , Mac OS X &amp; Linux via WiFi to your iPad , iPhone , or iPod Touch . You can then open the files in other apps based on the filetype .
Try putting the google docs into desktop mode . Click the Desktop link at the bottom of the page . View in : Mobile | Desktop Then select edit menu in Google docs then " Select all "
You can only sync local music ( music that exists in the iTunes library on the computer you sync your iPhone with ) .
Drag protocol can be a bit confusing , however , it does follow a recognisable pattern ... To the same volume Drag will move - unless the file is in a protected location [ root level of the volume , or in a protected System folder ] , in which case it will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will override the simple drag behaviour for protected files &amp; move instead [ but will need Admin authentication ] . To a different volume Drag will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will move [ ie , copy , then delete the original . ] So , Opt ⌥ always copies , but Cmd ⌘ reverses the default behaviour of just dragging . Worst case scenario - you can change your modifier key &amp; check the added icon on the file you 're dragging to see your end result , right up until you let go of the mouse button . Just to complete the set - Cmd ⌘ Opt ⌥ dragging will make an Alias at the destination . edit ... &amp; after all that I realise that Preview will not adhere to that behaviour ... Move appears to not be an option at all . Best guess is that you can not move an open document &amp; even hope that an app could keep track of where it went . The Finder can . You can move the file in the Finder whilst open in Preview , but then Preview will tell you you are working on a copy &amp; you need to save a fresh version . Pretty safe &amp; sensible behaviour , really .
Import/Export works differently in Xcode 5 + . <URL> shows you how to do it . Your account is shown under Xcode → Preferences → Accounts , and can be exported by clicking the gear icon ( ) in the lower-left .
You need to use your <URL> application for that and sync the iPhone again . There is no Group support but for reading on iOS . you ca n't create groups you ca n't move to and from groups you can only create a contact in a group if a group exists － Windows user can edit your group through iCloud.com / contacts
GoodReader ca n't do this and GoodReader suppport is unaware of a product that can , since they operate in this space I assume there is n't an iOS app for this . GoodReader can display PDF files , add annotations to them , and save those annotations to that specific file . Unfortunately it 's not able to edit the content of a PDF file , merge files or create new PDF files . On a computer , the software that does this is Adobe Acrobat Pro . Unfortunately I ca n't recommend an iOS app that can perform these functions .
I 've been using <URL> to do pretty much what you 're after . It 's got , what I consider to be , a much nicer UI that iTunes Remote Control . You install a server component on your iTunes machine and the remote component on the machine you want to control iTunes from and it just ... works . I 've been running it without any issues on Lion . It ran well for me on Snow Leopard as well .
Just move them is probably the best solution . The user caches and preference files stick with the user home folder , so other than convention - most cases it does n't really matter which volume contains an application . You 'll need or file permission tweaking to actually delete some of the apps , but I 've found no downsides to moving any apps to an external drive . Spotlight still indexes them , updates to the App Store work as long as the drive stays mounted when you want to see that an update is available . Tools like LaunchBar and others will probably need hand-holding to find your moved applications - especially if you do n't place them in / Applications on the destination volume . You will need to re-introduce the moved copies of the App to <URL> , but in some brief testing , the following apps worked flawlessly when moved to the root of an external drive . Mail iWork 09/Keynote Utilities/Terminal
end question
start question
How to watch movies on iPad ?
Plex Media Server offers " sync " functionality to devices if you have a Plex Pass subscription ( starts at $ 3.99 / month , less per month for longer subscription periods ) . You initiate the sync either from the Plex web app or device by selecting movie ( s ) to sync , and it then transcodes your selected media into a format appropriate for iPad . You then open the iOS app to download it directly to the device . See <URL> for a run-through . For adding torrents , the best solution I 've found is to use Dropbox . If you do n't already have a Dropbox account , <URL> . Download the <URL> onto your server . In the Mac menu bar , a new icon of an open box will appear . Tap on that , then tap on the folder icon to the left to open the Dropbox folder . Here , create a folder called " torrents " ( or whatever you like ) . In Transmission , go to Preferences > Transfers and set the Auto Add directory to the Dropbox directory you just created , which will be stored locally at / Users/yourusername/Dropbox / torrents / or whatever you called it . On the iPad , install the Dropbox client . Next time you want to add a torrent , act as if you 're downloading it to the iPad . Since you ca n't actually download files to the iPad , the screen will change to show the filename , and will have a " Open in Dropbox " link at the top-right . Tap on that , then select the torrents folder you created in Dropbox . Tap Save at the upper right . After a few seconds , the file will sync to Dropbox from the iPad , then from Dropbox to your server . Since Transmission is watching the directory where it will appear on your server , it will be picked up and automatically added . There 's a few steps involved in setting this workflow up , but once done , it 's maintenance-free .
Today I wore my Apple Watch on the inside of my wrist while weight lifting . I tightened it one additional notch compared to how I normally wear it during daily activities . Otherwise I had noticed that it would often lose my heart rate , even on the top of my wrist . This usually happened when my arms were vertical and/or the particular exercise required me to twist my wrists . I am happy to report my heart rate was detected without skipping a beat . The main downside is Activate On Wrist Raise is very finicky . I suppose that is to be expected since the Watch assumes it 's being worn on the top of your wrist . Possibly-relevant piece of information : I am Vietnamese with fairly light skin on the inside of my wrist . Your mileage may vary if you have darker skin . Also note that I 'm only verifying the proper function of the heart rate monitor . I have n't tested distance or step count estimates while wearing the device this way , although I do n't see why that should affect those functions . Edit : I tried again the following day and the Watch lost my pulse on occasion , on either side of my wrist , even when tightened as much as possible . I slid the Watch up my wrist a little and my pulse was detected correctly again . I think this is because when the Watch is too low , movements of your hand tug on the skin and make it harder to measure your blood flow .
The original Apple charger has an output limited to 2.1 A at 5.1 V. I occasionally charge my iPad 2 Wifi with the old charger of my passed Palm Pre . It provides an amperage of 1 A at standard 5 V USB voltage . I do n't know if you can go even lower than 1 A , but the standard USB amperage of .5 A is not enough to charge it . It should n't be a problem to get a car charger that is capable of handling 1 A , more is better . Make sure you buy one , that is capable of charging an iPhone as Apple devices tend to observe the USB standards and try to communicate with the charger . Some dumb China elcheapo chargers may not have USB logic inside and your iDevices could refuse to charge .
The charger is 10W like the old iPad . It 's called iPad 10W USB Power Adapter and has product number MC359LL . Specs and QnA are available at the Apple US <URL> .
Here is what you can do , on at least iOS 9 . Launch Notes on your iPhone or iPad While on the list of notes , enter Edit - mode . Select all of the Notes Tap on " Move to target . . " ( Might not be accurate translation ) Select " iCloud Notes " That 's all .
No , there is no such functionality on Apple Watch as standard as there are no text fields for entering text other than dictation .
I am assuming this process will work out to be the same as the current situation with iPhones : Backup your iPad using iTunes . Plug new iPad into same computer . Restore new iPad from old iPad backup . When this is done with an iPhone , the new iPhone will be configured exactly as the old one - save games , email apps , photos , everything is transfered . What happens is actually that the backup contains all app data + configuration . The rest is basically a list of stuff that should be synced from your computer to the device ( e.g. music , photos , apps ) .
There is n't a fixed amount of time to send on Watch OS 2.0 . It really depends on what you do next with the watch . If you do n't go on to other tasks , it appears to exist in a state where the " do n't send " is active for over 2 minutes - well past the point where the watch screen goes dim . I believe it 's about 20 seconds once you leave the watch alone to when the message posts , but I do n't get feedback and the time stamps on other devices round to the nearest minute , so getting a precise measure eluded me when testing this morning . I just place my hand over the entire screen to blank it when I want the send to be final and leave the watch alone for a bit .
Here 's a workaround , which also makes no sense : as explained at <URL> , switch iTunes to run in 32 bit mode via the Info box . This does n't explain parts 1-4 , but it does at least make the tracks playable . I 'd still love to know what is actually going on . Also , you can enable the " Kind " column and sort by it to discover which of your tracks have mysteriously been converted to Quicktime Movies .
In addition to the aluminium vs stainless steel case , The Apple Watch has a <URL> cover as opposed to the Apple Watch Sport 's <URL> cover . In addition , there are more options for bands that can be used with Apple Watch . Specifically , while the <URL> is sold just with the Sport band , the <URL> is available with the Sport Band , the Classic Buckle , the Milanese Loop , the Leather Loop , the Link Bracelet , and the Modern Buckle . However , you can purchase any band to go with your watch as every band will fit every watch . In effect , you can get the Apple Watch Sport model and then purchase the Milanese Loop to wear with it . Changing bands on all models is easy .
Have her go to Settings.app > Store - if your account is signed in , sign out . She can then sign in to her own account . Any apps you 've downloaded using that account will still prompt for that account 's password when they need updating , though .
On your iPad device tap on Settings > Store . Under where it says Automatic Downloads , make sure that Apps is set to Off . This setting keeps apps from automatically downloading new purchases made on other devices .
According to Apple , the built-in GPS of the Apple Watch series 2 will not kick in if the iPhone the watch is paired to is within range . So , depending on your workout , having the iPhone with you ( or nearby ) will result in the iPhone doing the grunt work to conserve power usage of the Apple Watch . Also , even if your iPhone is n't nearby , the Apple Watch GPS will not kick in unless you 're actually doing a workout . For example , if you forgot your iPhone at home when you went to work and did nothing but sit in a car or at your desk the whole day , then the GPS would have never kicked in . As for a setting to manually switch the GPS off , there was n't one in the beta versions of WatchOS 3 , but there are rumours that a future update may add this option . Hope this helps . [ EDIT ] I just wanted to clarify that whether the Apple Watch GPS kicks in or not will also depend on the actual workout . Basically , if it 's an indoor workout it wo n't , if it 's an outdoor workout it will ( i.e. if your iPhone is n't nearby ) . However , if it 's a swimming workout the GPS only kicks in if it 's an open water swim ( i.e not in the pool ) and you 're doing freestyle . Any other stroke the GPS wo n't kick in .
Apparently Apple Watch has Airplane Mode , which turns off both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi . [ To ] Turn on Airplane Mode . Swipe up on the watch face , swipe to the Settings glance , then tap the Airplane Mode button . The Connected status at the top of the screen changes to Disconnected . Or open the Settings app settings icon , then tap Airplane Mode . When Airplane Mode is on , you 'll see [ Airplane mode icon ] at the top of the screen . Source : <URL> .
It 's actually pretty simple , in that , if it is not in the app store it ca n't be installed , unless you want to go the jailbreak route because you found an " R " app for jailbroken IOS devices .
You can and you ca n't at the same time . Safari will load the PDF automatically and display it but it will offer a " Open In " button where you can send the PDF to another application if it is configured by the developer to accept PDFs ( eg . iBooks , GoodReader , etc. ) At present there is no way to direct it directly to another application unless that application will take a URL you could copy and paste .
No . I installed iOS 5.1 on a Wifi iPad 2 , and opened the notes app . No microphone icon is displayed on the keyboard as shown in the keynote or as one sees on the iPhone 4S . This means that voice dictation is a iPad ( 3rd Generation ) and iPhone 4S only feature . There may be apps that enable something like this in the App Store . I ca n't guess about the lower priced iPad 2 16 GB , but existing iPads do not seem to get this feature with the iOS 5.1 update .
Ok , it turns out that if you use AirDrop to send the Playground book to yourself , iOS offers to open it in the Swift Playgrounds app .
As with the iPhone , if you shake the iPad vigorously , you get offered the choice of : Undo Cancel For me , this does n't feel at all natural on the iPad , and I imagine that 's why some iPad applications ( e.g. Textastic ) provide their own Undo/Redo buttons . Edit Thanks to @Lizzan for also pointing out in the comments : There 's also an Undo button in the bottom left on the numerical keyboard - makes a bit more sense than shaking the iPad .
Yes , even W original can ! Check this video <URL> @ 4.05 <URL>
end question
start question
How do I know if I have the Lion recovery partition set up ?
In the Terminal ( located at ) type : You know that you have a Recovery Partition installed if you see this entry :
No Currently in Lion the preference for reverse scrolling sets the direction for both mice and trackpads . If you want to switch directions quickly you might look into <URL> which puts the option in the menubar .
You could install <URL> . Then you will be able to start a ftp server in few clicks .
The feature description is a bit misleading . It appears that by " close Notes " , Apple means " close the main Notes window " , not " close the Notes app " , which ( not surprisingly ) leaves other windows open . In fact , the context menu refers to the main Notes window as Notes : So what Apple 's description basically means : Even if you close Notes , the note stays open on your desktop . = You do n't need to use the overview window at all times . You can use similar to By the way , is still available in Mountain Lion and has been upgraded to version 9.0 .
They decided to not bother trying to get Gutenprint to work ; they bought a new printer .
If it just sits at the grey screen and the option boot or C boot does n't work , it is 98 % probable that your hard drive or hard drive cable have failed . Time to head to your local apple store .
You should boot on the <URL> and use Terminal there to unlock the drive using the recovery key ( you ca n't check the recovery key if you are booted on the crypted disk , since the unlocking process will fail : already unlocked ) . To start with , you will need to identify the Logical Volume UUID of the encrypted drive using the diskutil corestorage list command : Running that command will give you a listing of all Core Storage volumes . Once you have the UUID of the encrypted volume , you can then unlock the encrypted volume using the following commands : When prompted enter the passphrase you would like to test . This article provides more information and screenshots , <URL> .
( Sorry for the lack of screenshots ; I 'm writing from a Windows machine right now ) Go to Mail > Preferences > Rules Click " Add Rule " For Description , enter " BCC " For the conditions , select " Any Recipient " " Does not contain " and enter your address in the third field For action , select " Set Color " " of background " " Purple " ( or whatever color you chose ) and click OK . From then on , incoming messages not sent " To : " or " CC : " you will be marked in that color .
No . CDMA will only work of you buy and activate your 4S device onto a CDMA carrier . The <URL> shows that when you activate the phone it will choose one technology for coverage in country . GSM Registered phones will roam on GSM as will CDMA phones . Sprint should work in 35 unnamed countries and Verizon in 40 at launch .
Yes , It will be possible to update to the iOS 8 public when Apple releases to the public . The update could be done via iTunes or OTA .
You can recreate the Lion Recovery Partition by following the instructions available at this Apple support document : <URL> Note , you are not supposed to be able to see the recovery partition in normal use , so can you clarify how you have identified it is missing ? What happend when you boot with the CMD-R keys held down ?
Start by reading <URL> from Apple , which explains the recovery partition in Lion . From the article : OS X Lion includes a new feature called Lion Recovery that includes all of the tools you need to reinstall Lion , repair your disk , and even restore from a Time Machine backup without the need for optical discs . In short , if you remove this partition you 'll need a Lion USB drive , or physical media to perform the actions described by Apple above . To reclaim the space of the recovery partition follow the steps below : Open Terminal.app Run the commands below ( omit the # and everything after ) One thing to note here , you can only merge consecutive partitions . If you have disk0s2 and disk0s4 running will merge partitions disk02s2 , disk02s3 , disk02s4 . Also , only the data on the first partition will be preserved when merging . As an example , if your Recovery HD is disk0s3 and your OS partition is disk0s4 , merging using is not possible . Use extreme caution modifying your partition table , and I 'd highly recommend taking a full backup before hand .
Go to iTunes on a computer and select your Account ( on the right hand side of the window towards the top once you are signed in ) . Select Manage Devices under iTunes in the Cloud . All computers in this list count against the 5 total computer authorizations each Apple ID can have . <URL>
Method # 1 The easiest way would be to access your network router 's administration page . It will have information about any other devices on the network , including IP address . Method # 2 If you know the computer 's network name you can it in the Terminal . It will return the computer 's IP address . Method # 3 If you do n't know the computer 's network name , there 's another trick you can do using . Find your IP address and your subnet mask . Both should be visible in the Network preference pane of System Preferences . Line up your IP address and your subnet mask , and replace any values in the subnet mask with in the same relative position of the IP address . For example , if you have the following IP address and subnet mask , respectively : The is in the last field of the subnet mask , so you replace the last field of the IP address with and ping it : You should get a response with the IP address of any device on the network capable of responding to pings . Method # 4 Last trick is to use the terminal command . This will show the IP and MAC address of all devices on the network that it knows about . Last two tricks courtesy of <URL> Macworld article .
As long as you log in on both iOS devices with your same login from Apple ( or backup and install them with the same login on your Mac/PC with iTunes ) , you will be able to use the same apps and other data without the need to purchase them again . You can still manage your apps separately for each device : For instance , iTunes will keep them apart ( you get to name each device yourself ) , and you can install different sets of apps and photos , music and all on the devices . But anything that comes from the App Store is linked to your Apple ID login - and once you 've purchase something with your ID , you can install it on all your devices .
You can set the default boot disk in System Preferences > Startup Disk .
I 've not tried this myself but <URL> on ehow.com makes it look fairly simple using iTunes . Basically as long as the host computer is authorised for iTunes use , you can connect your old iPod , right click on the icon from within iTunes and select Transfer Purchases to get the apps onto iTunes . Then connect the target device and sync the applications to it .
Yes , Download <URL> again from the <URL> and create a bootable USB from the new downloaded files . Either by using Disk Utility or by using <URL> . Full tutorial <URL>
The code points should be shown in the right sidebar if you 've enabled the Unicode category from the Customize List ... sheet .
Go to <URL> and register . Then <URL> and <URL> . This will then connect to <URL> and update your DNS information whenever your Mac is connected to the internet . You could then use SSH or other means to log onto your Mac from an iPhone or other computer/Mac by connecting to the URL ( e.g. - mymacbook.dyndns.com ) you select upon registering on dyndns.com . There are another couple of steps . You need to get your broadband router to forward traffic coming in on specific ports to your Mac . You should be able to find a how-to on <URL> for your router model . You also need to setup a static IP for your Mac which is best done on your router . Your routers documentation should tell you how to do this .
end question
start question
What did iOS do before multitasking ?
The app switcher came with limited multitasking . Before that , you pressed the home button and the front program stopped running .
Now that more " truth " has come out , this leak was from <URL> and by <URL> <URL> <URL> , the leak did not in fact contain the either volume of UDID or the additional personal data that would strike anyone as " concerning . " The leak was of data collected according to the existing policy by Apple and the app store and is not at all unique as hundreds of companies will have that volume and type of data due to the past use of UDID to identify customers . The leaked document itself is mostly harmless from a technical standpoint , but quite shocking if you expected to be private and now have some details exposed publicly . It contains one line with the following types of information for each device that is purported to be listed : UDID , APNS token , device name , device type Unless you are a programmer and run a service that could push a message through Apple 's push notification service ( APNS ) , then you ca n't really take any action whatsoever based on the leaked file . If you do have records of transactions that list a UDID or a device name / type and wanted to confirm another piece of information , this file could be used to link two pieces of information together if you already had that information . The real security ramifications are that this " leak " is from a spreadsheet file that supposedly contains 12 million entries - not the million that were leaked . The best information we have ( if you believe the <URL> which has some mild profanity if you care about that sort of thing ) is that the real data that was stolen also had very personal information like zip codes , telephone numbers , addresses and full names of people associated with the UDID and APNS tokens . That sort of information in a the hands of a skilled person ( government employee , hacker , or simply an engineer with a grudge against you ) is something that could do damage to most of us in terms of violating our privacy . Nothing in this release would seem to compromise the security of your using the device - but it does make things that would normally be seen as anonymous less so if the FBI is regularly carrying around lists of millions of subscriber information that would let them tie logs of application use to a specific device or a specific person . The worst case event with the data leaked today would be someone who has already registered with Apple to send push notifications could perhaps attempt to send unsolicited messages to the million devices ( assuming the APNS tokens are still valid ) or otherwise correlate a device name with an UDID if they had access to sensitive logs or a database from a developer or another entity . This leak does n't allow remote access in the way that knowing a password and user ID would .
Yes , this would be known . First , the old Apple TV wo n't be getting the update ( since its now iOS based ) , and therefore wont support airplay . Not sure of any workarounds for an old Apple TV that use the actual AirPlay standard . A hack may exist after 4.2 has been out for a while , but I think most people decided to just move to the new Apple TV instead .
This was changed in Lion along with the introduction of Auto Save and Versions . Save As is still available by holding ⌥ alt whilst in the menus .
Nvidia offers a CUDA driver and OpenGL driver , for use with their API 's . The application would need to be recompiled with these options for the . app to use the cuda driver . Here is the latest info , from a last month ... <URL> Scroll down to mac OSX section for some good non-programmer - adv programmer info .
lsd in iOS is the LaunchServiceDaemon . It provides according to <URL> support for launching apps and matching document types to apps . As a result , the keys recognized by Launch Services allow you to specify the desired execution environment for your bundled code . Despite the name nothing to worry about .
Tap , and hold the image ; then choose " copy , " open a new browser window , and paste into the address bar .
Dragging a drive into the trash just means " eject " , not " delete contents " . Since USB ca n't be physically ejected , it just unmounts it . Emptying the trash has no effect in this case . Unplug it , wait a few seconds , plug it back in , and it should show up . If you do n't want to unlpug and plug it back in , see for CLI solutions , or for GUI .
The answer was indeed to reset the NVRAM by holding cmd-alt-p-r during boot . Cheers :)
I finally found the solution to the Quicken on Mac problem . I downloaded Oracle Virtual Box , a free tool that allows me to run Windows on my Mac . ( Windows becomes a separate running application , that you can tab to ) . Then I installed Quicken . The original one and only ! Note , to do this approach , you need to have a Windows IOS file ( ie an installation CD )
Double-hitting the key ( at the key place ) will bring the multitasking bar much like the button on your iPad . Confirmed on my iPad Apple keyboard dock .
" Allow Full Access " has nothing to do with using the actual keyboard . The keyboard is accessible for you to use throughout the system regardless of this setting . In short , allowing full access grants the developer of the keyboard additional access to some of your information and gives the developer access to the internet . From the <URL> under " Designing for User Trust " , Allow Full Access does this : Keyboard can access Location Services and Address Book , with user permission Keyboard can send keystrokes and other input events for server-side processing Containing app can provide editing interface for keyboard 's custom autocorrect lexicon Keyboard can employ iCloud to ensure settings and autocorrect lexicon are up to date on all devices Keyboard can participate in Game Center and In-App Purchase The second bullet point is what Apple really wants you to understand . With Allow Full Access a developer COULD send your keystrokes to their server for processing , which might include : analyzing your sentence for grammar analyzing a word for spelling predicting the word you are typing . Apple is highlighting the fact that a developer COULD use your keystrokes for nefarious reasons instead of the legitimate reasons I listed above . It is possible for a developer to record your sensitive information such as credit card number or street address . In my opinion , it is not possible for a developer to write a fully-fledged keyboard extension without requesting full access . Without Full Access I ca n't utilize In-App Purchases , I ca n't sync your preferences using iCloud , I can not even provide a basic auto-correct feature . I just finished developing a keyboard extension for iOS . My keyboard never sends your keystrokes across the internet . I will never see what you have typed . There are no privacy concerns in my opinion , yet you still receive a scary message from Apple when you turn on Allow Full Access . If you have concerns about turning Allow Full Access ON , ask the developer how they are using your data/keystrokes . One additional note , you can not use a custom keyboard to type into a password field . iOS will always use the system keyboard for password fields . Developers that do process your keystrokes will not have access to your passwords , unless you type your passwords into a non-password field .
You will have to download the GM seed from the Developer Portal to move off the Beta . This will once again be a complete clean and restore so make sure your backups are up to date before starting . Barring any last minute showstoppers the GM build will be the released version .
1 ) That entirely depends on what you want to do . There are a bunch of app recommendation discussions here based around games , productivity , etc. . Rather than rehash them , I 'd suggest searching those out . 2 ) Plug it into a USB port on your computer . The phone also comes with a wall adapter for the USB cable so you can charge it from a wall socket . 3 ) Do n't stick it in the oven or the freezer and you should be fine .
There are many iOS devices ( some with previous generation hardware and running older iOS ) . If the original question is referring to iPad , iPad 2 , iPod Touch 4th Generation , and iPhone 4 , there are now two new optional Apple accessories available at Apple Store ( US ) . Both allows video out ( up to 1080p and mirroring for iPad 2 ; up to 720p with no mirroring for the rest i.e. iPad , iPod Touch 4th gen , and iPhone 4 ) : <URL> <URL>
This depends on several factors and is not generally tied to a fixed time schedule - active usage of the device , push notifications to apps , location based updates and iOS 7 's learning ability to optimize based on your usage patterns for apps . From <URL> ( bold italic emphasis mine ) : Certain tasks or services can continue to run in the background . To lessen the affect on battery life , normal app background refreshing is scheduled for efficient times , such as when your device is connected to Wi-Fi , plugged into a power source , or being actively used . You can adjust your apps ' background activity in Settings > General > Background App Refresh . When Background App Refresh is on , apps that take advantage of this feature can refresh themselves in the background . For example , an app can check if new content is available and download the updates , or retrieve the updated content in the background when it receives a push notification , so the new content is ready for viewing when you launch the app . Apps can also schedule background refreshing based on your location . iOS learns patterns based on your use of the device and tries to predict when an app should be updated in the background . It also learns when the device is typically inactive , such as during the night , to reduce update frequency when the device not used . To improve battery life , you could selectively turn off background refresh for certain apps from Settings > General > Background App Refresh .
There are a variety of iOS icon templates available for free on the web -- the best I 've seen so far is from <URL> -- that will offer up this information ( and possibly even obviate the need to know entirely ) . There is even a ( very ) short discussion about the corner radii . A quick search for will return a lot of similar results .
What you can do is to check if you are running the right build . It 's just to check that you are not still running the developer preview . Lion is free for developers anyway , so that might be the reason you got it for free .
Realistically , you need an Intel Mac , the cheapest possible one will do , and access to at least 1 to 3 iOS devices . One device for the current OS release , one device running the OS release of the oldest OS you plan on supporting , and perhaps one dedicated test device for doing beta OS app testing . If you want to do Universal apps , at least 1 iPad and one non-iPad , as there are many things that ca n't be fully tested on the iOS Simulator . Going forward , a Mac that can run Lion may end up being required to keep up with the latest SDK frameworks , codesigning tools and app submission tools . You need to register any iOS devices that you want to use for app testing . They do n't need to belong to you or your company . Multiple developers can register the same shared devices . You do n't need to " register " any Macs . You do need to create and/or copy private keys and certificates to each Mac that you want to use for device testing development or app store submission . Unrealistically , you could get by with none . No devices or owned Macs are required . ( There are online tools that will pretty much construct an entire native app Xcode project . ) Have a friend or consultant with a Mac get your certificates and do the final codesigning ; and let your customers be your beta testers . But the latter could easily lead to apps that get rejected or that crash for most of your customers . And the non-Mac development tools all have various ( some severe ) deficiencies .
No , unless you buy a specific mouse The option to define custom mouse acceleration curves was present in OS X 10.4 , but apple simplified it in 10.5 , and removed it entirely in 10.6 . <URL> is a supposedly forthcoming pref-pane that completely replaces the OS X mouse HID kext . However , development is really slow , or stalled . Personally , I have poked about a bit in the kernel myself , but am unfamiliar with kernel programming . Fixing the mouse acceleration on OS X will at minimum require a custom kext , which is non-trivial to code . The option that is out there is to buy a Microsoft mouse , and use it on OS X. Microsoft has released <URL> for their mice that <URL> . Essentially , the windows " Enhance Pointer Precision " option applies linear velocity-based acceleration to the mouse movements , e.g. the distance moved is proportional to the speed the mouse moves . Think of it as basically having the DPI of the mouse inversely proportional to the mouse 's speed . OS X on the other hand , has a stepped acceleration curve , where the mouse moves at one DPI when slow , and another when moved faster then a threshold . There are pref-panes that let you disable OS X 's acceleration curve , but none that allow you to substitute windows . As far as I can tell ( and this is opinion ) , this curve is optimized for trackpads . In my opinion , it is more then useless for mice ( using a mac mouse actually damaged my mousing efficacy on windows , which really affects my work ( CAD Stuff ) ) . Personally , I have entirely dispensed with the idea of using a mouse on OS X , and ust bought a Magic Trackpad .
end question
start question
Is it possible to drag the Dock around the screen ?
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
<URL> - look for Apple USB to dock connector in the store . It also comes with most chargers and dock accessories if you want a bundle .
This is currently not possible . You can provide feedback to Apple here : <URL>
As far as I know , this is not possible . iPad is not made to be a multi-user device . I am in a similar situation myself as I share the iPad with my wife but have n't yet fixed it . Some alternatives : Set a different account as default account in Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars . It could even be a dummy account . At least it means email will not be sent accidentally from your address . In Settings > Mail , Contacts , Calendars > [ Your email account ] , you can turn off Mail temporarily . It does not provide any security though , anyone can just turn it on again . If you want to guarantee security , you need to use something like Gmail in Safari and login and logout every time .
By all means - vote with your wallet . It 's trivial for a trained technician to replace the hard drive on a Time Capsule . Rather than put the rubber covering back on the base , you can use <URL> to raise the capsule up from it 's shelf . Most feel iFixit has decent <URL> if you care to DIY .
Grab ( mouse click ) the item you want to drag from say the desktop or email . Hit on the keyboard to switch through the open apps you have running ( holding down continuously , and hitting repeatedly ) tell you get to the app you want to drop the file on . KEEP HOLDING DOWN ON THE MOUSE BUTTON WHILE YOU DO THIS . When the app you want to drag the item to is the foreground app , you should simply be able to drop ( let go of the mouse button ) the item you 've been dragging , and it should be copied or attached to that app .
In the Finder 's preferences , there is an option at the bottom of the General pane for " Spring-loaded folders and windows " that seems to control this . You can adjust the delay using the slider there , and also ( as it notes ) press the spacebar when dragging an item to invoke Exposé immediately . It 's not a hidden preference ( in the sense that you need to get at it ) so much as a preference in a somewhat unexpected place . ;)
No - the mouse is aligned on the " fake " size of the screen and not the true screen pixel grid in most cases . The concept of a physical pixel and a display pixel is a distinct one on retina displays since the hardware reports movements on a resolution-independant scale . Furthermore , there appear to be <URL> in the code side of things so even if the developer wanted to determine the next pixel 's color it appears the routine that reports mouse position does n't count physical pixels on this model screen . There is a nice , very technical article by one of the programmers for Xscope - <URL> that explains a bit how the resolution that the software is told to draw gets translated into the actual on screen pixels which is fixed . As an aside - the <URL> program is free to try and puts the digital color meter to shame on many aspects of determining color and much , much more .
I 'm using since years the app CallTell available on cydia ( so available only for jailbroken devices ) . I 've tried it on iPhone 3GS , 4,4 s and now 5 and it worked fine , even though since I 've updated to iOS 6.0.1 I 'm having some bugs on it , the reason why I was here looking around if there is another app doing the same job ... but I really encourage you guys to try it if you have none . The app does n't add an icon on your home screen , is set up on the device settings screen . The app speaks call , messages ( caller and/or text ) and even applications notifications . All of these things can the configured on silent , ringing of both modes . You can put it on , off and even configure the text to speak before the name
At one time or another I have deleted a whole bunch of the standard issue programs that I knew I would n't use . I prefer not to have them wasting my space , however little it may be . Also , I use a Mac Mini as a media centre , changing the standard hdd for an ssd , so space is at a premium . Appcleaner is one app that I have used for several years to tidy stuff up . Never had a single issue with deleting Stickies , Notes , Bootcamp Assistant , Audio Midi Setup , RAID , Podcast , etc , etc. . Appcleaner preferences should be set up to delete " protected " apps and then will delete the app and all the other files ( plists , etc. ) that go with it . Another app , CleanMyMac , does the same , but will also do a more general clearout of caches , etc. . Both recommended ... Good luck !
The filename given in the " Save service as : " sheet , to the saved Automator Service , is what will appear on the Services context menu , sans the file extension . It is fixed , sans renaming it , and can not be a dynamic name automatically , as no mechanism is provided for it in a user made Automator Service .
Yes , it is possible . It is bootable , and will be able to do a complete clean install ( with you having to format the hard disk first ) . Also , if you have installed Lion already , you would be able to do a reinstall by holding ⌥ Option on bootup and selecting Recovery HD . Wait for it to load , and you will be able to see an option for reinstalling .
To give a clear answer to the question that was asked , which is whether a device can be updated to the latest version of iOS it supports , even if that version of iOS is no longer current . Yes , it is possible . Software Update , either on the device or via iTunes , will offer the latest version that is supported by your device . I ca n't readily find an official reference for this but it is supported by numerous other answers to similar questions on this site .
Natively no , the iPhone is limited to what is parable to it , and the functions once it is paired . . With a jailbroken iPhone there may be some third party software out there .
Unfortunately no , but this is something I would also greatly appreciate .
Apple Mail does n't have a way to do this natively . I ca n't think of another email client that does what you 're describing either . Here are some ideas and workarounds that might help you accomplish something similar to what you describe ; perhaps one of them will suit your needs . The closest option in Apple Mail is to use flags . That only gives you the ability to flag a message . You ca n't even add a note , let alone highlight the text and annotate it . You could try a third-party application like <URL> ( Mavericks 10.9 support is currently in beta ) . It 's a paid application with a robust tagging system , as well as the ability to add notes . This is n't a perfect solution since it does n't allow you to highlight specific text within the email . MailTags has a free demo ; you might want to download it and see if you can reach a solution that works for you . Another option would be to try Outlook : Mac . It has both categories and flags built in . You can also do things like create a task or a note from a message . Once you have created a task or a note from a message , you can do things like highlight text , but not annotate it . It also is n't the original message , but rather a copy of the message . If you do find something that works for what you want to accomplish , please do share it here . Being more effective with email is a goal for many people , after all .
More reading on <URL> indicates that the warranties are not honored internationally for iPads and iPhones . If you buy somewhere and it breaks , you will likely have to send it back to the country of purchase . Apparently , this is because most countries have their own warranty laws .
There 's a way to take a screenshot on the Apple Watch , and it 's exactly what you 'd expect it to be if you 're familiar with the iPhone 's screenshot function . Press and hold the Digital Crown . Immediately press and release the side button . Release the Digital Crown . You should see the screen flash and get some haptic feedback acknowledging it , and then the screenshot should show up in Camera Roll . Good luck ! <URL>
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
No . These apps would then also accessible from the lock screen which would open a whole can of worms about security . Even the standard Apple apps do have problems with that sometimes , it would be even worse with 3rd party apps .
end question
start question
Is there Maps application on non-3G iPad 2 ?
Yes , as is now disclosed in the location database kerfuffle , iOS will cache wifi and cell tower location near it 's location so that when internet access is temporarily unavailable , the device can still <URL> based on what the WiFi receiver is seeing for SSID . So , I have had my non 3G iPad correctly locate itself driving down the highway 50 miles from where it last had a WiFi connection . If I have purchased any map product that stores it 's own map tiles , it would work . Even the built in map program caches tiles , so I would generate driving directions and step through all the turns to download the map tiles along the way on the device . As long as the device does n't quit that app / purge those downloaded tiles , the built in map works well for me without 3G data . Of course , you do n't have actual control over downloading a region of tiles or controlling which wifi hotspots are downloaded into the system cache . Also - this means if you are outside the range of any WiFi signal ( or the ones that are nearby are not mapped in the database ) - your device is clueless at to it 's location . Basically , the hardware limits the ability to use GPS and cellular data and maps are not further handicapped just because a non-3G iPad has less connectivity . Pick the app you like and see how it works in your enviroment . You can always <URL> if you ca n't sell and re-buy a new iPad for less than the cost of an external receiver .
The saved games are usually stored locally on the device , even if they are synchronised by iCloud . If you sign out of your iTunes account and sign in with his new one , there should n't be any loss of save game data at all . If , however , you want to wipe the iPad and set it up anew for him , you 'll need to backup the save information and restore it to the iPad after the clean install . To do this , I would recommend <URL> ( formerly Disk Aid ) . It 's a great app , available for both OS X and Windows , that lets you drill down into your apps to retrieve data . I would recommend doing a full backup in iTunes first , then use iMazing and save the " Documents " and " Library " folders from each app with a save game , so you have two backups just in case anything goes wrong . Then , once you 've restored the iPad to factory settings and reinstalled the games , just use iMazing again to copy the folders back in to their respective apps .
No , there 's no official , Apple-approved replacement for the lock screen . If you really want to use Android Lock , you must jailbreak and then install it via Cydia . Un-jailbroken phones can only do what Apple allows , which is to run one app at a time . Android Lock is different because what it does is to modify the basic system of the phone , which Apple does n't allow . And that is the reason why such apps or modifications are only available on jailbroken phones ( through Cydia , the jailbroken appstore ) .
" Set Automatically " takes the time from the cellular network . If you remove the SIM card ( or just keep the phone in airplane mode with Wi-Fi enable ) , the time will never get updated . From the <URL> ( available in iTunes ) : If iPhone is set to update the time automatically , it gets the correct time over the cellular network and updates it for the time zone you 're in . Some carriers do n't support network time in all areas . If you 're traveling , iPhone may not be able to automatically set the local time .
I did searches for Tolstoy , Pushkin , and Dostoyevski and found at least one Russian language book under each one . Are these not there for you ?
The <URL> will do this . There are a number of other solutions mentioned at <URL> .
Yes . Omit the " loc : " and just enter the coordinates . 40.748342 , -73.984606 will drop a pin right on the Empire State Building .
There are a few devices I found that have been recently added to the market <URL> <URL> Both allow you to connect and record in real time exercise data in association with their and other third party apps ( <URL> and Wahoo have a list <URL> ) What I have not been able to confirm is whether it will provide upload facility from devices after being out of range as you want . My assumption is yes it can , since you can get swim watch data entry . All the products were originally designed for iPhone and I do n't see any issue with running them on an ipad
A cursory look at the iTunes Store reveals <URL> ( iTunes Store Link ) . Since you can not compile on the iPad itself , this app leverages a web service ( <URL> ) in order to run the program and return the results to your device . The app is USD$ 3 and a universal binary ( iPhone + iPad ) . The web service appears to be free , if not just a little ugly :) .
I believe the iPhone 3G and the iPad 3G use very different baseband processors and putting the firmware from one on the other , if possible , would probably brick it . It 's akin to trying to put the BIOS for a Toshiba computer onto a Dell . Then again , I 'm not entirely sure on this one .
You do n't have a Rev A iPad 2 -- the MC979 is an iPad2 ,1 ( 16 GB White ) . The Rev A iPad 2 ( iPad2 ,4 -- A1395 ) model numbers start with MC954 ( black ) or MC989 ( white ) . They use the <URL> . Source : <URL> To view your model number , you can find it in Settings & rarr ; About .
This seems like it would be a good solution for you . No installation required , it should run on almost any desktop . <URL> This product also may meet your needs . <URL>
It does n't rely on the same system , but the <URL> can provides you anonymity while connected to the internet . It fully works under Snow Leopard without Rosetta . WARNING : With this kind of softwares , the final node of the system ( last Tor node or the VPN company ) can , technically ( understand " if it wants " ) , see all your data going through it ! The system grants anonymity not secure connection ! The connection is secured between you and the last node at the minimum , the rest depends on you . So , always use secure connections ( SSH , SSL/TLS , ... ) when using these systems . By the way , the same principle apply with your ISP , you just have to choose someone to trust !
You can do this using AppleScript : 1 . Open AppleScript Editor 2 . Paste following code : property appName : " Mail " property minSecsBetweenLaunches : 600 -- seconds property checkEvery : 5 -- seconds -- DO NOT MODIFY AFTER THIS LINE IF NOT SURE -- property lastSeenOpen : " " property lastMailState : " " on run idle end run on idle my check ( ) return checkEvery -- check every n seconds end idle on check ( ) tell application " Finder " to set processes_names to name of processes if ( lastMailState is " " ) then -- First run set lastMailState to ( processes_names contains appName ) if lastMailState then set lastSeenOpen to current date end if else if ( processes_names contains appName ) then if ( lastMailState is false ) then -- App just started set lastMailState to true if ( lastSeenOpen is not " " ) then -- Already been launched , check if launch allowed set timeLeft to minSecsBetweenLaunches - ( ( current date ) - lastSeenOpen ) if ( timeLeft > 0 ) then tell application appName to quit activate display dialog " Wait " & timeLeft & " sec . before opening " & appName & " again . " end if end if end if set lastSeenOpen to current date else if ( lastMailState is true ) then -- App just quit set lastMailState to false end if end if end if end check 3 . Adjust settings The 3 first lines of the script can be edited to fit your needs . By default , check every 5 seconds if Mail has not been seen open since 10 min ( which is 600 seconds ) . 4 . Create the app File menu > Export Choose app name &amp; destination select to export as Application check " stay open ... " 5 . Hide from dock In the Finder , find the app you just exported , then right-click on it , and select " Show package content " . Then open " Info.plist " of the " Contents " folder in TextEdit , and , before the last < / dict > of the file , paste : < key > LSBackgroundOnly < / key > < string > 1 < / string > For info , after edit , end of my file looks like : [ ... ] < string > event log < / string > < / dict > < key > LSBackgroundOnly < / key > < string > 1 < / string > < / dict > < / plist > And save it of course . 6 . Set your app as startup item System Preferences > Users > ...
4.2.1 is officially the latest supported version for the iPhone 3G , but you can supposedly install iOS 5 on it with this method : <URL> In the video , it shows the Messages app on the homescreen , so that ought to work for you .
The only other app on the Mac that can access photostream is Aperture . So your choices are migrate to Aperture - and that 's even less designed with sharing in mind - or fix iPhoto . Performance issues like you describe can be down to a number of issues - Disk Space , Ram , bunged up caches and so on . What fixes have you tried ?
From the iLounge <URL> Thus far iOS 4.2 appears to perform as well as iOS 4.1 did under similar conditions . Performance even on older devices such as the iPhone 3G is the same as iOS 4.1 and thus far we have n't observed any significant changes in battery life .
Found exactly what you are looking for . It 's called <URL> by , of all people lol , ... MySpace . Needless to say , it 's free and also can optionally post to Facebook &amp; MySpace simultaneously . It 's not too shabby actually .
It 's not locked to any one carrier so you should be able to insert a Micro SIM card for your local carrier and it will work . The catch is that there are different sets of GSM frequencies in use , so you should verify that your chosen carrier uses frequencies supported by the iPad . Odds are it will work , but better to be safe . From the <URL> , here is what it supports : UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) The broader situation is that the only problematic ( less interoperable ) 3G iPad is the Verizon-specific model sold in the USA
As you 've noticed , the <URL> . This is by design . The 3G radio consumes less battery power . When does the iPhone switch back to 3G even if it has WiFi signal ? As soon as you wake the phone it will being re-enabling sleep-disabled services like the WiFi radio . If you were previously joined to a wireless network that is still within range your phone should re-join that network a few seconds after you wake it up . Here is where problems can crop up - a burp in your router or temporary interference can prevent the WiFi from rejoining and if your data coverage is fast enough , you may not notice you are now on paid 3G data . Especially if you are streaming video or playing a game and the menu bar is hidden . If will switch back to 3G if you tell it to forget the current Wi-Fi network it 's joined to and have it set to no auto-join any other known network in range . Or shortly after you put it back to sleep . Can I modify this behavior somewhere ? All of the Wi-Fi behaviour is set using the Settings app , under the Wi-Fi menu . You can turn the Wi-Fi radio off completely here . This will stop the phone from searching for wireless networks altogether and you 'll be running completely on cellular data services . ( See # 1 in screen shot ) You can set what the phone does if the Wi-Fi radio is on , networks are detected , but it is not currently joined to any of them . In this circumstance the phone can prompt you to join a network or do nothing and let you manually join a network if you so desire . ( See # 2 in the screen shot ) . You can also manually chose a network here . And , if you 're currently joined to a network , you can click the > arrow next to its name to get the details and , if you want to , " forget " the network and disconnect from it .
end question
start question
How to stop photos taken in Notes being saved in Photo library ?
Yes . That is possible in iOS 10 or later version ( I think ) . However to do that simply you have to turn off a specific option provided in Notes settings . Method Goto Settings - > Notes Then turn off Save Media to Photos . That will solve your problem .
You can only manually add photos to photostream from iPhoto or Aperture not from the iOS device currently , So you 'd need to sync with iPhoto and manually add to photostream through that .
Notes are stored locally without limit other than storage space on the iOS device . They <URL> and there is a web app for viewing / editing the notes . They do count towards your 5 GB of free iCloud storage that you get by virtue of operating an iOS device . Should you need more storage than that , you can pay yearly . If you do n't sync the notes to the cloud , then that limit is not in effect . Whether or not you sync with iCloud , the notes are stored locally on the iPad .
The relatively difficult-to-find solution to the problem is to go to the Note you wish to lock : in the top-right corner , tap the " Share " icon on the bottom row , there will be a lock symbol with a caption that says " Lock Note " . select that symbol you will be prompted to create a password that locks this note , but remember that this single password will secure all your protected notes , not just the note you 're on . You can also use Touch ID to secure your notes . Remember that if you secure the note , it will no longer be accessible by devices running versions of OS X older than 10.11.4 , or devices running a version of iOS different from 9.3 or higher . Next time you try to open that Note ( or others that are locked with the passcode ) , you 'll be prompted for your password to unlock it . You can change the Notes password by going to your Home screen , then Settings > Notes > Password .
Try pressing Command ⌘ while you left-click on the document window title text . It will show the folder hierarchy in a pop-up menu .
Choose > I have just opened Notes on El Capitan to verify this . Please click on Notes in the menu bar , then click on to access the local storage facility . The new group will appear upon clicking this option . <URL> <URL>
The answer I went with was to contact Apple 's support . After spending about 4 hours on the phone over 3 different occasions the problem still is n't solved . They are going to get back to me again hopefully .
The icon in the menu bar with binoculars inside of a screen is definitely the way to disconnect . Thanks to Chard Marmon for the answer in the comments of my question .
iCloud Photo Library is available starting 2015 on OS X Until now , you have the chance to sync between iOS devices running both iOS 8 and have Photo Library activated . activate Photo stream and see your photos in iPhoto iCloud Photo Library is still Beta , and will come to the Mac in 2015 , and to the icloud.com as well .
Under Preferences , select " Include location information for published items " . You then probably need to delete and re-create your shared album to get the location metadata
According to <URL> by Serenity Caldwell of iMore , there are three ways to share photos to all your family members . Use the " Family " album that is automatically created if you have Family Sharing turned on . Create a shared album . Use the same iCloud account for all family members . Nevertheless , there does n't seem to be a way to automatically share all your photos to your family members . You will still need to copy photos into the share album . ( Unless you are all using the same iCloud account , which I did n't want to do , since each user already have their own active iCloud accounts . )
Under displays in system preferences there is a checkbox ( along with a brightness slider ) to enable/disable automatic brightness .
Closing the last window of an application does n't necessarily close the application . For example , opening two TextEdit windows and then closing them both ( kbd > Cmd-W or click the red close button top-left of window ) will not close TextEdit . This allows one to click File > New ( or Cmd-N ) to open and work on a new TextEdit document . You may be familiar with how Microsoft Windows manages applications . It actually opens a new instance of Firefox , for example , for each window that you open . On the Mac , that 's not necessarily the case . People who learn to use Microsoft Windows before learning the Mac are often confused at first because the Mac uses a different conceptual model . This is how Macs have always been , more or less . Mac users get used to typing Cmd-Q if they want to completely quit an application . Often , this is not necessary . But if your machine does n't have much RAM , you may notice memory hogs like browsers slowing things down .
No , not directly . The Mac Pro uses full-sized desktop DIMM modules , whereas the Macbook pro uses laptop-sized SO-DIMM modules . These can not be directly swapped without a passive adapter , which I honestly would n't think makes much sense to bother with given how <URL> .
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
Go to System Preferences > Keyboard > Keyboard Shortcuts > Mission Control and change the settings for " Move left a space " and " Move right a space " or disable them completely .
Mail.app > Preferences > Viewing > uncheck " Load remote content in messages " You will then have this banner at the top of each message that contains remote content ( just in case you do want to see the images ) : Aside : I still see the occasional image in a message when looking through my spam folder . As best I can tell when I " view raw source " the spammers are including the image in the message text itself ( there is a large block of text that looks like gibberish to me ) , but I 'm not an expert on what is going on there . It might just be a bug in this feature .
OS X 10.11.4 supports Evernote import to Notes ( import of the . enex file format ) . Imported content to OS X 's Notes can be synced to Notes on iOS devices then . Source : AppleInsider : <URL> , February 9th 2016 9to5mac has a how-to for it : <URL> .
first , on unix is the location for stuff like that . second , it 's much easier to type as it is in lower case . so , not so unreasonable decision by apple 's engineers .
Both are accessed when looking to load content , but the one in your user area is used when saving your own content . This is consistent with the majority of apps , where the / Library folder is for all users and the ~ / Library folder is for your own user .
end question
start question
How to migrate several usb Time Machine backups to a Time Capsule ?
Finally , I decided to give a try by myself . I had no particular problem , I just followed the well known procedure of backup to Time Capsule , interrupt , and restore the USB drive to the Time Capsule sparsebundle related to the machine . All my previous backup , have ben recognized . However , for 500GB of data I had to wait for two days to be completed . Apparently , by matching the two . sparsebundle size , the data seemed to be transferred in a reasonable time from 4 to 7 hours . For the rest , it just seems that disk utility stopped doing nothing for the rest of the time . Even the USB drive went in stand by mode for almost two days . Then , after two days , it just stop informing that the restore went fine .
It depends . I assume your Mac does has USB 3.0 support since you asked the question . Time Machine target does not need to be very fast , since Time Machine only backup all your files for the first time , it 's just delta ( changes ) it backups after that . So if you delete a file , and create a new file , it backup just those two changes . But of course the faster the drive , the faster the initial backup . Media drive do n't have to be fast . Even a 1080p video wo n't exceed like 2MBps , and most USB 2.0 drive can easily go up to 20 ~ 30 MBps ( real world ) It 's your choice . Again , you need to copy all the files to your external drive , and it takes time . If they 're enclosure , then problem solved . The initial backup and media copy can all be done with the USB 3.0 enclosure , and then just choose which goes to which based on your mood . My personal experience : USB 2.0 3.5 " 28 MBps USB 3.0 2.5 " 55 MBps USB 3.0 3.5 " 110 MBps All enclosures , I built them myself !
Two things might work in your case : Power off the Mac and hope an unerase utility can recover the files before they get overwritten ( assuming the restore did n't write over the existing files on disk ) . Delete the folder and try again from a different Time Machine snapshot .
As you said that <URL> did n't work fine for you then I search in web and find : <URL> it disables the automatic backup function of Time Machine and installs its own launchd daemon . <URL> ( free software ) allows you to specify a schedule for Time Machine to run . it changes the one-hour interval of Time Machine backups . You can change the interval or decide to make daily , weekly and monthly backups .
Yes - once you have things set up - Windows , iOS and Mac will all see the Time Capsule even when it 's not running the network and your router still handles routing . Of course it depends on how you set up the Time Capsule since out of the box , it will want to be a router and you could hook things up in a troublesome manner unintentionally . The time capsule has a firewalled connection ( The WAN port ) that if you use , you have to tear down several settings to allow someone from " outside " the network to see the drive . The Time Capsule has several internal ethernet ports as well as potentially joining the network over WiFi which would n't be firewalled . I would set up the Time Capsule in bridge mode so it does n't turn on DHCP/NAT , etc and connect to your router if possible over ethernet to one of the <URL> . The ports you want look like this : As long as it 's in bridge mode and you connect over WiFi or a LAN port , everything should be fully functional and all Macs and PC will see the Time Capsule as if it were running the network . It might also function for <URL> and other nice to have items - but that also depends on the router settings .
Not a complete answer , but this document might help : <URL> To be listed as a backup destination , the AFP server must advertise it with specific features and flags turned on . Airport Extreme storage does n't show up because it 's missing something from that list , but the question is what ? I found a reference to the Extreme 's AFP implementation lacking some caching capabilities ( <URL> ) but I have no idea if that 's true . It is plausible that it does n't have the storage required for the replay cache . It 's also plausible that it does have all these features but Apple chose simply not to enable the Time Machine flag . Note that the newest generation ( the big ones with 802.11 ac ) does now officially support Time Machine , so this does n't seem to be an issue anymore . That 's probably because they 're now almost identical to the current Time Capsule inside .
Yes - when you set the Time Machine to back up to the Time Capsule - you will include the internal drive by default . I would let a couple of backups complete , and then go to the settings for time machine under options and make sure the external drive is not excluded . Kick off a a backup with the external drive connected to make sure it works . If the drive is n't connected when a back up event arrives , the internal will get backed up - but the software will remember and resume backing up the external any time it is connected and a back up happens . You do n't need to always have the external drive connected for this to work , you just lose some chances to back it up when it 's not connected .
If You Have a Time Capsule or an AirPort Extreme Base Station with Shared USB Hard Drive If you have either a Time Capsule ( which is basically an AirPort Extreme Base Station with a built-in 500 GB or 1 TB hard drive ) or an AirPort Extreme Base Station ( AEBS ) with an attached USB hard drive , you can share out the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive and make it accessible via the Internet . To do this : Start the Airport Utility . Select your Time Capsule or AEBS . Make a note of the IP Address shown on the right -- you will need it later . Click Manual Setup . Check your " Connection Sharing " setting under the Internet Tab . The following tutorial is valid if your " Connection Sharing " is to " Share a public IP address " , the normal setup for a home network . You will need to have a static IP address , or use a free dynamic DNS service . If you have a different type of " Connection Sharing , " you probably do n't need a tutorial to set up remote access to your disk ; adapt this one as needed . Click Disks ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click File Sharing . Select ( check ) the " Enable file sharing " checkbox and the " Share disks over Ethernet WAN port " checkbox . It is strongly recommended that you also set Secure Shared Disks to " With base station password " and Guest Access to " Not allowed " ; not making these changes may allow unauthorized users to access your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive . Click Airport ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Base Station . Enter a Base Station Password and verify it in the Verify Password box . Click Advanced ( at the top of the dialog box ) , and then click Port Mapping . Click the plus sign ( + ) to add a new port mapping . In the Public UDP Port ( s ) and Public TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type in a 4-digit port number ( e.g. , 5678 ) that you choose . In the Private IP Address box , type the internal IP address of your Time Capsule or AEBS that you wrote down in step 2 ( for example , 192.168.0.1 ) . In the Private UDP Port ( s ) and Private TCP Port ( s ) boxes , type 548 . Click Continue . In the Description box , type a descriptive name like " Time Capsule File Sharing " or " AEBS File Sharing " . Then , click Done . When you have made all changes , click Update . Your Time Capsule/AEBS will restart . Once it does , you are now ready to connect to the Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive via the Internet . To do this when your MBA is away from home : In the Finder , click Go > Connect to Server . Type in the correct domain name or external IP address for your network , plus a colon and the port number you specified in step 11 . For example , " www.myhomedomain.com :5678 " or " 123.123.12.123:5678 " . Click Connect . You will be prompted for your user name and password . The user name can be anything you like ; the password should be the password for the Time Capsule/AEBS which you specified above . Click Connect . Voilà ! You are now connected to your Time Capsule/AEBS hard drive from your MBA . You can access files , copy files back and forth between your MBA and the hard drive , delete files , whatever you want , as long as your MBA remains network-connected . The next time you go to connect , it should go even more quickly ( especially if you save your password in your keychain , and if you add your home IP address/domain name to your list of Favorite Servers in the Connect dialog box ) . Note that the Time Capsule/AEBS will appear in the Shared section of your Finder 's sidebar as a server , with the Base Station Name of the Time Capsule/AEBS as the server name . Taken from <URL> Additional Info : I know port forwarding can be a big hassle so I thought I would add that you could also use apple 's built in " Back To My Mac " feature . This way you can access your Time Capsule 's files as well as accessing you home mac files and screen share with your mac over a secure connection . Try this article : <URL>
Yes . Per default , it will be indexed . You can opt-out any location in ... System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Spotlight & #x 2192 ; Privacy If you add and remove a location in the privacy tab , it will be re-indexed . Also see Apple 's support document <URL> .
I could n't find any way of modifying the path , but you can create a folder on your HDD and then symlink it to : Open Applications > Utilities > Terminal . Now you will have to type several commands . Press return after every command for it to execute . When asked , type your password . The snapshots folder has complex permissions . The simplest way to preserve them is to copy the existing folder to the new location on your HDD : ( replace with the path to your HDD . ) options are : : archive mode ( recursive ; copy <URL> as symlinks ; preserve permissions , times , owner , group , device files , sockets and fifos ) : output result in human-readable format : verbose , that is , show what the command is doing : preserve <URL> : copy extended attributes like resource forks and ACLs Disable local snapshots ( this will delete and its contents ) : Create symlink : ( replace with the path to your HDD . ) Enable local snapshots : Create a local snapshot : If you see a new snapshot dated " now " : you 're done ! If something went wrong or is not working as expected , revert to the original configuration : Disable local snapshots : This will delete the symlink . Should that not be the case , delete it with : Enable local snapshots : Delete alternative snapshot folder on your HDD : ( is a dangerous command that wo n't ask for confirmation before deleting the folder . Make sure the path is correct ! )
While Time Machine always backs up all mounted volumes connected to the Mac via USB/FireWire/Thunderbolt , it ca n't backup network volumes like a NAS . As it seems , this is not mentioned anywhere in Apple 's support documents , but here 's a good <URL> made by a user .
Enter TimeMachine , then in the main window , select the backup you want to delete ( on the right ) , then use the Action Menu ( Gear icon ) to select " Delete Backup " . Using this menu , you can also , when a file or a folder is selected , delete all its backup .
I found a solution that does use the existing backup . The trick is to use ( see ) . My old disk was mounted under and the new disk is mounted as . My backup is under . ( If your old and new disk have both the same name , you have to follow all of the steps , because the name of the disk is not sufficient to associate an old backup with a new disk ) Stop time machine to do backups ( in the preferences ) Restore the old data to the new disk ( the command is one line ) : ( note this does not restore files starting with at the top level ) Tell time machine to associate the new disk to the old backups ( the command is one line ) : Start time machine to do backups Now time machine does not try to backup the entire new disk . Instead , it creates incremental backups based on the old snapshot . However , it seems not possible to go back in history using time mashine . I have tried to associate all old backups with the new disk without much success :
<URL> Time Capsule , Mac OS X v10 .6.3 or later : How to transfer your back up from an existing Time Capsule to a new one For this process , you should leave your computer in the same room as the Time Capsules , or use one Ethernet cable to connect your Mac to the Ethernet port on the existing Time Capsule , then use another Ethernet cable to connect from the existing Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . Configure your Time Capsule for your network . See the documentation that came with your Time Capsule for information about setting it up on your network . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Slide the Time Machine switch to Off . Open a Finder window . Locate both Time Capsules listed in the SHARED section of the navigation pane on the left of the Finder window . Note : If you do not see your Time Capsules in that section , choose Preferences from the Finder menu and make sure " Connected servers " is checked under SHARED . Select the name of the new Time Capsule in the navigation pane . The default name is " Time Capsule xxxxxx " , with xxxxxx being the last digits of the ID printed on the bottom of the Time Capsule . Mount the volume by double-clicking the name of the volume in the Finder window 's main section . The default drive name is " Data " . Open a new Finder window by pressing Command-N , or by choosing File > New Finder Window . Repeat the previous 2 steps with the other Time Capsule , to mount it . Drag your backup disk image from the current Time Capsule to the new Time Capsule . This can take some time to complete because your entire backup will be copied . Open Time Machine preferences in System Preferences . Click " Select Disk ... " , then select your new Time Capsule . Perform a Time Machine back up . After the back up , you can remove the Ethernet cables if desired and configure your wireless network to your liking .
It is not officially supported . " <URL> " This is usually because of issues with the network file system not guaranteeing that writes have completed on disk before giving a " success " status .
You can use the tool to delete backups one by one . If you are sure you have selected the correct name , you can delete all backups from that one Mac by not passing in the time and letting it delete the entire folder : The sudo command needs your password ( and it wo n't echo to the screen , so just type it and pause to be sure you 're dating the correct files before pressing enter ) .
On the root of each indexed volume , a hidden folder called . Spotlight-V100 . Also : spotlight metadata is probably not large enough to be worthwhile in excluding , at least if you are doing this for space reasons . Spotlight is also essential for TM to work properly , as this is how TM determines which files have changed since the last backup .
The <URL> released October 04 , 2012 includes : Resolves an issue that may cause Time Machine backups to take a very long time to complete and , after testing , this seems to have completely resolved the issue . Note that for me , the first backup after installing this update still took unexpectedly long , and included many messages , so maybe Spotlight had n't yet properly re-indexed the drive . Now , a couple hours later , small backups complete at their usual brisk pace and all is well .
Seems that many people have difficulty restoring from a backup of a case-sensitive installation to a case-insensitive one . Please see comments for some discussion and various ideas . A work-around which seemed to be successful in this case : copy the data you need manually from the backups , using the Finder . ( I would n't expect to be able to recreate the entire machine with all settings etc this way , but documents should be easy to restore this way , and perhaps even your entire home directory . )
Keychain keeps its files inside of ~ / Library/Keychains . In there is a " login.keychain " file that you can add to your current list of keychains in Keychain Access .
end question
start question
Is it possible to have 2 iCloud email accounts in IOS 5 ?
It sounds like you 've already discovered that you can <URL> each <URL> sub-account individually to iCloud . Having done that , you can now add the second account to your iPad as a secondary iCloud account by going to . You can also add secondary iCloud accounts in OS X by going to . This way you do n't have to switch users in OS X to access the second iCloud account 's mail . You can migrate remaining MobileMe Family Members by going to <URL> , instead of having to create a new user in OS X to do the migration . Primary iCloud accounts can use a few features that secondary accounts ca n't : iOS 5 : Photo Stream , Documents &amp; Data , and Backup OS X Lion : Bookmarks , Photo Stream , Find My Mac , and iCloud Storage
You can use separate iTunes accounts , but the HomeSharing account must be the same . You will need to authorize each other 's computers/devices with both iTunes accounts in order to play back content purchased under the other account .
LittleSnapper keeps it 's images in special library file , so the only way to copy images is to do the long way that you described . I 'd recommend you get on the LittleSnapper discussion board over at RealMac to add your voice to the group of users who 'd also like to get at their images in a more flexible way . <URL>
Yes , It will be possible to update to the iOS 8 public when Apple releases to the public . The update could be done via iTunes or OTA .
Yes , it does . From within Mail , open up preferences , select the Accounts tab , and click on the small " + " button in the lower left-hand corner of the window . This will run the " Add Account " wizard to guide you through the rest of the steps .
Apple provides support articles with a high-level overview of the changes in an operating system update . For example , <URL> : What 's included ? General fixes and improvements Improves reliability with Microsoft Exchange servers . Addresses performance of some image-processing operations in iPhoto and Aperture . Addresses stability and performance of graphics applications and games . Resolves a delay between print jobs . Addresses a printing issue for some HP printers connected to an AirPort Extreme . Resolves an issue when dragging contacts from Address Book to iCal . Addresses an issue in which dragging an item from a stack causes the Dock to not automatically hide . Resolves an issue in which Wikipedia information may not display correctly in Dictionary . Improves performance of MainStage on certain Macs . Resolves spacing issues with OpenType fonts . Improves reliability with some Bluetooth braille displays . Resolves a VoiceOver issue when browsing some websites with Safari 5 . Improves Bluetooth pairing with Magic Trackpad . Resolves performance issues with third-party displays that use InstaPort technology . Add SSL support for transferring files with iDisk . Resolves an issue when opening 4-up Photo Booth pictures in Preview . Addresses keyboard responsiveness issues in the Dock when Spaces is turned on . Resolves an issue syncing Address Book with Google . Fixes an issue when replying to a Mail message sent by a person whose name contains certain characters such as é or ü . Improves performance for users bound to an Active Directory domain . Improves reliability of Ethernet connections . Systems with a Mac Pro RAID Card ( Early 2009 ) installed can now be put to sleep . For more information , see <URL> . Improves reliability of fibre channel connections , resolving a potential Xsan volume availability issue . Adds RAW image compatibility for <URL> digital cameras . Security improvements ; for information about the security content of this update , please visit <URL> .
There 's no built in function afaik . However - even if you manage to hide the menu bar via terminal magic ( do n't know if there is ) you will still face the issue that windows ca n't lap over the monitor ( since windows ca n't lap between spaces ) , you can only move the complete window to one space/monitor or the other
No , unless you buy a specific mouse The option to define custom mouse acceleration curves was present in OS X 10.4 , but apple simplified it in 10.5 , and removed it entirely in 10.6 . <URL> is a supposedly forthcoming pref-pane that completely replaces the OS X mouse HID kext . However , development is really slow , or stalled . Personally , I have poked about a bit in the kernel myself , but am unfamiliar with kernel programming . Fixing the mouse acceleration on OS X will at minimum require a custom kext , which is non-trivial to code . The option that is out there is to buy a Microsoft mouse , and use it on OS X. Microsoft has released <URL> for their mice that <URL> . Essentially , the windows " Enhance Pointer Precision " option applies linear velocity-based acceleration to the mouse movements , e.g. the distance moved is proportional to the speed the mouse moves . Think of it as basically having the DPI of the mouse inversely proportional to the mouse 's speed . OS X on the other hand , has a stepped acceleration curve , where the mouse moves at one DPI when slow , and another when moved faster then a threshold . There are pref-panes that let you disable OS X 's acceleration curve , but none that allow you to substitute windows . As far as I can tell ( and this is opinion ) , this curve is optimized for trackpads . In my opinion , it is more then useless for mice ( using a mac mouse actually damaged my mousing efficacy on windows , which really affects my work ( CAD Stuff ) ) . Personally , I have entirely dispensed with the idea of using a mouse on OS X , and ust bought a Magic Trackpad .
What you can do is this : Delete the desktops and then recreate the by hovering over them and pressing the red thing in the corner , then looking at the right to make a new desktop . This is no longer necessary as of Mac OS Lion 10.7.2 , see <URL> for an easier solution .
Go to ~ / Library/Logs / find the log file , and delete it . Or , if there is n't a log file for Automator there , go to / Library/Logs and find the file there .
The steps seem strange , but first you must create your appleid using a non Apple address ( note that if you already have an @icloud , @mac , or @me email address that email address is already an Apple ID ) Once your Apple ID has been created , on the device go to Settings > iCloud and flip the mail switch on , you will be prompted there to create your @icloud . com email address . <URL>
The worst that could happen is that the iPod could become " bricked " ( or unusable ) during the install process . This rarely happens , but if it does , it 's easily solvable by restoring from iTunes . What I would suggest would be to create a complete backup of the iPod before you upgrade . Once you 've done that , then I would have no worries about upgrading the software . Really , unless you 're messing around with jailbroken devices , iOS software upgrades are almost always painless . I 've upgraded all four of my iOS devices . Only one has been jailbroken in the past , but all of them upgraded without a hitch . So rest easy , and have fun updating your software !
No , you can not install fonts on any iOS device without jail breaking or by creating an app . But Safari can itself display fonts placed on a server with appropriate html code in the page .
iPhone does have a shell , bash to be specific , but you ca n't access the shell without jailbreaking , and any ' shell ' app from the App Store wo n't have the ability to interact with the device in any reasonable manner necessary for fixing network problems .
The <URL> will do this . There are a number of other solutions mentioned at <URL> .
I have n't found any actual answer for my question , but instead found a very good alternative . Basically @icloud . com accounts also allow the creation of aliases that can be used in all iOS Mail apps , with one particular advantage : the alias allows changing the name of the recipient as well , something @outlook . com account aliases does not allow . You can create @icloud . com aliases using the web interface options .
As described in Apples <URL> : To delete the Keychain completely , you have to deselect in the iCloud Account details under system preferences . After that , turn off the Keychain usage on every device that is using it . This will delete the complete keychain . Turning on the will result in a clean keychain . If you want to edit items stored in the iCloud keychain you can do so via the Mac OS X keychain app or from your iDevice in the Safari preferences . Mac OS X example : On the left , select iCloud and delete / edit items on the right .
Nope . It 's impossible to upgrade iOS firmware without connecting to the Apple servers . Currently , there is a jailbreak for iOS 8.1 using <URL> which is being signed at the moment . iOS 8.1.1 update which is due in a few weeks will patch the jailbreak . It could be the right moment to upgrade your iOS version and re-jailbreak it . <URL> that the current iOS 8 jailbreak is stable .
No - the iCloud section of the Settings app only allows for one account on iOS 5 . You can however add as many iCloud accounts to the Mail , Contacts , Calendars as you have time to set up . You will see that you can enable the majority of the services on each subsequent non-main iCloud account . The following items work only on the main account : Backup Documents &amp; Data Photo Stream The following item is exclusive - any one ( but only one ) account can have : Find My iPhone For example , I use one iCloud account as my primary personal account and have a second account for a consulting business . Here is what that non-main account looks like when set up .
Devs still have to upgrade through iTunes , Xcode only lets you put other apps on your phone . So no , there really is n't another way .
end question
start question
Is there a comparison of networks and costs for iOS 4.3 's Personal Hotspot ?
The hotspot feature is , in essence , very similar to the Internet Tethering feature . The differences are that a ) there 's no cable required and b ) you can connect up to 3 * wifi-capable devices , so you 're not restricted to tethering only devices that have USB or Bluetooth . * See the below comments for the correct answer .
Try <URL> . The last time I tried it , it was pretty quick ( quicker than OpenOffice ) and according to the website , can open files .
Answering straight yes . You loose quality when connecting monitor with VGA . You see VGA is analog standard and digital signal being first time converted into analog in a computer to be transmitted through VGA cable and then converted back into digital to be used by the digital TFT panel . Since there are few steps of converting signal and analog interference while in a cable you have few chances to loose on quality . Then it depends on particular setup , cables and quality of convertor when answering how much of quality being lost . So if you do n't see that quality is degraded on you VGA connected MacMini compared to MacBook on DVI that it is safe it definitely more convenient to leave them as they are .
It does n't rely on the same system , but the <URL> can provides you anonymity while connected to the internet . It fully works under Snow Leopard without Rosetta . WARNING : With this kind of softwares , the final node of the system ( last Tor node or the VPN company ) can , technically ( understand " if it wants " ) , see all your data going through it ! The system grants anonymity not secure connection ! The connection is secured between you and the last node at the minimum , the rest depends on you . So , always use secure connections ( SSH , SSL/TLS , ... ) when using these systems . By the way , the same principle apply with your ISP , you just have to choose someone to trust !
It does drain your battery ; whether it 's worth it for you to turn it off is up to you and how long your battery last . Also something worth noting is that by leaving it on and walking around other people can see your hotspot and might try to connect . Even if they 're unsuccessful it will drain your battery even faster . If they are successful who knows what they might do while connected . In general though , any app on your phone that sends/receive data is going to drain your battery more than an app that does n't .
The option to download iOS 4.3 simulator is available from within Xcode . You can find it under . Just click on and you might have to enter your Apple ID credentials . If you do n't see this option , you could try removing your older versions of Xcode and installing the latest one from the Appstore . My version is 4.3.2 .
You do n't need a developer account but you do need a Mac . These points are taken from <URL> : In order to take advantage of this , you 'll need three things : Xcode 7 iOS 9 ( minimum ) A free Apple ID To start , you 'll need to set up a provisioning profile to code sign your apps : Open Xode preferences ( Xcode > Preferences ... ) Click the ' Accounts ' tab Login with your Apple ID ( + > Add Apple ID ... ) Once you 've successfully logged in , a new ' Personal Team ' with the role ' Free ' will appear beneath your Apple ID . <URL> There 's a few more details that you can view on that site .
There are a couple of potential solutions to this problem . I say potential because everyone 's listening habits and needs are different , so your mileage may vary . Here goes : The Smart Playlist problem is not new , and certainly not unique in your case . There seems to be an overall problem with Smart Playlist syncing through iTunes Match ( 1 ) across different devices , ( 2 ) with any expediency ( usually takes > = 48 hours ) , and ( 3 ) with respect to honoring certain rules ( e.g. , number of songs allowed ) . Another common theme seems to be that " nested " playlists cause even more of a problem than standard Smart Playlists . Nested lists are those that are created when you use your option key to turn the into an ellipsis ( ) , which creates a sub-rule for your master rule . Solution 1 : Dumb it down Create a standard playlist ( Dumb ) and give it the same name as your Smart playlist . Copy the content from Smart to Dumb . Sync your device , computer , whatever . Rinse , wash , repeat for each Smart Playlist you want to have properly represented on your other devices . This works . Solution 2 : Really Dumb it Down Do your best to avoid the aforementioned nested playlists . This may require you to build several smaller smart playlists with limited criteria . Not the easiest workaround , but we 're going for functionality here , right ? Solution 3 : Really make your " Recently Added " folder songs that are " Recently Added " For your " Recently Added " folder , tack on just one more rule to force songs added after a date , rather than only within the last two weeks ( see pic below ) So , I hope this gets you at least a little closer to your goal . I tried to add as much info as I could here since , one more time : everyone 's listening and categorizing habits are different :-) You may find other variations on these , but do realize that , at least for now , this is a server-side problem and workarounds like these represent the best available solutions .
I believe that opening a . DMG file automatically verifies it . Basically , it contains a checksum in the file ( or are you worried about malicious packages , rather then just corruption ? ) . Anyways , when I open a . dmg file , I see the message box with a progress bar say " Verifying " for a while , before it actually mounts . Asmus added in a comment above : " you can use on the command line to compare an image against its internal checksum . "
Personal Hotspot mode detaches the device from any network and is intended to make all data flow to and from the cellular account . If you pulled the SIM card your plan just might work as a stunt to connect two laptops in the absence of another router , but it certainly wo n't extend an existing wireless network in the manner you describe .
If you prefer native and non web-based solution try Money app by Jumsoft <URL> Three client apps for Mac , iPhone , iPad . Featured : subcategories , simple scheduler , sync . Should be enough for personal finances .
The feature I 'm after is called : Instant Hotspot It seems like an iPhone 4S can not do this feature . From <URL> , it 's an iPhone 5 or newer . <URL> . Sad.Panda :(
John Gruber summarized all sane observations about the <URL> ( part " THE IPHONE PRODUCT CYCLE " ) . In short , the trend seems to be of two generations support for older devices : iOS5 best on iPhone 4S , supported by iPhones 4 and 3GS . iOS4 best on iPhone 4 , supported by iPhones 3GS and 3G . Apple of course does not have any official policy about that , as for anything that would approach roadmapping .
1 . If you have iCloud Keychain enabled : Are my existing saved passwords , Wi-Fi networks , and Internet accounts included in iCloud Keychain ? Yes . When you turn on iCloud Keychain , any previously-saved website usernames and passwords , Wi-Fi networks , and Internet accounts are automatically included in iCloud Keychain . From : <URL> You can access to Keychain by the Keychain Access.app ( located in / Applications/Utilities / ) . 2 . Otherwise you can use 1Password . 3 . Finally , you have this post : <URL> Unfortunately , on the iPhone it is not possible to access this information . The passwords are kept on your phone in a safe place that is not accessible through any regular means on the phone . This is done for your protection , if you were to lose your iPhone and someone picked it up , the passwords that are stored on it would be up for grabs . This would lead to a lot of security problems .
<URL> Looks like you 'll need to get a demo copy of Omnigraffle to open them . Photoshop wo n't , and I 'm not seeing other Mac standard software that will . Also ( Photoshop format ) : <URL>
As of October 2011 when this was first asked , there has been no official answer stated . With the 3GS , Apple officially stated " the S is for speed . " There has been no comparable explanation given for the 4S . HOWEVER , in an interview at the All Things D conference , Apple CEO Tim Cook <URL> , " some people might say it stands for Siri or speed . We were thinking of Siri when we did it . " So the official answer is that the S in iPhone 4S stands for ... Siri
Yes , it does slow down . It 's more and more noticeable as time goes by . <URL> <URL> . ( This is just a solution that has worked for many people . This is not Apple 's official solution . They are working on a solution . ) 1 - Disable spotlight search . Settings - > General - > Home Button - > Spotlight Search . Uncheck things you do n't search for . Uncheck all is best I guess ? 2 - Perform DHR ( double hard reset ) To perform a Hard Reset , press and hold the Home and Sleep/Wake buttons on your iPhone simultaneously for 5 to 10 seconds . After a few seconds the Slide to Power Off notice will appear , ignore this and keep holding down both buttons . In another few seconds the device should abruptly turn off , followed by the Apple logo and a reboot . Now release the buttons . If your iPhone remains powered off , wait about 15 seconds then boot the phone by pressing the Sleep/Wake button . Do this one more time . I think this is related to iPhone running out of memory ( RAM ) . But that 's just my guess .
<URL> gives you window previews for each running app in the dock , which helps tremendously .
I 've seen reference to various iTunes Data Anonymizer applications . This should be a reasonably comprehensive list of where you should and should n't be worried . DRM Encumbered Files ( protected AAC media ) do not carry direct personal information such as your name . They do of course have personal information to the extent necessary to examine and validate your license , but this is information that should only be able to be understood by Apple . So called " iTunes Plus " unprotected MP3 files do contain your personal information . A cursory search led me to <URL> . Note that I am not vouching for this software . Your mileage may vary . Make a backup of any files you have before running them through this , or any other modification software . Files encoded via the CD Ripper does not tag data into the encoded files , no matter what format or quality you choose . Nor will arbitrary media files you choose to import into iTunes . Did I miss a means in which data may become " available " into iTunes ?
There is no firewall on iOS and it does not block any ports that I am aware of . I 'd guess your issue has more to do with the fact that Bookman has n't been updated in over three years and some change in iOS 10 finally broke it . I 'm actually shocked it works at all . It sounds like you can use iTunes file sharing as an alternative , presuming that a recent iTunes update has n't caused that to stop working with this particular app .
end question
start question
Mac Pro in a hot country - bad idea ?
It gets 120 + ° F here during the summer sometimes , which is approximately 50 ° C . In the shade it 'll be approx . 10-20 ° cooler , and indoors approx . 78 ° F with A/C . The A/C does n't run full time , so if you were to turn off your A/C while recording then turn it back on periodically , you should be able to maintain a reasonable interior temperature , both for you and the computer without it impacting your recording . Plus , if you have good headphones , the only times you 'd need to turn off the A/C is while using a microphone to record voices or acoustic instruments . Electric guitars and basses , amps , keyboards and synths should be going direct or be loud enough that ambient noise from the A/C should n't be a problem .
From EveryMac ... This model supports a simultaneous maximum resolution up to 2560x1600 on two external displays via Thunderbolt . Alternately , it can support a single display up to 2560x1600 via Thunderbolt and a single 1080p display at up to 60 Hz , 3840x2160 at 30 Hz , or 4096x2160 at 24 Hz via HDMI . If you have 2 Thunderbolt ports , you can use 2 miniDP to Display Port cables , one from each port , just as though the ports were miniDP as they are backwardly-compatible . See <URL>
The only version of Mac OS X that can be legally virtualised is Mac OS X Server : <URL>
The MacPro uses a proprietary interface - at least when it was first designed - for their SSD 's It is a PCIe 2.0 x4 spec . It was called " proprietary " because no other " workstation class " computer used these types of drives . They typically went with SATA or SAS ( enterprise class of course ) The best price you are going to find for these drives is through <URL> . You may be able to win an auction on ebay , but for the time and hassle , I usually just went with Amazon . These drive only work with the " grey " cylinder MacPro . You can get more info from <URL> What you might want to consider at this point is sticking with the SSD that you have and adding a thunderbolt drive . I personally use the <URL> 6GB with my iMac ( iMac has 256GB SSD ) . It is super fast and expandable . It has user serviceable drives so you can upgrade anytime you want . There are other options out there , but after all my research , I picked this one and I have been extremely happy with it . Update ( 3.31.16 ) A year later and this has n't changed much . OWC is apparently the only aftermarket manufacturer of these SSD with the PCIe 2.0 x4 interface . As far as SSD options , they seem to stop at 2013 for the MBA . I know , I have a relative that spilled milk on an MBA and have been looking for a USB to 2014 MBA SSD enclosure to transfer data and I can find none under $ 100 . It seems that the 2015 MBA SSD will work in the Mac Pro as they use the same SSD model ( see below ) . Source : <URL> <URL> The 2014 MBA uses the PCIe 2.0 x2 so I can not say if it will work or not ( and I would be unwilling to test out this theory given the high cost of the components ) . Source : <URL> <URL>
It should be turned on automatically . If you go into the settings for the Windows XP virtual image , then click advanced , you 'll see a field for Preferred virtualization engine . It should be set to " Automatic " by default , but if you want to force Intel VT , you can select one of those options . If you 're lagging , something else might be to blame . Does Console say anything and how much memory do you have installed ?
OK , this might be somewhat opinion-based , however ... Possible , yes . Worth it , no . Possible There are tools &amp; online guides far too long to repro or précis here on how to achieve it . It requires hacking the firmware &amp; needs re-hacking at each update - These guides from MacRumors are as good as they get , one for <URL> &amp; another for <URL> . Worth it ? The 1,1 &amp; 2,1 are really end-of-life &amp; now very slow compared to a ' modern ' machine . I really guess it depends on your budget , but you can get an absolute top-flight 5,1 [ or the smart money goes on a 4,1 with the Apple upgrade kit ] with two 6-core hyperthreading Xeons @ 3.46 GHz &amp; 64GB RAM for under # 1800 in the UK . Your existing drives will just carry over [ though idk about the OS itself , mine did from a 3,1 to 5,1 ] . The Geekbench scores on those are about 32k , that 's slightly under the current top model ' trash-can ' at 33k . I just checked the score for the 2.66 Mac Pro , 6k . I took the latter path , even though I was only moving up from a 3,1 - which is now in the hands of my partner &amp; very happily running El Capitan . I wanted a speed boost &amp; the upgraded 4,1 was right on the money for me .
Yes , you can buy a SIM-lock free iPhone 4 , such as the ones that get sold in the UK or in Belgium and use them anywhere else in the World where iPhones are supported by local providers . Be aware that the UK phone ships with a different electrical plug . Language settings can be set from within the iOS preferences . I have mine running with multiple different keyboard layouts ; and you can also set the main language of the device , just as you can set the language of any MacOS device to any installed language ( usually quite a few ) . The nice thing is , that usually all apps also respect that language choice if they provide translations .
Place the electronics that contain a lithium based battery in the shade and keep windows open a crack . If possible , place the vehicle in the shade or use light or reflective colored windshield shades to reduce the heat that stays in the car . Usually the trunk ( or a well insulated bag ) will lag the passenger compartment many tens of degrees and warm up several hours slower than something in the main cabin .
This might not be exactly what your looking for but <URL> has several articles on the current state ( or lack there of ) video cards for the Mac Pro . Take a look at <URL> and <URL> I recently had to replace a second dying NVidia 8800 GT in my Mac Pro ( early 2008 ) but decided to stick with an Apple card . Most of the non-Apple branded cards will not work until the machine is past the boot volume selection screen ( if you need it ) and I seem to find myself switching boot volumes frequently .
In your first question you ask : what should be done if there is currently 1 Apple ID ( my account ) that is used for all the purchases and also is used for my iCloud , and I want to add another user to the mix ? To enable you to share purchases the new user will use your Apple ID for the App Store and iTunes . This use would then create a new Apple ID or use an existing one for the iCloud portion . They would assign this Apple ID to iCloud by clicking Settings - > iCloud - > Account . Secondly you ask : What problems will there be if my Apple ID is used for the purchases on all devices and also used for my iCloud account for my user , while a different Apple ID is used for iCloud for a different user ? This is the solution I noted above , and the preferred method . By separating iCloud accounts for each user you 'll have less devices competing for the 5 GB of free space allotted by default . In summary : All devices use Apple ID for Store ( Settings - > Store - > Apple ID ) Your devices would use your Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) Other user 's devices would use a unique Apple ID for iCloud ( Settings - > iCloud - > Account ) There are no drawbacks to sharing an Apple ID and using individual accounts for iCloud .
Depending on your Mac model and OS X version , you might check out <URL> , a dashboard widget that gives you more control over the sleep/hibernate behavior . This <URL> goes into more detail about what 's going on behind the scenes .
You can remove the country code from the URL , so it reads . That gives you a valid iTunes URL , that if opened in a browser ( that does n't auto-open iTunes ) , appears to be the same as if the link were a US link . However when any iTunes link is opened in iTunes itself , it will attempt to redirect to the version in the user 's local store . I.e. when I click on the link you posted , I get sent to the same item in the Canadian store . If the item is n't available in the Canadian store , I get a message like this : So , you should be safe using country-specific store links , and iTunes will handle the redirection as appropriate .
Anecdotally , the drives of 5 to 15 years ago would run longer if you never spun them down . When I managed servers - the drives failed less rapidly than the inexpensive hard drives that were in workstations ( which typically spun down ) . It 's not clear if we would have seen similar failure rates if we placed the higher priced ( and presumably better built for the long run ) drives in the workstations . I have seen no credible studies that show any drive from the last 5 years lasting longer by disabling sleep . It 's hard to imagine a case where you would n't want to have a computer sleep even if it were going to decrease the useful life of an inexpensive storage drive due to other components failing over time and the waste of energy . We do n't yet have good data on SSD wearing out either as OEM parts ordered from Apple or aftermarket SSD , but it will be interesting to see how they wear out due to write failures and if sleep writing of large RAM images will add up to enough writes to shorten the life of an SSD that otherwise would be healthy in the absence of storing sleep images .
Go ahead and complete that " bad " name , then click on the downward arrow to the right of the address . You can also use the Previous Recipients window to clean things systematically rather than on demand when you are composing and seeing the ones you wish to prune . Once that is complete , check your contacts to make sure the bad address is not stored as a legitimate contact .
If you look at the Apple Store page for <URL> , you 'll see it comes with the ATI Radeon HD 5770 1GB . Under " Second Display , " it says : All Mac Pro graphics cards support up to three displays : two using Mini DisplayPort and one using DVI . Under " Graphics , " it says : Configure your Mac Pro with two cards to power up to six displays simultaneously for visualization projects and large display walls . If you click on the " Learn more " link under Graphics , it says : ATI Radeon HD 5770 Ideal for motion graphics , 3D modeling , rendering , or animation , the ATI Radeon HD 5770 with 1GB of fast GDDR5 memory comes standard -- and provides up to 5x more performance than previous Mac Pro standard graphics cards . It also includes two Mini DisplayPort outputs and a dual-link DVI port . and Dual-display and triple-display modes Both ATI Radeon HD cards each have two Mini DisplayPort outputs and one dual-link DVI output for a total of three video ports . All three ports are available for simultaneous use , depending upon the type of connection ... Note : If you are using more than one Mini DisplayPort to Single-Link DVI adapter , only two displays are supported across the three ports . To connect up to two Mini DisplayPort displays and up to a 30-inch DVI display simultaneously , use the ports without any adapters . To connect two DVI displays , use the dual-link DVI port and the Apple Mini DisplayPort to DVI Adapter or the Apple Mini DisplayPort to Dual-Link DVI Adapter ( sold separately ) . To connect three DVI displays at once , you must use two Apple Mini DisplayPort to Dual-Link DVI Adapters ( sold separately ) . To connect up to three VGA displays simultaneously , use the Mini DisplayPort to VGA adapter and DVI to VGA adapters ( sold separately ) . However , based on <URL> , it 's worth reading these two Knowledge Base articles before making a buying decision : <URL> <URL>
No need to worry - at present , the only MacBook with a physically different keyboard size ( in the US ) than the rest is the 11 inch Air . The small Air has a full sized " main keyboard " but the top row of function keys are slightly smaller than the top row of function keys on the rest of the lineup . I would presume that the same holds for international key layouts when they have different enter keys or additional physical keys , but do n't know that fact for sure . The cover you mentioned will fit the new retina MacBooks - both 13 " and 15 " - as long as the hardware is a US model .
To change stores you can do so on the iTunes Store : Click on your Account in the iTunes Store to go to your Account Page . Click " Change Country or Region " . Choose your Country or Region : Another alternative is to use Apple 's <URL> and change your address - next time you use iTunes it will ask you to change your region and verify your address details .
Mid 2010 MBPs ( 7,1 ) with Geforce 320M are known for freezing when using faster ram . Motherboard chipset supports it , but graphics chip does n't and OSX freezes when initializes the graphics . My recommendation - buy 1066MHz DDR3 . If you ca n't find it in your local store , try <URL> , it 's a reputable online store that guarantees compatible ram at good prices . ps . I 'm not in any way connected with OWC .
Yes - three 5K displays are supported on even the least GPU endowed Mac Pro Late 2013 . While I do not have the luxury of owning this kind of a setup , the following coming directly from Apple should answer this : <URL>
Further updates : Update 10:24 AM : <URL> has even more on the issue : " The Mac Pro met the previous standards prior to the amendment 1 addition . Obviously it 's a very safe and very reliable product , " added the company . At issue are the large fans within the Mac Pro . Since they are unprotected , it would be possible to touch the fan blades . " The new requirements necessitate fan guards and some increased protection on the ports on the electrical system , " explained Apple .
end question
start question
How do I retrieve stats about my iTunes Match account ?
You could create a smartlist that only includes songs with the status Matched , Uploaded and Purchased .
I ended up signing up for iTunes Match over the weekend and I figured I 'd share my experience to anyone who had the same questions I did ... After going through and organizing my collection I came up with about 250 artists and just over 10k songs in total . I signed up for iTunes Match and it did a fantastic job of collecting the metadata , matching available songs , and uploading remaining songs . There were a few small issues with some ineligible songs and duplicates , but nothing major . I 'd say it took about 24 hours total to get everything synced up , but I 'm sure experiences vary widely here . Then after double-checking everything I just went ahead and deleted all my files in iTunes . I would click a given set of songs and then tap the delete key . When prompted , I would select NOT to delete from iCloud , but to move the local files to the trash . After I was finished I had a clean local hard drive and all my music was available for streaming from the cloud ... which is precisely what I wanted . When I enabled iTunes Match on my other computer ( which had a blank iTunes Music section ) , it took all of five seconds to sync up perfectly with my collection in the cloud . So I 'm now able to stream music from iTunes on my Macbook Pro and iMac . Those who are looking to stream to iOS might be out of luck , because from what I 've seen you have to download the songs from iCloud to your device ( although the songs will play as they are downloading ... and I suppose there is nothing to stop you from deleting the files afterward ) . But this ended up being a perfect solution for me since I primarily use Rdio now anyway . I just wanted to delete the 100GB worth of local mp3 files that were cluttering my local hard drive and iTunes Match helped me to do that and still keep my collection out there in the cloud . There still is n't a perfect solution in the music technology world just yet , but I ca n't say enough good things about services like Rdio and iTunes Match . They 've worked great for me .
Does it recognize that it has connected to my car 's phone system via bluetooth ? This . Precisely this . It also works if you connect the device to your car system over USB ( not just charging , but actually connected to receive phone calls ) , or start CarPlay if supported by your car .
Yes . The iTunes Match Library icon shows up from time to time ( I have n't figured out what the exact requirements are ) and you can re-scan your library . Once you changed your id3 data , select the songs , right-click and select " Add to iCloud " . This initiates a re-scan in iTunes Match as well . If you add music , it will by added to iCloud instantly .
In late 2009 , <URL> , a site that did pretty much what present day iTunes Match does . It analyzed tracks you already owned , and allowed you to stream the ones you already had on your hard drive . The way the technology works is by analyzing the waveform of the music file and matching it to an existing database of known song digital audio fingerprints . Obviously , that 's way oversimplifying , but the basic idea of why you do n't have to upload a lot of your library , as iTunes Match and formerly LaLa.com have an existing db of song " fingerprints . "
I 'll check my computer when I get home , but everytime I update the ratings on my iPhone there is definitely network activity ( The network spinner is displayed everytime I change the rating ) . So it is definitely updating the iTunes Match library . Whether it updates the PC at home I 'll have to see . I 'm still waiting for it to upload about 600 songs . Edit : I confirmed that ratings and play count definitely are updated right away . PC to device changes take a little longer . I had one song disappear from my phone on my way to work because I accidentally removed it from match the night before and it took some time to propagate .
If you 're located outside the US , iTunes Match is unavailable for the time being , due to content licensing deals . When iTunes Match was first announced I believe Apple stated they would be working on bringing it to more countries , but these negotiations always take some time . Hard to give a definite timeframe unless Apple announces something .
I ca n't find any description in writing saying that there is any grace period for you to access playlists or any other data after you end a subscription period in iTunes Match . I do recall a warning when signing up for Match that quite explicitly said that I needed to be sure to download all playlists and music from the cloud before my subscription ended . This is in addition to the caution to keep a backup copy of all data ( which in the case of playlists would be using iTunes to export the library to an XML file regularly in addition to backing up each track ) . Apple could be more generous about keeping non-subscriber data around for a grace period of a day or a week or a month , but why risk this when you can back up everything now and then update that backup with anything that changes a week before your subscription ends ?
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
Go to your account settings , delete your iCloud account , reboot , add it again .
One way to do this is through the context menu on the selected song . Ctrl + Click ( right click ) , go to the " Show in Playlist " item , and select the " Music " option . You should then be taken to the song in the main library list .
I actually wrote an article on this . The relevant part : When you end your iTunes Match sub , you can only access songs you 've downloaded , they will not be available to download after the sub ends . You can continue to play the songs that exist on your device . Your iTunes Match library will only be stored online for 30 days after you cancel . <URL>
I suggest taking a backup and going to an Apple Store soon . I had two situations like this with funny creeking noises , the hard drive eventually slowed down and stopped working - no bad sectors or anything . It just eventually stopped . It was not an Apple drive , but I am sure it 's worth asking . Worst case scenario you will have to come back when drive eventually dies .
I 've not tried this myself but <URL> on ehow.com makes it look fairly simple using iTunes . Basically as long as the host computer is authorised for iTunes use , you can connect your old iPod , right click on the icon from within iTunes and select Transfer Purchases to get the apps onto iTunes . Then connect the target device and sync the applications to it .
If you start draging arround tracks or albums there should open at the right a bar within your iPhone/iPad/iPod . Drag the track/album on it .
Apple has a support document for this : <URL> . It also covers things like de-authorizing your old computer from the iTunes Store etc. .
There are a couple of potential solutions to this problem . I say potential because everyone 's listening habits and needs are different , so your mileage may vary . Here goes : The Smart Playlist problem is not new , and certainly not unique in your case . There seems to be an overall problem with Smart Playlist syncing through iTunes Match ( 1 ) across different devices , ( 2 ) with any expediency ( usually takes > = 48 hours ) , and ( 3 ) with respect to honoring certain rules ( e.g. , number of songs allowed ) . Another common theme seems to be that " nested " playlists cause even more of a problem than standard Smart Playlists . Nested lists are those that are created when you use your option key to turn the into an ellipsis ( ) , which creates a sub-rule for your master rule . Solution 1 : Dumb it down Create a standard playlist ( Dumb ) and give it the same name as your Smart playlist . Copy the content from Smart to Dumb . Sync your device , computer , whatever . Rinse , wash , repeat for each Smart Playlist you want to have properly represented on your other devices . This works . Solution 2 : Really Dumb it Down Do your best to avoid the aforementioned nested playlists . This may require you to build several smaller smart playlists with limited criteria . Not the easiest workaround , but we 're going for functionality here , right ? Solution 3 : Really make your " Recently Added " folder songs that are " Recently Added " For your " Recently Added " folder , tack on just one more rule to force songs added after a date , rather than only within the last two weeks ( see pic below ) So , I hope this gets you at least a little closer to your goal . I tried to add as much info as I could here since , one more time : everyone 's listening and categorizing habits are different :-) You may find other variations on these , but do realize that , at least for now , this is a server-side problem and workarounds like these represent the best available solutions .
I understand the apprehension ! In reality , though , you do not stand to lose anything . The only reason to transfer those purchases to your computer would be to save bandwidth and time by not re-downloading everything . You will still lose associated app data ( e.g. login information , cache , etc. ) , but that would happen even if you did back up those apps to your computer . In short , you will be fine without transferring purchases . Hope this helps !
I already answered a related question . I may not know the most definite answer , But I read that iTunes Match uses Gracenote 's MusicID program . It seems MusicID uses the following techniques to identify songs . MusicID-featured Identification Technologies : CD Identification : Using the CD 's unique Table of Content ( TOC ) , MusicID can identify CDs released around the world . Even with multiple pressings and release dates , patented fuzzy matching enables accurate recognition . Stream Identification : Using an audio waveform fingerprint technology , MusicID can identify music with short audio samples anywhere in the song . Digital File Identification : MusicID can identify individual songs or albums in a user 's collection regardless of source , format , or tag information . Utilizing a multi-step process which combines stream identification with textual information analysis from the file 's embedded tags , file name , directory path , and other related files in the user 's collection , individual or groups of songs can be matched to albums . More <URL> . To answer your question , they perform some fuzzy text matching algorithm to map meta data and also perform audio waveform analysis .
I 've had bad RAM that still allowed the machine to boot - a stick of memory in my Mac Pro apparently failed gracefully overnight . The first step would be to check system profiler to see if the memory is being recognized . If indeed it is , there 's a version of MemTest for OS X : <URL>
end question
start question
Can I increase the resolution of a 13-inch MacBook Pro ?
Sorry , no . The resolution of the display panel itself is only 1280x800 , so there is no way to display more without physically replacing the panel .
According to <URL> source , you wo n't be able to do that . You have to have a Thunderbolt Mac and use a Thunderbolt cable to use a Thunderbolt iMac as an external display . <URL> has a table that confirms it . Sorry !
The hardware is capable of 30fps , I have this model ( MacBookPro9 ,1 , i7 2.3 GHz ) on my desk in front of me and just shot a movie that lists as 29.81 fps at 720p . However , Apple will , in software , reduce the frame rate if your HDD/SSD/other storage and/or processor and memory are not capable of handling the maximum frame rate at the time of capture . The do this to ensure you can still use the camera even in non-optimal conditions . How much free space ( percentage ) do you have on your storage ? Are you running any processor intensive applications . How much RAM do you have ? These factors can have a serious impact on capture rates . It is also entirely possible that the frame rate is being affected by other factors if you are using a 3rd party application such as Skype . Hope this helps ?
A simple answer , start the MacBook and hold down the D key when you hear the startup chime . This will start the built-in diagnostics and any problems that are found will be listed here . Apple link <URL> .
I 've had this problem as well an posted <URL> which is very similar yours . Here 's my solution : On the whole logic board you 'll find tiny elastic sticks . They can be pushed a little . These sticks hold the aluminum bottom off the logic board and cause the disturbing mechanic noises that your are talking about . Do not take any chances and apply insulating tape on every place of the aluminum bottom that the sticks can contact . Apply the tape again as it easily wears out . Now , the Macbook Pro does not make any of the previous noises anymore . It feels like a solid aluminum brick on my lap . And a close up ... This is what the back cover looked like when I was done . Uh , it 's ugly ! I 'm glad it 's on the inside .
It turns out higher impedance headphones will produce very low sound on MacBooks . For this reason headphones with an ohms rating above 80 may not be suitable , and would require a headphone amplifier to function properly . Something like the <URL> could get the job done at the expense of some portability , although it would allow such headphones to be used with most portable devices too like iPods , iPhones , and iPads .
If you are using Bootcamp , Apple has provided <URL> : print screen = fn + ⇧ shift + F11
The Other World Computing Blog <URL> the new MacBook Pro 15 " with Retina Display Can Run 3 External Displays : image source : <URL> These resolutions were used : Retina on laptop @ " best for Retina " iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt iMac used as a display @ 2560 x 1440 via Thunderbolt/DisplayPort LG monitor @ 1920 x 1200 via HDMI Quote from the <URL> : This makes the Retina MacBook Pro the first Mac -- other than a tower-based workstation like the Mac Pro -- to natively power four displays simultaneously .
I once was in a similar situation to what you described -- I 'm an American and brought my U.S. MacBook to the UK . A couple observations : U.S. keyboard layouts are substantially different from the UK ones . Many common punctuation characters , including quote marks , are mapped very differently . I found UK keyboards too awkward to use and did virtually all of my work on my own U.S. keyboards . U.S. keyboards do not include the pound sterling symbol or the negation symbol used in the UK . You can get them by using Option key combinations , but that can be a bit of a pain . As bmike mentioned , if you need a keyboard repair you 'll face a substantial delay . Someone spilled a drink on my MacBook in a pub towards the end of my stay , and about a third of the keyboard was shorted out ; when I took it in to an Apple Store , they warned me they would need to hold the computer for several days while replacement parts arrived . I could n't spare the laptop for that length of time , so I spent the last couple weeks of that trip using an external keyboard with my MacBook , and repaired it when I got home . ( That option , of course , wo n't be available to you . ) All in all , I do n't think I would recommend it for you . That # 150 is buying you freedom from a lot of hassles .
Open the file in Preview Now Click on Edit In Edit menu bar click on the last icon looks like a square with line from corner to corner . In the new window you can adjust the size and the resolution .
Windows According to <URL> : Windows 7 by default starts up at 800 x 600 on the Retina MBP , Windows 8 defaults to 1024 x 768 . This behavior is n't specific to this system , the GeForce GT 650M does n't have native driver support in either OS at this point and these are the defaults for the standard VGA driver in both cases . Windows 7 wo n't expose any resolutions higher than 1600 x 1200 without an actual NVIDIA driver , while Windows 8 will let you select the full 2880 x 1800 panel resolution . This is a report about Windows via bootcamp . I do n't know how this differs from Windows being used in a virtual machine . It would probably also depend on the options that the VM software offers . Linux When using the NVIDIA drivers on Linux ( and on Windows too ) you can select the full native panel resolution ( 2880x1800 ) . You can also select any of a number of scaled resolutions which do n't look as sharp . In general , running at native resolution is actually less of a problem for Linux than it is in Windows and OS X because of the way it 's designed . There are no blurry fonts on 3rd party apps like on OS X and it is easier to set your DPI so that apps are scaled properly than on Windows ( it is set automatically in Linux ) .
Yes , you can . The system , cache , or any hardware-specific data such as drivers are not backed up . Even if they were , any installation of OS X contains the necessary drivers for any supported Mac model by that version of the system ( with the exception of printer drivers IIRC , which are not included to save space and will be downloaded ) .
Amazon Fire TV requires a TV with an HDMI input channel to display video , something MacBooks ( or pretty much any computer ) are lacking . So no , this will not work ( it wo n't work with an Apple TV/MacBook combination either ) .
The most likely explanation is that your miniDP to VGA adapter is not an original/high-quality one . I 've seen it happen before , and as soon as that person bought an original Apple miniDP to VGA adapter the issue is gone and native resolution is recognized without any issue .
The official answer ( which clearly is n't the one you want based on how the question is phrased ) is no for OS X 10.8 and earlier . For the initial implementation , dictation on OS X was limited to 30 seconds of audio per transcription event . <URL> Hopefully this helps others that are looking for an official answer or explanation . On OS X 10.9 ( Mavericks ) , offline dictation and longer dictation are allowed and you can enable it by answering yes when asked if you want enhanced dictation . You can also control it by going to the Dictation tab of the Speech &amp; Dictation system preference pane :
Yes , you can buy third party RAM . I usually buy <URL> RAM . As long as it is made to be compatible with your machine ( Same Bus Speed and such ) . Usually , you can search these companies sites for RAM for your specific make and model MBP and they will have suggestions for it . You can sometimes even put in more RAM than Apple says it can . The companies test newer machines to see how much RAM they can handle . For instance , the new current gen MBP only supports 8GB according to Apple , but 16GB of RAM will still work and wo n't cause any problems . It will work perfectly . I am running 8GB of RAM in my machine , it cost me 46 dollars with shipping over 200 dollars from Apple . Just be sure to keep you old RAM just in case your new RAM goes bad , which it most likely wo n't , but that way you have back up RAM to use in just such an occasion . I hope that helps .
AFAIK these display are not HDCP compliant therefore you 'll have some troubles watching movies that have these protections .
If a unibody Mac is wobbly , I 'd have it serviced sooner rather than later . The tolerances inside are crazy tight in some cases , so a warp could cause subsequent damage to sensitive and costly parts . A trained technician can tell at a glance if the damage was external or due to manufacturing issues . Now , that being said , I 've seen dozens of Macs where people reported they were off and most were the table it sat upon , and not a bend in the unibody frame of the Mac . You can test by measuring how many sheets of printer paper fit under the leg ( s ) that has ( have ) a gap . Then rotate the Mac 1/3 of a turn and repeat the measurement . Then take it to a second flat surface and do the measurement one last time if you 're not convinced that it 's the frame instead of the surface that is off-level . Any wobble that 's less than three sheets of paper is probably nothing to worry about , but what if you needed a logic board repair 10 months down the road and today , your Mac is bent out of tolerance and you were denied warranty coverage since you did n't report the bend until then ? Only by getting it checked will you know if yours was out of tolerance and have a service record to point to in case of a warranty repair question later .
It 's quite simple from my perspective - The 15 inch CPU is superior in all respects over the 13 inch CPU : 2.0 GHz quad-core Intel Core i7 processor ( Turbo Boost up to 3.2 GHz ) with 6MB shared L3 cache 2.6 GHz dual-core Intel Core i5 processor ( Turbo Boost up to 3.1 GHz ) with 3MB shared L3 cache Turbo Boost engages for operations where only one core is active . Starting at a lower GHz saves energy and battery and as long as the CPU can boost to a faster top level than a competing CPU - you get the best of both worlds - fuel efficiency at idle and top speed when needed . So , for a simple task where the computer is doing one thing only - you would expect the 13 inch to ramp one core up to 3.1 GHz whereas the 15 inch would ramp up to 3.2 GHz . Bigger is better for that task . Plus a larger L3 cache will make some switching between tasks more efficient on the 15 inch model . Now , if you have video processing or a mixed workload where tons of compute is waiting for the CPU . You have two cores running at 2.66 or 5.32 GHz of theoretical throughput compared to 4 cores at 2.0 or 8.00 GHz of throughput . Again , no task scales perfectly , but even with 10 % overhead , the quad core processor wins . It would have to be a bizarre benchmark to show the dual core i5 out perform the quad core i7 for any task that engages multiple cores . If you want another opinion , I would recommend this nice article by Marco Arment on trying to calculate which Mac Pro CPU choice works for various budgets and tasks : <URL> In it , he does n't explain why he feels the 15 inch MacBook Pro is so far superior to the 13 inch MacBook Pro and simply states it as fact . I generally agree with that due experience and seeing <URL> . My feeling is the current 15 inch logic board and supporting components are faster and of better specifications than what is put into the 13 inch model . If you can swing the cost and live with ( or prefer ) the larger physical size , get the 15 inch model . It 's an excellent workstation in a portable form factor . For many tasks it <URL> and even the new Mac Pro . Personal note : The base $ 1299 13 inch model is no slouch - I work from one almost exclusively the last year and I 'm never really waiting for it in practice . If you need to pinch pennies on the CPU , I 'd con side any of the retina 13 inch models if it means you can afford AppleCare , an external monitor plus backup drive ( s ) and whatever software you need to be productive . Rather than invest in tons of extra CPU cycles that you may not really use or need to work day in and day out .
<URL> is a good place for parts . They seem to sell complete screw kits for different models . Although one screw missing wo n't hurt the unit . I repaired a machine recently that is literally held together with celo tape and stickers .
end question
start question
How does the iPad auto-correct work exactly ?
AutoCorrect will automatically replace the word unless you cancel it manually by tapping it . ( Note the small sign in the suggestion bubble indicating that tapping it will cancel the suggestion . ) So , as soon as an AutoCorrect suggestion appears that you want to use , just hit Space ( or insert a punctuation mark ) and continue typing .
Yes . <URL> Video mirroring and video out support : Up to 1080p with Apple Digital AV Adapter or Apple VGA Adapter ( cables sold separately ) Video out support at 576p and 480p with Apple Component AV Cable ; 576i and 480i with Apple Composite AV Cable
With , upgrading all of your installed applications ( that installed with cask ) is done with a single command : This is an unofficial ( community based ) way to upgrade applications and only has free softwares on its repository ( there is no way to purchase ) . Advantages of this mechanism are : It 's scriptable It separates system applications from user applications ( your installed applications are placed in instead of ) so it 's per user . Installation of packaged installers is in the background so it does n't need user interactions . Uninstallation of applications is programmed by its community so there is no worry about remaining files after uninstallation . It 's possible to have multiple versions of applications systematically because the mechanism uses symbolic links for the latest or selected version of applications . The source of applications is kept in the cache so you can install and uninstall them without additional downloads . Disadvantages of this mechanism are : There is no differential upgrade . It downloads the whole application image ( . dmg ) or package ( . pkg ) and stores in the cache . Installation of applications is relied on symbolic links that may be not ideal ( There are two copies of an application and may be repeated in " Open with " list ) There is also official App Store mechanism ( the default ) for upgrading applications that are installed with itself and it supports differential upgrade and can upgrade all of it 's installed application with a single click ; but unlike Cask it 's not scriptable to run upgrade , installation , etc and does not keep the sources . Another mechanism is in-app upgrade check that occurs when application starts . It is different from App Store upgrade and also supports differential upgrade . I think it 's up to you to choose which mechanism to use for which kind of applications , this comparison may help you . I use the Cask for applications that is not provided in the App Store ( like VLC , OS X FUSE , OwnCloud , Weka , etc. ) and App Store for non-free applications i purchased . In-app upgrades are not suitable for me because it does not keep the source of downloaded data .
When I upgraded from 3 to 4 , after I setup the iPhone 4 to sync with my computer , I took the iPhone 3 and used the reset-erase function on the iPhone and then when I connected it to my iTunes , I gave it a new name ( so I could setup different sync options ) . I use it as an extra ipod-like device for the kids to play with or watch movies on when we are traveling . Note : the iPhone 4 has a different sized SIM card than the iPhone 3 so you wo n't be just swapping them . I had to go to the AT&amp;T store to affect the move from my iPhone 3 to iPhone 4 . The iPhone 3 just has an inactive SIM card in it . I did n't have to Jailbreak it to keep using it . And you can still use it with XCode Organizer to install applications that you are developing for testing purposes .
What you can do is this : Delete the desktops and then recreate the by hovering over them and pressing the red thing in the corner , then looking at the right to make a new desktop . This is no longer necessary as of Mac OS Lion 10.7.2 , see <URL> for an easier solution .
Both displays show up as audio input and output devices on your Mac and you can pick one or the other to route audio in to from applications . You might be able to create an aggregate device out of them and use them as a four channel output source , but that would not turn out well sonically speaking . You can see it <URL> .
If it says it is compatible with iPad , it is compatible with the iPad 1 , iPad 2 , theoretically the iPhone 4/S . I have it .
The UI for configuring Google Contact Sync in Address Book and in iTunes is intended to support the same feature . If it is enabled in one place and not enabled in another place , it is a bug in the Apple software . Pre-iCloud , all contact syncing worked through a service called Sync Services . Google Contact Sync is one of the clients of contact syncing via Sync Services , and both Address Book and iTunes provide a user interface for enabling Google Contact Sync .
Apple has a very nice explanation of how Migration Assistant works , what steps and accessories you need and much more : <URL> In a nutshell , Migration Assistant has three bins of data to move : Applications ( just the programs - no user data or settings transfer ) Users ( the user data , settings , preferences , saved files and such - but no Applications . You could have all your Word docs , but no Word to edit them in this case ) Everything else that 's not an App or a User . This gets oddball things like / Users/Shared files and folders that do n't belong to one user , unix and command line tools like homebrew that get installed outside / Applications and / Users . So with three check marks ( let 's assume you do n't have multiple users ) , there are 7 combinations you could migrate - each leaving a different set of data on the destination Mac . ( If Applications was A , Users was B , and Everything else C ) You could combine them as follows : A , B , C , A+B , B+C , A+C , or A+B+C I would say , you get to experiment when you get your new Mac . Run the migration you think is best , and then test it . If you do n't like it , erase the destination Mac ( booting into recovery mode , erasing the HD and re-install a clean OS might take 25 minutes on a fast network - the OS download is 4 Gb or so ) and re-run the assistant . For me , I would recommend both migrating from your Backup and then optionally re-migrating from the old Mac . It 's important to test your backup - when was the last time you tested a restore to be sure you have a viable backup ? Everyone says " make sure you back up " but they really mean and might be better saying is , " make sure you can restore your backup and it has what you need ! " I would encourage you to configure your Time Machine on the old Mac to exclude any things you do n't want moved to the new Mac , make a back up and write down the time of the back up . Then eject the backup drive and change the backup settings to back everything up again . You could take that " latest " backup and Migrate it to the new Mac and test for a while ( re-connecting the backup drive to the old Mac ) to keep your " main " Mac backing up . As you test the new mac for a day or so , you can decide it 's time to move over . At that point , turn off Time Machine on the old Mac and connect the backup drive to the new Mac . It will offer to " inherit " the old backups and you can move forward . Worst case , you still have the backups to restore something needed and then can clear the old Mac for donation , sale or mothballing .
Launch System Preferences ... from the Apple menu . Click on Speech . The left tab is marked Speech Recognition . Set the Microphone from the default " Internal microphone " to " Line In " . Click on the Calibrate button . Then speak the phrases on the left e.g. " What Time Is It ? " If your Mac detects your line-in , you 'll see the blue-green-red indicator respond to the volume of your voice from the line-in . Have fun , and do n't forget to mark the question as answered when you 're done . Cheers .
The only devices with Voice Control of any form , whether pre-iOS 5 " Voice Command " or iOS 5 + " Siri " , is an iPhone 3GS or later , and the 4th Generation iPod touch . All iPhones since the 3GS and iOS 3 ( IIRC ) have Voice Command . iPhone 4/4S ' on iOS 5 or later have Siri , unless disabled then Voice Command is used instead . iPod touches do not have Siri , though the fourth generation does have Voice Command . No iPad has Voice Command nor Siri . This is true of all models and iOS versions as of this writing .
I have n't found a detailed list of the exact behaviors . For the most part , it seems that everything is simply pixel-scaled ( which is why text looks bad ) , except for images which were scaled down to begin with . I presume that the class has some behavior to handle this automatically . On Retina devices , Apple 's built-in text and image rendering are aware of the scaling factor of the screen , and will render text and photos in high quality . But this does n't seem to apply to iPhone apps run on an iPad . ( See Apple 's <URL> for more information on that . )
The Trim Enabler patches the following Kext-File which checks if the ssd is a 3rd-party or Apple Branded SSD : you can also enable trim manually by looking for all ' Apple ' occurrences in the file and patching them in a hex-editor or via terminal :
➙ ➙ : Turn off Make sure ( at the bottom of that same screen ) is on Your iDevice will no longer automatically correct misspelled words , but it will highlight them for you . As far as I know this is the only way to have spell-checking on without the Auto-Correct feature .
The reason for moving your device in a figure eight is to help it calibrate itself against magnetic interference . By moving it slightly its able to detect the differences and return a more accurate reading . You can read the Apple knowledge base article <URL>
This will depend largely on your carrier . If they 're offering 4G/LTE service with the iPad 3 , you may need a new SIM card . If they 're not offering that service in your area , it should n't matter if you have a new SIM card or not . Your best bet is to ask your carrier .
looks like they just updated to version 2.8.1202 , release notes say " Quick Deposit for iPod touch - Now you can use your camera-enabled iPod touch to make a deposit . "
It uses both Bluetooth LE 4.0 AND 802.11 ac WiFi . Bluetooth is used to discover the Apple Watch and establish a connection . Then it uses WiFi to do " time-in-flight " calculations - i.e. to figure out how far your watch is from the Mac . The Mac needs to support 802.11 ac WiFi for this to work . All watches are supported , both the old and the new - even though the old ones does not support 802.11 ac . This way it is possible to prevent attacks such as someone planting a " bluetooth repeater " near you , so that it could replay your bluetooth responses captured this way to a Mac located somewhere remotely .
The reason the adapters from apple have such a high price is because the product have a chip inside that will make sure the product keeps working . Cheaper product often do n't have such a chip . It is possible that those products work , but they can stop working at a random time . There are products from other companies that are also supported by apple because they pay a licence to develop such products . Every product that has the " made for iPod , iPad and iPhone " logo on it 's cover are supported by apple .
As @bmike has suggested above , Apple has confirmed you 'll need an Apple TV to support remote access . From Apple 's newly posted support page : <URL> Control your accessories away from home If you have an Apple TV ( 3rd generation or later ) with software version 7.0 or later , you can control your HomeKit-enabled accessories when you 're away from home using your iOS device .
end question
start question
Can I limit the amount of space itunes match uses on my iphone ?
This is not possible . iTunes Match will continue to fill up your storage space as you download tracks locally on the phone through it . I believe it will trim songs once the space is full , to clear off the least-played material . If you would like , you can manage your storage in a few ways : Go to Settings > General > Usage > Music . Here you can clear all downloaded music . Go to the Music app . Locate downloaded material and swipe across artists , albums or songs to remove them from your local storage .
The thing about these limits is that the carriers and iPhone models are all different . For instance , the iPhone 5 should theoretically be able to handle up to 14 connections , but both AT&amp;T and Verizon limits it to 5 . As far as I have understood , it is hardware-limited , and therefore it is not affected by iOS version . I have started on a list which anyone may suggest an edit to if they come up with new information . Feel free to comment as well . iPhone 3GS supports up to two peers combined through USB and Bluetooth-tethering . <URL> iPhone 4 : <URL> , <URL> AT&amp;T - version supports up to three Wi-Fi peers , three via Bluetooth , and one USB peer . Verizon-version supports up to five Wi-Fi peers , three via Bluetooth , and one USB peer . iPhone 4S supports up to five Wi-Fi peers . Unconfirmed iPhone 5 supports up to five Wi-Fi peers . ( AT&amp;T and Verizon confirmed <URL> ) iPad 3rd gen is currently unknown . iPad mini is currently unknown . iPad 4th gen is currently unknown . Please note that Apple have not disclosed any of these limitations , they <URL> : The maximum number of supported connections may vary depending on your carrier or iPhone model . Apple have also stated in <URL> about all iPhone-versions and the third-gen iPad that : Depending on your wireless carrier and , the maximum number of Wi-Fi connections may be limited to three at one time .
You do n't need to download a song on your iOS devise via iTunes Match to get its artwork updated on that device . All you need to do is go into Settings - > Music - > turn off iTunes Match , and then turn it back on . All artwork will update over a few minutes . ( I turned device off and back on again before turning Match back on just to be safe , but not sure it 's necessary . ) You can go into your Music and see the little spinning wheel constantly working a half second at a time ( for each album cover being updated from A to Z ) . with iTunes recent update to artwork , this is how I got the new artwork over to my iOS device .
Under Settings / iCloud you 'll see a big red button labeled as Delete Account . Contrary to what it appears , it wo n't actually delete the account , nor your Apple ID , it will only delete the iCloud 's content from your device . So , to change the device 's iCloud account just delete the current one and then log in appropriately .
I do n't have an answer to your specific question -- keeping the 200 ( exactly ) most recent photos on your phone , but I can give you a suggestion that may satisfy the spirit , if not the letter , of your request . Connect the iPhone to your Mac and load the photos into iPhoto ( or Aperture if you prefer ) . Choose the option to delete the photos after they 've been loaded into iPhoto . This removes the photos from your camera roll . In iTunes , set your iPhone to sync to selected Albums albums ... and include events from the last three months . ( Other time frames are available ) . You can also include albums , events or faces that you want to always keep on the phone . ( for example , I have an album that contains a variety of photos of my niece and nephew from various events . ) You can create Smart Albums that include photos meeting defined criteria , for example photos of my nephew taken within a certain date range AND containing the keyword " sailing " . This will put a selection of recent ( and special ) photos into your iPhone Photo Library ( and into the various albums within that Library ) . All of the photos are kept on your Mac ( and should be part of your backup scheme ) but the defined subset , plus the contents of your camera roll , will be on the iPhone . As noted above , you can do the same thing using Aperture if that 's your preferred photo management solution . iCloud can also help to automate the transfer of photos from iPhone to Mac , but you need to run iPhoto from time to time and I like to move my pictures into titled projects . ( I 'm an Aperture user . ) Again , it wo n't give you exactly 200 pictures , but it will give a subset selection of recent -- or desired -- photographs .
I am not aware of any iOS or web app that will allow bulk deletion of iCloud reminders but that is something that presumably could be written . The only mechanism I am aware of that will bulk delete reminders is the Automator app running on OS X . Here is a screen shot of something that would find all reminders older than 20 days and delete them summarily . You can see I searched for reminder and chose a task to select them and another to delete them . DO NOT RUN THIS unless you are prepared to lose all your reminders or test things on a second iCloud account . For testing , I would add a second condition and watch the script run before letting it loose on a thousand reminders . I 'd hate to be the one to find a bug in the time logic of the Find Reminders action by working on live data that 's not backed up ( and I do n't know a good way to back up the reminder data and have it re-syced back to the cloud easily ) .
To change stores you can do so on the iTunes Store : Click on your Account in the iTunes Store to go to your Account Page . Click " Change Country or Region " . Choose your Country or Region : Another alternative is to use Apple 's <URL> and change your address - next time you use iTunes it will ask you to change your region and verify your address details .
For my iPhone 3G , I used a <URL> . One of my favorite things about it was how it let your finger slide across the screen with way less friction than the original screen does . Even when my iPhone 4 was brand new , it never had the same glide to it that my iPhone 3G had with the Power Support film . I almost never had to wipe the film on my 3G to retain that frictionless feeling ( it was just always there ) , but with my iPhone 4 ( with no film ) there are many times where I would need to wipe the screen to eliminate some of the friction , only to have it return after a few minutes of use . So if you are looking for a way to make your finger glide across the screen , I would definitely recommend using a screen protector . Although , I have n't tried any for the iPhone 4/4S , so I ca n't recommend any specifically .
You can do this with USB or Bluetooth tethering on jailbroken iOS devices using an app such as <URL> . There are many other jailbreak apps for this function , so it 's worth shopping around . Some will only share the 3G internet connection , but I understand others will share any internet connection over USB or bluetooth . You ca n't use wifi tethering to connect your computer to a wifi network your phone knows about . The hotspot creates a new wireless network , but the iPhone is capable of attaching to only one wireless network at a time . It can not connect to a wireless network with internet and create its own wireless network to share . Since the iPhone is on the wireless network , though , you can get your computer on that same network since it will likely be in range .
<URL> appears to connect to the Bluetooth in your phone in order to be able to control it 's audio output . You could also purchase a dock with a remote for your iPhone . A remote of this nature would have a hardware Play/Pause button on it which you could press to quickly stop the music . For the sake of example : <URL> of what I 'm talking about . One other thing : double tapping the home button when the iPhone is locked comes up with Play/Pause controls which you could tap with your knuckle or something . This is also a fast and easy way to change tracks in general .
Nope . You wo n't be able to add the in iTunes and thus you wo n't be able to add them to iTunes match .
Actually , the Apple Music membership page says that service brings your iTunes library to iCloud , too It does say Apple Music and iTunes Match are " independent but complementary , " but I think I 'm like you -- I ca n't figure out why I 'd want iTunes Match if I 'm paying for Apple Music . The only benefit of Match is the $ 2 a month price point over the $ 10 a month price point . Music appears to do everything Match did but better and more and is priced accordingly .
The amount of space the OS needs is neither fixed nor predictable . It depends on a huge number of factors : what programs you run , what you do in them , what background activity they trigger , what background activity happens for other reasons , etc. . Hard drive space is used for overflow from RAM , logs , temporary files , etc. . If the system reserved a fixed amount of space for this , it would wind up being bigger than it needs to be a lot of the time ( and hence waste space ) , and too small some of the time ( which would be very bad ) .
Yes . The easiest way to do this is to do a full backup of your iPhone 4s via iTunes . Then you would connect the new iPhone to iTunes as well and then do a Restore from the iPhone 4s backup to your new iPhone . Important The iPhone 4s was available in various sizes , namely 8GB , 16GB , 32GB and 64GB . So you will need to ensure that your new iPhone has as a minimum the same capacity as your old one . You should also select the " Encrypt local backup " option as this will " allow account passwords , Health and HomeKit data to be backed up " . Of course , in your specific case , an iPhone 4S does n't have health and home data .
I ca n't say much about preventing this , but there is no need to reboot . Just kill Finder , using Force Quit from the apple menu or in a Terminal window . A new Finder will then be started in the old one 's place .
No - the design clearly is intended to honor whatever set of metadata you have currently entered into your library . As you have discovered , the matching process can find songs based on other criteria and re-downloading the " canonical " AAC 256 kbps stereo will not currently fill in any metadata holes or correct parts of the metadata that do not match what Apple has in the store ( or it 's Match database for songs that are not for sale like the AC/DC catalog ) I can see two reasons for this : Intentional - preserve user customization where the data may be better on the individual customer iTunes database . Not automating the process of cleaning up songs that may have been passed or downloaded rather than ripped when connected to a metadata lookup server or otherwise encoded by the official artist when it was sold or released . I specifically have hundreds of Hawaiian songs where I 've entered the metadata with the help of a native speaker to have the correct punctuation ( and that does n't match Apple 's punctuation ) . There certainly is a great need for a tool to help people manage this , but iTunes Match is n't that tool today .
According to <URL> : Use Your iPad Regularly For proper reporting of the battery 's state of charge , be sure to go through at least one charge cycle per month ( charging the battery to 100 % and then completely running it down ) .
I actually wrote an article on this . The relevant part : When you end your iTunes Match sub , you can only access songs you 've downloaded , they will not be available to download after the sub ends . You can continue to play the songs that exist on your device . Your iTunes Match library will only be stored online for 30 days after you cancel . <URL>
In late 2009 , <URL> , a site that did pretty much what present day iTunes Match does . It analyzed tracks you already owned , and allowed you to stream the ones you already had on your hard drive . The way the technology works is by analyzing the waveform of the music file and matching it to an existing database of known song digital audio fingerprints . Obviously , that 's way oversimplifying , but the basic idea of why you do n't have to upload a lot of your library , as iTunes Match and formerly LaLa.com have an existing db of song " fingerprints . "
<URL> can do this ( there 's a 99 cents ad-free version too ) . It 's supposed to let you just change http : / / to webshot : / / and it will open the same URL in in the app . That did n't work , but cut + paste did . There may be other apps which are better for certain needs , depending on what you want to actually do with the page . If you just want a JPG or PNG of it , Webshot Free works fine . If you are trying to save a page for reading later , <URL> ( $ 2 , universal ) will let you save a . webarchive or a . pdf file . [ Note : the print to pdf function is actually provided by 3rd party webapps , but it 's integrated into iCab ] . There are a variety of " Print to PDF " apps in the app store , <URL> , seems to be one of the better ones ( and is universal ) .
end question
start question
How to prevent screen lock when MacBook AC adapter is unplugged ?
Just in case you were n't aware of these options , or have n't already tried this , you could change the Battery settings under Energy Saver . Your question does n't specify what version of macOS you 're using , but here are some generic steps : Go to System Preferences > Energy Saver Select the Battery tab Set Computer Sleep to Never Set Display Sleep to Never Set Graphics to Higher Performance Make sure Slightly dim the display when using this power source is unchecked Make sure Automatically reduce brightness before display goes to sleep is unchecked Exit System Preferences Let us know how you go .
Apple only produces <URL> to connect the original Magsafe to Macs with Magsafe 2 . It does n't provide one to go the other way around . At the moment I 'm unaware of any third party product that does this ( and given the lack of third party Magsafe accessories in general , I would n't expect one any time soon ) .
Does control + shift + eject ( sleep displays ) solve your problem ? ( if you set authentication for login ) Or you can use Option + Command + eject Put the computer to sleep .
Looks like I fixed it . The problem was , that I divided my disk onto three logical disks . And system was confused , which one to be used for booting . When I chose Startup Disk in System preferences ( even though there was only one option ) the laptop wakes up normally . ( I had no problems during three days )
With iTunes in foreground , either press ⌘ T or select View > Visualizer , choose the animation , and select View > Show Visualizer . The visual effect will change with the music : enjoy !
At the moment there is no such option in rEFIt . It has been requested , but there has been no acknowledgement of implementing it . You could always participate in developing the application and thus getting the feature implemented :)
I used to get this issue as well and what I did was to prevent iTunes from auto syncing when I connect a device , this option is found in the iTunes Preferences/Devices and tick the checkbox as shown in the screenshot It 's also worth going into the user preferences then login items and remove " iTunes helper " which should stop it from launching iTunes anytime you connect a device .
You may want to try <URL> ( formerly <URL> ) . I use it to bind Caps Lock to Right-Ctrl ( not plain Ctrl ) , so that I can bind Caps Lock to Meta in Emacs ( while Ctrl remains Ctrl , and other keys are kept to the usual behavior ) .
Since at the login window ( and the lock screen ) your user is not logged in , you ´ ll have to edit the global preferences : and : and then do a reboot . This fixed it for me ( and I hope , Apple fixes that sooner or later ) . :-)
Just use the Keyboard pane of System Preferences . Click " Modifier Keys " , and set " Caps Lock " to " No Action " .
Require Administrator for AirPort You can set up your computer to require an administrator password to change AirPort settings , including changing networks . Open System Preferences → Network . Select your WiFi service in the services list . Click Advanced ... in the bottom-right corner . Select the options that you would like to require administrator authorization for . Click OK , then Apply .
If you have an external display attached with an external mouse/trackpad and keyboard , closing the lid will not put the machine in standby mode . You can keep using the computer with those devices . Check <URL> Apple link to read the official statement about it . Requirements for closed display mode : Power adapter External keyboard , mouse , or trackpad External display
If your devices have OS X Yosemite and iOS 8 or anything newer , <URL> Connect your iPhone , iPad or iPod touch to your Mac via a Lightning Cable . Open QuickTime on your Mac , and select File > New Movie Recording . A recording window will appear . Click the arrow next to the Record button , and select your iPhone from the dropdown menu that appears . Click the Record button and go about your business on your iPhone . Once you 're done , click the Stop button and save the video .
After going to the Wallpaper section from within Settings.app and choosing an image ; On the iPad , there are ' Set Lock Screen ' , ' Set Home Screen ' , and ' Set Both ' buttons on the top of the screen while previewing the image . On the iPhone , a menu pops up asking whether you 'd like it on the Lock Screen or Home Screen , or Both , after tapping ' Set ' . <URL>
The video out on MacBook Pro uses a Displayport / Thunderbolt port . To hook up to a VGA or DVI cable , you need an adapter . Alternatively you could buy a cable which has Displayport on one end and DVI or VGA on the other . The adapters do n't come as standard so you 'll need to buy one in an Apple store , online or use a third-party cable .
If your MBP is early 2011 or newer and there 's an Apple TV on the same wifi network as you , you should see an icon that looks like a TV in the menu bar . Click it and you 'll get a dropdown menu listing all the available Apple TVs ( in case there 's more than one ) . Click yours and you should be good to go ! If your MBP is older than early 2011 , you 'll need a third-party utility of some sort . If you 're willing to shell out $ 15 , I 've heard great things about <URL> .
Well after an hour on the phone with Apple support , 2 phone restores and 1 iOS upgrade , we finally got to the bottom of this . Turns out the feature ( to disable uploading of burst photos to PhotoStream ) DOES work as intended . It 's the wording of the feature description that is more than a little confusing . The text below the feature states : Only favorite Burst Photos will be uploaded to your Photo Stream The trouble is , to me ( and to the techs at Apple that I spoke to ) , that sounds like no part of a burst photo will be uploaded until you have chosen one of the photos in the burst , as a favorite . This is not so . What it actually means is that the entire burst will not be uploaded . But if you have Photo Stream turned on , a single photo from the burst WILL be uploaded . And unfortunately , it 's not the first frame . I 'm actually not sure what criteria iOS uses to decide which photo to upload , but it seems to be the first photo that it thinks is " the best " somehow . So , the bottom line is that Photo Stream is an all-or-nothing proposition . Either every photo you take ( including a single frame from any burst photos ) will be uploaded , or nothing will be uploaded . There is no way to selectively upload photos on a case-by-case basis , unless you either leave Photo Stream off and manually share photos you want in your stream every time , or turn Photo Stream off &amp; on between each photo you do n't want to upload ... but then you lose and have to re-download all your photostream content each time . Not a real great solution either way . I feel Apple should re-word the description of this feature to make it more clear what the expected behavior actually is , but I wo n't hold my breath on that .
Testing this just now on my personal rMBP , it does not go to sleep immediately . It appears to trigger the sleep at the normal " power adapter sleep " time.a
Painful to the touch - especially when the device has n't been that hot since day one - is a great time to unplug and take your rig ( computer and power adapter ) in to have things checked out . You might power off everything and try hooking just the shut down mac and see if drawing less current helps , but keep a very close eye on things and do n't leave it plugged in just in case if you have any concerns . I 've got an 85W adapter that started buzzing faintly and now it 's getting hot as well so I 've stopped using it until I can have things checked out . Also , ambient temperature is a big factor . Since things are air cooled , if you are 85 degrees F then the charger ca n't dissipate heat as well as if you were in a server room cooled to 62 degrees or so .
System Preferences , Accounts , Login Options and tick " Show input menu in login window " you 'll then be able to change it in the screen saver password window as well In OSX 10.7 Lion , " Accounts " is " Users &amp; Groups " . The setting " Show input menu in login window " really ought to be active by default when plural language input sources are enabled , though .
end question
start question
How can I make spotlight ignore certain file types and directories ?
Short answer : yes . Go to your System Preferences , then Spotlight : You can disable and/or reorder the items in this list . By dragging Applications to the top , " Saf " will match Safari first ( because it 's an App , regardless of it 's location ) . If , on the other hand , there 's a Folder ( s ) or Drive ( s ) that you want to explicitly exclude from Spotlight until you change your mind , turn onto the Privacy Tab ( on top of that panel ) and click the ( + ) button to browse for a folder . This window also accepts Drag and Drop of Folders or Drives ( Volumes ) . In my Sshot , you can see that I exclude Clone ( my weekly clone drive ) from Spotlight so when I search for something I do n't come up with duplicated results ( one from the main drive and one from the backup ) . I also have added a Public Folder where a lot of ppl drops stuff and I do n't care about it nor I want it in my search results . If you want to restore it , you can always remove it from this list ( and give spotlight time to re-index it ) . You ca n't ( as far as I know ) exclude by File type . Note : in order to drag a " drive " just go go the finder , click on your Mac OS Volume and then press ⌘ ↑ ( the up arrow ) to go back to the " root " , you will see your volumes there ( among other things ) . Drag it and drop it onto this Privacy tab and voilá .
In Terminal , relaunch Finder . After that you 'll see all your hidden files in Finder . Now type into Terminal and just drag &amp; drop file that you want to unhide on the line . Enter . will reverse Finder back to normal .
You ca n't use Time Machine to back up Windows , if that 's what you mean . The only way you could do that is if you 're hosting the Win installation in a virtual machine like Parallels ( Paid ) or VirtualBox ( free ) , then of course your entire VM would be backed up to TM along with everything else on your mac . Still , rolling back to a particular state ( or recoveing a particular file ) that way would be like finding a needle in a haystack . I 'd suggest you 'd be better off keeping a clone of your windows installation and a separate clone/or TM backup of your OS X installation ( on a separate disk ) . Not only is this the only practical solution , more importantly its also the safest . Never keep all your eggs in one basket ( hard drive ) when it comes to backups , especially with Time Machine , which has a habit of getting itself corrupted just when you least want it .
No - aliases are a combination of a sym link pointing to a place as well as a unique file ID to track that file if it moves so the alias wo n't be broken if the file still resides on the original volume . ( the file ID changes across volumes and an alias will only remain valid if the relative path is correct if and when the file ID half is broken by a deletion ) . So - for this to work , the system actively tries to reconnect the alias after a delete of the original file by design so automatically deleting an alias would ruin that chance to reconnect . Even though your question makes great logical sense , it amounts to a re-design of what an alias is engineered to do . A hard link is what you want to use if you want it to go away when the file is deleted finally .
You can try to temporarily disable Spotlight , removing its files and then reenabling it . The process to do this involves executing Terminal commands , so please pay attention and triple check each step . Open a Terminal.app ( / Applications/Utilities/Terminal . app ) and type : Examine the output of that , one should be your " broken " Volume . Once you have it identified , proceed with these steps , all in the Terminal . The first time you execute a command , your password may be required , this is normal . The output may look like : So the name you 're after is " MacintoshHD " . Step Number One : Disable Spotlight for your Drive . Step Number Two : Remove the indexes from the Drive . Step Number Three : Eliminate all Spotlight Files from the Drive . ( two commands ) Be careful with the last command , make sure you type it exactly as it appears . Step Number Four : Re-enable spotlight in the Drive . Now this should trigger a Spotlight complete re-indexing . You have to be extremely patient with it . Spotlight sometimes appears to be frozen but it 's really indexing . It 's best to leave it overnight and be patient .
yes use the action " Ask for Folder Contents " ( i hope its called like that on an English OS - I 'm currently on a German one there it is called " Ordnerinhalt abfragen " ) , there you can say if you also wan na use subfolders or not . I added a demo workflow for you . <URL>
I would recommend using mountpoints instead of symbolic links , but symbolic links will work . For example , I have a small SSD as a boot drive and a PCIe SSD for my / Users partition on my Mac Pro . I copied over the data and added the following to my / etc/fstab file . " Users " is the name of the partition known to Disk Utility and " / Users " is the mount point . This is a lot cleaner than symbolic links , as many tools will not follow symbolic links without being told explicitly to do so , to avoid cyclic links . In your case , you might want to create a separate partition for ~ / Library and move everything over . You may also want to create separate partitions for Mail and for MobileSync . All of that said , symlinks will very likely work in these two cases . However , keep in mind that you 're moving directories that have both a high rate of change and a lot of data , which is the worst case for a spindle . Expect iOS backups to be slower and for Mail operations such as " search " and opening attachments to take a little longer .
I do n't think there 's a way to -- the Spotlight indexes are generated by metadata importers that scan files and figure out their properties . If the relevant importer does n't detect some property , then as far as Spotlight is concerned it does n't exist . Now , it might be possible to change the actual file in such a way as to add properties to its index entry . <URL> claims you can add extended attributes starting with " com.apple.metadata : " and they 'll be added to the spotlight entry for the file , but I could n't get it to work . <URL> extends the import system to add extended attributes to the spotlight database , but only works on OS X v10 .4 . Not an actual solution , but that 's as close as I could find ...
You can use the Recovery partition or Internet Recovery to download the full installer . The basic method is , tell it to re-install on an external drive , let it download , interrupt it before it reboots your system , then you can grab the DMG file and write it to a USB drive so that you 'll have a full ( no internet required ) installer when you need it . Full details here : <URL> You 'll want to have a spare external drive handy to use as the install target so that you do n't risk overwriting your boot drive .
If you save the Apple Script as an application , then go to System Preferences - > Users - > Login Items , you can add the application there , and it will run on login .
While <URL> is a bit old , it still works This gives you a decent GUI interface to control default apps
Go to Settings > Mails , ... > Fetch New Data > Advanced From there , you can chose how to get new email from each account . It could be push , fetch ( every X minutes ) or manual ( only when you open the app )
What version of CorelDRAW ? What 's the workflow ? . CDR is a proprietary format , so I 'm not aware of any proper supported exporters . The <URL> reverse-engineered the format , and claims to have the best support . But since recent versions of CorelDRAW can <URL> , I think you would get the best results to just save it as . ai and import it into CorelDRAW .
Try giving the contact a nickname ( Add Field > Nickname ) in your Contacts , and then use that nickname when ordering Siri to text that person . Alternatively , put a character in front of old John 's name so Siri never gets confused ( e.g. , xJohn or oldJohn or #John ) .
This command will list all files indexed by spotlight system : To store the output in a file :
Mission Control desktop spaces are strictly linear . 1x9 is all you have , and 1x9 is all you 'll get ( for the foreseeable future anyways ) . Given the use of 9 ( ! ) desktop spaces , the two fastest ways to navigate explicitly to one of them are the keyboard shortcuts , or explicitly launching the Mission Control interface and clicking on the specific desktop space you wish to use . After creating multiple spaces , you can go into your System Preferences and define a keyboard shortcut for each specific space . System Preferences - > Keyboard - > Keyboard Shortcuts tab - > Mission Control category
Welcome , Martijn . I always recommend Apple 's videos : <URL> For now I would also recommend you not worry about terminal/UNIX . Learn to use the Mac OS using the GUI at first , getting used to how it behaves and in which ways it might be different from the Windows operating systems you are used to . Good luck ! EDIT : Also , it does n't really matter where things " should " go on a Mac . You can put applications on the desktop , documents in Applications , etc , etc. . Although I do n't recommend that . There is a Documents folder for documents and an Applications folder for apps . Treat the Library and System folders with care ( IE -- do not go into them or manipulate them until/unless you know what they are , what 's inside and what the effect of your actions will be ) and you will be fine . Backups are also your best friend .
Sure . Just go to System Preferences/Network , select Wifi and click Advanced . A list with all the Wifi networks you 've been connected to will appear . Just rearrange the connection order ( the ones you 'd like to connect first on top ) by drag-dropping . Also , delete any unwanted network SSID ( network names ) if you no longer want to auto-join that .
I do n't fully understand your question but here 's my answer on what i think you want to achieve . Make sure you have your display connected when doing the following . Open the application you want to assign . Control + Click ( Right click ) on the dock icon You should see that a menu pops up and hover over Options You 'll see something that says Assign To and then some options Select the display you want You should be done :)
Spoke to the Apple Geniuses today . They said it was n't possible . Best I could come up with was to group the files by type .
end question
start question
How do I find the path of a file on another computer on my network ?
It would depend on how you want to access the file . Here 's what I do : Initiate the connection to the remote computer ( I do it via Finder - > Go - > Connect to Server [ or Command + K ] ) but you can also do via terminal using the command Connect to the shared folder/volume available to your user When connecting to those in Terminal , you would now use the path to access them . For example , if you connected to a folder called Stuff with a subfolder called Things , and ultimately file jackpot.txt on ip 10.10.1.5 , first connect via smb to the server ( 10.10.1.5 ) , choose the folder Stuff , and then reference that path in Terminal as / Volumes/Stuff/Things / jackpot.txt EDIT : You can also run a Find command ( Command + F ) inside of Finder while you are connected to the share if you still do n't know where the file is . Do the following : Open Finder , connect to the server/volume ( Steps 1 +2 above ) Run Command + F to Find , enter your search term Above the Finder section where files display , switch the search to " Shared " - this will run the search against connected volumes Locate the file you want , and then drag + drop it into an open Terminal window The path will be shown in Terminal
This was covered by <URL> . Here are the steps to get both the file where the signature is stored as well as the associated keychain entry to a second Mac . On the source Mac : Open the folder . In Finder , click the Go menu and hold option to show the Library folder . Alternatively , press ⇧ ⌘ G whilst Finder is active and enter the path above to directly navigate . On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , copy the file . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , copy the file . Launch Keychain Access Ensure the login keychain is selected and choose the Passwords category . On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , right-click the Preview Signature Privacy password and select Copy Password to Clipboard . This is the password used to encrypt the signature images . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , right-click the Signature Annotation Privacy password and select Copy Password to Clipboard . Paste it into a text editor and save the file . You 'll need to transfer this to your other computer ( s ) . On the destination Mac ( s ) : Launch Preview , open Preferences , and select the Signatures tab to ensure the default configuration files and folders have been created . Exit Preview . Ensure that the process is terminated . Open the folder . On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , copy the file to the folder , overwriting any existing file . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , copy the file to the folder , overwriting any existing file . Launch Keychain Access On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , locate the Preview Signature Privacy password in the login keychain and double-click to edit . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , locate the Signature Annotation Privacy password in the login keychain and double-click to edit . Click the Show password checkbox and paste the password you copied from your original machine . Click Save Changes and you 're done ! In situations where the target machine has no existing Preview Signature Privacy or Signature Annotation Privacy record in Keychain Access , you must create a new record . This is necessary when the target machine ( like a Mac Pro with an older or third-party display attached ) has no camera which means no Signature file can be created from within Preview . Open Keychain Access as above and do the following : Click on the + icon to create a new entry On OS X Mavericks 10.9 and earlier , enter Preview Signature Privacy in the Keychain Item Name field . On OS X Yosemite 10.10 and later , enter Signature Annotation Privacy in the Keychain Item Name field . Enter Preview in the Account Name field . Paste the password copied from your original machine , per above procedure . Click Add In the newly created entry , click Access Control Add Preview to applications allowed access Click Save Changes and you 're done !
This uses the airport CLI , with the flag to show information and grep for SSID shows the name of the network .
I do not believe that Mavericks shipped with a 32-bit version . You are probably running 64-bit OS X. All of the Core i3 , i5 , and i7 Mac computers have 64-bit processors . <URL> To determine if you are running a 32-bit or 64-bit version of OS X , open a Terminal and type : On a 64-bit OS , the output will end with . On a 32-bit OS , the output will end with . <URL>
Remove it from the list of " Preferred Networks " and it will stop auto-connecting . Go to " System Preferences " > " Networks " prefpane . Choose " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " on Lion ) on the left . Click the " Advanced " button . In the resulting sheet , choose the " AirPort " ( or " WiFi " ) tab . ( It should be the leftmost . ) Select your neighbor 's wifi network in the list and hit the " - " ( minus ) button . Live with joy at never [ auto - ] connecting there again !
Borrow a trick from Apple - set the partition type to something besides Apple_HFS . The Apple_Boot partition type is used by Lion Recovery , and should provide the exact behavior you want . This process is NOT for the faint-of-heart , and you should definitely have a backup . If any of this process is unclear , DO NOT DO IT . Note that all numbers and drive names will be different on your computer . First , determine which " BSD disk " your target drive is . Very likely disk1 , but not necessarily . For example , this is my current system : What follows is a copy-paste-edit job from <URL> : We need to change the type of this partition . This involves noting partition parameters , deleting and creating a patition with gpt . Firsts , let find out parameters : Next , delete and add the partition . Note that we use values found on the previous step . Notice the different GUID . That is important because it tells OS X the type of the partition . ... Check if everything is ok : You should see what had previously been an Apple_HFS partition should be listed as Apple_Boot . Such partitions are bootable on an Intel Mac without being auto-mounted by a running system . Repeat this general process with each partition that you want to " hide " normally .
It 's not locked to any one carrier so you should be able to insert a Micro SIM card for your local carrier and it will work . The catch is that there are different sets of GSM frequencies in use , so you should verify that your chosen carrier uses frequencies supported by the iPad . Odds are it will work , but better to be safe . From the <URL> , here is what it supports : UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) The broader situation is that the only problematic ( less interoperable ) 3G iPad is the Verizon-specific model sold in the USA
This seems to work on El Capitan . Control-select the file , then Delete Immediately from pop-up menu and confirm .
According to <URL> in the Apple Support Communities , I 'm needed to create a mobile account on my server : In Workgroup Manager , select your username in the list of users . Click the Preferences button . Click the Mobility button . Turn it on using your desired settings . Thanks to <URL> for pointing me to the right direction .
You do n't get charged for app upgrades on iOS . You only get notification for free updates .
You can install from scratch . To do so : Download the update from the App store . Create an install DVD or an <URL> . Boot from the install drive ( Holding alt or option during boot ) . Using disk utility format the desired partition . Launch the install process on the newly formatted partition . Enjoy the fresh install . Edit : One thing to note is the fact that you do n't have to format the entire hard drive . You can only format the partition containing your OS and do the install on that partition . If you want to install Mavericks on a different partition to allow multi boot ( Mavericks/Mountain Lion ) you can use another partition to do so as long as there is enough free space on it . One important tip to remember is the ability of disk utility at creating additional partitions : Open DiskUtility.app Select the desired hard drive Go to the Partitions tab Under the partitions list click on the add button to create a new partition .
Finally found an answer to this , <URL> Create a standard playlist called " Not Missing " . Drag your entire library into that playlist . Missing tracks can not be copied to a playlist . Create a smart playlist called " Missing " where : Playlist - is not - Not Missing ( additional to this post ) Media type - is - Music You now have a playlist which contains only your songs with the dreaded exclamation mark , and you can re-add them from your original source .
A lot of applications ( bundles ) for OS X do n't need an installer in contrary to almost all Windows apps . They are distributed inside an . dmg . To properly " install " them just open the . dmg and copy the app file to / Applications or / Applications/Utilities . A lot of images already contain a soft link to the Applications folder to be more convenient for the user . <URL> If the . dmg contains such a soft link just drop the app on it ( like indicated by the grey arrow in the screenshot above ) . You have to enter an admin password to start the task if you are n't logged in with a user with admin permissions . You always have to enter an admin password if you copy the file into / Applications/Utilities / . All subsequent installations ( like LaunchDaemons or application support files ) are done by the app itself after starting it for the first time . After copying the app to one of the folders mentioned above , you can unmount the " installer " volume and delete the . dmg file .
" I would like to know if hard drive access speed is a bottleneck to my system currently . " Of course ! There are two aspects to a disk storage system : Bus speed Storage medium speed On ANY given bus , e.g. , SATA , SATA2 , SATA3 , a mechanical HDD will be an order of magnitude slower than an SSD for a given link speed . The secret is to always use an SSD that features at minimum the same link speed as the disk controller . It can be of benefit , however , to use an SSD ( or HDD if you 're financially challenged ) that features a faster link speed than its host . For example , I 'm using a Crucial M500 960 GB SSD in my MacBook4 ,1 . The SSD is a SATA 3 , 6 Gb/s drive , whereas the MacBook has a SATA 1.5 Gb/sec controller . The drive performance is marginally ( ! ) better due to its higher internal processing speeds than would be a 1.5 Gb/sec SATA SSD on the same system . Mechanical hard disks are painfully slow compared to their SSD counterparts . In ANY computer system , the HDD and its attendant controller will be the biggest bottleneck . As such , to ensure best performance , you should use the fastest storage medium possible .
It would depend on how you want to access the file . Here 's what I do : Initiate the connection to the remote computer ( I do it via Finder - > Go - > Connect to Server [ or Command + K ] ) but you can also do via terminal using the command Connect to the shared folder/volume available to your user When connecting to those in Terminal , you would now use the path to access them . For example , if you connected to a folder called Stuff with a subfolder called Things , and ultimately file jackpot.txt on ip 10.10.1.5 , first connect via smb to the server ( 10.10.1.5 ) , choose the folder Stuff , and then reference that path in Terminal as / Volumes/Stuff/Things / jackpot.txt EDIT : You can also run a Find command ( Command + F ) inside of Finder while you are connected to the share if you still do n't know where the file is . Do the following : Open Finder , connect to the server/volume ( Steps 1 +2 above ) Run Command + F to Find , enter your search term Above the Finder section where files display , switch the search to " Shared " - this will run the search against connected volumes Locate the file you want , and then drag + drop it into an open Terminal window The path will be shown in Terminal
Open a finder window and set the view to list view . Press command-J and select " calculate all sizes " then click " use as standard " . Now folder sizes will show in your finder . I do n't think it is possible to show sizes for multiple folders , but this might be a good workaround .
Drag protocol can be a bit confusing , however , it does follow a recognisable pattern ... To the same volume Drag will move - unless the file is in a protected location [ root level of the volume , or in a protected System folder ] , in which case it will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will override the simple drag behaviour for protected files &amp; move instead [ but will need Admin authentication ] . To a different volume Drag will copy Opt ⌥ drag will copy Cmd ⌘ drag will move [ ie , copy , then delete the original . ] So , Opt ⌥ always copies , but Cmd ⌘ reverses the default behaviour of just dragging . Worst case scenario - you can change your modifier key &amp; check the added icon on the file you 're dragging to see your end result , right up until you let go of the mouse button . Just to complete the set - Cmd ⌘ Opt ⌥ dragging will make an Alias at the destination . edit ... &amp; after all that I realise that Preview will not adhere to that behaviour ... Move appears to not be an option at all . Best guess is that you can not move an open document &amp; even hope that an app could keep track of where it went . The Finder can . You can move the file in the Finder whilst open in Preview , but then Preview will tell you you are working on a copy &amp; you need to save a fresh version . Pretty safe &amp; sensible behaviour , really .
Sharing must be enabled . To see the Mac from your PC 's , enable File Sharing ( System Preferences/Sharing/File Sharing ) . You will need to take the additional step of enabling Samba sharing , since PC 's do n't use Apple 's File sharing Protocol ( AFP ) . Do this by then clicking on options , and make sure " Share files and folders using SMB ( Windows ) " is checked . Turn it on for whichever accounts you wish to authorize . In order to see PC shares from your Mac , the PC 's must be on the same network , with sharing enabled . Share a folder or something . Is it XP , Vista , 7 ? If it 's XP , disable Simple File Sharing . Do so by opening a folder , going to Tools - > Options , and find it at the bottom of View . Then right-click a folder , go to Sharing and Security , and enable sharing . If it still does n't show up , you may have a network/firewall issue , and it warrants further help . . but try that to get you started .
On my iPhone , I can find my MAC address by going into Settings , then General , then About . The wifi MAC address is listed under " Wi-Fi Address " . It 's likely that the MAC address for the iPad is in the same location .
According to <URL> , the 3rd gen iPod Touch can be upgraded to iOS 5 . However , you may want to confirm that your iPod is not a 2nd gen version - those can only be upgraded to 4.2.1 . <URL> has the following information to confirm your version ( <URL> ) : iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) features a 3.5-inch ( diagonal ) widescreen multi-touch display and 32 GB or 64 GB flash drive . You can browse the web with Safari and watch YouTube videos with Wi-Fi . You can also search , preview , and buy songs from the iTunes Wi-Fi Music Store on iPod touch . The iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) can be distinguished from iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) by looking at the back of the device . In the text below the engraving , look for the model number . iPod touch ( 2nd generation ) is model A1288 , and iPod touch ( 3rd generation ) is model A1318 . Also , per <URL> - make sure that you 've upgraded to iTunes 10.5 before you begin the upgrade .
end question
start question
How do I see site blocked from Safari 's Top Sites ?
The list of blocked sites is in the BannedURLStrings array in ~ / Library/Safari/TopSites . plist
Why not just add one yourself ? Open System Preferences → Keyboard → Shortcuts → App Shortcuts and click add . Select Safari , enter ' Show Top Sites ' for the menu title and enter a keyboard shortcut . This adds the shortcut to the menu option :
There is a syndication setting that you choose when you upload a video to youtube in the video settings page under Broadcasting and Sharing Options that allows it to be played on mobile devices or not .
It 's not that easy since iPhoto uses a database to track the files . When you trash the file , it simply removes the reference to that photo in whatever events and albums it used to be included . It makes a reference to the original and modified files , so they do n't actually get moved into a folder that you can get a quick estimate on the total trash size . These pointers to a photo are so small that they are a rounding error compared even to the size of a small thumbnail of your photo . The best way is to just get an estimate how large the typical picture you take is and see how much space a thousand of them take . You 'll then be able to know if emptying the trash has any chance on making a difference size wise .
AppleScript is a nice way to go ! It works on Mavericks . It might need some modifications on older OS X because the UI of the mouse preferences changed .
Yes - all computer batteries from Apple ( including the newer unibody models where the battery is not consumer replaceable ) are easily swapped in a 10 minute procedure to open , inspect , replace , test and document the repair . Of course , your wait time might be longer if no one is free to start work immediately or the part needs to be retrieved from a nearby stock room . If the part is n't in stock , Apple should be able to quote you a delivery time to order the part , and discuss if you want to leave the Mac for service , choose mail in service or leave with your mac and return later to get the repair done as same - or next-day service once the part and the Mac are in the shop together . Since you called AppleCare and explained your symptoms , my guess is they can not run the diagnostics remotely to establish a true failure ( or if you agree to pay for the repair ) and pre-order the part before you present the Mac for repair in the store . My experience is each store has sufficient stock to do several repairs of a battery type , but that being said , I 've also gone in on a busy day where they had three machines needing the same part as I and I was the third in line and therefore had the option of leaving the Mac or waiting for the part to arrive . Worst case , you get a diagnosis and do n't leave the machine in for repair , but have options to pre-order the part when you return or find another store . If the store mails in your Mac for repair , often it can get overnighted to a return location of your choosing and clearly wherever they ship the machine will be same day service for an in-stock battery at the main repair depot .
Yes , mobile sites can be programmed to remove the navigation bar whilst browsing the site . Makes for a better user experience when these elements get out of the way . This is documented here <URL> In particular the apple-mobile-web-app-capable element .
For some reason or another , Apple has made it impossible to access junk messages from a Smart Mailbox . If you are able to set to Junk , you must be setting it to a special ' Junk ' mailbox that you have created ( or that was created automatically by whatever email service you connect to ) . So , messages in Mail 's built-in Junk folder wo n't appear in your mailbox . However , you can get around this without too much trouble . To do this , make a Mail rule that automatically moves junk mail to your special Junk mailbox . Here 's how : Go to Mail - > Preferences - > Rules . Click Add Rule . Set the description to something like . Set the popup in the first box to . Set the first popup in the second box to , and use the second popup to select your special junk box . Now , any incoming messages that Mail thinks are junk will go to your special junk mailbox . You can use this one in a Smart Mailbox . Hope this helps !
If you go to the Purchases tab in App Store and click on a software title , the description of the app is presented in all its full glory , with screen shots , customer ratings &amp; everything else .
You can use wget like this : - r to recursively download all files below the level of the URL specified - nd to not create a hierarchy of directories in your download location ( not necessary ) - A to specify the files you want to download ( all files ending in . mp3 in your case ) You can obtain wget for OSX via homebrew or macports .
I just figured this out . All I had to do was drag the folder containing the apps to the Launchpad icon on the dock .
Try to to go and search for . It 's the file that gets updated when you modify the display in ( I just tried ) . According to <URL> , it 's safe to delete it . So move it on your desktop and try to reboot .
Found it : The UserDir module in Apache2 defaults to public_html . So ~ studentname was being directed to / Users/studentname/public _ html . Which does n't exist in any of the users ' folders . What does exist is / Users/studentname/Sites , so I just added this line to the httpd.conf : ... and it 's working perfectly now . Awesome ! Many thanks to @bmike for pointing me in the right direction .
After a bit of research ( in the stores themselves , using Google , and in the Apple Developer Program resources ) , I 'm rather sure no list of these is available from Apple themselves or from any third party . I found the best ways to find the apps tagged as " Essentials , " is to look in these places : Both the Mac App Store and the iTunes App Store have a link on their front page called " New to the ( Mac ) App Store ? " Most apps listed there , which are not games , have the " Essentials " badge . It 's not the way to find them all though , as e.g. the WolframAlpha app you mentioned is not listed on that page in the iTunes Store . There are also some apps which do n't have the badge , e.g. Shazam is tagged as " Editors ' Choice , " but not " Essentials " in the Mac App Store . The iTunes App Store also has a link " App Collections . " Although the page this link leads to is titled " Essentials App Collections , " quite a number of the apps listed in the collections do n't have the " Essentials " badge . On the other hand , you can find a lot of " Essentials " this way . My impression is the difference between the " Essentials " tag and e.g. " Editors ' Choice " is not very well defined , and just picked by a specific Apple store editor . And I noticed some of those apps may be only essential to a very specific crowd . E.g. the djay 2 app , also tagged " Essentials , " is most definitely the best and most popular DJ app for the iPad out there , but it 's only essential to a select group . In the end , although there is no definitive list , going though the various collections made by Apple editors , will lead you to a lot of " Essential " apps .
The Safari cache lasts for as long as the max-age header ( <URL> ) is set ( by the server which is serving the file ) for the specific file that is being cached , unless it is cleared manually . However , caches the file until the file is modified ( or the server tells the client the file is modified ) .
Albums > Faces - the pending list should appear at the bottom of the page , if there are any new faces to tag . <URL> <URL>
You should be able to turn your script into an application with <URL> - . Look for an option called " Run Shell Script " and once you 're done , it should behave like other apps in that anything that is dragged and dropped on it will be run with it . Good luck !
Yes , There is an extension for this called <URL> . Here is a description of the software from it 's website : ZoomBySite is a Safari Extension that will automatically zoom each site to the zoom level of your last visit to the site . A site is defined by a unique domain name ( so www.apple.com is considered different from store.apple.com and each could have its own unique zoom level ) . It does this by intercepting the Zoom In and Zoom Out keyboard shortcuts [ ... ] . It zooms the page in or out by the desired amount ( see the Preferences section below ) and also stores the zoom level for the site . As each page loads , it checks to see if there is a stored zoom level and sets it again for the current viewing . If you change the zoom level of a site , any other tabs or windows that are open to that site will also change their zoom level .
Well , not a lawyer here , but you could infer that your use would be considered acceptable use based on the following information , as long as you do n't use any paid content ( content obtained as part of a paid developer program ) in these presentations : <URL> has a question titled " What are the terms and conditions of being a Registered Apple Developer ? " , the answer for which points to the <URL> . The agreement PDF talks about publicly available information and confidentiality here : 4 . Confidentiality . You agree that any Apple pre-release software and/or hardware ( including related documentation and materials ) provided to you as a Registered Apple Developer ( " Pre-Release Materials " ) and any information disclosed by Apple to you in connection with Apple Events or Paid Content ( defined below ) will be considered and referred to as " Apple Confidential Information " . Notwithstanding the foregoing , Apple Confidential Information will not include : ( i ) information that is generally and legitimately available to the public through no fault or breach of yours , ( ii ) information that is generally made available to the public by Apple , ( iii ) information that is independently developed by you without the use of any Apple Confidential Information , ( iv ) information that was rightfully obtained from a third party who had the right to transfer or disclose it to you without limitation , or ( v ) any third party software and/or documentation provided to you by Apple and accompanied by licensing terms that do not impose confidentiality obligations on the use or disclosure of such software and/or documentation . Note the exclusion of " ( ii ) information that is generally made available to the public by Apple " from the list of Apple Confidential Information . Also , when you browse through the documentation online ( or download a PDF ) , they do n't state those as Apple Confidential Information . However , you are allowed to disclose Apple Confidential Information to other employees/contractors who are also registered Apple developers . The agreement PDF also deals with Apple Confidential Information disclosure here : 5 . Nondisclosure and Nonuse of Apple Confidential Information . Unless otherwise expressly agreed or permitted in writing by Apple , you agree not to disclose , publish , or disseminate any Apple Confidential Information to anyone other than to other Registered Apple Developers who are employees and contractors working for the same entity as you and then only to the extent that Apple does not otherwise prohibit such disclosure . Except for your authorized purposes as a Registered Apple Developer or as otherwise expressly agreed or permitted by Apple in writing , you agree not to use Apple Confidential Information in any way , including , without limitation , for your own or any third party 's benefit without the prior written approval of an authorized representative of Apple in each instance . You further agree to take reasonable precautions to prevent any unauthorized use , disclosure , publication , or dissemination of Apple Confidential Information . You acknowledge that unauthorized disclosure or use of Apple Confidential Information could cause irreparable harm and significant injury to Apple that may be difficult to ascertain . Accordingly , you agree that Apple will have the right to seek immediate injunctive relief to enforce your obligations under this Agreement in addition to any other rights and remedies it may have . If you are required by law , regulation or pursuant to the valid binding order of a court of competent jurisdiction to disclose Apple Confidential Information , you may make such disclosure , but only if you have notified Apple before making such disclosure and have used commercially reasonable efforts to limit the disclosure and to seek confidential , protective treatment of such information . A disclosure pursuant to the previous sentence will not relieve you of your obligations to hold such information as Apple Confidential Information . The agreement prohibits you from sharing paid content available as part of a paid developer program with anyone ( including other employees in your organization ) here : 7 . Paid Content License and Restrictions . As a Registered Apple Developer , you may have access to certain proprietary content ( including , without limitation , video presentations and audio recordings ) that Apple may make available to you from time to time for a separate fee ( " Paid Content " ) . Paid Content shall be considered Apple Confidential Information , unless otherwise agreed or permitted in writing by Apple . You may not share the Paid Content with anyone , including , without limitation , employees and contractors working for the same entity as you , regardless of whether they are Registered Apple Developers . Subject to these terms and conditions , Apple grants you a personal and nontransferable license to access and use the Paid Content for authorized purposes as a Registered Apple Developer ; provided that you ma
If I get it right , you want to monitor all file-system operations of your app when you launch it and when it 's running ? Rather than finding each and every byte that this program has ever written to your hard-drive . For the first case I have two recommendations : <URL> Instruments.app from / Developer/Applications / ( you need <URL> for that ) Choosing " File Activity " from the templates Supplement from 2011-12-22 And for the command-line , copied from <URL> Shows you all of the files that are being accessed on your system by a particular process ( by passing its PID )
end question
start question
How do you use your iPod shuffle or nano ?
Nanos or shuffles are great for workouts at the gym or while running . You can use them just about anywhere . I personally use a Classic for my stuff , but the nano is great if you have a smaller library or want something very mobile . As far as what you can do with it ( other than playing music ) , it really depends on which generation you have . You obviously ca n't really run ' apps ' on it , but many generations ( of nanos ) had some small games , radios , could play video , etc. .
Found it and putting it here for reference , simply hold the home and power button down for 10 seconds ( ignoring the power off slider when it comes up ) then keep the home button pressed down and release the power button . This needs to be done while connected to iTunes . At that point iTunes will offer to restore it .
A fairly good article to check out in this case is <URL> You receive 5 GB per iCloud account , but you can have separate iCloud and iTunes Store accounts setup , thereby sharing music and apps , while keeping the backups apart . From the article : What is backed up : You get unlimited free storage for : You get 5GB of free iCloud storage for :
iOS 4.0 supports a very rapid secure erase called " Data Protection " . If you upgrade from 3.0 you need to do a restore to set the stage for hardware encryption of all the data . If your device is n't capable of hardware encryption ( often called secure data at rest ) , then you can use the Erase all content and settings function . This <URL> has been around since iPhone OS 2.0 As this does n't work the same way on all iOS devices , do read <URL> before you depend on this to clear data securely . Once you are through erasing the device , you might want to connect it to a clean iTunes library and restore the device and set it up as new . Making a new account on your Mac or PC is an easy way to have a library with no account , no songs , and no apps just to be sure the device has a clean ( and easily verifiable ) start to it 's new life .
You ca n't use an existing Apple ID and then enroll it into the store . The " none " option only exists for new accounts as a one-time ( or limited count ) event for that device thanks to scammers and people that manipulate app store ratings with factory reviews and paid downloads . You can usually make a brand new Apple ID following these steps : <URL> It 's generally a bigger pain to have two Apple ID , so I would encourage you to not set up a new ID just to avoid the temporary delay of getting a legitimate address and card for temporary use . Once you have your account verified , you can use store credit for just about everything on the store .
I believe there are applications that can extract the voice messages from your phone but they cost money and required the phone be plugged in to the computer . The simplest way is to connect your phone to your computer with a 3.5 mm audio cable . Use a simple audio recording app , such as <URL> , click record and play the voice message .
No . The copy of Lion you get with a new Mac is only available via the recovery partition on the hard drive and this version of the OS is tied to the hardware . <URL> : When you reinstall Lion via Lion Recovery , it seems Apple uses information about your Mac 's hardware to verify that it has a license for Lion . <URL> : Unfortunately , as Macworld points out , this trick does n't apply to OS X Lion itself -- there 's no DVD or thumb drive included with a new Mac , which means the big cat only lives on your new Mac 's recovery partition , which appears to be tied to the hardware itself -- meaning you ca n't install it on your other Macs without ponying up the $ 29.99 from the Mac App Store . Would be nice if you got it for your other Macs for free when you bought a new Mac , but for now it seems like it 'll still cost you another $ 30 to bring all the Macs you own up to the current OS rev.
Open terminal and type : Look here for more information : <URL>
From <URL> How to delete all photos from iPhone The following method is without a doubt the fastest and most efficient way to mass delete photos from your Camera Roll . You can choose to delete one or hundreds of photos at once , and get the job done in less time that it takes to say it . 1 ) Plug your iPhone in your Mac . Launch the application called Image Capture . You might not have heard of it before , but it comes with all Macs . It should be somewhere in your Applications folder . Note to Windows users : I do not have a Windows machine to test this on , but if my memory is correct , you can achieve the same thing by going to " My Computer " and look for your iPhone , which should appear as cameras normally do on PC . Do n't quote me on this though . Hopefully , some commenters that have a Windows PC will be able to give us more details about that . 2 ) Make sure your iPhone or iPad is selected from the " Devices " list in the left navigation bar . 3 ) Select as many photos as you want to delete . If you want to delete all of them in one scoop , hit the " Command + A " keys on your keyboard to select all photos . 4 ) Click on the red delete icon at the bottom of the screen . 5 ) You will get one last chance to stop the mass removal of your pictures . Image Capture will ask you if you 're sure you want to delete the selected items permanently . Click Delete . All the photos will be wiped from your iPhone or iPad .
ISPGeeks.com has a non-flash java based bandwidth tester . It pretty accurately measured the speed of my iPad on my home connection , as compared to similar tests on the usual Flash-based sites .
The application you point out is a Mac only application . That 's why it does n't work on Windows Vista . However , here 's two alternatives : <URL> which is a paid multiplatform app <URL> which is less polished and windows only , but free . You may as well be interested by <URL> which allow to browse any connected iOS device without jailbreaking them . It does the job and works on Mac OS &amp; Windows . It 's a shareware , but the demo is fully usable .
Maybe <URL> helps you out ? Choose Format > Font > Capitalization and choose an option from the submenu . Choose Small Caps to change the text to smaller capitals with larger capitals for uppercase letters
Open Image Capture , connect the iPad , select it when it appears in the list on the left . On the lower left will be a selector for what app to open when it connects , you can pick None .
<URL> MenuMeters is a free application that displays CPU usage , memory usage , network up/down , and disk write/read .
DynDNS does support <URL> ( mDNS ) , which provides the ability to do dynamic DNS and much more . They even have <URL> for setting it up with an Airport Device . It will cost you a $ 30/yr standard account , though .
The exceptions are stored in Keychain Access . The certificate will be copied there , together with the trust settings . Double-click a certificate and you will be able to change it 's settings . Note : you can have trust setting on system level and user level ! They have separate keychains as listed in the sidebar .
I just got the iPod Nano 6th generation , and was able to plug it into my <URL> via dock connector without any problems . So , I think the 6th generation iPod dock connector is not different from the 5th generation at all . ( The Altec Lansing IMT325 says on the box that it works with iPod Nano 3rd to 5th generation , which led to my original question . )
It is not possible to remotely control the screen of an iPad unless you jailbreak and install a VNC server as MattDMo suggested . This is because the security model in iOS does not allow an app to reach outside of its sandbox to control other apps or the springboard home screen . Apple does not provide any remote control functionality at the iOS level either . There is no way to do what you are asking for without jailbreaking . Mobile Device Management ( MDM ) solutions do not allow remote control of the screen on iOS either . MDM can push configuration profiles to control settings on an iPad , or prompt the user to install an app from the app store , but they ca n't control the screen . Airwatch offers a screen control option , but this only works on platforms that support it ( not iOS ) . I work with several MDM vendors , including Airwatch , and this is not possible because Apple does not make this functionality available in iOS .
On Yosemite : Double click the window top bar ( Like in MS Windows ) or Option-click the green dot in the top left . On older OS X versions : Shift-click the green ( + )
I do n't think you can do this in Safari on the iPhone but you could use a 3rd party browser app . Many of those will let you set the browser agent . One browser I know does this is ' Atomic Web Browser ' . This may not work in all cases as some websites may use other ways of determining which content to show , for example , some will detect the screen dimensions . I 've tried this on my iPhone with Atomic Web Browser . Within the browser , I went to settings , ' Identify browser as ' and selected ' Safari Desktop ' . Then I went to nascar.com and tapped on the nascar logo . It showed me the desktop version of the page . I checked in mobile safari and doing the same indeed took me to a mobile version .
end question
start question
Is it possible to delete the " useless " apps pre-installed on my Mac ?
At one time or another I have deleted a whole bunch of the standard issue programs that I knew I would n't use . I prefer not to have them wasting my space , however little it may be . Also , I use a Mac Mini as a media centre , changing the standard hdd for an ssd , so space is at a premium . Appcleaner is one app that I have used for several years to tidy stuff up . Never had a single issue with deleting Stickies , Notes , Bootcamp Assistant , Audio Midi Setup , RAID , Podcast , etc , etc. . Appcleaner preferences should be set up to delete " protected " apps and then will delete the app and all the other files ( plists , etc. ) that go with it . Another app , CleanMyMac , does the same , but will also do a more general clearout of caches , etc. . Both recommended ... Good luck !
Go to System Preferences - > Keyboard and , in the Keyboard tab , turn off ( uncheck ) " Automatically illuminate keyboard in low light " . Then , if you turn the brightness down all the way , it should never turn on . If you then want it on ( say , a friend who is not a touch-typist ) , just use the brightness keys on the top row .
You can use Hot Corner while you are dragging the picture to get to the Desktop . You can also hit ^ CTRL + ↓ DOWN ARROW to show the Desktop while dragging the picture . You can also perform fingers spread gesture on the trackpad while dragging the picture , but it 's a little tricky to perform .
Yes , according to Apple 's <URL> . Boot Camp : requires Windows XP with Service Pack 2 or Windows Vista ( sold separately ) . Also , you can install Windows 7 if you update Boot Camp . Info <URL> .
Specifically the browse button is disabled because there is n't a file browser ( like Windows Explorer/Finder ) on the iPhone . Most people do n't notice that , because the iOS is designed around avoiding the need for a user interface to the iPhone 's file system . For simplicity 's sake file management is turned into a programing problem instead of a user problem . For security 's sake applications ca n't directly access the documents of other applications . As Jawa mention , a lot of sites have iPhone applications to allow uploads .
Whether it is safe or not depends on whether you trust the app and the developer 's privacy policy or not . When you give access to an app to photos ( either through the prompt that comes when the app tries to access photos or through Settings > Privacy > Photos ) , the app gets access to write new photos/images to your Camera Roll and to read all your photos on the device in an unencrypted form . The date and time when each photo was taken is embedded within the photo . Plus , if you have enabled Location Services for the Camera app , then an app that has access to the Camera Roll can also find out where you took the photos . How the app then treats the photos and the associated metadata ( like date/time and location ) , if it uploads or sends them elsewhere , is left to the app . For example , once you give permission , iOS apps for popular services like Dropbox , Facebook , Flickr and Google + can upload all your photos to their services . With iOS 7 , these apps can also be allowed to do it in the background ( when you 're not actively running the app ) . Most users would n't even actively know which photos are being uploaded and when . From the <URL> page of the developer documentation : Similarly , your app can load , display , and edit photos from the Photo Library , as well as use the built-in camera to take new photos . So far , Apple has not implemented any granular settings in iOS within Privacy > Photos to restrict read access to specific photos in the photo library .
Yes , you can delete these <URL> files safely . These files provide human readable names for code within the framework or application . Removing the dSYM files will not affect the framework or associated application 's ability to run . Purpose of a dSYM Should the calling application or framework crash , the dSYM file is used to provide more readable insight into where the crash occurred in the code . Apple 's <URL> shows how dSYM files are used -- the same approach applies to iOS and Mac OS X. dSYM for Developers Ideally , the developer keeps a copy of the dSYM files and does not distribute these files with their application or frameworks . When crashes occur , the customer sees a technically obtuse crash report which they can report . The developer can then combine their local dSYM files with the crash report and produce a more readable crash report that should help track down the problem .
Absolutely ! You 'll need a program to rip the Blu-Rays to your computer , then you 'll need a program to convert them to a format that your iPad can understand ( like <URL> ) . <URL> .
Customize Preview ( easy ) Have you looked under Preview preferences ? You can set Initial Document Scale to 100 % or larger if you want . You might need to adjust the option below that , defining size equal to screen or print sizes . Use a better PDF viewer If Preview.app ca n't do what you want , look into Skim.app Skim has an option to open PDFs as Default , Maximized , or Fit . One of these ought to improve . Customize Preview ( complex ) If you want all three points requested above and want them in Preview.app , I would do the following : Turn on Universal Access so you can script applications via the GUI Make a new app in Automator that accepts PDFs . Replace Preview with this ( open with this by default , put it in your dock so you can drag-and-drop onto it , etc. ) The new app should simply take the input PDF and pass it to Preview , so it displays there The new app should then use Universal Access commands to Maximize the window Set to " Single Continuous Page " Select the mouse tool you want .
Yes , just go to the Preferences for the Dictionary app . There 's a list there of all the possible dictionaries , which you can then drag to be in any order you like .
If you mean taking software that you do not hold copyright to , and which you are only allowed to use and copy because it was licensed under the GNU GPL , then no . The <URL> : section 6 of the GPL says " You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients ' exercise of the rights granted herein " , and the Mac App Store Terms of Service explicitly add other restrictions . The <URL> confirmed this : the App Store agreements , on all platforms , are incompatible with the GNU GPL . Apple seems to be disallowing GPL programs in the App Store as a matter of policy , but if you managed to sneak one through , then the author of the program could go after you for violating their copyright . A completely different case is where you hold the copyright to a piece of software . In that case , you are welcome to distribute it under more than one license . ( For example , Firefox was for a while licensed under the MPL , GPL , and LGPL . MySQL is licensed under the GPL and also a proprietary license . ) So if you sell a program through the Mac App Store , you can also release it under the GPL -- assuming you are allowed to do each of these things independently . ( If you wanted to use somebody else 's GNU GPL-licensed code in one of the App Stores , you could write to the copyright holder and see if they 're willing to sell you an alternative license to their software . They 're under absolutely no obligation to do this , of course . ) VLC ran into trouble ( I think ) because copyright for the software was held by many different people , and the whole program was only allowed to be distributed under the GPL . Some programs sidestep such issues by requiring contributors to <URL> to them , but most do n't .
Yes ! Hold down ⇧ Shift while dragging the divider ( between applications &amp; documents ) . The dock will snap to the left , bottom , or right side of the screen as you drag it .
Apple did stop shipping Java as of 10.7 and higher . Neither the JDK nor the JRE come preinstalled . However , the first time you need a JRE , Mac OS X will offer to download and install it for you ( via the Software Update mechanism ) . Similarly , is stubbed in a base OS X install and will trigger the install process . Note that the Apple JRE/JDK is Java 1.6 -- if you need 1.7 or 1.8 , you 'll need to <URL> .
Probably not , but you can use the ExpressCard slot instead The model you mentioned ( 17 " MacBookPro8 ,3 late 2011 ) does seem to have a separate Wifi/bluetooth assembly , but you 'll probably have a very hard time finding a matching replacement in both size and connection . I did n't find a disassembled 17 " model , but the card in the 15 " of the same generation <URL> ( 4 antenna connectors and what is probably some sort of PCI Express cable ) . However , since yours is a 17 " , it does have an ExpressCard slot , where you can stick in a Wifi card of your choosing ( <URL> ) without even having to take the whole machine apart . Or patch around your Linux kernel with one of the BCM4331 drivers that are out there , but I assume you 've already tried that .
I have not tried this , personally , but there are good instructions for doing so with a Tripp Lite ( née Keyspan ) USB-to-Serial adapter and an <URL> . Obviously , you can ignore the Apple II-specific parts of the instructions ( the majority of the article ) and focus on the adapter , the cable , and getting to run .
Unfortunately it does n't appear to be possible , or at least straightforward . As an alternative , you may want to consider creating an OS X Service that opens Google Translate in a browser window , for any highlighted word or phrase you have selected . If this sounds suitable , follow the procedure below : Creating a translation Service Open the app from your folder Select as the type of document and click In the window that appears , click the search field and type ' AppleScript ' Drag and drop the action from the list on the left into the area labelled ' Drag actions or files here to build your workflow ' Copy the script below and paste it into the action : Your window should look like the following : <URL> There are three values that you may want to change in the above script : - the language used for the page interface - the source language - the destination language Change one or more of these to achieve the desired translation . To find the correct language parameters , refer to the <URL> . In the example above refers to , and to Chinese ( Simplified ) . After making your changes , click > and in the panel that appears type a suitable name ( e.g. ) . Using the translation Service After saving your workflow above , you can make use of your translation service with one of the following two methods : 1 . The Service Menu method Highlight a word or phrase in any application Click the Application Menu to the right of the Apple icon ( ) , then click and ( or the name you gave your Service when saving it ) : <URL> 2 . The Contextual Menu method Highlight a word or phrase in any application Right-click the text and select then ( or your custom named Service ) : <URL> Whichever method you use , a browser window should appear with your translated text : <URL>
The bootcamp FAQ is helpful for these sorts of questions <URL> <URL>
Yes . You can make it so you do n't see the dock by adding a very long delay to the animation so that in practice , you never leave the mouse on the " expose the dock " target long enough to see it . This is technically a " workaround " since the dock is still there , just slower to appear than we care about on our timescale . Two steps are needed to set this up . One , activate auto-hide in System Preferences & #x 2192 ; Dock & #x 2192 ; Autohide or type & #x 2318 ; + & #x 2325 ; + D Two , open the Terminal an type : You 're set up now . In this example , it takes 100 seconds for the dock to appear . Make the timer even longer if you like , this long delay eventually helps you to forget that the dock is even there . Reset to default behavior by typing :
As far as I know , there would be no way for scripts to directly access the data in a Bento database , so you would need to manually export that data every time you need to update the website . If you do n't have too many sets of data , or if the site does n't need to be updated too frequently , this might work well for you . Also , Bento is fairly limited when it comes to building relational databases . It can handle flat databases and very simple relationships , but lacks the ability to set up complex relationships between tables . If you do n't need complex relationships , and manually exporting your data is acceptable , then Bento would be a viable option that 's relatively inexpensive and fairly easy to learn and use . On the other hand , FileMaker Pro is very scriptable , allowing for almost complete control through both its own internal scripting language as well as through AppleScript . It also handles much more complex relationships . Of course , this advanced feature set also comes with a higher learning curve ( and price tag ) . However , FileMaker does have a large and active community of users that are very helpful , and there are plenty of tutorials and sample databases to help get you up to speed . While FileMaker does have built-in web publishing , there is a limit of 5 concurrent users unless you get FileMaker Server , or host your database on a 3rd party FileMaker hosting service .
In a word , no , it 's currently available for any App to read , and then subsequently use as it sees fit . However , Apple recently made clear that they would not approve future Apps that request it , and so it 's use will be negated over time , but of course this wo n't necessarily apply to the millions of apps already approved .
end question
start question
Using Terminal , how can I find which directory is my USB drive mounted in ?
All drives ( internal , external and networked ) get mounted in . You should see a folder there with the name of your USB drive as it appears on your desktop or in the Finder .
The command is just talk . It 's disabled in OSX by default . See the comment at the end . eg . It will then open a split screen and ping the other person to chat to you . They have to be logged into your computer at the same time though . Given that most Macs are single-user , this is unlikely , but possible . Have a friend connect in via SSH or screen-sharing and give it a go . write allows you to write straight onto the other users console . By default though users have it disabled . You can turn it on with ' mesg y ' . Then type away to irritate the other user . These are pretty old unix commands . Been around on linux/UNIX for years and years . The man pages will help you too : You can test this on one computer by creating a different ID and opening up Terminal with two windows . In the first window log back into your box with the other ID : Then write to the main users Terminal : write mynormaluser eg : You 'll see the text appear in window 2 of the Terminal To get talk to work on OSX you need to enable it first . As root run this : or , as a super user :
Some tool like <URL> might help here , but it 's probably much more than you asked for .
In iTunes you can simply right click the app in question and choose Get Info . On the summary tab you can see the account used to purchase the app .
While <URL> @ <URL> <URL> are no longer freeware , the <URL> and <URL> Dashboard widgets are free . I personally use iStat nano for my system monitoring needs . Here it is showing the temps it can read on my iMac : If you <URL> the widget , you can change the view . I usually have it running in " <URL> " mode , which shows CPU , RAM , HDD * , fan * , temperature * , network * and uptime info . * ) user-configurable , e.g. which temp sensor 's readings are displayed
There are some good tutorials on this on Youtube <URL> and <URL> . The problem in both of these examples is the obvious lines where you can see the contrast and lightness changes . However if you had either Adobe Premiere Elements or Adobe After effects this effect is a lot easier , and more professional <URL> you can find those tutorials <URL> and <URL> Have a rummage around the <URL> for good tutorials
Log into profile manager as an administrator using Safari and set up a profile for a user to change mail settings . <URL> You will want to spend time making sure DNS and SSL are correctly installed - starting with making a self-signed certificate if you do n't want to pay for a real SSL cert for your server . Here 's what to look for when you want to test setting IMAP settings for users . As you might be able to see - pick a user , then edit their settings and finally choose email .
Yes , you can buy third party RAM . I usually buy <URL> RAM . As long as it is made to be compatible with your machine ( Same Bus Speed and such ) . Usually , you can search these companies sites for RAM for your specific make and model MBP and they will have suggestions for it . You can sometimes even put in more RAM than Apple says it can . The companies test newer machines to see how much RAM they can handle . For instance , the new current gen MBP only supports 8GB according to Apple , but 16GB of RAM will still work and wo n't cause any problems . It will work perfectly . I am running 8GB of RAM in my machine , it cost me 46 dollars with shipping over 200 dollars from Apple . Just be sure to keep you old RAM just in case your new RAM goes bad , which it most likely wo n't , but that way you have back up RAM to use in just such an occasion . I hope that helps .
This can be done by imitating the folder structure of a camera 's memory card . First , find a flash drive that 's compatible with the Camera Connection Kit ( i.e. does n't draw more than 100 mA ) . Create a directory in the root of the USB drive named . Inside create a directory that has exactly 8 characters . Put your picture/video files inside this directory , ensuring that they have an 8.3 pattern filename ( e.g. ) . You 'll end up with a directory structure that looks like this : USB drive root - \ DCIM - \ FAKECAM1 - \ pict0001.jpg - \ pict0002.jpg ...
Since OS X has no package manager , anything you install would have been manual , through MacPorts or through Installer . If you want a list of the binaries your terminal has access to , you can run the following commands to check the most common spots , and output the result as a text file : Alternatively , if you just want to get the packages installed by MacPorts , run the following ( this is probably the one you want ) : And for <URL> : And finally , for all packages installed by Installer To restore , for example , your MacPorts ports from the list generated above , use the following :
Just type this command into Terminal . With zero arguments it 'll print the names and values of variables in the environment . Alternative with a bit more typing :
I do not believe that Mavericks shipped with a 32-bit version . You are probably running 64-bit OS X. All of the Core i3 , i5 , and i7 Mac computers have 64-bit processors . <URL> To determine if you are running a 32-bit or 64-bit version of OS X , open a Terminal and type : On a 64-bit OS , the output will end with . On a 32-bit OS , the output will end with . <URL>
Well , here are a few things : 1 ) That OS X installation disk ( 10.6 ) , will only install Snow Leopard for your 2009 MBP You can not use that disk for OS X installs on other machines 2 ) Generally , the applications disk is nearly useless . Your milage may vary , but I 've never , ever used them . 3 ) Obviously your external drive ( USB you say ? ) will have to have enough space to boot the installation process . I 'd recommend 8 + GB if you will actually use this thing . However , you will only need a usb drive as large as the disk image file that we will create later on . So , lets get started . There are probably guides out there that have more comprehensive answers than this , but I digress . You need to use Disk Utility for the following steps . It should be in your Utilities folder . Put the OS X install disk into your Macbook , while your USB drive is also in the computer . Wipe your USB drive , and reformat it as Mac OS Journaled Create a disk image of the CD , saving it to your computer 's hard drive . Once you have created the disk image , it should be on the left pane of the Disk Utility window . Click on it , then select the ' Restore ' tab to the right . You will want the Source to be the disk image file ( the OS X install disk ) , and the Target to be the USB drive . Let me know how it goes ! Charlie
Two things happen : Time Machine sees if the format is acceptable and makes a change to enforce enhanced security on that drive if needed . Time Machine makes a folder named Backups.backupdb if needed and makes a folder for each machine that uses that drive . Assuming you do n't have a Backups.backupdb folder - then everything on the drive wo n't be touched by Time Machine . If the drive is n't in a mac format , you may be asked to erase the drive and reformat it . Do use care and read any messages carefully before you start that first backup . Full details on this is at <URL> - look for the section titled Changing your backup disk about a quarter of the way down for the restrictions on which format drives are supported and which need to be erased .
You can see the current RAM configuration in a visual overview by : Going to the menu If you 'd like further detail , open the from the tab of . This can also be accessed by holding ⌥ while the menu is open , then selecting .
When you insert a USB drive it automatically gets mounted . You can see the name of the device using the mount command : Making the simplifying assumption that you only have one usb drive mounted at a time and it is always formatted with windows , you can then rename the drive like this : now when you look at the mount output , the name is changed : You may need to adjust the search parameters based on different assumptions , but this is the general idea .
Download Bump from the App Store . Go to <URL> Select your photos from in the bump app ( from the camera roll or photo library ) . Press your phone into the spacebar of your Mac . Press connect on the website and on your phone You can then use the download or download all buttons on the website or drag and drop . EDIT : As pointed out in the comments , bump is no longer around annoyingly . I know use DeskConnect , which is just as quick as bump , and has the advantage that you do n't have to physically move either device , nor do you need to have them both at the same time in the same place . However it does n't have a web client , so you need to install the software on your computer .
All volumes , including DMGs , are mounted in . You can get a list of mounted volumes by typing in Terminal . You can navigate to a Disk Image using .
There is a simple way to find out who is the owner of the computer as reported to Find my Mac . In terminal use If it is your name there then you are fine .
The <URL> describes the <URL> that you can use to adjust how the speech synthesis engines process your input text . The command enables the use of <URL> and <URL> . For example , the following text includes a phonemic version of your chosen word ( select the text , Control-click , and select Speech > Start Speaking to hear it directly in Safari ) : This syntax is accepted by the say command in the shell and AppleScript ( though you will have to modify the ( above ) use of single - and double-quotes to suit the string literal syntax of your chosen context ) .
end question
start question
How do you set the TCP congestion control algorithm on OS X ?
According to <URL> you can actually modify the algorthims used by Mac OS X by using the sysctl command , but you can not use anything but the New Reno algorithm : net.inet.tcp.newreno implements the New Reno modification to the TCP Fast Recovery Protocol ( RFC 2582 ) . New Reno is the name given to an enhancement to TCP partial acknowledgments that is used in the absence of a stack that supports SACKs . Keep in mind that while this should n't cause problems in the normal case , it 's only really useful over a congested link like , say , checking mail while streaming NPR or similar . Even then , it 's not a magic bullet . No harm in turning it on , but understand what it is and is n't , first . It 's off by default . The command is which you could reverse with if you had issues with it .
If you want to remove Java 6 ... From <URL> , do the following : Remove the " system " JVM installed and maintained by Software Update Remove any Java Developer Previews Do NOT remove any content in the JavaVM.framework . Those items are required by Java 7 , 8 , 9 + as well as Java SE 6 . No modern version of OS X has a Java JDK inside there anyway .
Go to System Preferences → Printers &amp; Scanners and set Default printer to Last printer used .
The screensaver for the login screen is the one set for the root ( i.e. system ) user account . To launch System Preferences as root , use sudo ; a Terminal window run : Then you can change the screensaver settings as you normally would . Note that in order to use sudo , you needs to be an admin user .
The icon in the menu bar with binoculars inside of a screen is definitely the way to disconnect . Thanks to Chard Marmon for the answer in the comments of my question .
Using the post that <URL> <URL> , I 've written a Safari/Chrome extension that adds a button to the context menu ( right click ) on every page , which allows you to " pause " scrolling , essentially locking the page in place . To unlock it , you just right click and choose " Resume Scrolling . " You can download it <URL> .
Before OS X 10.10 , you can run to re-sign the app with an ad-hoc signature . In order to re-sign it in 10.10 , you need to additionally specify the -- deep command to re-sign bootcamp : ' -- deep ' When signing a bundle , specifies that nested code content such as helpers , frameworks , and plug-ins , should be recursively signed in turn . Beware that all signing options you specify will apply , in turn , to such nested content . When verifying a bundle , specifies that any nested code content will be recursively verified as to its full content . By default , verification of nested content is limited to a shallow investigation that may not detect changes to the nested code . When displaying a signature , specifies that a list of directly nested code should be written to the display output . This lists only code directly nested within the subject ; anything nested indirectly will require recursive application of the codesign command .
Unfortunately not ; Not without using another router with network Access Control Lists ( ACL ) . Airport 's Timed Access Control rejects all connection attempts to the access point from selected device based on it 's MAC address . It does n't give you any options for more granular Access Level Control in order to specify network resources the device will have access to ; as you have probably noticed by now , you only have control over scheduling . A solution to your issue would unfortunately involve buying another router that will allow for configuring ACL to the degree you need it to .
I delete it from . Now , everything is going well . I do n't encountered any problem right now . Thanks for answers .
Ok ... i did some digging around ... and struck gold . The digging part is not for the " faint of heart " since the Terminal is your best friend and some coding knowledge is involved . Suffice to say my trip in Wiki Server 4 land led me through Ruby on Rails code . I was surprised to find that i 'm able to read ruby code , and i do n't know Ruby at all . After looking through Model Views and Controllers i figured out the solution was simpler than i anticipated . To modify the title on the first page you need to edit a . strings file . You need to use the download version ( not the mac app store app ) of TextWrangler or some other editor that allows Authenticated Saves ( save files as other users ) . Make sure the Wiki service is off ... the slider in the server app is off . The location of the file depends on your language locale that you use : / Applications/Server . app/Contents/ServerRoot / usr/share/collabd / coreclient/locales/en . lproj where " en " can be either de , es , fr , it , ja , ko , nl , zh_CN , zh_TW depending on your wiki language . First ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " to " Read and Write " . Open the file in TextWrangler and find the key general.os _ x_server and under it you can modify the string " OS X Server " to anything you want " My own company Wiki " . Save ( ) the file . Second ( ) you need to right click on the file and " Get Info " and adjust the permissions temporarily for " Everyone " back to just " Read " . Move ( ) the slider in the Server App to On again for the wiki . Enjoy !!!
On Yosemite : Double click the window top bar ( Like in MS Windows ) or Option-click the green dot in the top left . On older OS X versions : Shift-click the green ( + )
Requirements iPhone / iPad running iOS8 Mac running OS X 10.10 Yosemite How to Record iPhone/iPad Screen on OS X Yosemite Connect the iPhone/iPad to Mac via USB Open the QuickTime Player on the Mac Select Quicktime will default select iSight camera , click on the arrow alongside the record button to select the iPhone/iPad . Click on the record button to record the iPhone/iPad Screen
To follow up Martin 's answer , for British English you will need to edit the list and check the " British English " tick box . I spent while looking for " English ( British ) " , but it 's the former format that appears .
Drag anywhere in the circle to move the selection area &amp; use the dot on the right to resize . X on the left to cancel . <URL>
Log into profile manager as an administrator using Safari and set up a profile for a user to change mail settings . <URL> You will want to spend time making sure DNS and SSL are correctly installed - starting with making a self-signed certificate if you do n't want to pay for a real SSL cert for your server . Here 's what to look for when you want to test setting IMAP settings for users . As you might be able to see - pick a user , then edit their settings and finally choose email .
Try something like and see what stops working . does n't make any permanent changes , so the plist is loaded again when you log out and back in . Some processes that might be disabled if you are trying to simplify the UI : : Also disables Mission Control , Launchpad , Dashboard , full screen windows , the application switcher , and the Notification Center sidebar , and makes desktop backgrounds gray . : Also removes the window of the desktop . Does n't affect Quick Look or file dialogs . and : Disables Spotlight indexing and makes the Spotlight menu , mdfind , mdls , and for example searching in Finder and Mail stop working . : Disables notifications and removes the Notification Center icon and sidebar . : Removes services from the Apple menu , context menus , and the keyboard preference pane . : Removes menu extras and the Spotlight menu but not status menus or the Notification Center icon . This concatenates the man pages of processes that have man pages :
In terminal , you can use diskutil to get information about the drive , including the device block size :
Per my answer on a related question ( <URL> ) , there are only two order states with Mission Control . Order generated as Desktop/Full Screen spaces are created , or the default ; " Automatically rearranged based on recent use " which I admit that I have no entirely narrowed down exactly when it changes them . As of this writing , in OS X Lion 10.7.1 , there is no way to explicitly order spaces except to remove and re-add them in an order you would prefer , after unchecking the checkbox listed in the screenshot above .
I would use applescript and iCal to schedule enabling and disabling this feature . On OSX Lion you 'll need to have 2 scripts one to enable it and one to disable it . This is the script to enable save it somewhere in your home directory I called it time_announce_on . applescript : Then in iCal setup an appointment to recur every morning at the specified time you want to enable the announcements and have the alert ' run script ' and load the above script . Then all you need to do is have the disable script which I called time_announce_off . applescript : Then setup another appointment in iCal for the time of night that you want to disable this and have it run the time_announce_off script . I tested this in Lion 10.7.3 and it works . For 10.6 I believe you just need to remove the . / from the beginning of the com.apple.speech.synthesis.general.prefs ( but I have n't tested this ) .
Anything that allows you to change the color is paid software . Here 's <URL> Unfortunately , it looks like MightyMouse has been discontinued :( I would recommend this free software that displays a circle around your cursor . When you have n't moved your mouse for awhile and you move it , it 'll display a circle around the pointer . <URL> the software .
end question
start question
What terminal commands are new or updated in Mountain Lion ?
AD user @patrix did a great AD blog post on new terminal commands in Mountain Lion . You can find it here : <URL>
You can change this setting later at any time . It does n't affect the AppStore . The region setting will affect the availability of certain features which are n't available in all regions yet such as Apple Pay and Apple News . Apple News is only available if you set your region to Australia , UK or US . Apple Pay is additionally available in Canada .
According to the <URL> page you can update from Snow Leopard ( 10.6.8 ) Lion ( 10.7 ) , or Mountain Lion ( 10.8 ) later to Mavericks ( 10.9 ) if your hardware meets the requirements , which yours does . I upgraded my 2012 MacBook Air to Mavericks about two weeks ago and the battery life is noticeably better .
<URL> MenuMeters is a free application that displays CPU usage , memory usage , network up/down , and disk write/read .
iMac ( Mid 2011 or newer ) Mac mini ( Mid 2011 or newer ) MacBook Air ( Mid 2011 or newer ) MacBook Pro ( Early 2011 or newer ) Regular Airplay is still supported on all Macs running Mountain Lion .
The Finder 's information should be refreshing automatically and instantly as files and information is changing that is the goal and why Apple does not provide a " Refresh " option , although in practice things sometime do n't work for whatever reason . If the information is not automatically updating changes to files etc , it may be the result of a bug or Finder preferences corruption , or other corruption . Make sure you are running the latest version of OS X , as the issue may be a bug that has been fixed already . Additionally for folders where the contents are not updating properly it might be a good idea to try and remove the <URL> file for that directory , and see if that has an effect . ( restarting the finder to verify ) The next option would be to reset the Finder 's preferences . Try removing the the file named com.apple.finder.plist located at ( restarting the finder to verify ) If the problem is consistently occurring contact Apple and show them the issue and how to repeat it , you may have found a bug .
No RAM or processor replacement in the Mac Mini 2014 An <URL> teardown reveals this . And @Pol posted a link to <URL> were you can read about the soldered RAM . The processor and the RAM is soldered onto the motherboard . Even in a clean room , a soldering iron and a steady hand , it would be nearly impossible . You are not allowed to do this on your own , your warranty will expire on this one . You can replace your RAM yourself , Apple has even provided a guide on how to do it on similar hardware ( 2012 model ) . Here you can find the guide : <URL> . No problems with your warranty .
Mountain Lion does n't ship with any GCC , but you can install GCC 4.7 . I have done this on my machine .
<URL> by <URL> While the app does n't let you directly browse artists and albums , it definitely uses a <URL> and lets you focus on finding the new music -- by not standing in your way and getting a bunch of recommended tracks based on a given artist seed . Each preview lasts for a whole minute which I think is enough to form an opinion ( and bookmark the track ) . Bookmarked tracks can be re-listened at any time ( with the same time constraint ) . The buy icon link is small and non-obtrusive . Out of ten tracks I have listened to , I loved eight and two of them were by my two other favorite bands that the app had no way of knowing . I also came to like the " passive discovery " workflow where I hear new music without having to browse through the bands and tap tap tap . Last.fm radio was never even close to this . And SuperSonic is free . The last bit that got me was adjustable recommendations popularity , danceability , tempo and the ability to ignore these settings altogether .
It prompts you ( just tried to open Aptana ) . I let it install and gives
Mac OS does not store anything anywhere . , which is the shell that is run in the terminal , does store the command history . The terminal command history is stored in a hidden file in your user directory called This means the file is : You have to enable " Show System Files " to see it ( from the " View " menu in finder ) . The file is just a textual list of everything you type in the shell . You can open it in TextEdit , or your editor of choice . You should probably close to flush any recent changes into the file before making changes , or it may get overwritten from a version has in memory .
Probably not . The system requirements for 10.8 say " MacBook ( Late 2008 Aluminum , or Early 2009 or newer ) " . You 'd also need to install 10.6.8 or 10.7 first in order to install Mountain Lion from App Store . See these Apple KB articles : <URL> <URL> <URL> EveryMac.com has a list of maximum OS X versions supported by different Macs : <URL> <URL>
Do n't worry , the filesystem is really the same as in Lion . What you may have misunderstood is how the new iCloud integration works . Every app that supports it ( it may even be built-in if you use the system-standard open/save components , I 'm unsure ) will display an iCloud tab in the Open/Save dialogs , but this is in addition to the standard Finder hierarchy that 's been around forever . This new iCloud storage does n't allow nested folders , so you only get one level of hierarchy . The idea is to keep things simple à la iOS ( it looks like and is conceptually the same as organizing apps on iOS ) . For more detail and description , check out the <URL> section of <URL> 's Mountain Lion review at Ars Technica .
No , however if you were already running ML , and you had a Flash-storage based Mac that supported PowerNap , then it would likely be able to do so as part of it 's ability to automatically download updates etc ( which are provided through the Mac App Store ) when in sleep . Bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy though ;)
~ \ Applications is n't created during the installation of the OS , you have to create it by yourself . Once you create it , it is recognized as an " application folder " and the Finder will show the proper icon for the folder . It has been like this since Tiger , at least . I 'm not aware if Lion creates it automatically as mine was already there when I upgraded to Lion .
Since Lion , in addition to storing Retina icons , it seems that an alias stores its many different sizes of icons in both the data and the resource fork ( the xattr com.apple.ResourceFork ) . Possibly in a move away from Resource forks , while still supporting previous OSes ( for now ) . The alias I just created contained the follow formats : is32 , s8mk , ic11 , il32 , l8mk , ic12 , ic07 , ic13 , ic08 , ic14 , ic09 , ic10 They are described here : <URL>
It sounds like you 're a developer . You should install Mac Ports . It 's REALLY helpful and useful to have . You can use it to get command line tools such as autoconf . It 's always useful to have if you work with command line a lot . Just install the . pkg from <URL> to install MacPorts . After so , in terminal , run : More info : <URL>
You might want to investigate the fine-grained control available to you in the Terminal command <URL> . There is a host of features too numerous to mention in this simple posting .
In the print dialog you should save a new preset . Below you can find the steps to do so . Open the Print dialog . It will look something like this : Check the box . Go to the Presets drop down list and click Type a name for the preset in the dialog and choose if you want this preset available for all your installed printers or just this one . Now choose that preset in the dropdown list . The next time you will print something the preset will be automatically active , so it will print two-sided as default .
Checkout XTrafinder - google for it and download it from the source of your choice ... It can be found <URL> . From the website : XtraFinder add Tabs and features to Mac Finder . • Tabs . • Dual Panel &amp; Dual Window . • Arrange folders on top . • Cut &amp; Paste . • Global hotkeys . • " Copy Path " , " Show Hidden Items " , " Hide Desktop " , " Refresh " , " New File " , " Copy to " , " Move to " , " New Terminal Here " , " Make Symbolic Link " , " Contents " , " Select ... " , ... . • Light text on dark background . • Colorful icons in Sidebar . The nice thing really is that it extends finders usability .
end question
start question
Will it damage my iPad if I use an iPhone charger to charge it ?
No I mix and match my chargers often , the only disadvantage is that the iPhone charger charges slower according to a lot of sources , but I have yet to experience it . I still have an iPhone 3G charger I use as a spare at work to charge my iPad on occasion . Interestingly I have never noticed my chargers getting hot either , but will admit I have never actively looked . Looking at the Charging Tips <URL> the reason for the slower charge is that the iPhone charger is 5W compared to 10W for the iPad , based on wattage alone , I ca n't see how you would damage the iPad , I would suspect using a higher wattage might however .
The LTE choice seems fairly clear as the Spring and Verizon models match the LTE coverage that EE has in the UK . O2 is n't listed , but you can see the information yourself here : <URL> Further information is available from the <URL> - but the GSM/EDGE and UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA capabilities of both models are the same . The Verizon/Sprint models have more LTE bands and CDMA as well but in Europe , the LTE situation is n't totally clear yet . If you get an Apple ID in the US - you will be restricted to the content in the US store . The same for choosing the UK store . Since it 's a hassle to juggle accounts and you ca n't get updates from an old country if you move accounts to a new one - it 's better to pick one account unless you intend to maintain and juggle both going forward perpetually . I would buy from Apple if you can since their holiday return policy is very lenient and you could return things in January if you choose poorly or learned more after buying . Also consider , AppleCare is tied to the country where you buy so if AppleCare plus is n't available in the UK and you are OK shipping it here for service , you might let that affect your buying choice if you want that coverage over the standard AppleCare . The good news is you can easily use her UK account here in the US and all her apps will work on the US device . The only problems would be radio ( not a problem on the mini hardware ) and warranty support . Since you live here , you can get her a pay as you go month of data with no commitment or long term contract . She wo n't need to unlock it and can work with her choice of carriers to serve it in England . No carrier lock , no hassle , no jail breaking needed .
As @Timothy pointed out in the comments , the App Store will work normally on a jailbroken device . As for your own apps , you can run them , but if you do n't have a paid developer account it is harder to get them on the device . If you have a paid account , you can use the normal methods to install and run them . A device which is not jailbroken will refuse to run any app which is not signed with an Apple-approved certificate . When you jailbreak , the code which performs the checks is modified . It will still only run signed apps , but those apps can be signed by any certificate . Therefore , you can create your own certificate to sign your apps with . However , the normal methods of installing an app will perform the check and refuse to install it . This means you need to find an alternate method of installation , most likely using SSH or USB to copy a package over and modifying permissions .
There 's an app called <URL> that seems to do exactly what you need . The one downside is that it needs to be installed on the host computer to work .
There is <URL> that explains the issue in more detail , but for all intents and purposes if you purchased a CDMA iPhone from a carrier then you will be 100 % out of luck ; you simply can not use another provider 's SIM card . The only way you could ever expect to use a CDMA iPhone with another GSM network is to get a factory unlocked phone directly from Apple . But if you get any CDMA phone from a provider like Verizon , Sprint or Virgin Mobile you are basically locked into their CDMA network . No chance to just pop another carrier 's SIM card in there to get GSM service from someone else .
375x667pts or 4.7 " ( iPhone 6 screen ) When running and iPhone only app in the iPad Pro simulator in Xcode 7.1 ( publicly available in the App Store ) the screen point resolution is reported as 375x667 or a 4.7 " screen . This also equates to an iPhone 6 or an iPhone 6 + in display zoom mode . See PaintCode 's guide for more details on display zoom mode . <URL>
GPS uses satellites to triangulate your position with great accuracy , however there are other ways to get a fix provided you can triangulate via other means . Apple uses a database of WIFI networks with known locations to help ascertain your location in some instances ( i.e. if you can see WIFI networks A B and E , then you must be approximately located at Z for example ) . Also , using cellular information you can do a similar thing by noting which cells you are able to see and the relative signal strengths you are receiving from them . EDIT : Also , it is possible with a lesser degree of accuracy to estimate your location just by using your IP address . This can be tracked down to a certain extent and while likely not sufficient to be accurate by itself , when you combine this with all the other methods above you can start to get a picture with more accuracy .
When the phone operating system is off , the hardware still remains sensitive to the introduction of charging power to the 30 pin dock connector . Not only does this help in cases where the OS has frozen and run down the battery past the point where available voltage can even run the system ( including the charging circuitry ) but it also helps in the more common case of " my phone is dead " and I 'd like it back without having to press buttons . Depending on how long the battery self-discharged after crossing the " empty " line , it may need tens of seconds or even minutes of charging to get back to the minimum viable voltage . At that point , the sleep/wake button can become effective again for starting the OS . You can of course plug in the power and then shut off the phone to bypass this behavior . The charging circuitry runs whether the OS is running or not , and that circuitry is what kicks the OS to start when it senses a connection event on the 30 pin connector and the OS is not currently running .
Generally , it does not affect , but there are some apps that do n't properly work when you do it . The only way to know is trying it . In the worst case , you can revert the changes without issues . About accessing keychain , same thing , usually you wo n't have problems . I have n't tested auto-update . I usually did it with old versions of apps , to have both old and new ones .
It uses <URL> . But that 's a bit of a marketing term in so much as there is not one single thing called Quartz , but a group of things that work together to make the system called Quartz . Specifially , Quartz encompasses the set of systems needed to do rendering ( Quartz 2D ) , font management , graphics card interaction ( Quartz Compositor ) , OpenGL support , 3D acceleration and what not . The Quartz Compositor is the piece of the Quartz bundle that provides the server and window compositing and management features normally performed by the XServer and XClient pair . An addendum to this question might be : why did n't Apple just use X11 and the X Server ? And there 's <URL> from one of the primary Quartz developers : What Apple is providing is an Apple-original window system that is graphics model agnostic , as well as a vector drawing system that maps very well to PDF , which is a sort of PostScript without the non-graphical operators . This is packaged under the name ' Quartz ' for easy reference by Marketing types . The window system is designed to support both buffered ( like an offscreen PixMap ) and unbuffered windows , and is graphics model agnostic , working equally well with QuickDraw , OpenGL , the Quartz drawing engine , X11 , and third party solutions , and managing window geometry for the Classic , Carbon , and Cocoa environments . The server portion is a hybridization of screen arbiter and compositor models ( and if that 's all Geek to you , do n't worry about it ) . The Quartz drawing engine supports drawing primitives similar to the graphics primitives that might be found in the DPSClient single-operator primitives library for X and NeXTSTEP . There are no math and flow control primitives , as these can be done more efficiently in the native compiled code . There are no DPS or PS wrappers , as this optimization for server-side graphics is not needed in the Quartz client-side graphics model . The operations provide imaging and path construction and filling operations as well as some interesting other bits that map well into the direction that 2D drawing is headed . ( See Longhorn , or the X raster projects . ) The drawing engine can output to rasters ( like a window ! ) , as well as PS and PDF streams to feed printers . The Mac OS X printing system takes advantage of the capabilities of Quartz to support all sorts of printers , and make the life of printer driver developers much , much easier . Things we 'd need to add/extend in X Window software ( protocol + server + manager + fonts + ... ) : Extend font server and services to vend outlines and antialiased masks , support more font types , handle font subsetting . Extend drawing primitives to include PS-like path operations . Add dithering and phase controls . Add ColorSync support for drawing and imaging operations , display calibration Add broad alpha channel support and Porter-Duff compositing , both for drawing in a window and for interactions between windows . Add support for general affine transforms of windows Add support for mesh-warps of windows Make sure that OpenGL and special video playback hardware support is integrated , and behaves well with all above changes . We find that we typically stream 200 Mb/sec of commands and textures for interactive OpenGL use , so transport efficiency could be an issue . So , yes , it looks like we can use X for Quartz . All we need do is define extensions for and upgrade the font server , add dithering with phase controls to the X marking engine , add a transparency model to X imaging with Porter-Duff compositing support , make sure GLX gets in , upgrade the window buffering to include transparency , mesh warps , and really good resampling , and maybe augment the transport layer a bit . Ummm ... There does n't appear to be much code left from the original X server in the drawing path or windowing machinery , and it does n't appear that apps relying on these extensions can work with any other X server . Just what did we gain from this ? Oh , yeah . My mom can run an xterm session on her desktop now without downloading the Apple X11 package , a shareware X server or buying a software package . Been there , evaluated that .
I believe the iPhone 3G and the iPad 3G use very different baseband processors and putting the firmware from one on the other , if possible , would probably brick it . It 's akin to trying to put the BIOS for a Toshiba computer onto a Dell . Then again , I 'm not entirely sure on this one .
Your assumption is correct . Your iPhone has an intelligent charge controller on-board and this controller will only draw as much as it needs . Sure , the iPad power supply can supply twice as much power as the iPhone needs , but it should not be dangerous by any means . I do n't know if there is an " official " word on this , but I would be genuinely surprised that it voids your warranty . Apple engineers are very smart and know that users will interchange powersupplies if they recognize that the connectors are physically compatible ( as is the case here . ) Long story , short : you should be fine .
This is the first I hear about this so-called " counter " . I do n't believe in such and I 'm pretty sure when you restore an iPhone using DFU modus , the iPhone is completely wiped clean . As a matter of facts , I 've jailbroken all my iPhones so far and passed by the Apple Genius bar several times . Once I even forgot to restore the device when asking a Genius for help . And he just smiled at me and said " jailbreak , right ? What 's your favorite app ? " :) So , no . I do n't think there is such a counter and you 're safe with a DFU Full restore .
As long as you log in on both iOS devices with your same login from Apple ( or backup and install them with the same login on your Mac/PC with iTunes ) , you will be able to use the same apps and other data without the need to purchase them again . You can still manage your apps separately for each device : For instance , iTunes will keep them apart ( you get to name each device yourself ) , and you can install different sets of apps and photos , music and all on the devices . But anything that comes from the App Store is linked to your Apple ID login - and once you 've purchase something with your ID , you can install it on all your devices .
Your iPhone will return to factory settings as if you had a new iPhone .
You are able to see the charge status on the iPhone page on the new iTunes 11 .
Still works fine . This will allow you to install you own Apps on the device for testing . Otherwise the only way 's to get apps on you iOS device is Jailbreak or App Store .
Yes it is for iPhone 3G and 3GS , but not for iPhone 4 as it uses a different bootrom . Just google " Android on iPhone 3GS " and click on the first entry , where you 'll find instructions on how to do it .
The iPhone simply wo n't draw as much through the charger as the iPad would . Certainly should n't cause a problem at all ( and my money 's where my mouth is because we just have the iPad charger plugged in these days , using it for our iPad as well as our 2 iPhone 4s - we 've been doing this for about 5-6 weeks now without any obvious ill-effects ) .
I 'd like to buy a new model iPhone 6s 16 GB ( " Rose Gold " color ) and use it in China . First off , the iPhone 6S is a great choice . It 's the gold-standard of all phones , but whatever you do , DO N'T buy the 16 GB model . This is n't an iPhone 3GS or a cheap Android phone , it 's a brand new iPhone 6S and it shoots 4K videos . Formatted , with iOS on it , you should have less than 12 GB to work with . Put 2 HD movies on it , and your just about out of storage . Get at least the 64 GB model , it 's way worth the $ 100 , IMO , plus when you go to sell it for an upgrade in a few years , you 'll get back most of that $ 100 , anyway . Me ? I 've already bought a 128 GB iPhone 6S on Verizon . When purchasing it in Apple Store , what options should I choose so the phone will bear no service contract which is useless for me ? Not a lot , other than get the iPhone on T-Mobile , which should be available to buy outright ( $ 750 for 64 GB model ) and will come SIM-free and without a contact , just make sure that it will work on whatever carrier you wish to put it on in China . How to make sure it is " unlocked " so it can be used with a local service company in China ? What sort of SIM card does this iPhone require for it to be compatible ? Apple does n't sell unlocked iPhone 6Ss , yet . I asked an Apple rep about this and they said maybe in a few months , but there is the very small chance that your carrier does n't require the iPhone to be unlocked , like Straight Talk , but probably not in China . Could the interface language be set to Chinese language ? Yes . China and the US are Apple 's biggest customers .
end question
start question
What special about Apple AirPort Extreme ?
Wireless is a complicated topic and you need to consult a speciality website like smallnetbuilder.com if you want to understand things like range , performance , and capabilities of different routers . The Apple Extreme/Express are more expensive , require an Apple utility that runs only on iOS/OS X/Windows , and are not the most feature rich . However , they are simple to use if you live in a mostly Apple world and have some unique Apple features that can be useful in that world . For example , it 's dead simple to wirelessly extend an Extreme/Express network and Apple Express routers can be hooked to speakers to use with AirPlay . I just used three Expresses to replace an old 802.11 g network ( it used four old Linksys routers wirelessly extended to get about 50 % coverage ) at a friend 's condo . It 's only a single floor with about 2500sf but the walls are all steel-reenforced concrete so wireless range was extremely limited . It took all of about 10 minutes to install three units and network them with a single SSID and WPA password . I would have preferred wired connections but it was n't a practical option due to the construction . I ca n't see much advantage to the Extreme over the Express with the current models unless you want to use the gIt might have better antennas and thus better performance but I think that 's an edge case . It also may have some additional features so you 'd need to do a feature-by-feature comparison .
Well , some of the costs come from the GSM components that the iPhone has , others come from the production process , which is different . Then there is the amount of RAM is 512 MB for iPhone and 256 MB for the iPod Touch . Also , the iPhone has a compass . The rear cameras are different - 5 Megapixel camera for the iPhone and 0,7 Megapixel for the iPod .
The original Apple TV ( out of box ) preferred to treat your Apple TV like an iPod . It wanted you to sync your video from iTunes and had the following limitation : H. 264 and protected H. 264 ( from iTunes Store ) : Up to 5 Mbps , Progressive Main Profile ( CAVLC ) with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps ( maximum resolution : 1280 by 720 pixels at 24 fps , 960 by 540 pixels at 30 fps ) in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats iTunes Store purchased video : 320 by 240 pixels , 640 by 480 pixels , 720 by 480 pixels ( anamorphic ) , or high-definition 720p MPEG-4 : Up to 3 Mbps , Simple Profile with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps ( maximum resolution : 720 by 432 pixels at 30 fps ) in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats The new Apple TV has identical requirements as that of the new iPod touch and iPhone 4 : H. 264 video up to 720p , 30 frames per second , Main Profile level 3.1 with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps per channel , 48kHz , stereo audio in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats MPEG-4 video , up to 2.5 Mbps , 640 by 480 pixels , 30 frames per second , Simple Profile with AAC-LC audio up to 160 Kbps , 48kHz , stereo audio in . m4v , . mp4 , and . mov file formats Motion JPEG ( M-JPEG ) up to 35 Mbps , 1280 by 720 pixels , 30 frames per second , audio in ulaw , PCM stereo audio in . avi file format As for how it works , while nothing hard has been released from the UI screenshots released items from the internet ( iTunes store , YouTube , Netflix , etc. ) will stream from their respective sources while your photos , music and video streams directly from iTunes or from an iPhone , iPad or iPod touch ( via AirPlay coming in iOS 4.2 )
Whilst an AirPort Extreme does support SNMP as you mentioned , they do not export Netflow data ( unless something has changed recently ) .
In the " Input menu " in the menu bar ( to switch on . Make sure in is selected ) And you have your cheat sheet .
Their first product was the <URL> computer , hand-built by Steve Wozniak and first demonstrated in 1976 . You 'll find plenty of details about Apple 's early years in <URL> of the Apple , Inc <URL> .
Still works fine . This will allow you to install you own Apps on the device for testing . Otherwise the only way 's to get apps on you iOS device is Jailbreak or App Store .
Try the steps detailed at this URL : <URL> Find your Mac 's MAC address for the Wi-Fi network interface . See How to Find Your Mac 's MAC Address for instructions . Open the AirPort Utility application . ( It 's in Applications → Utilities . ) The window shown below appears . Click the AirPort Extreme 's icon . The status pop-up window appears . Click Edit . The settings window appears . Select the Network tab . The window shown below appears . Click the + button under the DHCP Reservations field . The window shown below appears . Enter a descriptive name for your Mac in the Description field . From the Reserve Address By menu , select MAC Address . Enter your Mac 's MAC address in the MAC Address field . Enter the static IP address you want to assign to your computer . For more information , see step 9 in How to Set a Static IP Address in Mac OS X. Click Save . Click Update . The AirPort will restart to apply the changes .
Using from <URL> you can run the following command to attempt to identify the OS of a remote machine : e.g. :
Apple used <URL> as their marketing name for 802.11 Wi-Fi . Due to legal reasons it was called AirMac in Japan . AirPort was used for all hardware products ( access points , routers , cards ) . It was also used everywhere in Mac OS X in the user interface . For a couple of years now the use of the word AirPort is restricted to hardware products ( e.g. AirPort Express ) . OS X and iOS use Wi-Fi ( or local variants like WLAN for German ) to refer to 802.11 networking in the user interface ( menu bar and system settings ) . See these screenshots with the <URL> word use . AiPort in old version os OS X <URL> Wi-Fi in current version of OS X in Japanese , English , German . Screenshots from the <URL> <URL> found . <URL> <URL> <URL>
The Apple Broadcom BCM94331CD adapter will add 802.11 a/b/g / n with Bluetooth 4.0 to an older Mac Pro , while the Apple Broadcom BCM94360CD adapter will enable 802.11 a/b/g / n/ac support ( the primary difference between the two adapters being 802.11 ac ) . You can easily DIY by finding suitable parts on eBay or Amazon and following instructions on forum sites such as <URL> and <URL> . If you 're running Yosemite and want to take advantage of Continuity , you 'd then just need to buy a third-party Bluetooth 4.0 USB dongle that utilizes the Broadcom BCM20702 chipset ( e.g. <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) . A far easier -- albeit more expensive option -- is to install an aftermarket Wi-Fi + Bluetooth " upgrade kit " from either <URL> or <URL> , which will add 802.11 a/b/g / n/ac and enable Bluetooth 4.0 LE . With the necessary hardware requirements met for Continuity , you could then use the <URL> to enable support for your particular Mac model . You 'll then get full native support for all of the new features in OS X 10.10 Yosemite that are part of <URL> , including Handoff , Instant Hotspot and the new AirDrop .
Your probably best of if you crop the photos yourself . Here are the pixel counts that work best for each screen size : iOS devices : display sizes 320 × 480 pixels : iPhone ( 1st generation ) , iPhone 3G , iPhone 3GS , iPod touch ( 1st -- 3rd generation ) 640 × 960 pixels : iPhone 4 , iPhone 4S , iPod touch ( 4th generation ) 640 × 1136 pixels : iPhone 5/5s/5c , iPod touch ( 5th generation ) Retina display 1024 × 768 pixels : iPad , iPad 2 , iPad mini ( non-retina ) 2048 × 1536 pixels : iPad Air , retina iPad mini and iPad ( 3rd -- 4th generation ) , all of which have Retina display Automate resizing using Automator Automator let 's you easily crop images . See my screenshot below for explanation and just click the actions together . You can automate resizing the photos with Automator , if you do n't demand to choose an extract of your photo . <URL> Rember to use " crop images " with " scale before crop : Scale to Short Side " : After finishing your workflow you could add a thousands images and let your Mac do the work . You will be prompted to select your images ( see first action ) . Just adapt the sizes for your corresponding device . You could also merge this into one workflow . Just duplicate the last three steps and change the suffix ( ) in action " Add text " . Here is an example image * went through my Automator workflow . Original : <URL> Result : <URL> Resizing using an application You could use the free app <URL> from the Mac App Store . This let 's you choose an image extract . The maker of another app ( <URL> ) documents the sub-pixel shifts that parallax changes can have at <URL> I hope my answer helps you with your problem concerning your image size and how to resize them . Unfortunately , I do not see an option to set a background image in Apple Configurator ( Version 3.5 ( 289 ) ) . * image by interfacelift.com
Or change the shortcut to something else in System Preferences :
Just click on the AE icon and it will display a list of connected wireless clients .
Not yet on a 2nd gen 802.11 n Express . Apple has published <URL> on the Airport Express : <URL> The three expresses prior to that were not 802.11 n so perhaps that 's where the three previous generations ( and the 1st and only newer generation names have come to be ) A tad confusing , no ?
Yes , it is possible , and great fun ! One way to synchronize apps is using Korg 's WiST technology . This allows apps on multiple iDevices to synchronize over WiFi . They maintain <URL> on their site . Another method is to slave all of your iDevices to a single MIDI clock ( e.g. a drum machine that sends clock over MIDI ) . There are multiple ways to get MIDI into your device including the Alesis IO Dock , the iRig MIDI , and the Line6 MIDI Mobilizer . This is a little more hassle than the WiST approach because you have to wire up a bunch of cables , but it opens up a larger group of apps since there are many apps that support CoreMIDI that do not support WiST . When shopping for apps in the App Store , look for any that say they support CoreMIDI . <URL> has a good starting list , but is by no means comprehensive . Finally , in addition to this multiple-iPad fun , you can also make use of MIDI between apps on a single iPad . e.g. Running a sequencer that is controlling a synth app running in the background . Not all CoreMIDI apps support it , but many do . I 've been having a great time using the Genome sequencer app to control synths such as Animoog . It 's a great time to be a musician and have an iDevice ... much is possible now that was impossible only months ago !
Per Thermaltake support : The Airport Extreme Base Station can not provide the proper driver support for the docking unit . The docking station was designed to be directly connected to a computer 's USB port . Not a very satisfactory answer , but I guess it is the answer . I expected it to simply function as USB 2.0 speeds , rather than not working at all .
The power button only powers ON/OFF the keyboard , it does n't power off the computer . To power off your computer using the keyboard , you might want to use any of the following : Reference : ⌘ ( Command key ) - On some Apple keyboards , this key also has an Apple logo ( ) ⌃ ( Control key ) ⌥ ( Option key ) - " Alt " may also appear on this key ⏏ ( Eject ) ⇧ ( Shift ) ⌃ Control + ⏏ Eject : Show shutdown dialog ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Put the computer to sleep ⌃ Control + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then restart the computer . ⌃ Control + ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + ⏏ Eject : Quit all applications ( after giving you a chance to save changes to open documents ) , then shut down the computer . ⇧ Shift + ⌃ Control + ⏏ Eject : Sleep the display , but not the computer . ( thanks to <URL> )
Unlike the Time Capsule , the Airport Extreme does n't support being a backup destination , no matter what drive you use . It is possible to <URL> , but this is unsafe - the AEBS lacks features that help protect data , and without them , the slightest network error can make your backups useless . Some of the technical reasons for this have been explored here : <URL> However , you can look for a network-attached drive that supports Time Machine , such as WD 's My Book Live . These are drives that attach by ethernet instead of USB , and they implement the file-sharing features that Time Machine requires .
I also have the same problem and unfortunately there does n't seem to be a way to view this kind of information at present . This is corroborated by several Apple Support Community threads <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . As you say , the only option seems to be to either try to figure out which machines are currently authorized and deauthorize them using iTunes ( particularly difficult in the case of multiple VM 's or machines you no longer have ) or deauthorize all and start again .
end question
start question
Safari reopens last open tabs ?
This is a new feature in Mac OS X Lion . See <URL> ( Resume ) . You can disable this in and untick the " Restore windows when quitting and re-opening apps , but will be system wide . Another solution is to hold ⌥ Option + ⌘ Command + Q when quitting , the app will then not save the state .
Double clicking your source files in the Navigator pane should make them appear in new tabs .
Go to Safari → Preferences ( or hit ⌘ cmd + , ) . Go to Privacy and click on the Do not preload Top Hit in the background option .
It 's caused by a <URL> . Occasionally revealing files in Finder stops working in all applications , and for example Archive Utility stops responding when extracting archives . As a workaround , you can terminate appleventsd from Activity Monitor or with ( without - kill the process is sent a TERM signal , which makes other processes stop responding ) . The issue will probably return within a few hours or days though .
As far as I am aware you can replace the battery and HDD/SSD on most MacBook Pro models . Have a look at the manuals on <URL> . <URL> : You can replace the battery like <URL> And the SSD like <URL> . <URL> : I think the last HDD MacBook Pro . No retina display , but you can replace the optical drive and use a 2nd HDD/SSD instead .
The action for emptying caches was moved to the develop menu : You can still see resources in the web inspector : To download YouTube videos , reload the page after opening the web inspector and double-click the resource . To download it , you have to focus the location bar and press ⌥ ↩ . ⌘ S only saves some metadata .
Yes , but the sites you want to use must be saved in a folder in your bookmarks . Once you 've bookmarked the sites all in the same folder ( the only contents of the folder should be these sites ) , go to Safari - > Preferences - > General . Click the Choose Tabs Folder ... item in the New windows open with : menu and select your folder . New windows will open with each of your websites in tabs .
You can find some information about the guts of an iPod Shuffle <URL> . Also because the selling point of a Shuffle is price ( and portability ) while still maintaining the Apple quality I do n't think Apple would put much more components into it than what is absolutely necessary .
Since you have BetterTouchTool , this is pretty easy . Simply choose whatever gestures you want to use for tab-switching and assign them the following keyboard shortcuts : These shortcuts are CtrlTab and CtrlShiftTab respectively . The first shortcut will switch to the next tab , and the latter will switch to the previous tab .
It sounds like somehow the database that stores all the icon positions got in a jam and needs to be flushed . You will lose all organization ( but no actual data ) if you choose to reset the home screen layout . This allows the springboard process to re-establish one icon for each app installed . Check out this answer - its for another app icon , but the scenario is really the same . <URL>
Safari does n't handle the unzipping itself , it simply opens the zip with the default program , which is the OS X Archive Utility , unless you 've changed it . By default , Archive Utility should n't delete zip files , but it 's possible the preferences got changed . To stop the archives from being deleted , open Archive Utility , located in , then open its preferences . Change the After expanding : setting to leave archive alone .
The document window 's close button in TextEdit does just what it 's supposed to do , it closes the document window . It 's not there to close the application , that 's what ⌘ Q is for . So , to answer your question , no you can not quit TextEdit by clicking the close button of a document window by itself , you 'd need to use a third party app to add that functionality .
Try CtrlF2 - that should highlight the Apple-symbol on the main menubar . edit : The cursor keys and Enter then allow you to navigate , drill-down and ultimately select an item - just as you can on Windows . also - ca n't claim credit for this , I learnt it here on the site ! <URL>
Yes , just go to the Preferences for the Dictionary app . There 's a list there of all the possible dictionaries , which you can then drag to be in any order you like .
There may be other ways to do this , but a simple way would be to create your own homepage , which could look anyway you like . Then , just set the Homepage in Safari to point at that file . Make a file called " home.html " with these contents : Open that file with Safari , and use the preferences dialog to set the homepage to the current page . Also set new tabs and windows to start on your homepage .
I found that clicking the tab once selects the tab and moves the cursor to the chat box . A second click on the tab selects the tab , then you can press the delete key to delete the tab .
The iPad seems to limit its history to a week , which is presumably an acknowledgement of the limited RAM and storage in comparison to a traditional computer . Adding bookmarks for desired/frequent sites is the only way to make sure they come up easily . There is no practical limit to the number of bookmarks , and you could easily shove all of those bookmarks in a folder you never visit directly .
The Finder sidebar is designed to let you customize quite a few personal folders for rapid access . This video is great to understand the basics : <URL> There are many guides on the web , but two support articles can get you started as well : <URL> <URL> Some people also like to use the dock , but folders saved there do n't show up in open and save dialogs so you can have your pick of places to keep useful folders at hand based on your needs . One last option is a third party shortcut tool like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . They let you use keyboard shortcuts to find files and folders and many more things as well . If you avoid the pointer and like using the keyboard , these three are worth checking out once you 've gotten up to speed on the built in solutions .
Exporting Your Chrome Bookmarks Chrome stores bookmarks in a non-HTML format so you need to export them first before you can import them in to Safari . Select from the menu bar in Chrome In the Bookmark Manager UI select Select a location to save the file ( I suggest ) in the File window dialog and click the button Import the Exported Bookmarks in to Safari In Safari select from the menu bar Navigate to the folder where you saved the exported HTML bookmarks file , select the file and press the button Your bookmarks will be imported in to a bookmark folder named . For example , on the day of writing this answer , my imported bookmarks were placed in a bookmark folder named . You can organize your bookmarks in Safari by selecting to open the bookmark editing interface in a tab . Move and re-arrange your imported bookmarks to suit your needs .
After starting Safari , you can go to History - > Reopen All Windows from Last Session to have Safari reopen the windows and tabs that were open when you last used it . There 's some additional info in this question : <URL> , including a script ( Chealion 's answer ) that can be modified to start Safari and call that menu automatically .
end question
start question
Can I use my iPhone as a hotspot on Wifi ( instead of 3G/4G ) ?
You can do this with USB or Bluetooth tethering on jailbroken iOS devices using an app such as <URL> . There are many other jailbreak apps for this function , so it 's worth shopping around . Some will only share the 3G internet connection , but I understand others will share any internet connection over USB or bluetooth . You ca n't use wifi tethering to connect your computer to a wifi network your phone knows about . The hotspot creates a new wireless network , but the iPhone is capable of attaching to only one wireless network at a time . It can not connect to a wireless network with internet and create its own wireless network to share . Since the iPhone is on the wireless network , though , you can get your computer on that same network since it will likely be in range .
There are apps in App Store : <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) , <URL> ( $ 9.99 ) and <URL> ( $ 4.99 ) that allow to use your Mac 's keyboard as Bluetooth keyboard . The obvious requirements are Mac with Bluetooth and recent OS X.
In System Preferences > Sharing , click " Internet Sharing " on the left . In the " Share your connection from " menu , choose " Wi-Fi , " and then in the " To computers using " list , choose " Bluetooth PAN . " Then check the box next to " Internet Sharing " in the list on the left to enable it . ( The options in the screenshot are only greyed out because you ca n't change them once Internet Sharing is on ) .
I believe that you 'll need to download Darwiin Remote form here : <URL> . This software will allow communication between the Wii Remote and your computer . I have n't played with this for a long time , but I believe that when I did this app allows the Wii Remote to act as your mouse and provide direct interaction with the system ( I used a candle to provide the required infrared source for tracking ) .
I 'm not 100 % sure if it 'll meet your needs , but <URL> works very well as a software KVM and it supports any mix of OS X , Linux and Windows .
You actually can not . Let me explain why : The bluetooth hardware of Macbook and iMac are designed to be " sender " rather than " receiver " ... The software/driver is designed without considering using the computers as bluetooth receivers . If you must connect two computers in an area where wifi channels are all taken , you can try using 5G wifi connection rather than the 2.4 G - and if that still does n't work , you are out of luck . Note : wireless audio receivers usually are designed with special hardware component to eliminate lags - and even so there are so significant lags on all devices . So do not expect your computers will sync - in fact , there should be half or one second lag even in an ideal condition . Hope this help !
There have been hacks in the past to enable tethering , but in almost all cases , the carrier can tell what you are doing . I have even heard that people that tethered were individually contacted by AT&amp;T to let them know that the tethering fee would be added if they wished to continue tethering and asked the customers to come in to chat if there were perhaps a misunderstanding . You 'll want to look for an unofficial AirPlay receiver app on the jailbreak side of things since Apple is n't even <URL> - let alone video apps . Long term - let 's hope enough people push for <URL> in the US cellular space so that there is one tariff for data based on volume - not how you intend to use that data .
Yes , it does slow down . It 's more and more noticeable as time goes by . <URL> <URL> . ( This is just a solution that has worked for many people . This is not Apple 's official solution . They are working on a solution . ) 1 - Disable spotlight search . Settings - > General - > Home Button - > Spotlight Search . Uncheck things you do n't search for . Uncheck all is best I guess ? 2 - Perform DHR ( double hard reset ) To perform a Hard Reset , press and hold the Home and Sleep/Wake buttons on your iPhone simultaneously for 5 to 10 seconds . After a few seconds the Slide to Power Off notice will appear , ignore this and keep holding down both buttons . In another few seconds the device should abruptly turn off , followed by the Apple logo and a reboot . Now release the buttons . If your iPhone remains powered off , wait about 15 seconds then boot the phone by pressing the Sleep/Wake button . Do this one more time . I think this is related to iPhone running out of memory ( RAM ) . But that 's just my guess .
You can use <URL> . It uses an hidden file stored on the iPhone recording an history of location . It has been a little buzz <URL> when it came out on almost all media worldwide . From the description of how to tool is working , it will even work with a backup file of the device . So you can use it on a Mac where the iPhone has been sync ' ed and backed-up . PS : I do n't want to go in the discusion " is it a good thing to track people etc. . . " . Just trying to answer the OP question ... edit Now available for windows on <URL> .
Have you tried : Cmd + F2 I 've connected my MacBook Air with my iMac , and it just works fine . But you have no change to see the two devices at the same time .
I found a solution to anyone wondering . Get a cydia app called xMessages . . Once enabled , you can tap and hold the " send " button and it will you prompt you to switch between text and imessage . There are other nice options as well to discover , check it out .
" Standard 4G " is kind of a meaningless phrase . According to <URL> , disabling " LTE " means it 's limited to either CDMA 3G or HSPA + . HSPA + is supposed to have performance comparable to LTE , so I would guess that if you disable LTE and see a " 4G " icon , it means you 're getting HSPA + . <URL> confirms that Apple ( like their competitors and partners ) started using " 4G " to refer to any post-3G network , like LTE , WiMAX , and HSPA + . Anyway , most of the articles I 've found comparing power usage between HSPA + and LTE suggest that LTE has slightly lower power consumption , but it seems to be a pretty small difference . The signal strength where you are located probably has more impact than this setting . Early LTE phones apparently sucked a lot of power even when idle , but with newer phones this seems to have been improved , e.g. , <URL> claims battery life is " nearly identical " whether LTE is enabled or not . So you can try both settings and see which works better for you , but I would n't expect a huge power savings .
Try <URL> . It lets you trigger various events , including launching scripts , based on various system events , including what networks you 're connected to . I 'm not 100 % sure if it will read any network interfaces , or just the default ones , but it 's free and probably worth a look .
First of all , all wireless systems use the most power when transmitting , ie actively powering the antenna to upload data . Now , just think of the ranges the different systems have to bridge . WiFi works well for like 30 meters , or 100 meters outdoors . Usually , the nearest cell tower is considerably farther away than those 100 meters , therefore , 3G needs more power than WiFi . Add to this that 3G is capable of opening multiple connections at once , and the fact that 3G autmatically boosts power output on weak signals , 3G needs more power .
There is a website ( <URL> ) . But this will only work with iOS < = 5.0.1 .
It is not compatible . Bell 's new network ( shared with Telus ) is a <URL> ( on top of their existing CDMA network ) which the iPhone 2G <URL> .
Try turning off your home WiFi . A kind of interference , maybe ?
Apple allows widgets to be displayed on the desktop in order to allow the people developing the widgets to test them without using Dashboard . Your system must have had that capability turned on somehow and that widget set to run on your desktop . It 's very easy to get the widget off of your desktop , and make it so that no other widgets will accidentally be relocated . To get the widget off your desktop : click and hold on the widget , then press F12 to enter Dashboard . Once Dashboard is active , release the mouse from the widget . The widget is now docked in your Dashboard instead of on your desktop . You 'll probably have two copies of the widget in Dashboard now . You can get rid of one in the normal way ( press the plus button at the bottom left and click the on the widget ) . You can also just hold down the option key over the widget and the will appear . Now , to prevent other widgets from escaping Dashboard in the future : Open Terminal ( / Applications/Utilities ) . Paste this in and press enter : If , on the other hand , you want to run some widgets on your desktop , you can run the above command with instead of . Then , activate Dashboard , click and hold on a widget , exit Dashboard , and release the widget .
Simple answer : Not really . You can , however , enable the " Use all F1 , F2 , etc. keys as standard function keys " option in the Keyboard preference pane : ... and then use <URL> to map F4 to Expose . By doing this , all functions of your current function keys wo n't work and you 'll have to remap all of them using BTT as you like .
They point to 4.3.3 because that 's the last version that supported an untethered jailbreak . Any version after 4.3.3 can not be jailbroken : <URL>
end question
